I'm just off to theHandheld Learning 2007conference in London, where RM (formerly Research Machines) is showing off the Linux-based Asus MiniBook notebook PC that it will sell to UK schools from November 1 for £169 (£199 inc VAT). RM has the specs and istaking orders here:With its stylish looks, 7" screen, integrated card reader and optional 3G module this notebook is ideal for those looking for the latest technology on their device at prices from £169! Features also include integrated microphone, speakers, wireless b&amp;g, 3 full-size USB ports and VGA out port.This is, of course, our old friend the Intel Classmate PC, which I wrote about last October (Intel Classmate PC -- a mobile for the third world), as interpreted and executed by Asus, which I wrote about on May 5 (Asustek's Classmate could challenge MIT's laptop). This was duly unveiled as the Asus Eee subnotebook in June (Intel Classmate becomes $199 Asus Eee subnotebook PC).On paper, the Asus looks much more attractive than the MIT One Laptop Per Child (OLPC) -- at least to a Westerner with broadband and reliable electricity supplies -- and while RM is pitching the Linux version, it will also run Windows. (In fact, it couldn't be that hard to knock out a version running Mac OS X, now it runs on Intel as standard.)More later, when I've had my hands on the thing....
When Heathrow Terminal 5 opens next year, a network of up to 18 driverless pods will ferry people between the main terminal and its car parks, where each pod will be controlled by an internal computer and onboard sensor systems.Welcome to the pioneering world of personal rapid transport (PRT) - a feasible technological solution to the chronic problem of traffic congestion, offering public transport with the privacy of a car.Basically, a driverless four-seater vehicle (call it a podcar if you like) that automatically runs on a guideway over a dedicated network, lighter than light rail and running on a fraction of its energy, PRT has been the ambition of a select group of engineers since the late 1950s. But only now are the first networks being constructed.Heathrow's network is admittedly modest: just 3.5km (2.2 miles) of guideway will connect car park and terminal. But it is the first public test of its kind. BAA has indicated that if the pilot is successful, it will extend PRT throughout the airport.PRT is not just a very short bus or train. For starters, there is no timetable. Instead, visitors to a PRT network should find pods waiting for them, making it more like a taxi rank than a bus stop. According to Advanced Transport Systems (atsltd.co.uk), the Bristol-based company behind Ultra, the maximum waiting time at a terminal will be just 12 seconds. The second difference is that there are no stops: the pod will not pick up further passengers along the way, and there are no traffic lights to contend with. Finally, the pod is as private as a taxi, so you are always guaranteed a seat, even in peak hours.Once inside the pod you pick your destination and travel at about 20mph. On alighting, the pod waits for the next fare or is automatically rerouted to where there is most demand. As Russell Goodway, the former lord mayor of Cardiff once put it, PRT is "public transport that is waiting for you, rather than you waiting for it".Environmentally drivenPRT was conceived in the 19th century, but it was the American Donn Fichter who began seriously pushing the idea with his book, Individualized Automated Transit and the City, in 1964 - although he says the idea was based on work going back to 1953 (see below). The UK planned extensive PRT networks for Birmingham and central London until 1971. Equivalent projects in France, Germany, Sweden, Japan and the US began in earnest before being commercially derailed.Now, environmental concerns are driving a revival of interest. According to Advanced Passenger Systems, each vehicle uses just a quarter of the energy per passenger mile of a car. Some proponents predict PRT could be run on renewable energy, such as solar. But even with conventional electricity, Ultra remains attractive because its exhaust emissions are effectively zero.Soon, work on the guideway begins at Heathrow, with the first paying passengers expected in a little over a year. Last month the company took possession of its first production vehicle, and its inventor Martin Lowson, a former rocket scientist who worked on the Apollo space programme, is excited that a project he undertook in the mid-90s is finally reaching fruition. "The trouble with our cities," he says, "is that they have been designed around the car for the last 50 years or so."PRT is good for a closed network such as an airport, but there are indications that it could soon wend its way into our towns and cities. Several local authorities are looking closely at PRT, and the one furthest down the line is Daventry in Northamptonshire. Its population of 23,000 is set to expand to more than 40,000 by 2021 as part of the government's strategy to build lots of new houses within striking distance of London."Currently less than 3% of trips made within the town are by public transport," says Simon Bowers, an officer at Daventry Council. "Our studies have shown that to get people on the buses, we'd have to put on so many extra ones that we'd miss our sustainability targets."Several Gulf states are thought to be developing PRT systems, as are the French. But the Dutch have hit an unexpectedly bumpy ride. Earlier this year, 2getthere (2getthere.eu), which was developing a driverless shuttle bus in Rotterdam, filed for bankruptcy.Network problemEven so, the obvious problem with PRT is not the development of the vehicles, but the building of large networks of guideways. At between &pound;3m-&pound;5m per mile, the network is expensive, although that compares favourably with light rail.In terms of capacity, PRT is expected to be at least as efficient as a stretch of motorway, but less efficient than a mainline railway. Lowson says the solution in city centres is to build overhead. But for the near future at least, PRT is likely to be developed as a complimentary transport, ferrying people around airports or large campuses.After the UK, the most developed market for PRT is in Sweden. Two rival systems are competing to build networks in Swedish cities. Posco, a Korean company, is developing a system in Uppsala, while  the Stockholm-based Skycab (skycab.se/eng) is planning three, including Arlanda airport, a university campus in Stockholm and the small town of Hofors.Ake Aredal, Skycab's founder, thinks this generation of PRT  is much more likely to succeed. "Previously, PRT systems were led by engineers," he says, "whereas this time we are letting the market drive it. We have to build a system that people actually want. One that's convenient and safe and fits in around their life."The big test, then, is not technological. Several PRT systems have already proved to be technically competent. The challenge is getting people to accept such a futuristic mode of transport and making them actually use it. Only then will the age of the podcar have finally arrived.Personal Rapid Transport: the story so far1953:Donn Fichter, a New York city transportation planner, begins research on personal rapid transport (PRT).1967:Len Blake at the British Electrical Company begins developing Cabtrack, which planned a network of overhead guideways for Birmingham and central London. The project is shelved in 1972 due to cost and visual intrusion.1967:Aerospace giant Matra initiates the Aramis Project in Paris. Development of the project runs for 20 years at a cost of 500m francs, but it fails qualification trials and is cancelled.1970:Japan begins testing Computer-controlled Vehicle System (CVS), operating 84 vehicles at speeds up to 60kph. Public tests carry 800,000 passengers until government cancels the project under rail safety regulations.1975:The Morgantown Personal Rapid Transit project is completed in West Virginia, connecting the city's five university campuses. Purists argue that it is light rail, not PRT, as it is too heavy and each pod carries too many people. Still in operation, it carries an average of 15,000 passengers a day.2003:The prototype ULTra (Urban Light Transport) system from Advanced Transport Systems is certified to carry passengers by the UK Railway Inspectorate.2005:ULTra selected by BAA for Heathrow Terminal 5. Planned to transport 11,000 passengers per day from remote parking lots to the central terminal area. BAA plans to begin operation by the summer of 2008 and to expand the system in 2009.&#183;This article was amended on Wednesday October 17 2007. We reported that a Stockholm-based company is planning to build three transit systems including one in the small town of Horfors. That should have been Hofors. This has been corrected.
A couple of links for DIY games for you today:If you've ever fancied building a side-scrolling shooter, but didn't have a clue how to start, Nintendo's forthcomingBlast Works, created by "cult-favorite hobbyist creatorKenta Choin 2004" (saysGamasutra) should do the trick. According to1up, the software, created for the Wii, has an editor mode which, like Lionhead'sThe Movies, comes with a library of assets. Place and play. Easy as!But if you fancy a bit of wire-wangling for a more hard-core DIY retro gaming experience,Makereports on, "a really nice open source hardware/software game system that uses PIC chips to create a genuine 80s style shooter". The tech on display at the site and onthe accompanying Alien Slaughter demo pageshas me quaking in my soldering-challenged boots, but have a go if you think you're hard enough, and let us know about it. Post pics to thegamesblog's flickr groupor send us an email at gamesblog + at + gmail.com.
So, Linden Labs, the makers ofSecond Lifehave announced that, in conjunction with IBM that they will work together to produce avatars that can move from one virtual world to another. A sort of "passport for virtual people" if you will.There's more detailfrom Reutersif you want it, or there's lots of at talkRead/Write Web.Both companies have done more for virtual worlds than most, but this seems to me to be fundamentally missing the point - or at least the potential - of this stuff. After all, I don't really want my avatar to move between a series of closed virtual environments: I want a single, linked virtual environment that I can move around freely.Stick with me here - this seems to me to be an important difference that could determine the future of this sort of cyberspace. Compare it to the web: not place a limited by the imaginations or fiscal imperatives of its owners, but an open-ended system that runs unbounded. On the web my identity can change as much as I want, but wherever I go the underlying platform and protocols are the same.Within the boundaries of the web, I can move, travel, read, investigate, play, talk and all those things. Websites and their contents change over time, and from place to place, but the underlying structure of the web itself - the hyperlink - stays the same.With transferable avatars, however, it is my identity which remains constant and the worlds themselves which alter. The worlds are not linked together, somy avatarhas to act as the hyperlink. Even if my avatar can switch seamlessly from Virtual World A to Virtual World B, those worlds may run by entirely different rules and different physics.Maybe I'm missing something, but that's not themetaverse- it's a series of rooms that I've been allowed to walk through.
In last week's story about ransomware victims, Michael Pollitt said: "But even though he had used antivirus and firewall programs, bank account and credit card information had been silently stolen from his web browser sessions." How can we protect ourselves from this attack?Andrew SheltonThis was an example of "spear phishing" where a deceptive email is targeted at a relatively small number of people. The victims were all users of one job site, Monster. They were sent an email telling them to install a new "Monster Job Seeker Tool" (a browser toolbar). If they did, they deliberately breached all their own defences. The victims therefore made at least two mistakes: they believed the phishing email came from Monster, and they believed they were downloading a toolbar from Monster.The first problem is hard to avoid, but could be minimised by requiring all email to be digitally signed and, ideally, encrypted by the sender. Barring that, just assume all emails are trying to con you. You won't often be wrong. The second problem is easy to avoid: don't click links in emails. Links in phishing emails don't take you where you think (eg, Monster). You can minimise the risk by inspecting a link (eg, paste it into a text editor such as Notepad) to see where it really leads, but obfuscated links can be hard to read. In this case, one user said Norton warned him the download site was not recognised, and he checked with Monster. Recent browsers like Internet Explorer 7, Firefox 2.0, and Opera 9.1 also have anti-phishing features.Even if you are phished, don't make the mistake of downloading and installing software without checking that it is a recognised tool from a reputable site. For example, Monster could have launched a toolbar with no beta testing, no press releases, no announcement on its site, and no discussions that would have been picked up by search engines, but it's very unlikely. How many people checked?In the end, the only protection is: don't be gullible. You might still not be 100% safe online, but you're not 100% safe offline, either.
I have an old laptop which has stopped working and is not worth repairing. It has sensitive information on the hard drive. How can I dispose of it?Frank DwyerIf it isn't working, you should take it apart and remove the hard drive. Assuming it's a 2.5in model, mount it in an external housing such as the Dynamode Hard Disk Caddy (£15), or similar. You can use it with another computer as a USB drive. If the hard drive isn't working, wrap it tight in a tea towel and smash it with a large hammer.If the laptop is not too old, you could sell it on eBay: you won't get much, but some people buy dead equipment for spares. If it's beyond that, search Google for [computer recycling] plus the name of your nearest town. There are lots of locations where you can leave a PC to be crushed and the materials recovered, includingUK IT Recycling Ltd.
ComSore has just released the first stats from its new world-wide search analysis, and as you can see, Google is overwhelmingly dominant with 37bn out of the 61bn total (61%). Yahoo is miles behind (14%) and the rest are nowhere. [corrected]The figures for Microsoft (3.5%) are particularly bad. It's already behind China's Baidu and could be overtaken by South Korea's NHN Corporation. It's probably no consolation that Ask Network is doing even worse.Of course, Asia is now the biggest market for search, followed by Europe, with North America third. ComScore has the numbers:The Asia-Pacific region, which includes large markets such as China, Japan and India, saw 258 million unique searchers conduct 20.3 billion searches. Europe reported the second-most searchers (210 million) and searches (18 billion), followed by North America, with 206 million searchers and 16 billion searches.The numbers are for those aged 15+ and do not include traffic from public computers such as Internet cafes or access from mobile phones or PDAs.
I'm looking for an easy-to-use calendar with good reminder and recurrence features. I've tried Outlook 2000, as well as the Google and Yahoo calendars, and they do not offer reminders weeks or months before the event (for things like passport renewals) and multiple reminders.Toby PriceThere are dozens of reminder programs, online reminder services and calendars, but it may be hard to find one that has the exact features you want. The popular reminder services include Memo To Me (memotome.com) and Online Reminders (onlinereminders.net).For desktop software, you could tryMulti-Reminders, which is free, or look atRemind-Me,Secure ReminderorStar Reminder, which seem reasonably priced as shareware. I have not tried them myself.The online calendars look primitive compared to Outlook 2007, which I do use, but you could synchronise Outlook withAirsetor (via IntelliSync) theYahoo! Calendar, and do the extra reminders a different way.Backchat: Henry Malt points out that: "Outlook offers a selection of reminder times, but these are templates; they can be edited." You can, for example, take the "2 weeks" option and simply change the number. David Wood says: "Go to Help and search for 'Create reminders as far in advance as you want' and 'Create a recurring calendar reminder'."
When I open Add/Remove Programs there are a number of Java installs listed, usually over 100MB each.Andy WhitehouseA reader recently got hit by a trojan that could have exploited a bug in an old version of Java that he didn't think mattered. This makes me want to uninstall every Java in sight and download the latest version fromSun. It's better to do this after a restart, before running any large applications. However, Java is typically around 7MB. You must have something like the J2SE Runtime Environment, which runs Java applications on the desktop. It probably came pre-installed, and you probably don't need it. If you'd had to download 100MB+ files, wouldn't you have noticed?
Nintendo DS, &pound;29.99, cert 3+, Codemasters, 4/5With the Colin McRae franchise now sadly defunct, Codemasters needs to make the most of its remaining racing brand. Luckily, this DS conversion keeps things nicely on track. Cramming in 32 real-world circuits and 25 licensed cars is impressive enough, but there's more: a track editor that lets you design your own, co-op play supporting up to four off a single cartridge and Wi-Fi multiplayer too. Admittedly, the superb handling of bigger versions now wobbles occasionally between arcade and simulation, but with impressive graphics and speedy frame rates, there's not a lot wrong with this one at all. And so Nintendo reaps another rich reward, while the PSP lingers in limbo. That's got to hurt, Sony!
Once a byword for arcade football, the FIFA games are now more simulation than seven-all. FIFA '08 continues this trend, with goals hard to come by and midfield slogs commonplace. Sadly, this realism comes at a price - the glacial pace of the game. The majority of players run as if caught in treacle and it's hard not to get nostalgic for the zippy wing play of yore. The slow pace does allow you to build up some patient moves, but the action lacks the hypnotic flow of the Pro Evolution Soccer games. Most frustratingly, the players still don't feel totally under control, with a perceptible delay between button press and on-screen action. A clumsy menu system masks more options than ever, with innovations in both off and online play. The "be a pro" mode, where you control one player rather than a whole team, is a promising pointer to future development.
A bit of interesting database-style magic from theMedia Standards Trust(and brought to my attention byMeg) - a site calledJourna-listthat tracks the output of Britain's newspaper hacks.Type in a name and it will dish out some stats on how many stories they've written, how many words, links to those stories - and a tag cloud showing what subjects they write about the most.Take the output of a certain keyboard basher, for example.No surprise that I've written mostly about Google, phones, Apple, the BBC and so forth.Immediate competitive instincts, with a shuffle through the listings to see who the most productive journalists in British national news are:Emma Theldwell(297 articles since May!) andBen Bland(275) both of the Telegraph, followed a little way back by the Guardian'sGraeme Wearden(210 articles). Interestingly, they're all online business reporters.Fishing through the rest is pretty interesting. The data is by no means complete - for starters, it doesn't seem to pick up a large selection of the Guardian's features sections such asG2, but it does seem to pick up most website output (not blogs, though, unless they're integrated into the main website).It means almost nothing of course, but it's got potential. And, let's face it, it's a complete time sink for Fleet Street's vainest.
Mulitplayer is changing. Once upon-a-time studios flung a couple of deathmatch modes in at the arse-end of the development process, and considered that job done. But now the co-operative option has become a key, integrated element of next-gen console releases. Halo was a trendsetter of course, but since then, we've had the tactical tension of four-player GRAW and the pitch dark, blood-splattered carnage of Gears of War, designed very much with two-player co-operation in mind.Now, co-op is gradually being refined and re-thought. Soon we'll see EA'sArmy of Two, in which players must communicate constantly, collaboratively clearing obstacles, protecting each other, employing the characters' different weapons and skills in a holistic, combined approach. Interestingly, players that race off ahead will be penalised by drawing much more enemy fire (or 'Agro' as its referred to in the game). Everyone is in this together.Meanwhile, Io Interactive has just revealed a fascinating new 'Fragile Alliance' mode set to appear in forthcoming shooter,Kane and Lynch, where players must work co-operatively on a bank heist but then figure out ways they can betray their colleagues and escape with the most loot. According to theCVG preview, gunned down crooks return as cops to take revenge on their back-stabbing cohorts - a neat little wrinkle on an already intriguing premise.Then there's Free Radical Design'sHaze, which presents a co-op mode that integrates with the single player missions, beefing out plotpoints and narrative gaps that won't get explained in the main campaign. I asked the game's project leader, Derek Littlewood, about the growing role of the co-op mode and where he thinks the concept is going...Do you agree that there's been a resurgence in the importance of the co-op mode over the last couple of years?I don't think it's ever become less important in the minds of gamers - I mean, ask any gamer if they'd like a coop mode in their favourite game and the answer is invariably 'Yes'. But it's perhaps been more highly prioritised by developers in the last couple of years.Is there a specific game that's led this charge? Why was it so influential?Gears of War is perhaps the most obvious high-profile example in the last couple of years. Although there were a few instances of interesting co-operative moments contained within the level design of the game, for me the most important aspect of Gears' co-op mode was simply that there were a solid set of gameplay mechanics already there in the singleplayer game that became amplified in co-op play. What I mean by that is things like the ability to revive downed squadmates, or the excellent cover system, both of which worked even better in co-op.That's the thing about great co-op games - a well-balanced, well-designed singleplayer game is essential for them to succeed. Co-op in itself doesn't make a game good, but it can help make a good game great.Do you think there are technical reasons why the co-op mode has become popular?Definitely. Obviously the continuing rise in processing capability makes it easier to render split-screen games at an acceptable framerate and without compromising the experience at all, but I think the greater reason is the rise of online play. Now, obviously we've had online gaming for many years but it's only with this generation of consoles that all the major contenders support it out of the box. Because of the increasing importance of online multiplayer gaming, developers are being forced to think much harder about what multiplayer functionality their game will offer all the way through development, resulting in a rise in the amount of multiplayer functionality offered by many games, including co-op play.Do you think the rise of social gaming (guitar hero, Singstar, etc) has contributed to this new more amiable form of multiplayer gaming?Possibly, but then multiplayer gaming existed long before Singstar, Eyetoy and the Wii came along, so it would be rash to suggest that it's some new phenomenon ushered in by the Wii generation of casual gaming. It would probably be more relevant to look towards examples like the incredible success of World of Warcraft as reasons why co-operative gameplay is becoming more prevalent.In what ways do you feel that the co-op mode is evolving with the next generation of titles?I think it's starting to be designed into the experience from the very start, with sections or mechanics that explicitly require cooperative play, rather than the cooperative experience simply being the singleplayer experience with two players in it. Obviously with HAZE and Halo 3, you're seeing the introduction of a cooperative experience that supports four players, rather than the traditional two, which is another way in which co-operative play is evolving.In Haze, it seems co-op is the primary multiplayer experience, integrating closely with the single player campaign. Why is this?I wouldn't say it's the primary multiplayer experience - we've always seen it as being an equal to our team assault and deathmatch modes, it's just we haven't shown much of them yet - but it's certainly massively important to us. Something I've always found with co-operative play as opposed to competitive (deathmatch etc.) play is that if you're not such a great player (like me), co-op play can often provide a more fun experience than competitive play, reason being that skill differences between the players involved matter a lot less in co-op than they do when playing competitively.In other words, play against a player much better than you in a competitive game, and you'll likely not have a lot of fun, as he'll be killing you over and over again, but play with the same player cooperatively, and he suddenly becomes this heroic character, able to help you through the most difficult of firefights and come to your aid when you've overstretched yourself.Obviously there's a lot of people who love competitive play, which I do too, but I think it's easier to guarantee a fun experience in co-op than it is with competitive play. As a result, we wanted to make sure that HAZE offered players at least as much to do cooperatively as competitively, which resulted not only in the four player co-op campaign but also the prioritisation of team-based multiplayer modes like our team assault as opposed to solo play.What are your favourite current and forthcoming examples of co-op modes?My favourite all-time cooperative experience is still the first Halo - the combination of superb balancing, decent AI and large-scale environments made it feel unlike anything I'd played before and I spent many months playing it through over and again. As for more recent examples, I enjoyed Gears of War much more in coop than I did in singleplayer, probably because I pretty much suck at Gears, so the opportunity to get some help playing it through was most welcome!
Censorship of the internet in China is becoming more draconian, according to new details of Beijing's online restrictions published by human rights organisations.The claims come in a report from international journalism watchdogReporters Sans Frontieresand the China Human Rights Defenders group, which examines the way the Chinese government reacts to free speech on the internet.Written by an anonymous author who claims to work as a technician inside a Chinese web company, the report details the expanding influence of the country's censorious approach to the internet - and its "appalling" effect  on freedom of speech."The government monitors the internet by means of a skillful mix of filtering technologies, cyber-police surveillance and propaganda, in all of which China invests massively," writes the technician, referred to only as "Mr Tao". "Draconian censorship hunts down anything to do with human rights, democracy and freedom of belief. It nips free expression in the bud."According to the report, censorship of the web has grown along with the increasing power of the Beijing Internet Information Administrative Bureau, the organisation that monitors internet content in China. Its hold over is particularly strong for companies based in or near the Chinese capital, warns the study."Either on their own initiative or on orders from above, the bureau's members remind websites of the importance of political and social stability in China as soon as a story grabs the attention of  the online media or public opinion. They ask the websites to remove the story, or move it to a  less prominent position, put a stop to comments and to hide or suppress any new developments in the story, or to posts an article written by the bureau."The ones that are not registered in Beijing are not subject to as much pressure. Tengxun, for example, which has China's biggest portal and the instant messaging service QQ, is based in Shenzhen and, as a result, enjoys more freedom."The report also said that the punishments meted out to those who are deemed to have transgressed Beijing's rules are becoming more drastic.China is now the world's second-largest online population, with more than 160 million web users, and pressure is building on the government to loosen its grip on the net ahead of next year's Olympic Games.But despite the controversial nature of the country's approach to the net, it is only one of a large number of countries that heavily censor online content.This week, Burma completed an almost total shutdown of communications inside the country following mass pro-democracy protests in and around the capital, Rangoon.After shutting down web access from inside Burma over the past week, the country's ruling junta also restricted access to mobile, landline and satellite phones in order to prevent images of the protests reaching the outside world.
Today, eBay is launching Neighborhoods, a social networking service that "encourages users to post photos, product reviews, tips and responses -- creating a far more visual and interactive experience than eBay's text-based discussion forums," reportsAP.Among the 600 new neighborhoods is "Shoe Heads," intended as a haven for footwear fashionistas. Others range from Beyonce to Battlestar Galactica, and still more will be formed based on popularity of search terms and community feedback."People who are passionate about certain brands, trends, celebrities or products have been discovering and trading with one another for years," said Jamie Iannone, an eBay vice president in charge of buyer experience. "Neighborhoods makes this even easier."OK, so social networking is flavour of the year, but it is a good fit with the way people like to discuss their product purchases. But it all depends whether eBay's implementation is a good one. Anybody tried it? (It doesn't seem to be available in the UK version of the site.)
"In Rainbows", Radiohead's new album (OK, so you weren't waiting, but stay with us) is now available - at a price you, the buyer, set - for download in 160kbps MP3 format (thanks, Tim Anderson). We've also (separately) come across anattackby Ian Rogers, who works for Yahoo Music, on the music business and in particular its love of DRM:He's no newcomer: he was there with Winamp before Napster. And then watched the business's reaction:Suing Napster without offering an alternative just seemed like a denial of fact. Napster didn't invent the ability to do P2P, it was inherent in TCP/IP. It was like throwing Newton in jail for popularizing the concept of gravity.(Wasn't that Galileo? Anyway, let's move on.) Eight years after that, Amazon - with its MP3 download store (though only in the US so far) has "finally done what was the right solution in 1999".He sums it up somewhere in the middle of a Stephen Fry-esque length post:Inconvenient experiences don't have Web-scale potential, and platforms which monetize the gigantic scale of the Web is the only way to compete with the control you've lost, the only way to reclaim value in the music industry. If your consultants are telling you anything else, they are wrong.It's DRM which makes life inconvenient (see the photo of his from Flickr).I'm here to tell you today that I for one am no longer going to fall into this trap. If the licensing labels offer their content to Yahoo! put more barriers in front of the users, I'm not interested. Do what you feel you need to do for your business, I'll be polite, say thank you, and decline to sign. I won't let Yahoo! invest any more money in consumer inconvenience. I will tell Yahoo! to give the money they were going to give me to build awesome media applications to Yahoo! Mail or Answers or some other deserving endeavor. I personally don't have any more time to give and can't bear to see any more money spent on pathetic attempts for control instead of building consumer value. Life's too short. I want to delight consumers, not bum them out.In short, he's mad as hell and he's not going to take it any more.My own experience: in 2000, I met some people from American music publishing companies - that is, the people who get paid when a copy of music is sold. (Slightly different from the record labels, who package the whole.) The Napster lawsuits were brewing: I asked them if they agreed. Not at all, they said: because Napster had a central system, you could see what music was being traded - which meant, in theory, you could simply record each trade as a piece of publishing, and ask Napster for some money per trade. If Napster had moved to a subscription model (which would have been quite feasible) then it could have made a ton of money for itself and the publishers alike. And the record labels too, perhaps.As it is, DRM is being eaten away from the edges - as are the record labels. Nine Inch Nails has no record label, and Trent Reznor, its driving force,saysas of right now Nine Inch Nails is a totally free agent, free of any recording contract with any label. I have been under recording contracts for 18 years and have watched the business radically mutate from one thing to something inherently very different and it gives me great pleasure to be able to finally have a direct relationship with the audience as I see fit and appropriate.And of course the Charlatans aregiving their album away for freesome time next year. Perhaps pop won't eat itself; it'll just serve itself up for dinner. Though quite what that means for the Simon Cowells and Sharon Osbournes of this world isn't clear - though I suspect Cowell makes more money from the X-Factor live shows than from selling the records. (Prove me wrong, someone.)But: is the Radiohead album actually any *good*? As I write, it's already on at least one bittorrent site... Oh, hang on, that's answeredover here. Interesting comment: "trouble is, I'm now listening on decent headphones and the bitrate is showing. the compressed drums on 'Reckoner' sound muddy, and it lacks 'width' just when it needs it, when the strings and vocal harmonies rise and swamp the mix. it's also ruining a lot of the bass." That'll be yer MP3 compression there.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
The Daily Telegraph is getting some traction in theblogospherewith a story headedOasis, Jamiroquai to follow Radiohead, This says:Now Jamiroquai and Oasis, two major names that are not contracted to a record labels, are rumoured to be considering following Radiohead by offering work for free, according to industry sources.I'm not quite sure why this is rumoured by unnamed sources. I'd have thought that practically all the bands that don't have contracts are considering the idea, unless they have been stuck on the dark side of the moon for the past month. Making the jump from "considering" to "doing" is, of course, a different matter.Clearly Radiohead has put this not-exactly-new idea at the top of today's agenda. And it certainly looks as though it will work in the short term, because the novelty value creates publicity. But how well will it work in the long term, if everybody does it? That's actually the important question, and we don't yet know the answer.Incidentally, if anybody from the Telegraph is collecting links,Business diary: Freakonomics behind Radiohead's free album?currently gives ablank pagehere, though the text is there, and yes, I did know how to get to it. (Just block JavaScript.)TheFreakonomicsconnection is that the book tells the story of "an entrepreneur who delivers bagels to companies [who] decides that, rather than hanging around and waiting for each customer to pay him in turn, he will simply leave behind a cash box and a note asking them to leave what they owe." It works.Telegraph columnist Simon Goodley says the idea "could be extended to other industries. (Lap-dancing would function well, I reckon, as would the City of London's appeal for businesses to fund Crossrail. However, I'd oppose the innovation for national newspaper columnists)."
Casualties of the catastrophic Sega vs Nintendo wars of the late-eighties and early nineties will be staggered by the latest twist in the relationship between Mario and Sonic. Once sworn enemies, destabilising the global gaming community with their angrily contrasting platform titles, the two have not only signed a truce, they're actively dating. Earlier this year, Sega and Nintendo jointly announced Mario &amp; Sonic at the Olympic Games, an enigmatically titled project which some reporters immediately speculated would be a sports simulation starring Mario and Sonic.Now it's been announced that Sonic will guest star in the forthcoming party beat-'em-up, Super Smash Bros. Brawl set for release on Wii early next year. The game, which also features such luminaries at Solid Snake, Link and Samus from the Metroid series, will be the first to offer online multiplayer fight action.I don't know about you, but I never thought I'd live in a world where Sonic, Snake and Wario do battle in the same game. There must be something in the Book of Revelations about this.On the subject of Mario and Sonic at the Olympics (such a snappy name), Nintendo and Sega have also revealed some new details about the game...For a start there will be four special 'Dream Events'. According to the press release, these are, 'based in colourful game-like universes that include objects and power-ups that will either improve a players game, or bring their opponent down'. Sounds like the psychological consequences of taking too many performance-enhancing drugs, but this is probably not the case in the game.Events include: Dream Race, Dream Platform (diving), Dream Fencing and Dream Table Tennis - each featuring power-ups, tricks and tripped out visuals.You'll also be able to enter your Mii avatar into the game as a playable character, competing against Sonic and Mario - as yourself. It's not only bitter videogame rivalries that are crashing down here, the fourth wall is crumbling too.Which unlikely videogame pairing wouldyoulike to see and in what sort of game?
In a bizarre merchandising opportunity, the 20th anniversary special edition DVD release of Rob Reiner'sPrincess Bridewill be released with an interactive game. True Love and High Adventure: The Official Princess Bride Game will be packaged with the DVD.I can't even begin to guess what the game will be. I fear.Wired, however, has a go.Please let it be better thanMark Knopfler'sWilly DeVille'sawful awful terribletheme tune lyrics.
Google has begun allowing advertisers to "embed" clips from YouTube into their promotional messages, a sign of the search company's strategy to make money from its video streaming arm.The Silicon Valley behemoth yesterday told customers that its AdSense platform would support video content so, for example, a beverages company could show a clip of somebody enjoying a tipple.Google said it was working with about a hundred YouTube participants including Expert Village, modelling agency Ford Models and lonelygirl15 to provide advertising content - although it stressed that clips would not play until users clicked on them. Since paying $1.65bn for YouTube last year, Google has been under pressure to show that it can produce profits from the video sharing site.Google's announcement came 24 hours after the company's shares passed a milestone by topping $600. During early trading on Nasdaq, they reached $616.14.Analysts predict a further growth spurt, partly on rumours that Google could introduce a telephone next year dubbed the "Gphone" to extend its advertising expertise into the mobile internet market.A Lehman Brothers analyst, Douglas Anmuth, set a share price target of $714. Writing in a research note, he said: "Google phone could capture a similar share of handsets shipped as Apple's iPhone over a similar time period."Some reports have suggested that Google may release software to run mobile phones within the next month, with proprietary handsets to follow in February.
Reports over the weekend claimed Swedish researchers have found a direct link between mobile phone use and deadly brain tumours. The study, to be published in the Occupational Environmental Medicine journal, suggests prolonged mobile use could increase the chance of some tumours by as much as 30%. The numbers - and headlines - sound damning and, the reports suggested, children are particularly at risk because they have thinner skulls and their nervous systems are still in development.The study seems to contradict the recent report from Mobile Telecommunications and Health Research, Britain's official independent research group. Last month the group suggested that there was no evidence of ill-health as a result of short-term mobile-phone use.In fact, both groups are urging a cautious approach to mobile-phone use until more evidence has been gathered. The Swedish numbers are not as dramatic as they first appear. The research assumed that the subject used a mobile phone, against the head, for at least an hour a day over 10 years. When this was the case, the researchers claimed that the risk of developing acoustic neuromas and malignant gliomas, two forms of brain tumour, was increased.However, since less than 2% of the 285,000 tumours discovered every year in the UK fall into this category, this means that the relative risk is increased by just a small percentage. And the number of tumours has not increased significantly since an earlier study in 1999, by one of the same researchers.Professor Lawrie Challis, chairman of the MTHR, recently said: "There is still a need for more research, especially to check that no effects emerge from longer-term phone use from adults and from use by children."
Some more PlayStation snippets today. First up, the price of PS3 is to be slashed in Japan as well as Europe. On October 17, the 20GB model will drop to ¥44,980 (£188) while the 60GB machine will go for ¥54,980 (£230). Then, a few weeks later on November 11, Sony will release a 40gig machine for ¥39,980, which features a similarly snipped spec as the Euro equivalent (no backwards compatibility, two USB ports, etc). The 40GB unit is set to be available in two colours: traditional black and 'ceramic' white. This is to entice the many thousands of Japanese gamers who haven't yet bought a PS3 because it was the wrong colour.Word has it, the new machine will also be bundled with a Dualshock 3 controller, rather than 'joypad of the future', Sixaxis. On the subject of Dualshock, Immersion - which owns several patents on vibration controllers - has beenquestioningSony's decision to re-use the old PS2 Dualshock technology in its new pad. CEO Vic Viegas reckons his company's newTouchSenseset-up, featuring a more advanced series of vibration functions, would have made a better choice.He's probably right, but then Sony is perhaps still smarting from the recent multi-million dollar lawsuit. And anyway, rumble is a 'last generation' technology so why bother updating it with fancy features like pinpoint rumble accuracy and a wider range of specific jolt and vibration feedback types?But hey, dig that white machine.
A lot of noise was made last week with the launch of theTechmeme leaderboard- a list of technology centurions on the popular technology news aggregator, built by Gabe Rivera (here's an interview with Gabe by Don Dodge.On one hand Techcrunch's Mike Arrington suggested thatit would kick Technorati in the goolies, while Scripting.com's Dave Winer has complained that a top 100 list just makes gaming Techmememore likely.But intaking a swipe at the diminishing influence of the biggest sites on the leaderboard, Winer alsoinadvertentlypoints out something else that is crucial: for all that Valley-centric news junkies claim Techmeme as a crucial aggregator, it simplydoesn't refer much traffic. The Guardian features on Techmeme's leaderboard - at position #57 as I write this. But for us, it represents a tiny proportion of referral traffic.I'm not going to disclose numbers - the stats dominatrix here at Guardian Dungeons would have me eating gruel for years if I did - but suffice it to say that Techmeme doesn't rank in the top 100 referrers to the Guardian's technology pages.In the past three months, our biggest referrers included theDrudge Report, those cheeky beggars atDigg, Google News,Redditand theHuffington Post. Further down the list I seeStumbleUpon,Slashdot,BoingBoingand a number of loony New World Order conspiracist sites.Even Second Life,much mockedin some quarters for the perception gap between its popularity with media and big businesses and in the real world, was far and away a bigger source of traffic for us.There could be a number of reasons for this: firstly, maybe my numbers don't match those of other people. But it could be that Techmeme's important to a small number of technology industry influencers, but doesn't really extend its reach beyond that. Perhaps a huge number of its readers are on RSS and can't be bothered to click the links (it's also worth noting that Techmeme's RSS feed directs you not to the story you're interested in reading, but back to Techmeme's pages). Or perhaps it's still just a product that's still in the early stages of growth.But for the people who jostle for position on the site's top 100, what's the use of being part of an aggregator that aggregates but doesn't send readers your way?Update:Dave Winer's emailed to say I've misquoted him. That wasn't the intention: it was more that he'd inadvertently highlighted traffic issues in his post. I've made an amendment to make this clear.
It's a great time to be a Sega fanatic. Sega Rally is back, NiGHTS is back, and now they've officially announced a new Wii version of Sega Bass Fishing, the classic angling sim from the Dreamcast and NAOMI days. The game came complete with a novelty fishing rod controller which brought indescribable tension and pleasure to the virtual fishing experience. Naturally, the Wiimote will provide the perfect stand-in for this rather specialised peripheral (although we did used to play Soul Calibur with it).Here's some info, straight from the fish's mouth:With over 20 different types of lures to choose from, gamers can cast off using the Wii Remote to try and land one of four different types of freshwater bass. SEGA Bass Fishing also offers gamers the freedom to select time-of-day and season during play which impacts the activity of the fish, their appetite, and their depth. When players hook a big one, they can use the motion sensor to reel it in! Featuring 15 beautifully designed lake environments, SEGA Bass Fishing has four fun-filled game modes including Arcade, Tournament, Practice and Nature Trip modes.It looks extremely like the Dreamcast version, suggesting a direct(ish) port. It would have been nice to see some new Wii features - maybe a live weather element using the machine's online connection to synch the in-game conditions with your local climate - lots of Japanese fishing games do that sort of thing already.Anyway, here are five more Sega games from the same era that deserve a Wii update:Brave Fire FightersExciting fire-fighting arcade game, complete with realistic hose controller, which you directed at the screen to extinguish a series of increasingly serious infernos. The Wiimote would be perfect for this.Jambo! SafariDeliciously idiosyncratic driving game in which you speed across the African savannah attempting to capture sickly animals with a lasso. Again, the Wii controller would fit in brilliantly and there's a trendy ecological/educational theme befitting Nintendo's family credentials.House of the Dead 2One of the best light gun games in my opinion, with lots of hidden features and great end-of-level boss blasts. The voice acting is hilarious, yet also immeasurably better than the performances in Uwe Boll's movie adaptation. Come to think of it,Confidential Missionwas quite entertaining too.Airline PilotsDeeply involving arcade flight sim (a pretty specialist genre there), which could well make interesting use of motion control. The feeling of control over your Boeing 777 was so deft and precise it was a joy to play. A console conversion was never considered, despite the title's greater suitability to the relaxed home gaming experience.Top SkaterSega's excellent Model 2 skateboarding game required players to stand on a virtual board and manipulate it with their feet to pull off onscreen tricks. This is obvious Wii Balance Board material. Surely EA's Skate team are already toying with the idea. Get in there fast, Sega...
Jyri Engestrom: in the money. Photograph byRichard Morossused under CC licenseA post on the front page ofJaiku, an "activity stream" manager based in Finland, has announced that the startup is being bought by Google.Jaiku's a more fully-featured competitor toTwitter(which Jemimawrote about on Monday) that allows people to microblog and conduct conversations across their phone and computers. It possibly plays into Google's long-term mobile ambitions - however, it's worth noting that another service which wasn't a million miles away, Dodgeball, ended up beingbought and shelved by the company.I'd heard a rumour that Google was going to buy a European blogging service, but thrown off the scent because Jaiku's not *quite* about blogging. I should clearly have a wider imagination.Terms of the deal have not been announced - and Kevin has more details over at our digital content blog,PDA.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Following Mozilla's decision to spin-off the Thunderbird email software into a separate company, the only two paid Thunderbird programmers have both quit to do something else, reportsComputerWorld.Vast sums are poured into Firefox, but very little seems to get to Thunderbird or the calendar project, Sunbird. And now it seems two people working on a small project require too much management time and organisation for the mighty Mozilla Corporation to handle. Yeah, right.Since Firefox is basically funded, promoted and distributed by Google, the cynic in me suspects that Google just doesn't care about the other stuff. After all, it already has its own Gmail product (which will probably hit the desktop via Gears), and a Google Calendar.Of course, these are all open source programs, so in theory, "the community" can do all the work. In reality, the big open source projects are supported by giant multinational corporations such as IBM, Sun and Google. Whether they have a realistic future without them is open to doubt.Havingplugged Thunderbirdrather often, I'll be crossing my fingers while watching what happens. There's always Eudora, of course, which I still have installed. And theSlashdotdiscussion of the news mentionsClaws.And for the strange people who think it's actually worth paying for professionally written software, there'sThe Bat!
News company MSNBC (which is owned by Microsoft and NBC Universal) has boughtNewsvine, its first acquisition after 11 years in business. According toMSNBC's own reporter, Newsvine is "a small but innovative player in what is known as 'participatory journalism'."Rex Sorgatz, Executive Producer of MSNBC.com, writing on hispersonal blog, says:the gist is this: we plan to leave Newsvine alone -- learn from it, integrate little pieces of it, watch it grow. The site will continue to run independently with Mike at the helm; meanwhile, we will incrementally find sensible ways to integrate the "social thinking" of Newsvine into the "big media thinking" of MSNBC.com.I'm convinced that Newsvine represents a different way of thinking about traditional media -- as merger of gathering, interacting, and consuming. By positing news as an ecosystem rather than a hierarchy, the philosophy of Newsvine is actually an old one. News has always been conversational, but only recently have we begun to rediscover the tools to bring it back to its networked mode. Mike and his team have built an amazing site, and we are excited to turn some of our large audience onto it.Newsvine is rather small -- half a dozen people -- so I reckon it will need to keep its distance to avoid being crushed.Read/Write Webhas some good coverage of Newsvine, including reviews.
It was all bells and whistles for the Master Chief last week, but it seems that the first person shooter has shot, er, prematurely. This week, it's FIFA that's scored.According toMCV(the source, it seems, for all my news today), the Spiderman 3-beater has dropped 79% in UK sales and has been pipped for the top spot in the all-formats chart by the footy simulation.How fickle. Perhaps that $10 million marketing strategy should have aimed forthe long tail?
Thirty-something gamers will, or rather should, have fond memories ofSpeedball 2: Brutal Deluxe, which finally arrives on Xbox Live Arcade next Wednesday (17th). The future sport that mixed gridiron, rugby and a heavy ball was a huge hit on the Amiga and remains one of the best reasons to dust down your A500 and Competition Pro joystick. Multiplayer, in particular, was a treat, especially if you were as good as me.Of course, 17 years ago the prospect of sitting at home playing Speedball II with someone 200 miles away was the stuff of fantasy. And while 2007 may lack the jetpacks and hover cars I probably predicted for it in 1990, online Speedball 2 would have been ample compensation. That's the theory of course. I've not played the game yet but let's hopeThe Bitmap Brothers- the developers responsible for numerous 30-something game nostalgia fests - don't tinker too much with the winning formula. Now all we need is Sensible Soccer to finally surface. Any other 16bit Amiga/ST classics you'd love to see resurrected?
Okay, I just wrote about this in my 12 Promising Mobile Games feature, but I've played Sola Rola quite a bit over the weekend and really think it's one of the most polished and interestingoriginalmobile titles I've seen. Developed by denmark'sProgressive Media, it's a cute platformer which uses lots of physics elements to challenge the rolling, blobby lead characters. Yeah, I thought LocoRoco too, but it's more intriguing than a basic rip-off.I spoke to Progressive's CEO Thomas Nielsen about the ideas behind the game. he told me:"We can't blame people for thinking LocoRoco when they see SolaRola. There are some obvious visual similarities. But the truth is, the visual similarities are there because mobile phones draw solid boxes and circles really well, and we wanted to use that for some neat tricks."For this game, and most of everything else we do actually, we've tried more to look at what Nintendo does in all their games. Making games easy to understand and easily accessible to anyone is something the company does incredibly well, and something we believe is very important. You shouldn't have to spend a lot of time figuring out what a game is about and how to play it; that needs to be immediately intuitive, because most people think playing games is a whole lot more fun than figuring out how to control your character or interpret strange on-screen information. SolaRola uses only 3 buttons and has no on-screen information, and we think that's crucial in making games accessible and fun, especially on mobile phones."Sola Rola cleverly plays with the conventions of mobile games. The menu screen is presented as a sort of hub/home world, rather than a boring list so you're immediately thrust into the game space. A little thing, but effective. From here, the levels are beautifully designed, with lots of brain-work, exploration and nimble movement required to get your blobs through the landscape in one piece.Anyway, I promised that if any of the developers could provide demos of their games, I'd provide a link for our readers. Sohereyou'll find a demo of Sola Rola. Give it a shot.
Just in case you haven't been informed, the BBFC has rejected a revised version of Rockstar's Manhunt 2 title. The game was originally denied a certificate back in June and it is likely the publisher will now continue its appeal through the Video Appeals Council.Explaining the decision David Cooke, Director of the BBFC, said:"We recognise that the distributor has made changes to the game, but we do not consider that these go far enough to address our concerns about the original version. The impact of the revisions on the bleakness and callousness of tone, or the essential nature of the gameplay, is clearly insufficient. There has been a reduction in the visual detail in some of the 'execution kills', but in others they retain their original visceral and casually sadistic nature.We did make suggestions for further changes to the game, but the distributor has chosen not to make them, and as a result we have rejected the game on both platforms. The decision on whether or not an appeal goes ahead lies with the distributor.This re-emphasis on concerns regarding the "bleakness and callousness of tone" will be of most interest to those watching the case for its freedom of speech connotations. The focus on the feel of the game rather than any specific moments of violence, takes the decision further into the realms of subjectivity, which many will find unacceptable. What criteria are laid out before BBFC employees in order to judge such ethereal elements as tone and atmosphere? And surely, the often-cited torture porn superstars Hostel, Saw and Captivity must also have been considered for their bleakness - yet they strode through the censor's lair and into our cinemas.Manhunt 2 is a difficult game to defend. But then, very few anti-censorship battles (at least in the West) are fought over universally acknowledged masterpieces. They're taken up over the scrappy, offbeat, sometimes repugnant works operating out of the frayed edges of society. As an eighties hip-hop fanatic I remember the furor surrounding 2 Live Crew's hideous album As Nasty As They Wanna Be, which was banned in Florida after being declared 'obscene' by a high court judge. Music critics and other artists went though a crisis of conscience - should they support the ban due to the album's deeply violent and misogynistic imagery, or should they defend the group against censorship?Videogames are probably where rap was in the late eighties, in terms of general acceptance of, and attitudes to, the format. Manhunt 2 is this generation's Nasty as they Wanna Be - or at least it would like to be. I suppose the question is, is anyone up for the fight? Does anyone care about games like they care about music - even crap, hateful music? We may soon find out.
This week, theWikigamershave been amusing themselves by tweaking the dialogue and language of Chapter One. In the design department, CunningStunt has proven a goldmine in bizarre insults ("thundering octopial oaf" and "cloth eared tobyjug" are my personal favourites) anddescriptions of gore. Coding-wise, DennisChow's been teaching himself the programming language of the game,Inform 6, offering some much-needed help to the team of programmers frantically working to incorporate all of the strange goings on which the designers are continuously adding to.We've added a corpse and a reason for the shovel. The pub landlady's becoming more cantankerous too. There's been a major shift in one of the puzzles, and we've added some player deaths (courtesy of the gruesome mind of CunningStunt). But the most widespread change across the wiki's pages is the moniker of the main character. I must admit, I find it strange to see my name attached to the mysterious protagonist. I'd come to identify with Bob. I hope I turn out OK in the end. At least now I know what's going to happen to me inChapter 2...
"Dot eu welcomes dot asia to the internet," reads the press release from Asia Business News. (Is it just me, or does that recall Robin Williams in Good Morning Vietnam, on the news that one country has diplomatically 'recognised' another: "Great Britain recognised the island state of Singapore.. How do you recognize an island? Do you go, exc-- Hey, wait. No, don't tell me. Wait, wait. Didn't we meet last year at the Feinman bar mitzvah? You look a lot like Hawaii. Didn't we meet last year at the Peninsula Club?")Anyhow.. there's now a new top-level domain (TLD) for all of Asia. Any person or business that's based or in some way associated with Asia can apply for a domain which will end in ".asia". It covers anyone who does business in any of 73 countries, spanning Turkey through to mainland Australia. It covers four billion people, or two-thirds of the world's population.Curb your enthusiasm at the back. Oh, you were standing up to leave? Can't blame you. In what must have domain registrars around the world rubbing their hands with glee and ordering new yachts, we now have another TLD that nobody can quite remember asking for (is it like the gherkin in a fastburger?) which will coin it from all the companies that feel they have to register their name just to make sure that nobody else does. Which especially means all the banks and other brands, but which equally means that typosquatters and phishers can have a new way to play havoc with everyone's lives.To quote from the press release..No one knows which names will be most popular on October 9, when the .asia registry starts accepting the first round of applications, but EURid's experience offers some clues. In the first two days .eu domain names became available, EURid received 227 applications for sex.eu, 118 for hotel.eu and 94 for travel.eu."The .asia registry will probably see the same rush for generic names but that will pass," said Marc Van Wesemael, general manager of EURid. "After a time, Europeans realised that a .eu domain was good for business. People in Asia will surely discover that as well."Let's not enquire quite whose business. Onward!Within a few months of its launch, .eu became the third-largest European top-level domain. Today close to 2.6 million domain names are registered and the number of active .eu sites is growing. Bridgestone, Century 21 and Daikin are among the many companies that use .eu domain names to promote their business and products.Our regular columnist Seth Finkelstein has pointed outagainandagainthe pointlessness of introducing a .xxx TLD; we think that .asia is just the same thing without the sex. Well, without quite so much of the sex.And at £30 per domain registered, that's a pretty neat income stream if .asia gets as much business as .eu. And likely it'll bemoistmost of the same names all over again - and perhaps in multiple language forms too.Surely the really useful direction is for more granular detail, not less: we want to have postcode and zipcode-level subdomains of the main countries; that would really help us find something (so you'd have alicesrestaurant.stockbridge.massachusetts.us). Telling us something is in Asia is hardly useful, is it?Anyhow, who'd like to join me setting up a domain registrar for .earth and .solarsystem and .milkyway?
The same document loaded into Word 2007 (left) and Buzzword.Today's Netbytes column is aboutBuzzword, a new online word processor, which has just been bought by Adobe. I've been using the private beta version and I like it. However, it does run into some common problems when importing Word documents, and the reality is that today's world contains billions of Word documents.I've been experimenting a lot with "round tripping" documents, which means uploading them to another word processor, saving them, then reloading them back into Word 2003 and 2007. It's something that Microsoft generally manages to do pretty well, if imperfectly, which is one reason why Word still rules.Anyway, have a look at the picture at the top (click to enlarge). Buzzword doesn't do at all badly with a typically simple Word document (a Canon press release, picked at random from my inbox), but it has lost the letter-headed template, changed the line length and type face, and thus lost the pagination, which results in some bad page breaks. I could show you worse examples, of course.One advantage of Google Docs is that it usually does pick up letter-headed paper, as shown in the example below (a Microsoft press release). Buzzword just ignores the yellow header. However, as you can see, Google Docs scrambles the one-line headline and puts it in the top right, which isn't useful. The main part of the copy is double-column in the original, which neither Buzzword nor Google Docs manages to handle (both change the document to single-column text). However, in the Google Docs example, you can only wonder where Point 4 went. That's a mystery.Suffice it to say that we are still not ready to talk about "round tripping": the one-way tripping still has some way to go.Bear this in mind when people tell you that Buzzword, Google Docs etc are "compatible with Microsoft Word." Sure they are.
When dotcom entrepreneur Calum Brannan had his first meeting with potential investors last year, he immediately encountered a problem."My uncle had driven me down to Cambridge from Coventry for the meeting, and came to sit in on it with me," he said. "But they thought he ran the website and started talking to him instead of me."Aged just 18 and with schoolboy looks, Mr Brannan makes an unlikely businessman. But as one of a number of young entrepreneurs taking advantage of the new dotcom boom, he is already tipped for success.Investors desperate for profit are scouring the internet for the next big thing, many of them spurred on by success stories such as Facebook, the social networking website founded by Harvard dropout Mark Zuckerberg when he was just 19, and now valued at $10bn (&pound;5bn).Stories of adolescent web businesses inevitably bring back memories of the last dotcom bubble, which ended abruptly in 2001 with stock market turmoil and the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs worldwide. General optimism about the technology goldrush, allied with the lack of understanding of the internet, meant that vast sums were handed over to whizzkid companies which collapsed.With millions of pounds once again being poured into companies run by young entrepreneurs, some experts are warning that too much emphasis on youth could help reinflate the dotcom bubble."People like Mark Zuckerberg show that there is great talent out there ... but there's a world of difference between a teenager and a young entrepreneur," said Sayula Kirby of Index Ventures, which has backed a large number of European internet startups. "I wouldn't say we are in a bubble yet, but we are getting closer to the point where the froth begins."The positive feeling from investors towards whizzkids like Zuckerberg is already having an impact on some of those - like Mr Brannan - who hope to follow in his footsteps.His website,PPLparty.com, is on the verge of securing a funding deal worth &pound;250,000 and is also competing for up to &pound;5m in funds from British venture capitalists. He believes that investors want to tap into his ability, as a teenager himself, to understand what teenagers want."We have a different take on the market because I'm young and we connect directly with the users," said Mr Brannan.PPLparty.com initially began as a copy of MySpace, before focusing on niche services for young clubbers in the West Midlands and getting support from Peter Jones, a judge on BBC show Dragon's Den and a former business wunderkind himself.After signing deals with local venues and club promoters, it has started to spread and now claims 400,000 users. The company has expanded to a staff of eight and has signed partnerships with high-profile companies such as Channel 4 and Yahoo.Despite a new generation of teens brought up with the web, however, young internet entrepreneurs are the exception rather than the rule. Even in America, with its larger population and love of entrepreneurial culture, there are only a handful of high profile teenagers running their own internet companies. Those who have achieved success have not always found it easy.Ashley Qualls, who founded Whateverlife.com two years ago, is one of the leading lights. Still just 17, the Detroit native has experienced success that many older business people chase their entire career. The site, which creates designs and ways to personalise MySpace and Facebook profiles, has around 7 million users and claims to be bringing in revenues of around $70,000 (&pound;35,000) each month.Things have been difficult on a number of levels, though. Ms Qualls, who lives with her mother and sister in the house she bought with her profits, has been ruled as too young to control her substantial assets by a district court. The result is that a court officer is currently overseeing her finances until she turns 18 next summer.Such setbacks have not prevented Ms Qualls from continuing to move up the internet hierarchy, and she has turned down a number of lucrative offers, including one to start her own internet TV show with a budget in excess of $2m."I created this from nothing, and I want to see how far I can take it," she told Fast Company magazine earlier this month. "If I wanted to do an internet show, I could do it on my own - I have the audience."While she keeps herself grounded, other young entrepreneurs have tended towards the precocious.Californian Ben Casnocha, who founded his software company five years ago aged just 14, has even gone as far as writing a book of business advice - My Start-up Life.However Ms Kirby of Index Ventures warns that it will take more than just a quirky idea to capture the hearts of investors this time around."Times are good in the technology industry, but investors have been burned once before," said Ms Kirby. "They are being very careful about where they put their money."While recognising that his age has proved a talking point, Mr Brannan admits that it is not always helpful."Being a young entrepreneur, everybody is ready to help you out," he said. "But conversations with my bank manager have been very different than they might have been if I was older - after all, I can't ask for a business loan because I haven't even got a credit rating."He does, however, admit that there have been some significant advances recently."At least now, since I turned 18, I'm actually allowed into the venues I'm doing deals with."
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
There is a bit of a buzz aboutBuzzword, the slick new online word processor built in Adobe Flash. It's so slick, in fact, that Adobe has just bought Virtual Ubiquity, the company behind it, while it's still in beta.If you've used the word processor inGoogle Docs, you should find Buzzword impressive. Google Docs is clunky, hard to use, and looks awful; Buzzword is smooth as silk, has a much nicer user interface, and the results look as good asMicrosoft Word, if not better.Indeed, if you maximise Buzzword and go into Full Screen mode (hit F11 in Windows), nobody would suspect it was an online application running in a browser.Obviously it has far fewer functions than a full desktop word processor such as Word. However, it offers a choice of fonts in sizes from 8pt to 72pt; you can insert lists, tables and images; and it spell-checks (without autocorrection) as you type. Buzzword also supports headers and endnotes, notes and pagination. If you move or resize a picture, text flows around it, though it can't do columns, yet.More features are being added, but I reckon you could already write a decent term paper in Buzzword, as long as it's for one of the softer subjects such as English or history. (I couldn't find a way to enter equations, or to do a word-count.)Buzzword features a somewhat novel menu system. The toolbars are stacked on the top right of the screen, and when you click on the one you want —  Paragraph, List, Image etc — Buzzword fires it across the screen. If you need to go back to an earlier toolbar, it's now stacked on the left, so you have to fire it off to the right. It's cute for 10 minutes, then gets annoying.But the really big problem with Buzzword is that it's probably not much use for most people. If you can do all your word processing online in Buzzword, and then print things out from Buzzword, it works pretty well.You could also do some word processing in Buzzword, save documents to your hard drive in .doc or .rtf format, then load them into Word or whatever.But don't expect to be able to "round trip" documents between Word and Buzzword, because it just can't handle a great many of Word's features. If you upload a Word document, your letterheads and comments are ignored, double columns become single columns, Word's fonts are translated into the nearest thing Buzzword can manage, justified text comes out unjustified, your pagination goes out of the window, and so on. It's a one-way trip to somewhere not very nice.The solution is to create a version of Buzzword that runs in a Flash player on the desktop, so you can use it all the time. Adobe is now developing a player called AIR (Adobe Integrated Runtime), and Buzzword could be one of the first apps. When that arrives, it could actually be useful.
One of the comments on myPS3 price-cut blogsuggested that I was wrong to say that the console needs a decent game or two. But was I? There are a couple of arguments for buying a PS3 today - Blu-ray and er, huge potential - but playing the best games around isn't one of them. And that situation is unlikely to change until next year. Just imagine it. Early December, doing the Christmas shopping and deciding which console to get. Which one do you go for? Buying for the family as a whole? The Wii is the obvious choice, in which case you'd better cross those fingers. If the Wii is impossible to find then the 360 is an increasingly credible family console, albeit one that needs to be hooked up to Live for those kid-friendly arcade games. The PS3? Well, Singstar looks promising but is it worth 120 pounds more than the Wii and basic 360? I doubt it.But what if you are buying a console for yourself? Want the best high end traditional/hardcore games around at the moment? Then the 360 - Mass Effect, Project Gotham 4, Halo 3 - is the only choice. Want to keep your relatives entertained while rushing back to Mario when you get the chance? Then obviously it's the Wii. Want to watch Blu-ray movies and admire the relative silence of your console then er, you get the point. But it's a serious one. There is no real reason to get a PS3 this year. Sure Motorstorm, Resistance and Heavenly Sword have their moments,Ratchet and Clankshows promise and the online Playstation Store is increasingly interesting, but there is no must-play game, no reason to choose the PS3 over a 360 or Wii this Christmas. 2008 can't come soon enough for Sony.
Canada's CBC Marketplace programme has run a test onhome computer repairswith hidden cameras and the results are scary. They damaged the RAM on a desktop PC and only three out of 10 companies managed to find the problem. They also took a laptop to several stores, with -- to put it politely -- variable results.As is usual with "expose" programmes, the issues were somewhat sensationalised, and I didn't think the "fake" faults were well chosen (RAM rarely goes bad). But Marketplace gave the repairers enough rope to hang themselves, and some of them did.This summer, The Sunday Times did a similar test in the UK. It appeared in print asSystem down: send in the geeks.
O'Reilly Research has just released a new report on The Facebook Application Platform, and Tim O'Reilly has commented on the Long Tail aspects.He writes:The good news has already been widely disseminated: there are nearly 5000 Facebook applications, and the top applications have tens of millions of installs and millions of active users. The bad news, alas, is in our report: 87% of the usage goes to only 84 applications! Only 45 applications have more than 100,000 active users. This is a long tail marketplace with a vengeance -- but unfortunately, the economic models (for developers at least, though not for Facebook itself) all rely on getting into theveryshort head.But read the discussion as well. In some repects, it's more interesting than the post....
It sounded like an elaborate hoax. A petrol company, one of those evil pump-action purveyors of pure hydrocarbon, wanted to show me how to use less fuel by teaching me to drive in a more environmentally friendly manner! Thus reducing my carbon tyreprint and, bafflingly, their profits... It was an offer I couldn't ignore.The company was BP and the challenge was to take their Green Driving Test, in which I would go as far as possible over a prepared course on exactly one litre of BP Ultimate unleaded petrol. There was no speed limit - rather than mph it was all about mpg. The car was a Ford S-Max fitted with a black box to record and analyse my second-by-second fuel consumption and exhaust emissions. For good measure, two BP technicians were also going to travel with me to observe my driving technique. I pointed out that the first thing I'd do as an economical driver would be to reduce the weight of my vehicle, but neither Alex nor Chris was prepared to get out.An expert eco driver had already taken the test and thrown down the gauntlet by stretching the litre of petrol over eight miles. I edged the S-Max on to the course, driving as slowly and cautiously as possible, easing on the throttle as if I were walking on eggs. At 5.2 miles I ground to a halt. I was shocked at how badly I had done - 35 per cent less.Back at base, Alex patiently talked me through my test. It's hard to get your head around just how much fuel a car uses. A full tank holds 60 litres of petrol - enough to fill a bath. To accelerate a car from standstill to 40mph burns around a cup of petrol. Try visualising that every time you pull away from the lights, and you'll feel your throttle foot getting lighter by the junction. Alex went on to explain that the secret of economical driving was maintaining momentum: 'Most cars weigh a couple of tonnes, and every time you touch the brakes you are wasting that rolling momentum. Imagine you are pushing a 2-tonne boulder. Getting it going is harder than keeping it going, and so it is with your car.'Alex pointed out that I had only managed an average of 22 miles to the gallon, while the Green Driver had managed 34. The annual distance covered by British motorists is about 10,000 miles. At my rate of consumption that's &pound;1,976 of petrol; eco man would only have spent &pound;1,282. If saving the planet doesn't motivate you, saving your bank balance probably will.Other tips for economising are to correctly inflate your tyres, maintain your car, remove your roof box and all excess weight (do you really need to keep your golf clubs in the boot?), turn off the aircon, turn off the engine rather than let it idle, smooth out stop-start motoring, avoid short journeys (cold engines use more fuel) and use a high-quality petrol... This last tip is the day's payoff. BP is in the business of selling fuel, after all. They just want you to buy BP Ultimate, which is more expensive. And why would you do that? Well, it comes with detergents which clean your engine as you use it, making your car more efficient, and cleaner. So much so, BP estimate you could get up to 28 miles more out of your tank. Couple that with your eco-driving skills, and you could start saving for an electric car.martin.love@observer.co.uk
The fast food chain McDonald's is to introduce free high speed wireless internet access at most of its 1,200 restaurants by the end of the year in a move which will make it the UK's biggest provider of such a service.Customers will be able to go online via their laptops, compatible mobile phones and games consoles for hours on end if they wish. The initiative goes a step further than existing services offered by some coffee shops and cafes, which provide Wi-Fi hotspots but charge users a fee.McDonald's said its service would benefit a wide range of customers, from business people making a "pit stop" to check email between meetings to those looking for a leisurely break at the weekend to download music. It claimed a hotspot user who pays to log on for just an hour a week in a coffee shop could stand to save as much as &pound;260 a year on premium Wi-Fi charges by using McDonald's free service. It has already introduced the free scheme in 8,000 of its 13,000 outlets in the US.The company's president and chief executive officer, Steve Easterbrook, said: "We hope that this will be a breath of fresh air and give greater choice for Wi-Fi hotspot users who have had little choice but to pay by the month or hour to access the internet on the move." Faced with the prospect of young people spending hours surfing the net after buying just a single cup of coffee, a spokesman for McDonald's said: "We would be comfortable with that. There will be no restrictions."The editor of Computing, Bryan Glick, said: "The future of technology is in secure, wireless, mobile, go-anywhere computers and anything that helps people achieve that is a step in the right direction."
An advertising campaign to warn of the dangers of disclosing too much personal information should be launched on social networking websites, according to a report by MPs on identity theft.The all-party group also urged the government to appoint an identity fraud tsar, and called for a review of the law and more resources for the police.Official figures show that identity theft costs the economy &pound;1.7bn a year, though the true figure could be much higher. Some victims have had their bank accounts plundered while others have discovered that credit cards have been taken out in their name and used to make purchases abroad.In its report, the group said young people were the least protective of their personal information. More than 60% of 16- to 25-year-olds do not destroy personal documents before throwing them away, and one in six have published sensitive information on a blog or social networking website or in a chatroom."Even mobile phone numbers are appearing on sites such as Facebook," said the MPs. "An advertising campaign on social networking sites including Facebook, Bebo and MySpace would be an effective way of raising awareness among this group and others."The group was critical of government efforts, pointing out that in the last two years there have been three ministers with responsibility for ID theft. It said an identity fraud tsar would create a single point of contact across government, police and the private sector.MPs also criticised banking bodies for their reluctance to admit that ID theft was a serious issue. "The banking industry must accept that identity fraud is a growing problem."However, the insurance group Axa had disclosed that it had been the victim of a fraud when a subsidiary's registered office address was changed. "This allowed a fraudster to rent property and obtain goods, none of which were ever paid for," the company said in its evidence to the group.The report also called for:&middot;A review into how effective a single, specific offence of identity fraud would be.&middot;More money for tackling the crime. Dedicated police officers would allow forces to be more effective.&middot;All councils to offer safe and secure hard drive disposal facilities as part of their recycling services.&middot;A hotline to allow people to quickly find out how they should respond to an ID fraud attack.&middot;"Secure sharing" of data between government and the private sector.Nigel Evans, Conservative MP for the Ribble Valley and chair of the all-party group, which was set up in 2006 to monitor developments on identity fraud, said: "The group has been stunned by the damage identity fraud is having. I don't think any of us truly understood the scale and impact of the problem, and we are extremely shocked by what we learned."
Citroën C-Crosser 2.2 HDiPrice&#163;22,790Top speed124mphAcceleration0-62 in 9.9 secondsConsumption39.2mpg (combined)CO² emissions191g/kmEco rating4/10At the wheelVernon KayeTop gadgetSplit tailgateIn a wordIngratiatingHere is Citro&euml;n's first stab at an SUV - the "new, friendly face of 4x4 motoring", according to its makers. And fair enough: most 4x4s do appear to be fizzing with aggressive paranoia, in varying degrees, all the way through to the pinch-faced Mercedes ML, which, if you approach it closely enough, can almost be heard saying, "Step away from the car," through clenched teeth. And maybe this new, seven-seat C-Crosser does just about seem to be raising a smile with its chunky chevrons and thin-lipped grille.Nevertheless, before you rush to throw your arms round its capacious rear end, you may still want to ask yourself, "What is Citro&euml;n - the home of strangely embraceable French eccentricity and mass-produced loopiness - doing competing in the soulless, status-driven world of the armour-plated school shuttle?"Well, "Hoping to make lots of money" would, of course, be one plausible answer. The swanky 4x4 sector now accounts for 7.5% of all new cars sold - meaning that at least seven of every 100 new cars on the road, will be (or will appear to be) suitable for driving across a rutted field. If you had predicted that eventuality as recently as 15 or 20 years ago, people would have laughed in your face and driven away in a Renault 5.But there it is. So here's another suburban family car offering, apparently without irony, a dial enabling you to switch from two-wheel drive to four-wheel drive for, presumably, those trickier speed bumps. The C-Crosser is, though, "a responsible alternative", which "minimises its impact on the environment". Hmm. By this, Citro&euml;n seems to mean that, if you buy the quite noisy but stable 2.2 diesel-engined version that we tested, your car will bring the world to a rolling boil less quickly than other SUVs with petrol engines.It is also advanced, as a token of the C-Crosser's heartening greenness, that its engine will happily accept 30% bio-diesel, which, again, sounds excitingly wholesome, except that 30% bio-diesel is a fuel that, it's only a slight exaggeration to say, you can't buy anywhere, unless you make it at home yourself, with soap and the morning's Weetabix scrapings.However green at heart it is, your C-Crosser will still bulge unhelpfully over the lip of your supermarket parking space, and its sculpted bumpers will continue to give every impression of having been placed at the point of maximum danger to the heads of the broadest possible range of small children - that other quaint SUV design touch. "Impact on the environment" takes more forms than simply what is unleashed into the atmosphere every time you fire up the engine, though few car companies would admit as much these days, so much has the debate been politically narrowed.Of course, only the insentient would deny the luxury of those yards of shoulder and leg room, or the pleasures of that lofted driving position, which is broad enough to afford a view of several neighbouring counties. If only the C-Crosser's expression could work harder. What it's trying to say is, "I'm not like those other, bad SUVs. I'm one of the new breed of good SUVs." But it's an awful lot for a car's face to communicate.
MondayPS3 and Xbox neck and neckWikigame week 10: give us your namesSega's dirty tacticsTuesdayHalo 3 salesBuild a game: save the worldCasual games competitionConsole sales figures from JapanWednesdayAtari 2600 is 30new awards recognise writers and gamersPitch a mobile game at Channel 4ThursdayGoogle Life40gig PS3 in the UKTen most promising mobile games of the winterFriday10 steps to Halo 3FIFA 08 playes patient gamePS3 price cut
The rumours were true, Sony have just announced a PS3 price cut. From October 10th the standard 60GB model - complete with two games - will be reduced from 425 UKP to 349. While a new 40GB model - which loses 2 USB slots, the memory card slot and, most controversially, backwards compatibility - will launch for 299. The price cuts were apparently decided by "feedback from thousands of existing PS3 owners as well as research into future potential PS3 owners." Although, let's face it, the sluggish sales since launch are probably the main reason. And why the sneaky late Friday press release? Anyway, Sony have finally made the PS3 price a bit more realistic, now all we need is a decent game or two. Will the price cut finally tempt you to get a PS3?
Sony is launching a new 40GB version of the PlayStation 3 games console for £299 on October 10, and replacing the current starter pack with a 60GB Value Pack at £349, Sony Computer Entertainment UK confirmed today.There are no big surprises here: there has been plenty of speculation and Keith Stuart had the story on our Gamesblogyesterday.As Keith noted, the £299 machine has no memory card slot and two USB ports instead of four. Neither is likely to cause any problems. After a chat with Sony, I can add that it doesn't support Super Audio CD (a hi-fi format) either -- which is even less likely to cause any problems.However, potential buyers should be aware that, in Sony's words, "the new model is also no longer backwards compatible with PlayStation 2 titles." It's not clear how incompatible it might be (it seems to be "not at all"), but gamers with PS2s should watch out.SCEE UK boss Ray Maguire admits that "compatibility is a more sensitive issue, but consumers told us that, coming up to Christmas, ensuring we had a low entry [price] was much more important." Compatibility was also less important, he said, now there are more native PS3 games.The UK games trade has been calling for price cuts on the PlayStation 3: it's tough when it costs more than £300 while both the Wii and Xbox 360 can be had for under £200.The problem is that Sony is losing money on each PS3 it sells. Or as Ray Maguire put it today: "We are in an investment situation still, and will be in an investment situation for some time to come."But with the new bundles, he says: "I think we'll see a significant uptick in sales."Update: I forgot something while getting a post together to meet Sony's 4.30pm Friday deadline and being equal first with the news.... The 60GB version of the PS3 is only available while stocks last. "We won't be producing any more 60 gigs," said Ray Maguire. And whatever Sony decides to bring in next, there's noguaranteeof any PS2 compatibility. (Oh, and isn't this the company that rubbished Microsoft over Xbox compatibility? Yes, and the one that rubbished Microsoft for having more than one version, for doing a worldwide launch etc.)
Within a whisker of meIf you had whiskers, how would it feel? A team in Japan has created a "haptic" (touch) interface that alerts people when an object comes close to them. Now to get them through the cat flap ...Steve Ballmer sells Windows 1.0In 1985, in his best "Crazy Eddie" car salesman style, the then head of the Windows division gives it that huckster pitch. Originally intended only for internal use, it has since spread far and wide.What is hypertext anyway?It's easy to forget the immanent power of hypertext and links. Got four minutes and 33 seconds? Here's the digital world. And the John Cage link? Look at the length of the video. (Thanks Robbindahood for the link.)Come on - what technology stuff have you come across and loved? Share it here!
