A selection of 11 new and notable apps for you today:PlayART by TapookArt purists may shudder at the thought of children mashing up Van Gogh's sunflowers with Monet's waterlillies, but that's the idea behind Tapook's PlayART app. Aimed at 5-13 year-olds, it lets them resize, rotate and flip elements from classic artworks by Van Gogh, Monet, Cézanne, Rousseau and Klee, to be saved and shared with family and friends.iPadVLC BetaOpen source media player VLC has launched in beta for Android devices, although its developers warn it's "intended for power users and hackers. This version is NOT stable and is slower than the final version. It might kill your kitten, destroy your house and start the mayan apocalypse." It promises to play most audio and video file formats, as well as streaming files.AndroidSamsung S HealthSamsung showed off its "personal wellness" app earlier this year, but it's now available to download for the company's Galaxy S III smartphone. The app tracks various health metrics, and can connect to blood glucose meters, blood pressure monitors and body composition scales to pull in more data. In the UK, it's available through the handset's More Services store.AndroidCritical Strike PortableCraving a Counter Strike-style FPS fix for your Android device? Critical Strike Portable is well worth a look. Studio OnMars' free-to-play game offers a mixture of single-player and online deathmatching modes, while enabling people to create their own maps using Unity 3D.AndroidFlutterby ButterfliesThere are hordes of cheap'n'nasty flash-card and alphabet apps for kids on the App Store. Flutterby Butterflies stands out for its craft, though: its colour and letter-matching games include illustrations by former Beatles collaborator Alan Aldridge, while the team at developer FeeFiFoFun has a background making light-shows for the likes of Pink Floyd and Cirque du Soleil.iPhone / iPadSpeedball 2 EvolutionHere's a retro fix for Android gamers, as classic 16-bit title Speedball 2 pops up on the Google Play store. Having been a hit on iOS in 2011, the Android edition keeps its key features, including a range of solo modes including a 10-season career.AndroidCouchSurfingCouchSurfing describes itself as a "social travel network", helping people connect when on their travels to find food, parties and beds for the night (or, indeed, sofas). The app helps people find likeminded users and communicate before turning up at their gaff.AndroidTraffic Panic LondonNothing to do with the Olympic Games, despite the title. This freemium game from British publisher Neon Play is part of its existing Traffic Panic franchise, getting players to control traffic lights to ensure everything flows smoothly on the capital's streets. Or, alternatively, to manipulate massive great pile-ups.iPhone / iPadEncyclopaedia BritannicaFresh from announcing plans to shift from print to digital, the Encyclopaedia Britannica has made its debut on Windows Phone. This 2012 edition includes 80,000 articles and tens of thousands of images and charts, as well as an offline-reading mode. A one-year subscription is bundled into the download price.Windows PhoneChasing YelloAlas, nothing to do with the pioneering Swiss band Yello – although their The Race single would be an apt soundtrack to an endless runner game. Actually, this is less running and more swimming: a colourful arcade game focused on a fish named Mathilda. Power-ups and social challenges are included.iPhone / iPad
Samsung has lost its attempt to overturn a ban on US sales of its flagship Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer, in a fresh blow for the South Korean manufacturer in its patent war with Apple.A judge in California on Monday refused to lift the ban – whichcame into force last week– while the court weighs up Apple's claim that Samsung illegally copied the design of the iPad.A spokeswoman for Samsung on Tuesday said the company would continue to appeal against the injunction.Apple and Samsung are involved in patent disputes in several countries around the globe, in a row that has moved front and centre in the battle for the increasingly crowded tablet market.Samsung was ordered on 26 June to halt US sales of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 – one of the closest competitors to the iPad – until the South Korean firm goes to trial with Apple on 30 July. The US district judge Lucy Koh also hit Samsung with a US sales ban for its top-end Galaxy Nexus smartphone on Friday.Samsung said in a statement: "Samsung is disappointed with the court's decision that denied our motion to stay. We believe today's ruling will ultimately reduce the availability of superior technological features to consumers in the US."Regardless, we will continue to pursue a request for an appeal of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 preliminary injunction, which we filed on 26 June to the court of appeals for the federal circuit."Pre-trial bans on products are rare in the US. But analysts said the injunctions would not have far-reaching consequences for Samsung in the tablet and smartphone markets."The impact on Samsung is limited as shipment volume of Galaxy Tab 10.1 and Nexus are quite small," Lee Sun-tae, an analyst at NH Investment &amp; Securities, told Reuters."Even if Apple wins an injunction request on Galaxy S III, Samsung will have plenty of time to get around it, as it normally takes quite a long time for a court to process such requests."Total sales of tablet computers will reach 105m units this year and 143m in 2013, according to the research firm IDC – compared with total PC sales of about 400m, of which more than 60% will be laptops.Samsung's Galaxy Tab range of tablet computers run Google's Android software, which is also used by a range of rival manufacturers including Sony and Motorola.Apple is expected to remain the dominant player in the tablet market for the foreseeable future, with Gartner forecasting that the iPad will account for 61.4% of all sales this year. Android tablets are forecast to account for 31.9% of tablet computer sales this year.
This is what an online apocalypse looks like: "Don't break anything! There's no one left to fix it!"Last Thursday night, members of The WELL, the 27-year-old San Francisco-based online community, were shocked to receive a mass email alerting them to the fact that the system's owner, the online magazine Salon.com, had laid off all the WELL's staff and was searching for a buyer.The WELL has been for sale before; the more alarming news was the staff lay-offs and the news that the domain name – well.com – might be sold separately. Cue panic and a good old-fashioned WELL thrash about what to do. Some, afraid that a sale might mean their years of postings would be turned out into the open internet, advocated mass deletion. This was the spark for the "Don't break it!" panic: too much deletion too fast could make the system unstable. Others, more hopeful, suggested alternate platforms.No one involved will say much, but there is talk – and hope – of a member buyout, at least of the community and its archives. The domain name is another story; in a posting on Google+, the experienced CNN journalist and long-time WELL member Declan McCullaghsuggests that well.com could be worth $5m. That's a lot of money to Salon, which is losing a million dollars a year.In today's world, populated with millions of free comment boards and web forums, the WELL is a weird throwback. Imagine: its members pay subscription fees. And again: the WELL is pure text, uninterrupted by icons, pictures, graphics, Flash animations, video clips – or advertising. Its technology was designed to foster thoughtful conversation. And, more than most sites today, it has a sense of place.Partly, this is due to the fact that most of its members are based in and around San Francisco, and meet in person frequently. But longevity also helps: to help out fellow members, WELL folks have organised a medical airlift, helped decipher years of a child's leukaemia treatments, and mourned together over deaths. It is not easy to imagine replicating all that."The WELL has long since been something larger than the sum of everybody's friends," Howard Rheingold wrote in his 1992 bookThe Virtual Community.The way this community coalesced has been widely studied and has influenced a generation of online community designers. Yet the WELL was always small; at its peak the membership was perhaps 14,000. Now, Salon's annual filing puts it at 2,693, bringing in $380,000 a year – enough to pay for itself on today's cheap hardware, but negligible by Facebook standards. That it punched above its weight had a lot to do with the people it attracted.Founded in 1985by Michigan-based computer conferencing pioneer Larry Brilliant and Stewart Brand, the editor of the Whole Earth Catalogue, the WELL has numbered among its members the founders of Craigslist, Wired, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, the influential Computers, Freedom and Privacy (CFP) conference, and Salon.com itself, as well as writers from the New York Times, the New Yorker, the San Francisco Chronicle, the San Jose Mercury News, CNN, and Time. In 1994, when Kevin Mitnick, the most famous computer hacker of the day and now the author of respected books on computer security, was on the run from law enforcement, it was files he parked on the WELL that helped track down his location.Over a few years in the mid-90s, while AOL (founded the same year) reached millions of users the WELL's original owners – Larry Brilliant's Michigan-based computer company and the non-profit Point Foundation – both sold out their half-shares to Bruce Katz, the founder of Rockport shoes. In 1999, it was acquired by Salon.com, one of the earliest "new media" startups aimed at doing serious journalism on the web. At the time, everyone was happy about this: Salon was more or less founded on the WELL, and many of its top editors were daily presences.ButSalon's finances have long been precarious, and nowthey're dire.In the past two months, the CEO and CTO have left, both replaced by Cindy Jeffers, who for the last couple of years has been the CTO of the Huffington Post. Meanwhile, Salon's most recentannual report, filed on 29 June, showed that cumulatively the company has lost $112.5m. Its revenues are barely half its approximately $2m a year in expenses. These revenues themselves – from both advertising and subscriptions to its advertising-free services – are dropping.But the sentence in the report's discussion of the WELL that really scared WELL members was this: "…current subscriptions will be honoured but not renewed upon expiration". People who pay by the month read that on Friday 29 June, and had to ask: would they be cut off on Monday?Today, it seems clear that Salon is not switching off the lights as quickly as that.Almost immediately, two very different sets of concerns emerged. First, what would happen to the community? Could it reassemble somewhere else? Or could its users, collectively, buy it themselves? This part of the conversation is being had on the WELL itself, and in existing WELL groups on Facebook and LinkedIn as well as  new outposts on Reddit and elsewhere. It is the kind of conversation communities have had since time immemorial when their favourite pub, community centre, village hall, church, or cave is scheduled for demolition.The second, however, is less easily solved: it is about individual members' online identities, which are tightly linked to the well.com email addresses many have had for more than 20 years, and the personal websites hosted at well.com, with links pointing to them from all over the web. Yesterday, the science fiction writer Bruce Sterling begged for someone to buy it sohe could keep his email address.We read a lot about how email isn't so important any more because most of us have many different ways to connect with the people in our lives – mobile phones, instant messaging, social media sites. What many fail to recognise is that their access to most of those things is mediated by their email address. Every site you belong to or use, from Facebook and Twitter, to the Guardian's comments section, to your accounts on banking, retail, and government sites is locked to your email address. If you do not own your own domain and manage your own email – which few people now bother to do – your entire online life is at risk if someone pulls the plug on your email address.Few internet businesses are even as old as the WELL, yet we expect them to be old and faithful, like the Royal Mail. If you're going to rely on the kindness of outside email providers, make sure you have backups.Wendy M Grossman writes the net.wars column online; her work can be found athttp://www.pelicancrossing.net
So, any start-of-the-week gaming action last night?
Good morning (or evening on the US west coast) - we'll now be launching Boot Up at 0630 BST (and through to GMT if things go right) each day, as we thought those of you who make an early start on your reading would like to see it first thing.So: a quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAdobe: Web standards match 80 percent of Flash features &gt;&gt; CNET NewsStephen Shankland:Adobe Systems, retooling as fast as it can for a future of Web publishing and Web apps, sees the technology as mostly caught up to the Flash technology that Adobe previously preferred."I think it's close to 80 percent," Arno Gourdol, Adobe's senior director of Web platform and authoring, said in an interview during the Google I/O show.Gourdol, who leads Adobe work to embrace Web standards, has a lot on the line as the company tries to make a difficult transition away from the widely used but fading Flash. He's eager to convince skeptics that the company is serious about it: "We're not just looking at parity with Flash. We're trying to go beyond what you can do with Flash."Windows Phone 7 was doomed by design, Microsoft admits &gt;&gt; CNET UKNatasha Lomas:according to Greg Sullivan, senior product manager for Windows Phone, Microsoft knew all along it would be orphaning Windows Phone 7. Asked when it started developing Windows Phone 8, he reveals development work was going on in parallel with Windows Phone 7 - and even earlier."It was right after Windows Phone 7," Sullivan said, speaking in an interview with CNET UK. The team that developed the 7.5 release actually was working in parallel with the core team that was already beginning [Windows Phone 8]. In fact some of that work was already initiated before Windows Phone 7 was even available - so this goes back a little bit."Unifying the Windows Phone and full-fat Windows kernel "was always the plan", he adds.Maybe we should stop calling smartphones 'phones' &gt;&gt; The AtlanticEvery day, the average smartphone user spends 128 minutes actively using the device. That's just over two hours. The average user is spending those 128 minutes surfing the Internet (for nearly 25 minutes), engaging in social networking (for more than 17), listening to music (more than 15), and playing games (more than 14).What the average user is doing relatively little of, however, is talking -- using the smartphone as, you know, a phone.Data from ComScore.Microsoft announces non-cash accounting charge &gt;&gt; MicrosoftMicrosoft Corp. today announced that it will take a non-cash, non-tax-deductible income statement charge for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012 for the impairment of goodwill in its Online Services Division segment, mostly related to its 2007 aQuantive, Inc., acquisition.Buy in haste, regret at leisure. It cost $6.3bn; Microsoft is writing down $6.2bn. It panicked after Google bought DoubleClick. Now it could technically make a quarterly loss - its first for about 20 years. (If anyone has the detail on *when* Microsoft last made a quarterly loss, that would be great.)Bare Figures - Apple's, Microsoft's, and others' quarterly results visualizedSimply wonderful, and provided under a CC BY 3.0 licence. Great stuff by Francesco Schwarz.Chinese household chemical company sues Apple for "Snow Leopard" trademark &gt;&gt; M.I.C. GadgetAfter Apple settled the "iPad" trademark dispute with Proview, the tech giant is facing another trademark lawsuit from a Chinese household chemical company called "Jiangsu Xuebao". This Chinese company has resigstered the trademark of the Chinese translation of "Snow Leopard" -- "Xuebao" for electrical equipment production in 2000 (the same year that Proview registered the IPAD trademark), and they claimed Apple's Mac OS X "Snow Leopard" has violated the trademark of "Xuebao".It wants $80,000. Who's got the Chinese for "Smart Cover"?It's lonely at nation's only BlackBerry retail store &gt;&gt; The Detroit NewsSometimes it's lonely being the only stand-alone retail store in the country for the once-hot but now ailing smartphone maker BlackBerry.On a recent late morning last week, the store here was empty except for salesman Nathan Speidel, the lone figure behind the counter.Twelve miles away, the Apple outlet in Troy's upscale Somerset Collection was buzzing like a digital beehive. At one moment, there were 42 consumers in the store, which has about four times the square footage of the BlackBerry outlet. No fewer than 21 blue-shirted Apple representatives counseled shoppers on their purchases of iPods, iPhones and iPads -- four behind the store's "Genius Bar" counter to answer Apple owners' toughest questions.330Mbps fibre: coming soon from British ISPs &gt;&gt; ZDNetThe market for fibre-to-the-premises services in the UK is set to become much more competitive, after BT Openreach formally began offering other ISPs access to its full-fibre network.The vast majority of BT's fibre services are fibre-to-the-cabinet (FTTC) services, which still use the old copper connection between the street cabinet and the premises and are therefore slower than fibre-to-the-premises (FTTP). BT's FTTC currently has a maximum speed of 80Mbps, while its somewhat-delayed FTTP can go up to 330Mbps.Unless you're anywhere outside a city centre, of course.Finnish carrier data shows Windows Phone had 33% market share in June &gt;&gt; WMPoweruserFinland's biggest carrier Elisa has released their sales numbers for June 2012.  They note that the newest models sold the best, in particular the Samsung Galaxy SIII, but also that Windows Phone and Android now had equal market share in Finland, at least on their network.Note that the "equal share" is of sales, not installed base or time spent on the network. Apparently the numbers for June from rival carrier DNA are less encouraging - except for Samsung.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Microsoft could plunge to a quarterly loss after taking a$6.2bn (£3.96bn) charge against its balance sheetby writing down the value of itsaQuantive online advertising service, bought in May 2007, almost to zero.The decision reflects its inability to produce further revenue from the service, and could push the company into a technical loss in its quarterly results for the three months to 30 June, where analysts had expected it to make a profit of $5.3bn. The figures will be announced on 17 July.The software giant blamed the setback primarily on aQuantive's disappointing performance, and admitted that while business in its online services division – in which its Bing search engine and aQuantive were housed – has been improving "the company's expectations for future growth and profitability are lower than previous estimates."This year, eMarketer estimates Google will take 77.9% of all US search ad revenues, up from 74.4% in 2011. While Microsoft's search revenues are expected to grow in 2012, the company's share of overall US search advertising revenues are expected to remain  at 7%, the same as last year. When combined with search revenues from Yahoo, the two companies' share will fall to 11.5% in 2012, down from 13.7% in 2011, the company estimates.At $6.2bn the aQuantive purchase was, at the time, the most expensive acquisition in the company's 37-year history; only its $8.5bn purchase of Skype last year  surpassed it. Microsoft seemed to have been rushed into the purchase byGoogle's acquisition of the rival advertising network DoubleClickfor $3.1bn at the same time.Since it bought aQuantive, Microsoft's online division has reported losses totaling nearly $9bn.The disappointing performance comes at a time when Google has expanded its online ad empire, despite Microsoft's attempts to lure surfers and marketers.Google's success has flowed, in part, from the DoubleClick acquisition. Last year Google earned $9.7bn on nearly $38bn in revenue, with most of the money coming from online ads.
Almost 80% of all requests made to Twitter for information on its users to be released in the course of criminal investigations or other probes are made by the US government, the micro-blogging website has revealed in its first transparency report.Following inGoogle's wake,Twitter has released for the first time data on government requests for user information. Thetable showsthat the US government is significantly more interventionist in terms of the number of times it has asked Twitter to hand over information than any other government in the world.From 1 January 2012, the US made 679 user information requests out of a total of 849, compared with 98 requests from the Japanese government, 11 each from the Canadian and British governments and under 10 for a slew of other countries.Not only did the US put in the largest number of requests by far, it was also the most successful at extracting information out of Twitter, with some 75% of its bids eliciting some or all of the information asked for.Twitter said that it was bringing out its first transparency report to mark Independence Day, having been inspired by Google's example. "One of our goals is to grow Twitter in a way that makes us proud. This ideal informs many of our policies and guides us in making difficult decisions," it said.The social media firm stressed that it passed on requests for user information to the Twitter account holder in all cases unless prohibited by law.Twitter's move towards greater transparency came as a Manhattan judge ordered the website tohand over almost three months of tweetsfrom an Occupy Wall Street protester. Judge Matthew Sciarrino, ordering Twitter to turn over the tweets of Malcom Harris under the handle @destructuremal, said that posting in public comes with "consequences".Twitter's report also shows that it has received more government requests for information on users in the first half of 2012 than in the whole of 2011.In Google's case, the latest transparency report in June showed a sharp increase in government requests to remove material as well as court orders to do the same.Twitter's first report also gives details of the number of requests it had received from judges or governments to remove tweets – a much smaller issue with only six requests being made so far this year, none from the US. It also revealed that it had received 3,378 requests so far this year to remove tweets for copyright infringement under the Digital Millenium Copyright Act.The website said it had agreed to remove 5,275 tweets for that reason.Twitter says that from now on it will follow Google's example and produce a transparency report every six months.
Google may offer to change how it ranks other sites in its search engine listings to settle with the European commission's antitrust investigators over accusations that it has abused its dominant market position in search and online advertising.A similar investigation is under way in the US, where the Federal Trade Commission is conducting a parallel investigation with similar concerns.A letter from Google, before the expiration of a deadline on Monday, is understood to offer a series of proposals to deal with claims made by EC competition chief Joaquin Almunia in May.Almunia's office will now have to decide whether to accept Google's proposals and settle the case, or to file formal charges which could lead to a drawn-out battle with the US search giant through the courts.Google was accused by antitrust investigators of acting improperly in the way that it ranked rivals in search results; in copying content from other sites; in tying sites to exclusive advertising agreements; and in restricting the portability of advertising campaigns from its platform to competitors.Google could have chosen to contest the initial findings of fact, which stem from a series ofcomplaints filed in 2010 by British and French companies, and subsequently by Microsoft, whose Bing search engine has a marginal search share in Europe. Google has roughly 90% of the search business in Europe.The EC confirmed that it had received the letter on Monday from Eric Schmidt, the executive chairman of Google, responding to Almunia's four concerns. It is understood to accept the EC's "framework" for resolving the problems. "We have made a proposal to address the four areas the European commission described as potential concerns," Google said in a statement. "We continue to work co-operatively with the commission."Google declined to provide any detail on what its proposals entailed. But in order to satisfy Almunia's office, they would have to offer a change in the way that listings for products such as maps, video, shopping and other money-generating sites are produced. Rivals have complained that Google ranks its own products far more highly in such listings than rivals' offerings, giving it an unfair and illegal advantage when users view the results.If Google changes that, it will be a significant step, and show that it has been forced to bow to regulators.David Wood, a lawyer for the Icomp pressure group, which is funded by Microsoft, said: "Despite coming two years late, today's acceptance of the commission's "framework" and possible offer of remedies is a hugely significant acknowledgement by Google of their market dominance and recognition of illegal anti-competitive behaviour. It is vital to ensure that the remedies offered by Google end the discrimination and manipulation of search results that have had the effect of making the open internet a closed Google internet."He suggested that "Over many years, Google's dominance in the search market has harmed hundreds of companies who have voiced their concerns that Google's conduct violated European competition law, distorted competition, curbed innovation, restricted consumer choice and ultimately held back economic growth."The EC is expected to make the offer from Google public at some stage, but there is no clear timetable for a decision.
The trailer for Craigslist Joe, Zach Galifianakis's documentary effort about living off the kindness of internet strangers, has hit the web. And it's like Eat, Pray, Love for the rent generation, except the producers have swapped cruiser bicycles for smoke-filled jalopies; gelato for street meat; and romance for "real life" [no screens involved!] friendships.After appearing to wipe out his phone contacts and clean out his pockets, Joe Garner attempts to live exclusively off the classifieds site for 31 days. You can view the trailer here:The movie is the latest in a string of schemes featuring people who giveth and taketh from the internet gods. Book, movie or marketing deals are never far behind."Yes, it's another stunt doc inspired by the likes of Supersize Me, No Impact Man, My Date With Drew, and many others," wrote user Jay C atTheDocumentaryBlog. "Here's hoping Craigslist Joe manages to avoid collapsing under the weight of its own gimmick (like many of these films do)."A walk down memory lane:The GroupawnThe plot:Launched during its 2010 boom days, online coupon site Groupon plucked Josh Stevens, then 28, out of a hundreds-strong applicant pool of people who wanted to live off of nothing but Groupon vouchers for an entire year.The action:Among other activities, Stevens took cooking classes, flew in a hot air balloon and went kayaking with the vouchers provided. Stevens even traveled to London, and revealed a glitch n the vouchers-only rule: "Groupon paid" for the flight to the UK,he admittedto The Guardian in 2011.The prize:Stevens was supposed to have won $100,000 for living for a year on nothing but Groupon, but there's nothing – not even a huge-check picture – out there that says he actually received the money. We've contacted to Groupon to clarify.Update: A Groupon spokeswoman confirms Stevens received the prize, "minus expenses he was informed would be removed ahead of time."eBay soul-sellingThe plot:In an attempt to learn more about the mechanics of religion, self-proclaimed "friendly atheist" Hemant Mehta sold his soul on eBay for $504 to Jim Henderson, a minister from Seattle."I promise to go into ... church every day – for a certain number of days – for at least an hour each visit.  For every $10 you bid, I will go to the church for one day. For $50, you would have me going to mass every day for a week," Mehtawrotein his original eBay posting.The action:Mehta visited churches and wrote about his experiences for Henderson's website.The prize:Media coverage and abook deal. (Times have changed. Since then, others havebeen bannedfrom selling their souls.)One Red PaperclipThe plot:Setting out in 2006 – 80 internet years ago, to be exact – Canadian blogger Kyle MacDonaldblogged about"trading up" on Craigslist.The action:MacDonald swapped a red paper clip for a pen, a pen for a sculpted doorknob and so on until he landed a two-story farmhouse in Kipling, Saskatchewan.The prize:In addition to a farmhouse, MacDonald landed abook deal.Craigslist Joe hits New York theaters on August 2.What's the best (or craziest) thing you've gotten from the internet? Tell us using#eBoughtand we'll post your responses below.
RIM, as pretty much everyone - including RIM's management - knows, is in serious trouble. Analysts have cut their targets for its stock price to just $5, which given that it presently has total cash and equivalents of $4 per share, means that they see little prospect of improvement; Nomura even said that it could run out of cash. It has made losses for the past two quarters, and there's no sign of that changing suddenly.This all sounds like a business headed for hell in a handbasket, or a breakup, or simple sale. But RIM could survive on its own terms, and even become a challenger again.It won't be easy, but all it needs to do is to take a lesson from the company that blindsided it in the smartphone market - Apple.In September 1996, Apple had just lost $1.2bn for its financial year (which with inflation isequivalent to $1.76bn today).It was, as Steve Jobs said, about 90 days from bankruptcy. It had been promising a next-generation operating system, but had repeatedly canned it and/or put it back. (It had just acquired NeXT Computer, with Jobs at its head, in order to acquire that next-generation operating system; NeXT had won a face-off with Jean-Louis Gassée's BeOS.) It had too many staff. It had too many products. People weren't interested. They were so convinced it was going to die that they were abandoning it for the only real rival.So really RIM today is not too different from Apple then; except that RIM isn't anything like as near to death as Apple was. So how can RIM thrive?The following will be uncomfortable reading to some in RIM - because it will cost them their jobs - but Apple's example shows that there's a way forward.Slim down the number of products into a comprehensible setFour will do. I've long since given up trying to figure out the difference between a BlackBerry Bold. Curve, 9800, 9700 and the rest. Seriously, is there any?ThisUS smartphone listing for RIMshows 22 products. That's absurd. How can anyone choose between them? That's worse than Apple's 1996 menagerie of 15 different computers - Quadra, Power Macintosh, and so on, each demanding its own products. When you're in trouble, reduce the complexity, because that cuts out production and stock costs too. Jobs cut a swathe through the bloated product range, reducing it to four.Don't think about sellingTrying to think of selling the business, and maximising the individual value of each bit, distracts from actually running the business for the future. You'll have more of a going concern (if things come to that) by building a strong business. Apple was nearly sold to Sun, and to IBM, in its darkest days; if that had happened, it would now be a footnote in history.Thinking about sales is what bankers do, and there's a team of them crawling over RIM at the moment. Ignore them and get on with the work.Partition your market to give yourself claritySteve Jobs created a quadrant: consumers and professionals on one side, laptops and desktops on the other. (This was long before iPods, iPads or iPhones.) Consumer looking for a laptop? Here you go - iBook. Professional after a desktop? Power Mac for you. Simpler to make, simpler to choose. RIM needs that same clarity. It could almost split its market into two - consumer and enterprise. High-end and low-end. Four phones. Sorted.Dump products that aren't workingSimple, really.Jobs killed the Newton. Time for RIM to kill the PlayBook, which has shipped a grand total of 1.1m in a full year while costing it billions in production, writeoffs and distraction. And of course kill at least 18 of those damn phones.Hire a visionary, inspiring chief executiveThis is bad news for Heins, but the brutal truth is that you don't lead a company out of the valley of death by doing the meat-and-potatoes work (to mix metaphors). Jobs was exactly the right person for Apple: he was committed to its survival and he'd learnt his errors and weaknesses through his failures at NeXT Computer and successes at Pixar. (His hiring of Tim Cook, an exemplary supply chain controller, in 1997 was indicative of that recognition.)So who's the right person for RIM? Often, founders can revive a company; besides Jobs, there was Michael Dell returning to Dell in 2008, when he saw the business he created in trouble. (That hasn't been enthralling, but Dell was in less trouble.)However in this case the two founders are Jim Balsillie and Mike Lazaridis, who were only ejected in January. Neither is the right one to run the company out of the pit, because they got it there in the first place, although Lazaridis is a brilliant inventor.I'd suggest there's an obvious candidate:Jon Rubinstein, ex-Apple hardware chief, ex-Palm chief, ex-head of HP's tablet effort. He wasdrafted into Palm in June 2009after things began going seriously wrong, and got it organised enough to release the WebOS software and Palm Pre products. That wasn't enough to dig Palm out of its troubles (and "Ruby" seems to have hated life inside the byzantine bureaucracy of HP) but there's no doubt that he has the management skills to turn RIM around. Unfortunately for Heins, in this situation he gets to be the Gil Amelio - the incumbent CEO who gets pushed out by the cuckoo, and can take none of the credit for any subsequent success.Cut jobsSorry, but this has to happen to get costs down. Start with the people who are doing all the marketing stuff for those 22 different phones and work outwards.Give up the idea of BlackBerry 10 as a smartphone platformAlso: drop the idea of trying to sell pricey BB10 handsets in 2013. This sounds bizarre, doesn't it? Aren't we constantly hearing that BB10 is RIM's last great hope? But nobody can see the point in trying to sell BB10 on handsets. Heins has showed off touchscreen versions. Be honest. Those won't persuade people to ignore iPhones or Android phones (or Nokia phones). They'll vanish into the abyss.Mobile carriers like selling RIM's phones because they make better profits on them than they do on iPhones or top-end Android handsets. There's a burgeoning and eager group of buyers in the developing world who like the BlackBerry keyboard. There are also lots of corporate users who like the keyboard. Keep them happy; play for time. (You could improve your browser, but stick with the basics in the meantime.)Stop developing the great-thing-before-the-last-one, and develop the next great thingYou're never going to beat Chinese handset makers at churning out cheap handsets; you're never going to beat Apple or Samsung at the top end. Don't pick fights you can't win.Instead, do what Apple did to you: develop something that leapfrogs the competition. Go past smartphones to the next thing that we're going to do in connectivity. RIM did it before, leapfrogging featurephones to offer phones with data and email (and web browsing of sorts) built in. Now it needs to do it again.And what is next? Wearable computing - the sort of thing being demonstrated byGoogle with its Glass project. You shouldn't need to take your smartphone out of your pocket to see what messages and so on you have, nor should you need to press buttons to make things happen. A really "smart" smartphone will do all this and connect to things on your body - less an object, more a network of objects you use.Does that sound bizarre and futuristic? No more so than the idea of people carrying around little pocket computers and using them to find their way around unfamiliar places would have 15 or so years ago. Wearables are much closer than that - and so perhaps close enough for RIM to develop something before the next wave sweeps over it.In fact, QNX is rather a good choice for a wearable computing system, asJean-Louis Gassée points out:QNX software is the preferred choice for life-critical systems such as air traffic control systems, surgical equipment, and nuclear power plants. And its cool multimedia features have QNX software turning up in everything from in-dash radios and infotainment systems to the latest casino gaming terminals.That sounds rather cool for wristwatches that tell you emails and calls, or glasses that show you maps. QNX could be the great secret asset - rather as NeXTStep, the NexT OS, eventually was for Apple; it forms the core of iOS, which is earning all those billions.ConclusionIt's pretty simple: RIM has to simplify its product line, cut its workforce, hire a visionary and build the next great thing. How long should that take? Well, for Apple the gap between Jobs reappearing on the scene and the launch of the iPod, its first breakaway product, was five years. Rubinstein (let's assume he comes out of retirement to take the job) might not have that long - but if RIM can stop burning cash on lost causes like the PlayBook, focus its spending on a few products, keep a core audience (teenagers and businesses and carriers) then it can come through this.Well, here's hoping.
When upstart German developer Crytek launched Far Cry in 2004, the game immediately drew plaudits for its advanced visuals and agenda-setting AI. Over the next eight years, the company developed its reputation for providing cutting edge technology in both the PC and console sectors with its Crysis series of high-tech shooters.But two years later, CEO Cevat Yerli visited South Korea and saw something that blew him away: free-to-play gaming. He found a culture in which players gathered in internet cafes, engrossed by a multitude of freemium titles he'd never heard of. He saw in this alien gaming culture, a glimpse at the future for the global industry.Since then, Crytek has announced the development of its own social games network entitledGface, which will allow players to access free-to-play titles that stream over the web. To launch the service, the company has developed Warface, a near-future first-person shooter boasting cinematic visuals and a host of co-op and competitive multiplayer options. Both Gface and Warface are currently in beta.In the meantime, however, the developer is pushing Crysis 3, the latest title in its traditional boxed copy shooter series. Due out next February, might this be Crytek's last ever release on physical media? We recently spoke to Yerli to find out.During E3, we had Ubisoft showing off the latest Far Cry 3 – a series you originated – and EA hosting Crysis 3, your current series. What do you think of where Ubi is taking your old game?I had a little play on Far Cry 3, that was … interesting. It had a very artsy style to it. The character design has taken a very interesting approach. The gameplay felt quite standard in a way, although it's not fair to judge it on such a little piece of gameplay. But, yes, I liked it.It's interesting to see these titles competing: both are open-world shooters with different ways to approach each mission …Yes, I call it the proactive sandbox – and they've stayed true to it, which is good. It's this whole concept of action bubbles: you can approach, decide how you want to play, then move in. When you've resolved it, you're funnelled back to the fiction with story sequences, etc, then you open up another bubble. That's a good approach.This is what people loved about Crysis - there was no fear in letting the player stop and investigate, to try things out. Is this still the case with Crysis 3?Yes, and more so than with Crysis 2. With the original title we didn't want to produce a passive shooter where you're a passenger, where you can shoot, but you're being constantly driven forward. In Crysis, you're inserted, you have to do the mission, and that's it. Players could be smart about it, be explorative – they could take their tools, the light conditions and enemy positions into consideration.We call it veni vidi vici: I come, I see, I conquer. To conquer, you have to first observe. That approach has been in the DNA of all our games and I wanted to stay true to it because as a gamer myself, I like to think about what I do. I like to find creative solutions. And to create that possibility you have to have systemic technologies like AI and physics, and you have to have level designs that allow you these positions of observation and analysis.I'm going to give away our design here, but we always try to put you somewhere where you can walk up a path and find yourself slightly elevated. This lets you analyse the valley, spot enemies, and plan the route you can take. This process is almost subliminal – we like to simulateyouinto making decisions, it's passive guidance, it's not enforcing anything. Crysis 2 was a much more choreographed approach, it was still a sand box, but it was more intense, more linear. It was also much more vertical because you were playing in New York and could explore up and down buildings. Crysis 3 is much more like Crysis 1 – it's a more expansive approach.It seems, in someways, that you've merged the principles of Crysis 1 and 2 into this game, it looks to have a linear thrust, but with the domes, you've also provided open areas.Making games is a constant learning curve – you only really understand your game once people are playing it and telling you what's great and what's crap. I think Crysis 3 gives the world a very cinematic feel, yet it puts you into these massive domes. It's a playground, but it's confined so you always understand where you are. I think that encourages a creative approach. The theme is "urban rainforest", you feel that you're in a new world, but you understand where you are conceptually, and as you move through, you get a sense of progression that was perhaps not clear in Crysis 2; you never knew if you were getting close to the end. That's something we completely missed in the design.Crysis 3 adds a new rather low-tech weapon: the bow. How did that come about?Did you see how many bow games there were at E3?! Isn't that weird? We were the first game to be loud about it, then I come to E3 and they're everywhere – I saw four games that have bows in their posters!The idea in Crysis 3 was simple: the concept of the game is nature claiming the world back, so we wanted it to be more visceral, more natural – we wanted it to be more about humans and less about technology. Crysis 2 had all this high-tech weaponry, so when we started the design for the third title, we said, what's the lowest tech we can go to as well as the highest? So here, the highest tech is the alien weaponry while the low end option had to fit in with all this wildlife. The bow came from that.It was originally proposed as an entirely improvised weapon, but when we looked at it we said, no that's interesting, but it's not effective enough. So we decided to make the most kick-ass bow ever. We have the different arrow tips to fit with your playing style, and it has this really punchy feel. You can literally pin enemies to the wall. It's also silent. It turns the player into a hunter. And we wanted this game to feel like you are hunting.That's interesting, because over the past three or four years we've had lots of science fiction games about humans essentially being the helpless prey, the underdog …Exactly, so we thought, why not the other way around?! Yes, there are a lot of enemies, but you have all this weaponry, you're amazing as a character. We want you too hunt them down. You're the predator, you're the aliens' worst nightmare. We say in the fiction of the game that your character, Prophet, had this vision of the end of the world, and it's brought about by the aliens – he's pissed off about it. He wants to bring them down – one by one if necessary. So he's not just on a mission to save the world, he's on a mission of vengeance against every alien.There's a tonality there that explains how fearless he is, how little he cares about failing. This is the attitude a hero needs – he doesn't know any limits. And this, in a way, is symbolic of the gaming experience. A player intrinsically has no fear – you go forward and you fight it out; you know your character could die but you're not afraid of it. The player is always a hunter, so why not map that metaphorically into the fiction?It works really well in terms of player psychology – I am a hunter and the character is a hunter, your motivations align: the player wants to kill every enemy because they get to collect better weapons, but in the fiction, Prophet wants to hunt them one by one as well. It's the perfect alignment. Game design is all about how you start as the prey and become the hunter, then back to prey – prey, hunter, prey, hunter - that is the cycle. The role of the player changes constantly. But you always meet the enemy at eye-level. That's not to say the game isn't challenging, but you will always feel good about it.The enemies do seem genuinely smart – in what ways have you been able to explore the concept of intelligent enemies?AI is something I've been pushing a lot, through all our games. But with AI there's something you've always got to bear in mind: the average lifespan of an AI character is three seconds. He spawns, he walks, he dies. You can't express a lot of intelligence in three seconds! Within this short lifespan, the most he can express is, "I see you", or "go over there" if the enemy are using group tactics. But we try to give them some kind of combat personality - I'm scared, or I'm going to hunt you down.But the concept of putting AIs in with memories, who don't forget you once they've seen you … there's not enough time. However, there are some AIs that live more than three seconds – say, an enemy sitting a kilometre away from you, watching you through a sniper scope. Then we get to use the systemic AI we developed throughFar Cry and Crysis. The important thing about our games, which isn't true of all others, is that the enemy can actually find you from all the way over there, and if you move away from the snipping spot, he will head towards you and try to take you down. That path discovery, and the ability to tell others that the player has been spotted – that's what we're trying to bring in. A more tactical kind of AI.Do you look at academic work in this area at all? Stuff like AI planners or neural networks?We've played with stuff like that for years. Neural networks are a little too much – there's no time to develop your brain as an AI. We have invested a lot in real-time AI navigations so if an object falls in front of enemies, they can bypass it. Real-time steering of groups, formations, flocking, all that. But the main focus is on making the AI more believable, more human, and with that, they need to be able to make mistakes. Sometimes an AI will stumble over a ledge when jumping, or two enemies will bump into each other – they're mistakes a human would make. It's more believable than perfectly executing each tactic. It's funny because in Crysis 2 we had a bug come up where the AI wouldonlymake mistakes – then you had fantastic outtake shots where everyone was sliding and falling all over the place. But yes, we're using a scientific approach to AI in order to make enemies more real.Your studio is associated with bleeding edge technology and the lhigh-end visuals … do you have a team in the studio put aside to just work on that stuff, to sit around thinking about the next generation of PCs and consoles?I wish we did – that's a good idea! No, it's more driven by where we think the futureshouldbe. I'll tell you the story of Warface now. In 2006 I went to Korea and it was like looking into the future of the western world. I was sitting in an internet cafe and there were ten people in front of me just sitting and playing - and I was taking notes. What I saw was amazing – these guys were playing free-to-play only, they were zapping between games every 15-20 minutes and they were with their friends – it was a cool thing to do, play games in an internet cafe.This was very different to western culture – but I thought, this is how it should be. I looked at the charts of the games they were platting and I'd hardly heard of any of them. But the great thing is they could just whizz between them because they were free – it was a whole different mindset. I met some developers, we exchanged information, shared ideas, and it made up my mind. I said to my studio – guys, we need to be there, we need to be making games for this market.So we started Warface. It was around the time that Crysis was finishing – I said, we have one of the world's best technologies and we supposedly know all the shooters on the market, yet I have never heard of the top 10 shooters in Korea. How come we're not in there? So we set up the Warface team to make a free-to-play shooter. that was five years ago. And it was a huge learning curve going from making packaged goods game to an online game service.At the same time I started to think about GFace as a social platform – because that's what internet cafes effectively are. People go there, socialise and play games with their friends. I wanted to  capture that process – meeting friends, deciding on a game and playing together – virtually.That's the Gface network, effectively. People can come together in real-time, choose what game they want  and play it, and then have an aftermath of chatting and discussing the game. Xbox and PlayStation don't really do that very well, so we built Gface as a platform on which we could launch Warface. I didn't want to launch in Facebook because I couldn't replicate that experience there – not in a fluid and intuitive way, not in the way I imagined. And then also, I wanted to make the platform open for other developers to be able to do the same thing.Do you have specific game genres in mind?With Gface, I want to concentrate on Triple A games that are free to play. And that's what Warface is. People in this industry are still too much in the mindset of packaged goods, in terms of business, logistics, forecasting … we just said, screw it, let's do it – let's spend money on it at the risk that we'd never get the money back. We bet on it; we saw the future and we bet on it.Is that the only future?Look around, look at the younger generation! When I see my nephews, they have never bought a game in their lives; they don't play on the PC at all, they have iPads. In 10 years' time, none of these guys will be buying PC games, they won't be buying console games. Those are the guys who play games. Naturally, very visibly in the next generation, the consoles will have a problem, because unless they reflect the lifestyles of this generation, you can't get them on a console. That's why I'm very vocal about this. I don't think there will be another hardware generation beyond the next one. That's why I'm building Gface.A lot of people think there will always be a market for consoles, that hardcore players demand a dedicated platform …Ask my nephews! These are the guys who will be playing in five to seven years' time. And then we'll be seeing iPads that are five times as powerful as they are today, we'll have five times as powerful Android tablets – but we won't have consoles that are five times more powerful. The power of the technology you have in your hands will be greater than any console in the next five years. Tablets will be streaming to TVs, you'll have controllers – why would you by a console? Unless the consoles figure it out. The Cryengine will be there on the next generation of consoles, figuring it out too. There will be some support from us, but I believe that some kind of software platform will be the future.So if you woke up tomorrow and you were the head of Xbox or the head of PlayStation, and it was your responsibility to map the future of the consoles, what would it be?That's not fair!But come on, what would you do?I would make every game free-to-play. No compromise. I want to log in to my console, go to my catalogue, pick the game and play it. I don't want to buy games anymore. I'd also contact Crytek and ask to license Gface (laughs).Microsoft and PlayStation are sort of trying to go in the direction of digital games…They're trying, but the industry is dependent on the retail business. The stores say, I'm not going to sell your Xbox if you don't give me games to sell, because the margin on hardware is so low. So which companies have no retail dependence today? It's Apple, it's Google. They already have their own online stores. So Microsoft and Sony have to figure out a way to become retail independent; with that, or they say to the shops you get 100% margin on the Xbox, which doubles the price. It's not going to happen. It is a chicken and egg problem. Someone has to bite the bullet and make the hardware more expensive or launch a console that's free-to-play only - we have to bring about this lifestyle change.But what worries me about this free-to-play future of yours is that it will mean radical changes to the way games are designed. I mean, take an epic narrative shooter like Crysis 3, could that work if you have to build a whole freemium economy into it?Look, I think so. We'll figure out how to make a game like Crysis 3 work. If the proposition is, the gamer gets the games for free, well, that's better for the gamer. And what's best for the gamer is best for the industry.The problem is, people aren't thinking like that. Customers have to put up with all this crap right now, legal notices, copyright protection… the best way to get rid of all that is go free. The gamers get what they want - free access - and if your game is good enough you can hook them in, whether that's a single-player game, or multiplayer, or co-op, or an RPG, an RTS, or Fifa, or whatever, it really doesn't matter.For every game you can find a solution. For every single one of them. It's a creative challenge, nothing else.•Crysis 3 is released on PC, PS3 and Xbox in February 2013. Gface and Warface are TBA
Some will look on Spidey's latest outing and see a thinly veiled clone of Batman: Arkham City, and in many ways they are right. However, imitation has never been a problem for other genres and when the  results are as eye catching as this, developer Beenox at least deserves the chance to convince us that this is more than some tribute act.And it largely does. The Amazing Spider-Man kicks off months after Curt Connors – aka the Lizard – is safely behind bars, told through a semi-interactive intro that sends Gwen and Spidey back to Oscorp minutes before all hell breaks loose.In play, it returns to the open-city style last seen in Spider-Man 2, allowing you virtually free reign to web-sling your way through New York, picking out objectives on your trusty new smartphone Satnav. There are optional distractions to the main action, including picking up collectable items and taking photographs, but your main concern remains saving the city from genetic freaks and Oscorp's ham-fisted attempts to contain them.Spidey's enemies come in all shapes; from bots that can be battered by hand, to mutant hybrids and larger mechs that must be disabled "boss-style" through targeting hotspots. And, of course, there are the super-villains such as Rhino and Scorpion who, despite being reduced to mere mutations rather than compelling characters with their own backstories, still look brilliant and take considerable speed and patience to wear down.There are also stealth sections, admittedly more appropriate to the Dark Knight than wise-cracking Spidey, but still fun when sticking to the shadows,  thinning the herd one goon at a time.So far so good, but in many ways The Amazing Spider-Man is more impressive to watch than play. Outdoors in the city, movement is basically a question of picking a direction and holding down a single button. Fortunately, you also have a Web Rush move that can pick out a spot and motion-blur towards it, slowing time as you do so to lock onto or web-shoot enemies.Indeed, agility is one area where Spidey has Batman clearly beaten – with wall and roof crawls providing some stunning angles from which to view the action. However, when you try this is combat, you're up against a stubbornly roving camera that often reduces you to frantic button mashing as you try and orientate yourself.Even with abilities that are steadily upgraded as you progress, The Amazing Spider-Man never feels quite as precise as you might wish thanks largely to quicktime instructions that come too thick and fast for the timed responses. Finally, although the cast say their lines competently, for a major franchise reboot like this, it's surprising that Andrew Garfield, Emma Stone and Rhys Ifans could not be persuaded to reprise their roles from the movie.That sounds like a long list of niggles – which is a pity, because The Amazing Spider-Man does have real scale, pace and playability and is occasionally thrilling to behold. And button-mashy though the gameplay is, if you can live with that age old staple, you can start reeling off massive hit combos almost from the offset, which means the action is both great to look at and has relentless momentum.It shows a classic hero beginning to punch at Marvel's considerable box office weight ... but personally, I'd still rather be in Arkham City.• Game reviewed on PS3
The Amadeus airline reservation system was disrupted for more than two hours on Sunday, as were a number of high-profile websites including Mozilla, Reddit, Gawker, LinkedIn, FourSquare and Yelp as the "leap second" introduced as the day began confused web servers around the world.In an echo of the "Y2K" bug that was expected to – but didn't – befuddle computers around the world on 1 January 2000, travellers in Australia, where the effects were felt first as the leap second was introduced, saw more than 400 Qantas flights delayed by as much as two hours. Staff were forced to switch to manual check-ins.The problem came after a weekend when a number of US-based services which rely on Amazon's cloud services were knocked out for hours due to power failures in the Seattle company's servers after tropical storm Debby hit the US on Saturday.The addition of the extra second occurred as Saturday turned into Sunday in London – which was around midday on Sunday in Australia, and at 5pm Saturday on Pacific Standard Time. That meant that some web systems found their own clocks at odds with external ones.Amadeus handles more than 3m bookings and 1bn transactions per day for most major airlines worldwide, through a data centre in Germany.The company said that it was investigating the cause of Sunday's crash and would take any appropriate steps to avoid the situation reoccurring. "This incident was caused by the Linux bug triggered by the 'leap second' inserted into clocks worldwide on June 30th," said an Amadeus spokesperson. "We deeply regret this incident and want to apologise for any inconvenience it may have caused to our customers or to travellers and tourists. We are now investigating how we can enhance our ability to detect and address such bugs in advance. We take any systems disruption very seriously, we have always valued our reputation for reliability and we are determined to do everything that is appropriate to provide a reliable service in future."The outage is the second this year, following one in January. "Amadeus will take all appropriate measures to avoid the incident reoccurring," the spokesperson said.The leap second was introduced at midnight UTC, or Universal Coordinated Time – roughly the same as Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) – as Saturday turned into Sunday.The intention was to keep UTC on which atomic clocks run coordinated with the rotation of the Earth, which is gradually slowing down due to tidal effects from the moon.The cause of the glitch arose from sites' use of NTP, the Network Time Protocol. Although a huge number of computers rely on NTP to keep accurate time, it's still unclear why some sites but not others were affected.For Mozilla, which provides the Firefox browser and the discussion site Reddit, the problems were similar. In aMozilla bug report titled "Java is choking on leap second", Eric Ziegenhorn, a site reliability engineer for Mozilla, said that the Hadoop open-source database platform was having problems."Servers runing Java apps such as Hadoop and ElasticSearch and java doesn't [sic] appear to be working," he wrote. "We believe this is relate to the leap second happening tonight because it happened at midnight GMT."The solution in many cases was to reboot the servers, other people on the thread discussing the problem said. Mozilla laterpushed out a fix.Reddit said in a message on Twitter that the extra second was causing problems with its Java-based server, while the Gawker website was unreachable for 30 minutes, its chief technology officer Tom Plunketttold CNet. StumbleUpon, an aggregator system, also reportedly suffered problems.The failure in Amazon's cloud systems affected a wide range of companies, including the photo-sharing service Instagram, the "pinning" service Pinterest, and Netflix.Adding leap seconds – and dealing with the effects – will continue to be a challenge for scientists and engineers, because the Earth-moon gravitational pairing will see our planet's rotation slow down as they orbit their centre of gravity.Given billions of years, the Earth and moon will be locked in a mutual orbit in which they always show the same face to each other, putting the moon in the same place in the sky forever.The Earth's rotation has been slowing down since the moon was formed; in the era of the dinosaurs, a day was about 23 hours long, and now the days are getting longer by about 1.4 milliseconds every century.A single rotation took exactly 24 hours in 1820; since then the "day" has been growing longer.
The Far Cry series of games have no link between them other than the legendary CryEngine (a graphical platform so punishing it's held up as the test of a good top-end gaming PC) and an obsession with open, lawless frontiers bristling with baddies waiting to get shot in the face. The first game featured military coverups and cannibal mutants; the second focused on an African warzone and the difficulties of surviving the onset of a pretty serious dose of malaria. Far Cry 3 takes us to a lush jungle island, covered in pirates and indigenous warrior tribes, ripe for the insertion of a white everyman protagonist to come and mess up the status quo something rotten.On the surface, it all sounds run-of-the-mill (especially given the series' reliance on nice big environments taking the place of story or characterisation): the player takes control of Jason (our white everyman protagonist du jour) who comes to the island with his friends and, because it might be boring if everything went as planned, gets everyone captured by the aforementioned pirates and their splendidly mad leader Vaas. Can he save them before they're killed in a variety of increasingly bizarre torture installations? Can he survive the Heart of Darkness-esque descent into madness? Will the stress of the experience scar him forever? Presumably, yes. But it's not that simple.We're shown the opener to the E3 demo in which, several months post-kidnap and post-escape, California pretty boy Jason wakes up in a drug-induced haze directly underneath a the hips of a topless tribal priestess and shouts to a Pacific Island-esque tribe of warriors that he will lead them to victory against the pirates; his arms are covered in black-ink tattoos, earned by (we're told) hunting and killing animals across the game world, a mechanic that also serves as a currency system. Everyone gathered around him cheers wildly, the priestess whispers lustily in his ear telling him that he's an "incredible warrior" and "all those that he kills deserve to die by his hand," and we're thrust into a gameplay section where he launches himself off a cliff into a bay and proceeds to messily eviscerate a fairly large pirate camp. Alarm bells start ringing in my head.Does this have echoes of the controversy in Far Cry 2, a game which featured 11 protagonists of wildly different races and backgrounds but offered a player character choice of precisely zero women? Has the white male lead literally just rocked up and taken over a tribe of warriors and fixed all their problems by being white at them? I askJeffrey Yohalem, the lead scriptwriter, whether this is the case. He laughs a little bit under his breath."We're glad you think that, because no, it's not as it seems. Everything you see is taking place through Jason's eyes," – eyes which are increasingly unreliable thanks to a varied wash of hallucinogenic effects earned from mushrooms, pills, sleep deprivation, lack of proper food, poison, fever and whatever it is that they put in that tattoo ink – "and, well, if it looks like we're doing one thing we're probably trying to establish something else. Stories are like verbal optical illusions, and where the player realises that they're a 100% wrong about something they were previously dead sure of ... that's where good stories happen."Speaking to Yohalem, he talks with an assurance that – in anyone else – might come across as arrogance. He says with an entirely straight face that he wants "to make the definitive statement for his generation in this game," and that he's writing it "to be so complex and layered that people like professors could analyse it". It's a lofty goal when you're building on the foundations of a couple of fairly dumb FPS titles, but something about him makes you believe that they might just be able to pull it off. Or at least something close to it and whatever happens, the results are going to be interesting."Developers are always complaining that they don't have enough tools to work with, but we haven't really looked at the tools we've already got ... this is a game about killing people. About shooting them, and aiming your gun at them properly so you do it right. Every other shooter sort of sidesteps that issue, which is fascinating to me. They're about a spec ops solider who's saving his squad or a space marine who's saving the world and the killing is sort of swept under the rug ... but whatever you're doing, you're fulfilling a different fantasy and these designers don't want to shine light on the killing."It's like shining a light into a whorehouse. You don't want to see what the people in there look like." Or the curious mixture of intrigue, disappointment and shame when the lights come on and the music stops at the end of a night out. Killing's been obfuscated behind glory for too long, and where it's been used as the main face of a game – Splatterhouse, for example, or the monochrome Wii chainsaw-fest MadWorld – it's often treated as slapstick hilarity or written off without any particular comment. Maybe it's time we started to take a closer look at what we're doing in games, and have a think about what makes a headshot so satisfying.To that end, aping Ubisoft's previous success with the user interface in Assassin's Creed (Yohalem co-wrote the second title and lead scriptwriting on Brotherhood, so if anyone's entitled to do it, it's him), all of the stereotypical gaming elements are bound into the narrative. In Creed, your pause menu was also a pause menu in the game world, stopping the historical simulation of the Animus in which much of the series' adventure takes place. It's impossible to leave the simulation without turning off the console. I'm told that XP and leveling are also explained within the world and, rather than laying on top of the experience as part of the HUD, are as integral as the island itself."Things like XP are part of the story. You see posts on gaming forums with people saying 'Oh, if you want the game to be immersive, why does XP appear above the heads of enemies when they're shot?' It happens because it's a game. The game itself, and the player's interaction with the world and Jason and how their experiences and opinions might differ from the character they're controlling, all form part of the narrative." If Yohalem can pull it off – and I really hope he does – this could be something truly remarkable. For now, though, he sits tight on offering particular details and offers broad swathes of theory, but he certainly talks a good talk.Regardless of the story, though, does the game deliver? We're allowed hands-on time with the demo, a 10-minute section where Jason infiltrates a pirate camp in an attempt to kill their leader, Vaas. It plays much in the same way as the Far Cry titles of old, with appropriately sharpened controls and visuals – but thanks to the denser terrain of the jungle, and the big pools of water to move through, enemy lines of sight are far reduced from the punishing open fields of Far Cry 2. It's possible to sneak up on your foes and stab a bunch of them in sequence with an intuitive kill-linking mechanic – apparently the biggest chain of kills the devs have seen so far is seven in quick succession – and the shift from stealth to full-on loud combat, and back again, is fluid and doesn't break flow. AI is smart enough to smoke you out of buildings and hit you with flanking maneuvers, but not so smart that an entire army will descend on you thanks to one careless shot.The trademark multiple approaches exhibited in Far Cry (and its nanosuited cousin Crysis) aren't shown in the demo because the sound and fury of E3 demands a stand-out experience and not an introspective walk through lush undergrowth, but multiple solutions to the problem of a camp full of men that wish to do you harm are immediately apparent. It's possible to sneak through using your bow and knife and not attract attention (at least until a short cut-scene where Vaas, displayed on jury-rigged banks of TV screens, alerts the camp to your presence and helpfully sets the building on fire). It's possible to go in loud with an assault rifle and a pocketful of grenades, and engage in frantic, noisy, remarkably visceral gunplay. Or both, one after the other.A jeep is parked in the middle of the encampment, fully equipped with a .50 cal machine gun which can be commandeered, and if left to their own devices enemies will use it against you. If you want to hop in the driver's seat and mash up baddies under the wheels and pin them against walls, that's fine too. You can set buildings and cover on fire to drive enemies out, either with your own weapons or by cruelly shooting a molotov cocktail while it's still in its owner's hand. A tiger sits in a wooden cage, and if the door is shot away, it leaps out and mauls people to death. Guard dogs and gila monsters prowl around the arena, bullets smash cover to pieces, and at the centre of it all the player runs back and forth through the chaos and flames like some sort of Trickster God, always moving, always dangerous.It's frantic stuff, and it's the flexible core gameplay that's marked out the series as a AAA-title, despite all the flaws. The developers are keen to keep the action sequestered in what they call "FPS bubbles" – individual spheres of intense, "traditional" shooter gameplay dotted throughout the vast wilderness – whether or not they can stay distinct, however, remains to be seen. Hopefully the days of Far Cry 2's random encounters of murderous goons in jeeps, and the static long-range shooting matches due to the abundance of enemy site lines, are over.At the end of the demo I circle around a flamethrower-toting enemy, shimmy up on to a gantry with a thoroughly convincing scrambling animation, bound off and land on his shoulders as I simultaneously drive a knife into the back of his neck. Soon after that Vaas, ably played by actorMichael Mandousing (we're told) some of the most advanced motion-capture technology in existence, jumps out at me and stabs me with a poisoned knife. Which, of course, leads to a drug-induced dream sequence where Jason runs down a catwalk of malfunctioning TVs and is bombarded with suicidal, semi-erotic visions that seem to imply he's questioning his own existence and who he's becoming after being party to so much death.In all honesty, it's a bit heavy-handed. But it's certainly not without its charms, and if the gameplay holds out – and is coupled with the sort of next-level storytelling that Yohalem is promising – then this could be one of the best single-player experiences of 2012. Fingers crossed.• Game released November 30
Sony confirmed today that it has bought the cloud gaming companyGaikaifor $380m (£242m). A deal has been rumoured for several weeks and was expected to be announced at the major E3 video game conference in June.Formed in 2008 by industry veteran Dave Perry, Gaikai is a cloud-based game service which allows users to play high-end PC titles by streaming the content via a broadband connection.Consumers never need to download the games, and don't need advanced PCs to play because the content is running across the web.Late last year, publishers EA and Ubisoft integrated the service into their websites to provide playable demos of new titles to gamers. In April, the service launched on Facebook.The deal will see Sony acquire Gaikai's cloud-based infrastructure and survivor network.Commenting on the purchase, Sony Computer Entertainment president Andrew House said: "By combining Gaikai's resources including its technological strength and engineering talent with SCE's extensive game platform knowledge and experience, SCE will provide users with unparalleled cloud entertainment experiences."SCE will deliver a world-class cloud-streaming service that allows users to instantly enjoy a broad array of content ranging from immersive core games with rich graphics to casual content anytime, anywhere on a variety of internet-connected devices."It is not clear yet, how and when the Gaikai technology will be implemented by Sony. With PlayStation 4 expected to be announced next year, it's likely a new streaming games service will be revealed as part of the manufacturer's next generation plans.Not only would it give gamers easy access to new titles, it could also allow for seamless backwards compatibility with classic games. Cross-platform multiplayer connectivity with the Vita would also be straightforward.Meanwhile, there have beenrumoursthat Microsoft is considering buying rival streaming games provider OnLive, perhaps to provide the next Xbox console with similar functionality.Many industry watchers have speculated that the coming generation of games consoles would be abandoning physical media altogether to rely on a combination of downloadable and streaming game titles. Sony's Gaikai acquisition is at least a hint toward that model.
Two years ago, the six major Hollywood film studios effectively abandoned mid-budget movies. Facing ever-tighter margins, as well an inconvenient global recession and evolving viewing patterns (the rise of video on demand and specialised cable services, for example) the likes of Warner Bros and Paramount just stopped financing adult-orientated $20m-$60m projects.Instead, the focus went on safe, dependable triple-A event pictures and low-budget teen flicks. In short, we entered the era of the superhero blockbuster and raucous sex comedy."There's a Texas expression," Steve Friedlander, of Warner Independent Pictures, told Variety back in 2008. "The only thing you find in the middle of the road is a dead animal".For the last year, it's looked very much like the games industry is going the same way. While mega-budget blockbusters such as Fifa and Call of Duty have brought in billions of dollars, and indie titles like Bastion, Limbo and Frozen Synapse have performed well with niche audiences, studios operating in the middle ground have suffered.Last year saw the closure of Bizarre Creations, Black Rock and Visceral Australia, as well as several THQ and Sony Online Entertainment studios; and last week, Activision announced that it would effectively be closing Radical Entertainment, the developer behind cult open-world shooter Prototype and its sequel.In a brief statement, the publisher laid out its decision in familiar terms: "Although we made a substantial investment in the Prototype IP, it did not find a broad commercial audience."So what is going here? What is happening to the whole shape and structure of the industry?The economics are reasonably clear: with every hardware generation, games are becoming ever more expensive to produce, with larger development teams and longer cycles, so the risks have multiplied exponentially.In 2010, analyst M2 Research put the average costs of a console title at $18m-28m, with some titles such as Gran Turismo 5 and Modern Warfare 2 coming in at more than $50m – that was two years ago.The problem is, publishers are not selling significantly more product. In 2011, according to data from the NPD group, US retail game sales were down 26% on the previous year, and analysts predict they will be down again in 2012, hitting a six-year low. Uncertainty is no longer an option.There has also been a significant change in how the really major titles are published and supported. "AAA games are getting such big audiences and are becoming more of a service than a product," says UKIE chairman and industry veteran Andy Payne."Game players only have so much time on their hands and if they are online playing their favourite sports, FPS or RPG games, they simply don't have the time and often the desire to try something new."Essentially, games such as Battlefield and Modern Warfare are entertainment channels rather than games – the endless map packs, multiplayer functionality and social connectivity are all designed to lock players in for two years.This is drastically reducing the time games consumers have to experiment with other titles. All the while, there are greater demands on customer time and disposable income.There are smartphone games, downloadable games, video-on-demand services, social networks to keep up with – consumers are simply less likely to spend money on major console releases."A decade ago, you only really had the PlayStation," says Jason Avent, co-founder of Brighton-based developer Boss Alien, and previously a game director at Black Rock studio, which was closed last year by Disney."You could effectively live on the people who bought seven or eight games a year. But then Nintendo released the Wii and that effectively took 50% of the market. The problem is, those people only really bought Nintendo's in-house titles, and now the iPad and iPhone [have] taken most of that audience."Wii didn't breed the next generation of hardcore gamers; instead, those people were lost to the rest of the games industry. There aren't enough people to buy that second tier of decent titles."He also sees too many 'me too' releases occupying the middle ground, attempting to compete on the same terms as triple-A titles, but with less resources. The result is often inferior riffs on familiar genres."The expectations of gamers are not being satisfied at this level," he says. "I've never seen Metacritic scores looking as sad as they do at the moment. On Game Rankings today, the most popular title is Spec Ops on 77%; now that title has to try to take people away from Call of Duty, that's not going to happen with those review scores. For the past three to five years, it hasn't been possible to make games that just do alright."The future, however, may be about applying those $10m-30m budgets differently. Instead of giving up on the sector completely, publishers could adopt a freemium model for consoles, developing a vertical slice of a new title, releasing it digitally via Xbox Live or PSN, and then building an audience before launching new content. This way, the huge upfront costs are negated."Freemium could well be the future for mid-budget console and PC titles," argues Avent. "Publishers would be able to test the market more effectively and protect their investments. There are already products that are doing this."World of Tanks is doing really well; it started off as a cheap looking game, but it has found its audience and is maturing rapidly. The same happened with League of Legends. Sony is bringing Dust 514 to consoles as a free title – if that platform is opened up to freemium, it will go mainstream."You could make a successful game with $10m that has the same qualities as Prototype, it just needs to be distributed in a different way."Payne agrees, but also recognises that changes will be needed in the console online infrastructures."The consoles have to embrace the deep analytics which are available for smartphone devices, which enable the game developers and publishers to respond to players' needs and feedback," he says. "[The smartphone sector] has seen games truly transition from products to services and this is the real challenge in my view."Within the F2P model also, consoles need to embrace micro transaction payment features. Game makers need to build customer loyalty through engagement and offer value and the opportunity to spend small and large amounts."Deep inside this theory though is the fact that the sheer numbers of smart devices being deployed means that game makers can take a little money of many (but not all) players and that adds up to a number which sustains the business model."The console manufacturers all know that they must get their devices deployed, whether they are consoles or a mix of consoles and smart devices, if these new business models are going to work for them."The closure of Radical as a game developer is a sad indictment of the current industry – a place where offbeat brands with decent communities cannot co-exist alongside the monster franchises.But perhaps it will spur console manufacturers into thinking about how they can support more advanced digital distribution models, complete with micro transactions and super-advanced analytics.It will be no good for Sony and Microsoft if their next-gen machines can only support a handful of major triple-A brands. And as gamers, do we really want a digital version of Hollywood, with the gaming equivalent of super hero movies and teen sex comedies dominating all our console time?
A selection of 20 new and notable apps for you today:UberPrivate-car hire startup Uber has joined the increasingly competitive hire-a-cab-from-your-phone market in London, enabling you to summon a Mercedes, BMW or Jaguar to ferry you across the city. Around 90 drivers are on the streets now, with more to be added in the coming months.Android / iPhoneGoogle AnalyticsGood news for anyone who's using Google Analytics to monitor their website's traffic, and who has an Android smartphone. Google has launched an official app providing access to data on the go, charts'n'all.AndroidFutures EPMusician Adam Jansch (son of Bert) has released his newest EP as a free iPhone app "designed to present a different sonic outcome every time it is played". Its first track has 35,184,372,088,832 possible outcomes, while the second has 1,418,633,882,621,706,240. Count 'em! Oh, actually, don't.iPhoneAA Best Walks in BritainDon't roll your eyes: at some point summer will belatedly arrive in Britain, then we'll all be putting our walking boots on again. The AA will be there to help on our iPhones, with an app spotlighting 1,500 walks across the land, with descriptions, directions and the ability to buy OS maps in-app for a closer view.iPhoneVisible Body 3D Anatomy AtlasThe Visible Body 3D Anatomy Atlas has flexed its muscles and strolled from iOS to Android, promising more than 2,500 structures, with definitions and as much zooming, rotating and fading as a medical student needs to study the body.AndroidUK Bus CheckerFatAttitude had a big hit with its London Bus Checker app, but now it's gone nationwide. It offers timetables and route maps for every bus stop in the UK – more than 300k in total – with real-time information in 35 cities on top of that.iPhone / iPadChelsea: European ChampionsTrinity Mirror's latest one-shot iPad app focuses on Chelsea's victory in the UEFA Champions League final last season. Well, better late than never. It's an "official souvenir publication" including video footage of the homecoming parade.iPadMy Wild Night With Ted - Ted the MovieComedic movie Ted is the work of Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane. Now it's got its own photo-manipulation app for iPhone that sees you inserting the film's hero (well, I say hero...) Ted into your own party snaps. "Nobody will doubt that you painted the town drunk with a talking teddy bear..."iPhoneAwdioLike Mixcloud, Awdio provides streams of DJ sets, although in this case it's more focused on streams from clubs and venues. Its free app promises streams in every genre from deep house to drum &amp; bass (and some that don't begin with "d").iPhoneTivoli RadioRadio-maker Tivoli has brought its app from iOS to Android, offering streams from what it describes as the top 100 internet radio stations. To add a skeuomorphic twist, the app is designed to look like an actual Tivoli radio.AndroidOliver TwistBritish developer Secret Attic has reinvented Dickens' Oliver Twist as a book-app for kids, making the storyline child-friendly, adding animation and interactivity, and a few historical facts too.iPhone / iPadCurly's Pocket Guide to SportsNeed a primer in some of the sports on offer in this summer's Olympic Games? Curly's Pocket Guide is fun, promising information on "running, jumping, swimming, cycling, riding, kicking, lifting, poking, hitting, rowing, firing and throwing things". Expect rules, tips and tactics, and shareable trivia.iPhone / iPadTeethingNothing to do with babies. Instead, this pixeltastic retro game involves controlling a tooth as it avoids falling sweets, while collecting toothpaste and, er, buying "fabulous and eccentric moustaches". With chiptunes. It looks great fun.iPhoneDrilandDeNA's Rage of Bahamut card-battling game has been a monster hit in the West following its translation from Japan. Now rival Gree is hoping to pull the same trick with Driland. Expect monster-battling, card-collecting and social features. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iPhone version.Android / iPhoneGang DominationTalking of card-battling games and Gree... The company has teamed up with French publisher Gameloft for a different game, focused around Grand Theft Auto-style gangsters (check the artwork) and quests to beat rivals. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iPhone version.Android / iPhoneReal Time WineSamsung liked the taste of this wine discovery app so much, it gave it an award. Now it's out for Android and iPhone, promising to "keep the wine snobs at bay" with crowdsourced plonk recommendations. You can review and share your favourite bottles, and see those ranked highly by other users. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iPhone version.Android / iPhoneFisher-Price Imaginext DinosaursChildren's toy brand Fisher-Price has launched its latest app focusing on dinosaurs, complete with facts, an x-ray feature to see their bones, and a maze minigame. It's aimed at 3-5 year-olds.iPhoneEpic RaidersDescribed as a "party play RPG" by developer Gamevil, this sees you trying to rescue princesses while collecting items and exploring dungeons, using a freemium business model to make its money.AndroidEcho (beta)Messaging app Echo aims to connect you with the people closest to you – geographically, that is. "Your neighbors. The dudes who live in your city, who go to the same supermarket, the same gym..."AndroidButlins Augmented RealityThe title says it all.iPhone
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 30 June 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (38)PS3 (20)Wii (18)22 (–)The Amazing Spider-Man (16+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (42)Wii (1)3DS (0)13 (–)Spec Ops: The Line(18+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (33)14 (–)London 2012: The Official Video Game (3+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (46)PC (1)15 (2)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (31)Wii (6)PSP (5)406 (3)Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future Soldier(15+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (29)PC (19)67 (8)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (31)PC (17)318 (4)Max Payne 3(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (43)PC (4)79 (5)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (34)PC (12)3610 (–)Metal Gear Solid HD Collection(15+)VITA (84)Xbox 360 (8)PS3 (8)411 (–)The Ratchet & Clank Trilogy: Classics HD(7+)PS3 (100)112 (7)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (60)3DS (40)3113 (9)Sniper Elite V2(15+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (42)PC (5)914 (10)Fifa Street(3+)PS3 (57)Xbox 360 (43)1615 (–)Mass Effect 3(15+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (29)PC (4)1616 (12)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (47)PC (5)2417 (19)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (39)3118 (17)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (37)PC (4)5119 (6)Lollipop Chainsaw(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (46)320 (18)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure (7+)Wii (52)Xbox 360 (28)PS3 (15)3DS (5)25UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMobile is where the growth is &gt;&gt; Fred WilsonThere is a significant shift going on this year, much more significant than we saw last year, from web to mobile. It is most noticeable in games, social networking, music, and news, but it is happening across the board and it presents both great opportunity and great challenges.Mobile native services like Foursquare &amp; Instagram have the most to gain from this transition. Big feature rich web apps like Facebook and Google have the most to lose from this transition.Mobile does not reward feature richness. It rewards small, application specific, feature light services. I have said this before but I will say it again. The phone is the equivalent of the web application and the mobile apps you have on your home screen(s) are the features.Wilson is a venture investor in lots of things. Where he's looking is where he's putting the VC money. But also note the first comment on the post from Jeff Jarvis, who suggests that mobile isn't a "thing".Survey of effects of cloud outage shows how much of the web runs on Amazon &gt;&gt; ForbesBasically, lots. When Debbie did Dallas she also did a lot of servers.5 years later: a look back at the rise of the iPhone &gt;&gt; ComScoreToday, iOS ranks as the second largest smartphone platform in the US after Android, commanding 31.9% share of the market with its 35.1m iPhone owners in May. During the last five years, Apple has introduced five different versions of the iPhone and extended its reach beyond AT&amp;T to other major carriers, including Verizon and Sprint. A more detailed look at the iPhone ecosystem by device generation found that nearly 3 in every 4 iPhone owners currently uses the iPhone 4 or iPhone 4S, with the iPhone 4 accounting for the largest overall share at nearly 40% of iOS smartphones in May 2012. The original iPhone released on June 29, 2007 now accounts for just 2% of current iOS smartphone owners, with new generations of the device making the original virtually obsolete.Fascinating if there really are 700,000 people still using original iPhones out there. Apple sold about 5m in the first year, total; so that's quite a large proportion, really.FunnyJunk lawyer aims to halt distribution of "BearLove" money &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaOn Saturday, Charles Carreon updated his federal lawsuit against Matthew Inman (creator of the humor website The Oatmeal). Carreon's suit now calls for a temporary restraining order, asking the court to mandate IndieGoGo not transfer any of the more than $220,000 raised as of Monday, June 25. If the court sides with Carreon, funds would not go to Inman or to the target charities, the National Wildlife Foundation (NWF) and the American Cancer Society (ACS).Oh, wow. People who deny money to charities? That's just scummy.Google design chief would love to work with RIM on an Android phone with a real keyboard &gt;&gt; ABC NewsBefore joining Google, [Matias] Duarte headed up software design at Palm and worked on the company's Palm Pre device, which had a physical keyboard and touchscreen.On the heels of RIM's major loss and struggles to put out a new operating system and phones, Duarte said [in an ABC interview] he would love to work with the BlackBerry maker. "If RIM wanted to work on Android devices, I would really welcome that. They clearly make great physical keyboards."Android devices with physical keyboards? Like the G1, you mean? (Via @modelportfolio2003. But please, original links, not rewrites of rewrites of rewrites.)"Our new product violates 73 Google patents, 14 Apple patents..." &gt;&gt; DilbertDilbert lives it. (Via Groklaw.)February 2008: Flash on iPhone is just around the corner &gt;&gt; Gear LiveWell, we've just got word from a reliable source that Flash support is on its way to the iPhone, and it should be coming very, very soon. Speculating a bit further on our own, we are guessing that it would be pretty convenient for Flash support to be introduced alongside the iPhone SDK, wouldn't you say?Hilarious. There's also a followup where that date having passed, they suggest that yes, it's definitely running on iPhone inside Apple, but AT&amp;T is blocking it to prevent VOIP apps eating its revenues. None of this was ever true.September 2009: 5 things RIM needs to fix in its BlackBerrys &gt;&gt; WiredIn September 2009 RIM it had three of the US's five best-selling smartphones for the first quarter of the year. Even so, Wired thought it needed to fix its browser, touchscreen experience, Wi-Fi (it didn't offer it), app store and desktop software.Honestly, when you've got three of the top five best smartphones, why would you need to change?Nokia's secret Linux team is looking for refuge &gt;&gt; GigaomWhen Nokiaannounced massive job cutsa couple of weeks ago, one of the targets was the company's research facility in Ulm, Germany. Now, showing impressive entrepreneurialism, the axed team members have set up a campaign advertising their talents:"In response to our recent Ulm site closure announcement from Nokia HQ, we (the employees) openly invite you to discover our world of talent on offer," a flyer ontheir new websitereads. "Welcome toProject KYVYT'."Low-end Linux handset expertise. Who wants it?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
The model and actor Lily Cole is to be a judge for a competition for young British programmers – giving an extra lift to a scheme which aims to get more teenagers interested in creating the next generation of websites.Cole, 24, who is also an enthusiast for open source software and is behind the "social giving network"impossible.com, will judge theYoung Rewired Statecompetition from 6-12 August.She will be one of four judges at the prizegiving, in Birmingham, from the competition which aims to find and encourage young children and teenagers who want to learn how to program computers — a skill that Eric Schmidt, the executive chairman of Google,last year said should be taught in all British schools."Your IT curriculum focuses on teaching how to use software, but gives no insight into how it's made," he said.The Young Rewired State competition is all about making software. Teams of participants compete to write the best product they can in a few days and then show it off to their peers and judges.Cole heard of the competition when seeking help from Rewired State for her impossible.com project.She said: "I am really looking forward to Young Rewired State. I can't wait to see what these kids create and discover genius coders."In 2011,the first YRS competition created dozens of apps, including MyNHS – using open data to let individual patients find the nearest hospital, book appointments or arrange prescriptions, rather than using expensive systems now in place – and MyCouncil, which aimed to create a simple interface to let people ask straightforward questions of their council rather than wading through complex websites.Emma Mulqueeny, director and co-founder of Rewired State and Young Rewired State competitions, and who has worked with Cole, said she was unbelievably thrilled and grateful."I am constantly surprised and delighted by the effect Young Rewired State has on everyone who stumbles across it. I loveLily's impossible.com projectand I know that she is a great role model for kids."Cole will join the other adjudicators – Aral Balkan, Conrad Wolfram and Jonathan Luff – to judge at the final event.In January, the Guardiankicked off a digital literacy campaign with Google, with the aim of improving IT and computer science teaching in schools and universities.That quickly saw Michael Gove, the education secretary, announce a radical change in education policy and scrap the outdated IT curriculum, with a new one announced for later this year.
It's Monday again, isn't it? How was your weekend? Give us all the dirt about the Chatterbox summer meet-up on Saturday!
The MIT Media Lab provided a star turn in Aspen on Sunday morning, as researchers revealed some of the ideas and devices that could soon become part of everyday life.Mechanical ankles and knees, an interactive platform designed for people with autism and a device that can turn virtually anything into an electronic keyboard are among the most interesting innovations coming out of the Massachusetts laboratory.Doctoral students showcased their handiwork at the fifth day of theAspen Ideas festivalin Colorado.Storyscape, an internet platform which would enable people with autism and their families to create interactive and customizable stories, could help with the "social nature of autism", according to founder Micah Eckhardt."There is no one solution for autism," Eckhardt said, acknowledging the "highly heterogenous" nature of the condition, but advances in web and mobile technology are helping people better address the needs of those with autism, which affects 1 in 110 people.Illustrated stories are already used by parents and teachers to engage children with the condition, but Eckhardt said currently "high-tech means laminated paper and velcro".Storyscape enourages the creation of interactive stories, enabling people with autism to express themselves and indulge interests. Users of the app would also be able to share their stories with others.The Media Lab has focused on social causes in recent years, such as the acclaimedone laptop per child policy, and this was mirrored by discussions in Sunday's session.Todd Farrell, a doctoral student in the lab's biomechatronics group, presented mechanized artificial limbs designed to improve the mobility of amputees. The lab has built and is testing mechanized ankles which are almost as energy efficient as a human ankle, unlike traditional prosthetics.The group is also involved in developing a "walking exoskeleton" – a less horrific device than it sounds – which is strapped on to the user, allowing them to carry greater loads or run at greater speeds.Perhaps the greatest crowdpleaser, however, was MaKey MaKey, a project devised by Jay Silver and Eric Rosenbaum whichlast month raised $568,106 on the funding website Kickstarter.  Described as "an invention kit for everyone", MaKey MaKey is essentially a circuit board and wires that turns everyday objects into touchpads.The device can be plugged in to a USB socket and combined with the internet, enabling users to explore their creativiy by, for example, using alphabet spaghetti as a keyboard or their stairs as a piano.With MaKey MaKey "plants, coins, your grandma, silverware, anything wet, most foods, cats and dogs, aluminum foil, rain" can be turned into keyboards or computer mice, according to its creators. Rosenbaum told the crowd in Aspen that due to the huge amount of funding from Kickstarter – he and Silver only aimed to raise $25,000 – the device is now on its way, with 10,000 MaKey MaKey kits entering production.
Once upon a time, if you said you were doing a spot of DIY, everyone would know you'd be doing something involving wobbly ladders, pots of paint and, depending on the decade, either stripping your floors or recarpeting them.No more. Or at least ladders and pots of paint might still be involved, but the end result could be a aerial drone you've built yourself. Or a biotech lab.Last week's TEDGlobal conference in Edinburgh – the festival known as "Davos for optimists" – shone a light on the DIY revolution – a movement that encompasses items ranging from manufacturing to synthetic biology to medicine. After a decade in which digital technologies have disrupted industries from music to the media, it's capitalism itself that is now under attack. A decade ago, open-source software revolutionised the internet. Now the idea has entered the realm of physical things: open-source hardware. Why stop at making your own website when you can make your own PC? Or car? Or satellite?Catarina Mota, a 38-year-old Portuguese PhD student, is typical of the new breed of DIYers, or, as they tend to call themselves, "makers". She's a member of a 40-strong "hackerspace" in New York – a co-operative workshop where members share tools such as laser cutters – and develops and makes "smart materials", ones that can change colour when you touch them or react to voltage. In the three years since she began, the maker movement, fuelled in part by the rapidly decreasing cost of 3D printers – devices that create objects layer by layer out of liquid plastic – has become a phenomenon. Mota's hackerspace,NYC Resistor, is one of the oldest, but there are now 1,500 in the world.Like most makers, she's self-taught. "A lot of people were doing these sorts of things as kids and then stopped," she said. "As manufactured goods became cheaper, we became consumers. But now everything has changed. We don't accept things as they are given to us. We make technology work for us. And we can make a living from it: it's not just a hobby. It has the potential to change economics profoundly. Companies can compete on quality no matter what their size."Atlocalmotors.com, you can download blueprints to make your own car; atdiydrones.comthere are designs for remote-controlled four-rotor helicopters and atopensourceecology.com, you can download plans for everything you need to build a civilisation – wind turbines, ovens, cement mixers, tractors, bioplastic extruders…Marcin Jakubowski, the Polish-American TED fellow behind the ecology project, is a passionate advocate of the movement. "People are hungry for meaning They see problems with the economic, social and democratic systems and they think – WTF? … This is all about enterprise and low-cost access to blueprints and it will have profound effects on society: production is going to be in the hands of the people."If this sounds like Marxism, a world in which workers own the means of production, it is and it isn't. One of the speakers at TEDGlobal, author Rachel Botsman from Sydney, who has coined the term "collaborative consumerism", says: "It's definitely capitalism. But it's more democratic forms of capitalism."She points out that the websiteAirbnb,which allows anyone to run a bed and breakfast operation in their spare room, received a $1bn valuation last year "and only 30 companies in the world have ever done that" – and that, in the face of a broken financial system, other forms of venture capital, such as the crowdsourced finance siteKickstarter, have sprung up.It's also a phenomenon perfectly suited to the austerity age: mass unemployment, saysAndrew Hessel, a biology futurist from California, might even be the necessary catalyst. "Before, people would just go and get a job in retail. Now that's gone. There are millions of jobs that are not just coming back. But you can go and set up your own business for $100 and compete with the biggest companies out there."What's more, the ideas, as evidenced by their high visibility at TED, are just starting to go mainstream. Bruno Giussani, the European director of TED who curated the programme, believes we are on the cusp of something radically new – not least because, according to Massimo Banzi, one of the founding fathers of the field, "you don't have to ask for permission".Banzi is co-creator of the Arduino – a cheap, flexible, single-board computer that's at the heart of thousands of DIY products, from a plant that will tweet you when it wants watering to the ArduSat, an Arduino-powered satellite."I made this little book to explain what I was doing and for the cover I took this image from a 1970s punk fanzine which said: 'Here's three chords, now form a band'," says Banzi. "The DIY movement is tech punk. You can do what you want."Big companies limit your freedom. Look at the iPad. This is the TV set of the computer age. They're designed for you to consume media. We have to teach children to make their own. Once you consume something, you accept these predetermined solutions."So, are the big corporations running scared? "Not yet. It's still pretty scruffy and disorganised. But then, look at Apple. They were just a couple of hippies once."Build your own mobile phone networkOr maybe not. Though it's possible: a drug cartel in Mexico has built its own encrypted network that operates across the country. As Marc Goodman of  the Future Crimes Institute thinktank points out, technology is all very well, but it's not always in the hands of the good guys. He worries that it's not just schoolchildren and Brooklyn hipsters who are going to want to get their hands on DIY biotech. Criminals are always ahead of the curve, he says: drug dealers had cellphones long before Michael Douglas got his hands on one inWall Street. 'Weaponised flu' and 3D-printed gunsare what happens when DIY goes bad.Become a venture capitalist (or borrow money from one)Anyone can set up a business or have a creative idea. But raising the money to finance it is another thing. Existing forms of finance simply aren't working  – which is where new grassroots forms of lending come in.Online collaboration has become a growing source of entrepreneurial capital. The US website kickstarter.com is the most famous 'crowdfunding' site, with more than $230m pledged to different projects by private individuals, but there's alsopetridish.orgfor science projects,fundageek.comfor technical ones and the Britishspacehive.comfor social projects.According to Botsman, it's one of the main planks of the new DIY economy. "Kickstarter is lending more money than the US National Endowment for the Arts. It's the greatest source of creative funding in the States."On 9 February, the site saw the first project to raise $1m – for an iPhone dock. Three months later, the Pebble, an internet-connected 'smart watch' with an e-paper screen like a Kindle's, broke the $10m mark. You don't need your bank manager's permission any more; just the kindness (or savvy financial acumen) of strangers.Study cryptography at StanfordFailed your GCSEs? Dropped out of college? Fear not: Daphne Koller and her colleague at Stanford University in California, Andrew Ng, want to teach the world for free.When Ng videoed his course on machine learning and put it online, more than 100,000 people signed up. That led he and Koller to develop an entire online learning platform with lectures, coursework, exams and certification. Choose between analytic combinatorics at Princeton, neuroethics at Penn State or cryptography at Stanford. It's already being called an education revolution.Make your own satelliteRemember the days when Nasa made rockets and the European Space Agency sent satellites into orbit? So old-fashioned! The latest innovation to be powered by the Arduino microcontroller – a palm-sized open-source computer co-created by Italian technologist Massimo Banzi – is the ArduSat, a DIY satellite that is the idea of a physicist and two aerospace engineers. No time to make your own? For $350 you can buy space on the ArduSat to conduct your own space science.ArduSat is the latest in a long line of inventions powered by the Arduino, which was developed by Banzi with five friends while teaching at design school at Ivrea in Piedmont. You can download designs from the net or buy the board readymade. It has been used in countless ways, including in a glove that interprets sign language into words, a Geiger counter used to share radioactivity data after the Japanese tsunami, and the ArduPlane, an unmanned drone. And the 'Enough Already' controller, a device created by a Brooklyn DIYer called Matt Richardson to mute his TV whenever the words 'Kim Kardashian' are uttered."On the one hand, there are the people inventing things like a chair that will tweet when you fart," says Banzi. "On the other, I've had some incredibly moving emails. There was a severely disabled man who couldn't use a computer mouse until somebody made him a personalised Arduino version."Sometimes you need products you can't find, or they exist but they're too expensive. Tools like Arduino lower the barrier. More and more people are able to create."Do your own DNA testingGenspace in Brooklyn, New York, was the world's first community biotechnology laboratory, or 'streetlab', but the UK now has its own (MadLab in Manchester) and DIY molecular biology is a trend that is growing fast.Ellen Jorgensen, Genspace's co-founder, says the possibilities are endless. "It's impossible for me, as a mainstream scientist, to imagine what an artist, an architect or even a lawyer may come up with when they get their hands on this technology."Jorgensen believes everybody should have the chance to do science, and says molecular biology is one of the most exciting branches out there: "It's primal. You are literally engineering yourself."More practically, one of Genspace's early users DNA-sequenced dog excrement on a local pavement and tracked down the offending dog.Print your own 50-cent microscopeThe problem with doing a lot of science at home is that the equipment – supercomputers, rocket launchers etc – can be pricey. Which is why Manu Prakash and his team at Stanford have developed a new type of microscope: it can be printed out on paper and folded into shape and costs only 50 cents. It will be unofficially unveiled in a few weeks' time, but Prakash, who grew up in India without a fridge, understands the power of microbes and wants children everywhere to be able to do the same.
After creating the spectacular adventure-puzzle gamePortal, designer Kim Swift is something of a rock star to keen gamers. However, much like the tortured musical genius who struggles with a follow-up album after a genre-redefining release, Swift's newest entry into the wider gaming oeuvre, the slightly underwhelmingQuantum Conundrum, doesn't quite reach the lofty heights of its predecessor.Wandering around your scientist uncle's improbably large mansion, the challenge is to shift dimensions – adjusting the mass and weight of objects, or the flow of time – to solve puzzles that are equal parts ingenious and cruelly simple. However, many cross the line from challenging to outright frustrating in a way its spiritual predecessor never did.Despite possessing an abundance of charm, too much here feels like echoes ofPortal. Yet gamers coming at it without expectations will enjoy an engaging and addictive game.
Steel Battalionwas always for real gamers. Heck, in its first incarnation it required two joysticks, pedals and a couple of Pearly Kings' worth of buttons. It was, in the grand manner, for the hardcore – and made the casual gamer feel as welcome as a bacon sarnie at Paul McCartney's picnic.ForSteel Battalion Heavy Armor, though, Capcom and developer From Software have brought Kinect technology to bear. That's the Kinect motion-sensor more often associated with games offering "happy fun times for all the family" than the likes ofSteel Battalion. On paper, it seems a valid strategy: initiate the casual gamer in the ways of the hardcore, and at the same time make the Kinect less of an add-on for pre-adolescents and more of a full-on gaming essential. But in practice,Steel Battalion Heavy Armoris going to appeal to no one and alienate everyone.The problem's not the plot – it's risible, sure, but these things always are. It's 2082, and war is being waged with machines comparable to second world war-level technology because of the viral destruction of the planet's silicon. But, as I say, that's not the problem.It's not the demandsSBHAmakes on your front room. Obviously there's no slouching, as Kinect wants you sitting bolt upright as it attempts to interpret your movements. But even this enforced pandering isn't what makesSBHAso grim.It's because it's so hard, in the "pointlessly-difficult-and-laborious-surely-this-can't-have-been-the-intention" sense. The Kinect aspects of control are terribly badly implemented, with no consistency to the way the sensor interprets your movements. Should the tank you're piloting stand still for an instant (it will, because Kinect is so grindingly imprecise) it gets blown to bits. Again, and again, and again, until the only hand gestures you feel like making are those of dismissal.
Boom Brigade was a big success for developers 10tons, so it's no surprise to see a sequel,Boom Brigade 2(iOS, App Store, £2.49).The original was a nice twist on  route-drawing games such asFlight Control.Itrequired you to draw paths for&nbsp;a&nbsp;trio of tooled-up troopers who march round their bunker, shooting an alien menace. The soldiers fire automatically when in range of enemies, with bazookas,&nbsp;mini-guns and the like, while collecting power-ups to kill the bad&nbsp;guys.The sequel manages to maintain the strengths of its predecessor with a few well-needed polishes. The number of troopers you control at any one time has been increased, which could be confusing, but with the tactical mode – where you pause the game then issue instructions to&nbsp;be carried out when resumed – it is made manageable, allowing for a more strategic battle. There are 30 missions, with five upgradable trooper types, making for a long-lasting challenge that outdoes its popular predecessor in every&nbsp;respect.Clumsy Pirates(Android, Google Play, £1.79, Thumbstar), in contrast, is aiming for a younger audience. It's a puzzle game in which you guide Billy the Mop as he attempts to throw ignited cannon balls overboard before they destroy his ship. There are 96 levels of colourful cartoon mayhem, with various obstacles that must be overcome to reach the exploding projectiles in time, making this a surprisingly challenging title.
Price £16,490MPG 47.9Top speed 111mphCertain cars wrap themselves around your heart and no matter how many miles you drive, you never forget them. Same for songs, lovers, films…The first VW Beetle I&nbsp;travelled in belonged to Birgit, my friend's German mother. It must be 35 years ago, but I&nbsp;can picture that car so clearly. It was a biscuity beige with woven plastic seats. I&nbsp;can still hear that distinctive rasp from its rear-mounted engine and hear Birgit cursing in German as she wrestled with its knackered gears. One day she turned to us in the back and abruptly said: "Listen, boys, when you are married, if there is ever anything strange you want to do in the bedroom, don't ask your wife…" We sat in silence as her voice trailed off. A few minutes later I saw her wipe a tear from her cheek with the back of her hand.It seems like another life, but the latest Beetle VW has just launched to replace the New Beetle of 1998 (that in turn replaced the original Beetle of 1938) is so reminiscent of the original that anyone over the age of about 30 will soon be accelerating straight down memory lane. The car is such a return to form that when I first fired up the 160PS TSi petrol engine I was amazed it didn't rattle the windows with that familiar old clatter. To be honest I&nbsp;was a little disappointed, too.Retro cars are big business these days – just look at the Fiat 500 and the Mini (I'm still hoping Citroën will do the same with its 2CV) – but we mustn't let gorging on nostalgia confuse the picture. The old cars these new vehicles replace share a&nbsp;name and a cultural identity with their ancestors, but that's as far as it goes. These newbies are safe, usable, reliable and comfortable, while their progenitors were little more than gussied-up death traps.Before you throw away your Janis Joplin tape and flush the LSD down the toilet, you'll be pleased to hear the new Beetle brilliantly captures the spirit of Herbie and Woodstock while also packing plenty to convert a&nbsp;new generation of Beetlemaniacs.More than 22.5m Beetles have been sold – it's the third most successful car of all time, just behind the VW Golf and Toyota Corolla. So this new design has some big shoes to fill. It's front-engined, front-wheel driven, and has three doors and four seats. It's longer, wider and lower (aren't we all) than the outgoing model, but it is also sportier and more masculine. There's no sign of that hellish "bud vase". The bonnet and roof lines are less curved and the windscreen is inclined at a&nbsp;much steeper angle – which again harks back to the flat screens of the old cars. The new car has also achieved a 5-star safety rating and comes with a choice of three petrol or two diesel engines. I drove the 1.4-litre Sport, which packed more vim and verve into its handling than you should rightfully expect from a&nbsp;bunchbacked Beetle.There are so many faithful design points – from the top-hinged glovebox to the running boards and hooded lights – that you feel the car has been created by a&nbsp;bunch of sunkissed old hippies with the Love Bug ringtone on their phones. It's almost a surprise it doesn't come with a big 53 on the doors.A word of warningPlanning a road trip to France? Breathalysers are to be compulsory from 1 July. As of today,France is taking a new approach in battling drink driving by legally requiring every driver, including visitors from the UK and elsewhere, to carry a single-use breathalyser kit. However, under the new rule, drivers caught without a breathalyser will only be cautioned until November – after that point anyone caught without the kit will face an €11 fine.The single-use breathalyser kit needed under the new rule can be used to check the driver's blood alcohol level. The legal limit in France is 0.5 grams per litre (50mg per 100ml of blood – lower than the 80mg limit in the UK). The new kit will allow people to test themselves as well as others if they suspect they are over the limit.Single-use breathalysers cost between €0.50 and €1.50 and the authorities are trying to make sure there are enough available before the law comes into force.  Breathalyser tests carrying the blue circular "NF" logo are recommended in France to comply with the legislation (this is the equivalent of the BSI kite mark in Britain), and they can be purchased online ahead of travelling. However, there are many products being sold as French breathalysers, but these won't necessarily satisfy the French police known as the Gendarmerie unless they are on an approved list.Green Flag, the breakdown service, is advising motorists to carry at least two NF-certified breathalysers at all times, so that one can be used if necessary while the other is kept to produce if requested by police.Green Flag reminds us that anyone driving in France is already required to carry a warning triangle and a fluorescent safety vest. The vest should be carried inside the car and not the car boot. Failure to have these in the car can lead to a fine of €90. Other items required are a first aid kit, fire extinguisher and spare bulbs for car lamps, lenses and reflectors.
Some games gently quicken the passing of time, others loom and intimidate.Pro Cycling Manager's 2012 instalment manages both, facilitating lost hours of assiduous tweaking coupled with the foreboding that one false step, even before day seven of a second-tier stage race in Malaysia, could derail Bradley Wiggins's hopes of winning the Tour de France.Should you send the neo-pro time-triallist to a plush Mallorca training camp or billet a bunkbed in a musty barrack in northern France? Do you care? Chances are that if you've got this far you do, and the scale of this game, with a database that covers 81 professional teams and their riders in extraordinary detail, makes this an appealing prospect to the obsessives in a cycling community that is swelling rapidly in the UK.There's some unrefined operating clunkiness that would not be found in theFootball Managertitles, and occasional system instability, but the scale offered here is more than enough to compensate any pedal-pushers drawn to a challenge.
Here's an interesting fact: 10 of the people onForbesmagazine's tally of the world's 100 richest billionairesmade their money from computer and/or network technology. At the top (second on the list) is Bill Gates, co-founder of Microsoft, whose net worth is estimated byForbesat $61bn, despite the fact that he continues to try to give it away. Gates is followed by Larry Ellison, boss of Oracle, with $36bn, and Michael Bloomberg with $22bn. Larry Page and Sergey Brin – co-founders of Google – occupy joint 24th place with $18.7bn each. Jeff Bezos of Amazon is No 26 with $18.4bn while the newly enriched Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook sits at No 35 with £17.5bn. Michael Dell,  founder of the eponymous computer manufacturer, is at No 41 with $15.9bn while Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's CEO, is three places lower on $15.7bn and Paul Allen – co-founder of Microsoft – brings up the rear at No 48 with a mere $14.2bn. Steve Jobs, who was worth about $9bn when he died, doesn't even figure.What's striking about this is not just the staggering wealth that these people have managed to squeeze out of what are, after all, just binary digits (ones and zeros), but how recent are the origins of their good fortunes. Mark Zuckerberg, for example, went from zero to $17.5bn in less than eight years. Microsoft – the company that has propelled Gates, Ballmer and Allen into theForbespantheon – dates only from 1975. Oracle was founded in 1977. Bloomberg turned a $10m redundancy cheque from Salomon Brothers into his personal money-pump in 1982. Dell started making computers in his university dorm in 1984. Bezos launched Amazon with his own savings in 1995. Brin and Page turned their PhD research into a company called Google in 1998. And Zuckerberg launched Facebook&nbsp;in&nbsp;2004.For some of these people, great wealth is correlated with significant power. Once Microsoft captured the market for PC operating systems and office software, Bill Gates and co ruthlessly leveraged their monopoly to eliminate rivals (remember Netscape?) and dictate pricing. So we got a world where you could have any kind of computer you wanted, provided it ran Microsoft Windows. In the era when the PC was the computer, Bill Gates was king because he controlled the PC.But although Microsoft remains a significant force, its power waned as computing moved from the PC to the network – and therefore to the people and companies who dominate that. Step forward the Google boys, who have the power to render any website virtually invisible, because if their algorithms decide not to index a site then effectively it ceases to exist – at least in cyberspace. Their computers also read our mail and store our documents. Google dominates the online advertising business. The company's founders say grandly that their mission is "to organise the world's information" – and they mean it. They have already digitised a significant amount of the world's printed books – although they are not yet authorised to make many of them available online. And Google's cars have photographed every street in the industrialised world.Meanwhile, in another part of the jungle, Amazon's Bezos is not just vaporising bricks-and-mortar bookstores; he's also on his way to becoming the world's biggest publisher. And he's already the world's largest online retailer – the Walmart of the web. In social networking Mark Zuckerberg has cunningly inserted himself (via his hardware and software) into every online communication that passes between his 900 million subscribers, to the point where Facebook probably knows that two people are about to have an affair before they do. And because of the nature of networks, if we're not careful we could wind up with a series of winners who took all: one global bookstore; one social network; one search engine; one online multimedia store and so on.There was a time when the power exercised by computer and internet companies seemed a matter of relatively esoteric concern. But as digital technology began to pervade our daily lives, the boundary between the "real" world ("meatspace", as geeks used to call it) and cyberspace began to blur. What happened in the latter suddenly mattered in the former – and not just in Tunisia and Egypt either. Think of the way Steve Jobs's creation – Apple – exercises such dominance over online music, smartphones and tablet computers. Or ponder what Google and Facebook now know about our lives, loves and obsessions. Or what Amazon knows about our consumption patterns. The implication is that cyberpower has correlates in the real world, which means that it's time we had a really good look at those who wield it. What are these masters of the digital universe really like? What are their values and their politics? And are they any different from the corporate moguls of the&nbsp;past?Given their prominence, we know surprisingly little about our modern moguls – for various reasons. One is that we are remarkably incurious about what makes them tick. We focus instead on the fact that one of them (Zuckerberg) wears a hoodie even when being interviewed by investment bankers; or that Larry Page, co-founder of Google, refused to stop using his laptop when a big media mogul came to talk to him; or that Bill Gates used to rock furiously backwards and forwards in a rocking chair when being interviewed for an anti-trust case; or that Steve Jobs drove a comparatively modest sports car and lived in a small, old-fashioned house rather than the postmodern minimalist palace that many people would have predicted.But this is all superficial stuff, the journalistic fluff of celebrity profiles and gossip columns. What's much more significant about these moguls is that they share a mindset that renders them blind to the untidiness and contradictions of life, not to mention the fears and anxieties of lesser beings. They aretechnocratswho cleave to a worldview that holds that if something is technically possible then it should be done. How about digitising all the books in the world?No problem: you just throw resources and technology at the task. And ifpublishers protestabout infringement of copyright andauthors moanabout their moral rights, well, that just shows how antediluvian they are. Or how about photographing every street in Europe, or even the world? Again, no problem: it's technically feasible, after all. And ifGermans objectto the resulting intrusion on their privacy, well let them complain and we'll pixelate the sods. Oh – and when we discover that those same cars have been hoovering up the details of our home Wi-Fi networks, their bosses say "Oops! Sorry: it was a mistake." Same story with the high-resolution satellite imagery beloved of Google and – now – Apple. Same story with Mark Zuckerberg's fanatical, almost sociopathic, belief that thedefault setting for life should be "public"rather than "private". The prevailing technocratic motto is: if something can be done, then it ought to be done. It's all about progress, stoopid.Actually, it's all about values. And money. The trouble is that technocrats don't do values. They just do rationality. They love good design, efficiency, elegance – and profits. That's why one of the poster children of the industry is Apple's creative genius, Jonathan Ive, who designs beautiful kit in California which is then assembled in Chinese factories. And when theexecrable working conditionsprevalent in such places are exposed, the company's senior executives profess themselves surprised and appalled and resolve to do everything they can toameliorate things. And we believe them – and continue eagerly to purchase the gizmos manufactured in such oppressive plants.Why are we so credulous, so forgiving? It's partly because wealth – like political power – is a powerful aphrodisiac. But it's mainly because we accept these people at their own valuation. We've bought into their narrative. They see themselves as progressives, as folks who want to make the world a better, more efficient, more rational place. We're charmed by their corporate mantras – for example "Don't be evil" (Google) or "Move fast and break things" (Facebook). In their black turtlenecks and faded jeans they don't seem to have anything in common with Rupert Murdoch or the grim-faced, silk-hatted capitalist bosses of old. Instead of grinding the faces of the poor, our modern technology magnates move effortlessly from tech forums toTEDtoAll Things Dto Davos, reclining on spotlit sofas discussing APIs and cloud computing with respectful or admiring moderators. And in recent times, they are even invited tolunch with President Obamaor as guests at political summits where they arefawned upon by presidentsand prime ministers who hope that some of the magic dust will rub off on&nbsp;them.What gets lost in the reality distortion field that surrounds these technology moguls is that, in the end, they are fanatically ambitious, competitive capitalists. They may look cool and have soothing bedside manners, but in the end these guys are in business not just to make money, but to establish sprawling, quasi-monopolistic commercial empires. And they will do whatever it takes to achieve those ambitions.The strongest link that binds them is that they are all pioneers in the exploitation of virgin territory, and that rings some historical bells. When the internet first exploded into public consciousness in the 1990s as a result of the web, many observers were reminded of what happened in the United States after the end of the civil war in 1865. Then, there was an exciting sense of a continent to be explored, gold and mineral resources to be discovered and exploited, land for anyone who was prepared to work it, industries to be founded, opportunities galore. What then followed was an explosion of speculative investment, led by railway companies which – as Anthony Trollope shrewdly observed on a visit to the US – "were in fact companies combined for the purchase of land… looking to increase the value of it fivefold by the opening of the railroad."Thus began the era satirised by Mark Twain and Charles Dudley Warner in their novelThe Gilded Age: A Tale of Today, which was published in 1873. Twain and Warner were struck by the rampant greed and speculative frenzy of the times – not to mention its pervasive political corruption. But in that febrile milieu a smallish group of ingenious, ruthless and visionary entrepreneurs created a modern industrial state. Leland Stanford, EH Harriman, Jay Gould, Charles Crocker, Henry Plant, Henry Flagler, Cornelius Vanderbilt and Charles Yerkes built railways; John D Rockefeller created Standard Oil and brought his distinctive brand of oligopolistic order to the oil business, eventually controlling 90% of the industry; Andrew Carnegie, Henry Frick and Charles Schwab created a vast steel industry; and bankers such as JP Morgan, Joseph Seligman, Andrew Mellon and Jay Cooke organised the finance that funded these huge ventures.In addition to building a modern industrial state, these gents amassed huge fortunes for themselves using a raft of dubious techniques, including fraud, stock-dilution, the bribing of corrupt politicians, the creation of secret cartels (ironically called "trusts") and the ruthless exploitation of poorly paid, non-unionised workers – which is whyMatthew Josephsondubbed them "robber barons" in his book of the same title. In the end, their abuses and excesses led to a legislative backlash in the form of the 1890 Sherman Anti-Trust Act, the first federal statute to limit cartels and monopolies, and to a more general public revulsion ushered in by Theodore Roosevelt's presidency in 1901. In the twilight of their lives, some of the barons (for example Carnegie, Mellon and Frick) sought to acquire public respectability – or perhaps bargaining chips for negotiating with the Almighty – by endowing charitable foundations and eponymous&nbsp;museums, and engaging in other public-spirited enterprises.In comparison with these monsters of the gilded age, our contemporary moguls – Gates, Page, Brin, Ellison, Bezos et al – may look rather tame. They appear, for example, to be much more law-abiding than their 19th-century counterparts; or at any rate they have had much less success in bending lawmakers to their will. In fact, compared with the skills of the entertainment industry in suborning members of the US Congress, the technology magnates are the merest amateurs – which is why the legislators were so astonished by theindustry's vigorous reactionto Sopa, the Stop Online Piracy Act. The thought that the technology industry might actually have teeth had never previously occurred to the denizens of Capitol Hill.We should also remember that the world in which Microsoft, Oracle, Google and Amazon operate is radically different in one important respect. The stage on which Rockefeller, Carnegie, Vanderbilt and their contemporaries strutted was predominately a national one: most of their enterprises and ambitions spanned only the continental United States, whereas the big technology companies of our day are transnational corporations that operate in a variety of different cultures and legal jurisdictions. John D Rockefeller just had to worry about fixing American officials and politicians; Larry Page, Google's CEO, has to deal not only with the US Department of Justice, but also with the European Commission, the Chinese government and Vladimir Putin's goons.There are also radical differences in the kinds of industrial empires that the two classes of magnate have created. The 19th-century entrepreneurs built huge companies, conglomerates and cartels. They employed millions of people, operated huge plants and equipment (railways, shipping, iron and steel mills, oil refineries) and made an indelible imprint on the landscape. To use a contemporary cliche, they "shipped atoms" – physical objects. With the exception of Amazon and Apple, their modern counterparts, in contrast, are mainly in the business of shipping bits – in the form of software and online services. Despite the bleating of their PR departments, they are not huge primary employers. Google, for example, has only about33,000 employeesworldwide. And often the only tangible, physical sign of their presence and scale is the huge server farms that power their operations and which do have a significant impact on the environment – not to mention the landscape in the places where they are located.But just because our contemporary moguls don't gouge minerals from the earth, run blast furnaces or operate oil refineries doesn't mean that their growing empires aren't real. To the physical economy created by Carnegie and co, digital technology has added a whole new economy based on information goods – nowadays embodied as ones and zeros – which may turn out to be at least as pervasive and valuable. We still make cars using steel, rubber and plastics, for example, but the value of the electronics in their engine management units and braking-control systems already exceeds the value of the vehicles' physical components. And this pattern will increasingly be replicated in other areas of economic life.So the fact that one cannot see the information goods that Google and co gather, store, disseminate and control doesn't mean that those goods aren't real and valuable. To take just one example, Facebook now owns and controls a virtual space that will soon contain more people than the entire Indian subcontinent. Those merry throngs may delude themselves that they are cavorting in a public place. But in reality they are gathering in Master Zuckerberg's shopping mall – a fact that potentially gives him a reach and power that would make any robber baron green with envy.Sceptics will point out that when one puts our masters of the digital universe in a historical context they aren't as rich or as important as we currently imagine. Last year, for example,Forbescommissioned an economist to come up with an inflation-adjusted list of the richest Americans of all time, and the website Business Insider published the results.The listis headed by those grizzled old robber barons, John D Rockefeller, Andrew Carnegie and Cornelius Vanderbilt, with $336bn, $309bn and $185bn respectively. The only contemporary figure who makes it on to the list is Bill Gates, whose net worth at its peak was estimated at $136bn – which (says the sceptic) rather puts Larry Ellison, the Google boys and Jeff Bezos into perspective.Bubble punctured, then? Not quite. It could be that the reason Bill Gates makes it on to the inflation-adjusted list is simply that he's been around the longest. Microsoft, remember, dates from 1975 – 37 years ago. Facebook has only been going since 2004. Who knows where Zuckerberg and the Google boys will be in 2041? The digital economy has a lot more growth left in it. As Churchill might have said, we haven't yet reached even the end of the beginning.But perhaps the most intriguing question about these two different groups of industrial magnates concerns their legacies. The industries and enterprises founded by the robber barons of the 19th century still endure – though in some cases (steel, for example) the action has moved to Asia and parts of the developing world. What, one wonders, will endure of Google, Facebook, Oracle and Amazon? And what will be their founders' legacies? And here we get a clue from the robber barons of the 19th century. Many years after their deaths we still recognise the names of John D Rockefeller and Andrew Carnegie. Will Zuckerberg and Page enjoy the same level of name-recognition among our great-great-grandchildren?The answer may well depend not on how much money they make, but how much they give away. After all, the way their 19th-century counterparts live on is in the charitable foundations they established – theRockefeller Foundation, set up in 1913, and theCarnegie Corporation of New York, founded in 1911. And here at least we do have a contemporary mogul who is way ahead of the pack. TheBill and Melinda Gates Foundation, with assets of $37.4bn, is theworld's largest charitable trust.
There are, I submit, good grounds to argue thatRichard Allen Posner,judge of the United States court of appeals for the seventh circuit, is the most infuriating man on the surface of the planet, but they are not the ones you'd expect. He is not, for example, a horrible human being: on the contrary, people whose judgment I respect describe him in unequivocally admiring tones. ProfessorTim Wu of Columbia Law School, for example, calls Posner "probably America's greatest living jurist". And my friendLarry Lessigof Harvard once wrote of him that "there isn't a federal judge I respect more, both as a judge and person".So the problem with Posner is not his awfulness, but the reverse: his astonishing intelligence, energy and provocative creativity. For in addition to being a very senior judge, he is also a distinguished legal academic at theUniversity of Chicago Law School(theJournal of Legal Studiesdescribes him as the most cited legal scholar of the 20th century). WithGary Becker, a Nobel laureate in economics, he maintainsan extraordinary blogin which the two men exchange thoughtful, essay-length arguments on an almost daily basis. He is the author of more than 40 books, many of them on legal matters, but also ranging over much wider topics: a study of public intellectuals, for example; a treatise on ageing; and works on terrorism, law and literature and democracy. And – here's the really annoying bit – none of them are crap. So to those of us who struggle to produce a book a decade, or even a column a week, Posner stands there as a permanent, reproachful reminder of our inadequacies and indolence.What makes him such a stimulating thinker is that he has little time for conventional wisdom or political correctness. He's not enamoured of animal rights, for example, and is famous for his belief that economics provides a useful perspective for thinking about law. Thus in a recent argument with Becker about New York mayor Michael Bloomberg's proposal to ban the sale of large sugary drinks, Posner writes: "I am not particularly interested in saving the obese from themselves. I am concerned about the negative externalities of obesity‚ the costs that the obese impose on others. Obesity kills, but slowly, and en route to dying the obese run up heavy bills that, to a great extent, others pay."What brings Posner to mind this Sunday morning, however, is not his views on obesity but on intellectual property. You may have noticed that in the last few years the world's biggest technology companies have become lavish patrons of the legal profession. Apple, Google, Samsung, HTC, Microsoft, Oracle, HP, Amazon and others have being suing one another in courts around the globe, alleging that they are infringing one another's patents. The resulting bonanza for lawyers has long passed the point of insanity, but up to now the world's courts seem powerless to make the litigants see sense. As a result, judges find themselves allocated the role of pawns in what are effectively business negotiations between global companies.Until now. What happened is that Posner, in an unusual move, got himself assigned to a lower court to hear a case in which Apple was suing Google (which had purchased Motorola in order to get its hands on the phone company's patent portfolio) over alleged infringement of Apple's smartphone patents. Posner listened to the lawyers and then threw out the case. But what was really dramatic was the way he eviscerated the legal submissions. At one point, for example, Apple claimed that Google was infringing one of its patents on the process of unlocking a phone by swiping the screen. "Apple's argument that a tap is a zero-length swipe," said Posner, "is silly. It's like saying that a point is a zero-length line."Posner's formal judgment was issued on 22 June. Hedismissed the case, writing in his opinion that neither side had proved any damages caused by the other party. More significantly, his ruling came "with prejudice", which means neither side can reopen the case to attempt to prove damages for a second time.This is a landmark judgment, one of those moments when someone – in this case an eminent judge rather than a small child – points out that the emperor is indeed stark naked. Patent wrangling between technology companies has become both pathological and pointless. It is also a gross abuse of intellectual property law that uses the courts as tools for gaining competitive advantage. The people who should be deciding whether Apple's phones are better – more functional, reliable, easier to use – than Motorola's are consumers, not judges. By striking a blow for common sense in what had become a madhouse, Posner has set a really encouraging precedent. The only downside is that he will now  probably write a book about it. And I bet it will be a bloody good read too. Some people are just too annoying  for words.
Flash on mobile - which at one point was held up as the key differentiator between Apple's iOS platform and others including RIM's PlayBook - is having the dates for its death laid out.Adobe hasannounced in a blog postthat from 15 August 2012 it will stop any new installations of its Flash Player onto Android devices, and that only devices which already have a mobile version of its Flash player already installed will be updated.It's a logical conclusion to the process that Adobeannounced in November 2011, when it said that it would no longer be updating Flash Player for new devices, apart from bug fixes and security updates; effectively, Flash on mobile was a zombie from that point on.Given that smartphones and tablets now outsell PCs by a substantial margin, of about 50% - around 150m per quarter compared to 100m at most - the decision renews the question of how much longer Flash on the desktop will survive.For mobiles, it won't be installed onto the just-announced Android 4.1 (aka "Jelly Bean"), and Adobe says that while Flash Player might work on the platform, it also might "exhibit unpredictable behaviour".The idea that being able to run Flash is a key differentiator for Android has suddenly gone away: upcoming devices will be on parity with iOS ones in that regard, and given the astonishing growth of Android activations (presently one million per day), Flash installations will diminish as a share of mobile share very quickly. RIM's decision not to install it by default on its BB7 devices last year didn't help; and its PlayBook tablet, for which it claimed that being able to run it was a key element in web browsing.Since its launch in April 2011, a total of 1.01m PlayBooks have been shipped from RIM to retailers; ittook Apple 28 daysto sell that many when it was first introduced, suggesting Flash capability was never sufficient to change a purchasing decision.The announcement means that just over two years afterSteve Jobs's 2010 "Thoughts on Flash" essaywas published on Apple's site, Flash is hitting the wall.Adobe says that Flash on the PC platform (if you define "PC platform" as "Intel computers running browsers that allow the Flash plugin" - which excludes the forthcoming WinRT tablets using ARM chips running Windows 8, and also could exclude Internet Explorer 10) will continue.Jobs said that Apple wouldn't put Flash onto its mobile devices because "Flash has not performed well on mobile devices. We have routinely asked Adobe to show us Flash performing well on a mobile device, any mobile device, for a few years now. We have never seen it."Apple launched the iPhone (five years ago now) without Flash because the team behind it was not confident about its effects on browser stability and battery life. But in the runup to the launch, Jobs was able to take advantage of the presence at the time on Apple's board of Google's then-chief executive, Eric Schmidt, and persuade him to get YouTube - then as now the biggest user of Flash video on the web - to remove the Flash wrapping from the content, so that the H.264 video would play natively on the iPhone.But for millions of other sites, there was no alternative initially to Flash - which meant that when the iPhone kicked off mobile browsing growth in the US, many protested at the lack of Flash support on the phone. Jobs's response: tough - and the web is evolving away from one company's proprietary form of showing video (Flash) to other video formats. Ironically, initially that was H.264, which is patent-heavy (though with a large pool of patent contributors). Google has been trying to edge some of that out with its WebM video format, but even Mozilladecided to throw in the toweland adopt H.264 despite its patent encumbrances.At the start of 2011, Adobe said that about 20m devices had Flash in their browser; by the end of 2011 it was expecting the figure to hit 200m. No figure has been announced for the number of installations.However, with Apple having by that time activated a total of around 315m iOS device, compared to anestimated 250mAndroid devices, it was clear that non-Flash-playing devices would remain a significant part of the market - and that Adobe's attempts to make it a buying differentiator weren't effective.Meanwhile, the promise that a really great version of Flash on mobile was just around the corner was made repeatedly down the years. It didn't happen.Here's the key paragraph from the blogpost:Beginning August 15th we will use the configuration settings in the Google Play Store to limit continued access to Flash Player updates to only those devices that have Flash Player already installed. Devices that do not have Flash Player already installed are increasingly likely to be incompatible with Flash Player and will no longer be able to install it from the Google Play Store after August 15th.
You know when you reach the end of your journey, you park up, then that should be it, job done? But no, it's not, because you've then got to pull on a convenient and reassuring lever to your left. Yep, the handbrake. What an absolute nightmare that is. So thank heaven someone has invented a new system, whereby you have to fiddle around looking for another button, which you push, or possibly pull, and then you wait because you're not sure if it's worked, and it takes a&nbsp;second or two for the light to come on, maybe you need to switch on the engine again, just to be sure...Oh, wait a minute, system A is better. But the motoring industry doesn't agree. They've adopted the old "If it ain't broke, break it" approach. More and more new cars have electronic handbrakes, parking brakes, whatever you want to call them. (My girlfriend – there she is! – calls them fingerbrakes.) And I&nbsp;bloody hate them. They're fiddly, take longer, don't offer the same reassurance. I imagine if they go wrong they cost about 7,000 quid to fix because the car needs an entire central nervous system transplant instead of a simple replacement cable. Don't even think about fingerbrake turns.This car has one, did you guess? I'm actually glad, to be honest, because otherwise I wouldn't have very much to get steamed up about. The Toyota Avensis T4 2.0 Tourer simply isn't a car to get steamed up about, one way or the other. In many ways it's an excellent car, but it's not one that's going to stir the spirit. No one's going to get one because they've always dreamed of having a Toyota Avensis; they'll get one because they decided it ticks all the right boxes and the numbers make sense. Or because whoever's in charge of the company car fleet has decided the numbers make sense. This will be a marriage of convenience, not a marriage of love.It's been re-tweaked. That's another thing the motoring industry does. Midway through a model's life, they'll "refresh" it, change the lights a bit, and the grille, try to make out it's new. In this case it's very minor cosmetic surgery. You probably wouldn't notice the difference, even if it was parked right next to a pre-nipped'n'tucked model. OK, so they've also made it a little more efficient. Fuel consumption is better, emissions are down, more boxes get ticked, the numbers make even more sense. But it's not going to make you suddenly go, "Oh my God, I love you, I've just realised." Unlike real cosmetic surgery, obviously.You still won't feel very much at all, until you get in, and reach for the handbrake.Toyota Avensis T4 2.0 TourerPrice£24,620Top speed124mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10 secondsAverage fuel consumption61.4mpgCO2 emissions120g/kmEco rating8/10Cool rating4/10
"As nice as the Apple iPhone is, it poses a real challenge to its users," explained Jim Balsillie in November 2007, when Apple's touchscreen device had been on sale only a few months. "Try typing a web key on a touchscreen on an Apple iPhone, that's a real challenge. You cannot see what you type."But for Balsillie, then co-chief executive along with Mike Lazaridis of Research In Motion, maker of the BlackBerry smartphone, the real challenge was to his job. Five years to the day after the first iPhones went on sale, Balsillie and Lazaridis have been ejected from the company, and analysts and brokers seriously question its ability to avoid bankruptcy – which might occur quickly.RIM's board, led by former operations chief Thorsten Heins since January, is now under pressure to consider "unpalatable" moves such as following Finland's Nokia by forming an alliance with Microsoft, or selling its network business which carries the data traffic for its 78m subscribers worldwide, Reuters reported."If RIM continues to be run as it is, we believe that the company will eventually fail," Nomura Equity Research said. "We do not expect RIM to successfully drive a turnaround of its financials, even with the launch of [its new software] BB10 next year," the brokerage said in a note to clients.It wasn't alone: at least 10 brokerages cut their price targets on the stock, some by as much as 50%, while the stock dropped by 20% in heavy selling at its opening following woefulquarterly financial resultson Thursday night. RIM announced that it shipped just 7.8m handsets, and made an operating loss of $643m – its biggest-ever – on quarterly revenues of $2.81bn, its smallest since November 2008, when Google's Android handsets had only just begun to go on sale. A year ago, it had an operating profit of $897m on revenues of $4.9bn."RIM and Nokia both missed the trends, they were late to understand what was happening," says Francisco Jeronimo, smartphones analyst for the research company IDC. "Because they both had strong market positions, they made the same mistake of believing that they were doing the right thing."In May 2008, Lazaridis was asked what he saw as the most exciting trend in the sector, "The most exciting mobile trend is full Qwerty keyboards. I'm sorry, it really is. I'm not making this up," he replied. However at Vodafone's urging, RIM was already working on the BlackBerry Storm – a touchscreen device, but which made a user-repellent clicking when used – which it unveiled that autumn. The reaction was so negative that RIM avoided touchscreens for years.But having built its reputation on secure email and handsets with small built-in keyboards, RIM had more to lose by changing than did Nokia, says Jeronimo – and that, allied to poor business execution, has led to its downfall. By contrast Nokia realised its problems in mid-2010, sacked its chief executive and brought in Stephen Elop, an outsider who is transforming the company and focusing it on the smartphone sector, with Microsoft's help.Of the 78m subscribers worldwide using RIM's services, just under half are in business, according to estimates by the research company Informa. But where Lazaridis once reportedly said "no company is going to allow people to bring their own phone", the rise of "bring your own device", or BYOD, has accelerated with the rise of the iPhone in the US.The rise of Android phones in the US and elsewhere has also outpaced it: against the 78m, there have so far been 400m Android devices activated since 2008, and slightly fewer Apple iPhone and iPads, almost all of which are still in use. That puts RIM in a very distant third place in the race to be the "platform" on which developers write the apps which are making smartphones compelling.That may mean that a final act is in the offing, according to the brokers Cannacord Genuity. "We believe RIM will need to sell the company," it said in a note to clients.But nobody is quite sure who would want to buy the company. Baird Equity Research, under the heading "Marching off the cliff", said it believed there was no likely buyer.Despite the pressure on the board to find some sort of tieup with Microsoft, there is no obvious reason why the software giant would want to purchase it – instead of waiting for it to approach an end, at which point business clients would probably abandon it and perhaps migrate to Microsoft's and Nokia's products. Microsoft is committed to pumping billions into Nokia already – and might not savour the idea of doing the same with RIM for its proprietary encryption systems.With that in mind, analysts at Citi Investment Research and Jefferies slashed their price targets on the stock to $5.00 for RIM's US-listed shares, a fall of 45% from Thursday's close. "We believe fundamentals continue to get worse and RIM could run out of cash and need to raise capital within two years implying that as time rolls forward, if we are correct, the value of RIM continues to go lower," the Citi analysts said."We expect more write-offs and impairments to RIM assets and we question if RIM's new BB10 products will even matter as it may be too little too late," the analysts said, adding that they expected the company's smartphone sales growth to be less than half of the industry average in 2012.BlackBerry 10, considered to be RIM's make-or-break product, was slated to be launched in the first quarter and the delay has already contributed to a 40% drop in the company's stock price so far this year.
Mike Lazaridis and Jim Balsillie were the co-chief executives and co-chairmen of Research In Motion (RIM) from its inception in the 1990s through to their resignation from the position in January 2012. Along the way, the company grew to a behemoth by exploiting its unique combination of secure email and keyboard-driven handset – but they also missed some key technology changes that are now sweeping RIM away.On new technologies: "Cameraphones will be rejected by corporate users." – Mike Lazaridis, 2003.On the threat from the iPhone: "[Apple and the iPhone is] kind of one more entrant into an already very busy space with lots of choice for consumers … But in terms of a sort of a sea-change for BlackBerry, I would think that's overstating it."– Balsillie, February 2007.On the iPhone (again): "Again, I have said this before and I will say it again; Apple has done the industry an enormous favour because they basically told the world to expect a media player [the iPod] as a software feature on a good smartphone. As the leading smartphone appliance company and platform company, we could not buy that kind of validation for $100m."– Balsillie, April 2007.On the iPhone: "As nice as the Apple iPhone is, it poses a real challenge to its users. Try typing a web key on a touchscreen on an Apple iPhone, that's a real challenge. You cannot see what you type." – Balsillie, November 2007.On the tablet market: "So the question you have to ask yourself is when it comes to tablet, what market or what opportunities, still, it's solving, what problem is it solving, and is it just a replacement laptop? I think that's a difficult one to judge." Lazaridis, April 2010.In November 2010 RIM announced the 7in PlayBook tablet, which didn't have any apps – compared to the thousands of apps available for the 10in iPad.On tablet apps versus web apps – where Steve Jobs had publicly reversed his position in 2007 away from web apps to on-device apps: "There may be 300,000 apps for the iPhone and iPad, but the only app you really need is the browser. You don't need an app for the web ... You don't need to go through some kind of SDK ... You can use your web tools ... And you can publish your apps to the BlackBerry without writing any native code." Balsillie, November 2010.On screen size: "For those of us who live outside of Apple's distortion field, we know that 7in tablets will actually be a big portion of the market and we know that Adobe Flash support actually matters to customers who want a real web experience." Balsillie, November 2010.On shifting to a new software platform (as RIM is, subsequently, trying to do): "No other technology company other than Apple has successfully transitioned their platform. It's almost never done, and it's way harder than you realise. This transition is where tech companies go to die." Balsillie, April 2011.On offering a range of products: "Apple has just one product, we have a portfolio. One size doesn't fit all." Balsillie, June 2012.On mobile trends: "The most exciting mobile trend is full Qwerty keyboards. I'm sorry, it really is. I'm not making this up." Lazaridis, May 2008.And Thorsten Heins, who took over as chief executive in January, hasn't been immune either. "At the very core of RIM – at its DNA – is the innovation. We always think ahead. We always think forward. We sometimes think the unthinkable."
If you want to imagine what life is like for app developers and ODMs (original device makers - the companies such as Asus, Samsung, Lenovo, Dell and so on that make tablets and PCs and smartphones) just now, imagine you're in a desert at night. Right beside you is a big flaming campfire, whose owners offer large amounts of food and water - but only to developers.A little way from that are two other campfires - one very big, but starting to sputter, and offering only limited supplies to developers and ODMs; the other burning more strongly, but parcelling out the most meagre of rations. And the latter has a big guy standing beside it who sometimes takes away your rations if you get too close.The campfires are the iOS market (iPad and iPhone), the PC market and the Android handset market. The iPad market looks great if you're a developer; OK, so you have to perform some rituals to get the handouts, but it's good when it's good. For ODMs, though (and indeed for also-ran developers), the iPad offers no sustenance.The PC market, by contrast, is long-established, but it's not growing - there are in fact strong signs that it's going into reverse as tablets become a bigger part of our life - and for ODMs, the pickings are thin unless you're selling in huge volumes into the Far East, and especially China (as Lenovo is). For HP, the PC division is its least profitable; Dell barely makes any money from its consumer market (which is just selling PCs). And Android handsets are a great business - if you're Samsung. For Sony, Motorola Mobility, LG.. it's terrible. And developers, while plentiful, aren't rolling in cash.And now in this scenario, Microsoft and Google have fired two flaming arrows into the air. Their hope: that they'll start two new fires to rival the iPad's. Yet the risk is that they'll do exactly the same - sustaining developers and not ODMs.The Surface: when will it reach land?The Surface first. What's really bizarre about this device is that even while Microsoft has been talking up Windows 8 and the Metro interface and the "slate" format, it also went ahead and rush-launched this sort-of product.That theSurface press conferencewas a rush is evident from the secrecy and unpreparedness. Mutiple sources in and around Microsoft UK have told me that they had no idea ahead of time that it was happening. The four-day advance warning was short enough, but even Microsoft's headquarters doesn't seem to have got its strategy figured out.There were no prices, no dates, the minimum of specifications, and what seems to have dribbled out is that Surface will be Wi-Fi only, with no 3G. (The latter point won't make it popular with enterprises; business people actually value the 3G iPad's connectivity when out and about, though it simplifies the software.)Most of all, the company that is known above all for its software didn't show any software worth the name running on its machine. After the press conference, there was very limited time to use them afterwards; nobody seems to have used the plastic keyboard with a live screen to any extent. (I've asked people who used the devices at the press conference, and yes, I've seenDanny Sullivan's report. He's not exactly right on every point - from my understanding of it - but is right that nobody got to properly try the keyboard covers to do any amount of typing.)Sullivan's post is revealing, though. Here's a key part, where he shows a photo of some hands holding a Surface:That's not a journalist holding Surface. It's one of the Microsoft guys. They'd swing them around with a pretty picture on the front, I guess so we'd go "ooh" and "ahh." If we were lucky, we were allowed to hold one for a few seconds. But if you tried to do anything with it, bang, it was gone.Believe me, I know. I tried. I had kept hearing everyone on Twitter screaming about how no one at Microsoft was saying what the screen resolution was. Since it was such a big uber-secret, I figured I'd try to find out.After asking repeatedly if I could hold one — I felt like a seven-year-old, "please can I hold it, please can I try, would you mind if I try" — one of the Microsoft guys gave me a shot. I brought up the Start screen by hitting the Windows button on the front of the tablet, hit Desktop to get to the Windows 8 desktop, did a long press guessing that would bring up the Screen Resolution setting and it did — at which point, the unit was literally jerked out of my hands.Why would a software company show off its big hardware bet on a new form factor where it hasn't made any impact and yet not show any software?Because with Surface, Microsoft is trying to gee up developers to aim towards having tablet and Metro apps for the time when it comes out - at some uncertain point in the future. Surface isn't ready. Windows 8 isn't ready - it hasn't been released to manufacture yet, and thedemonstrations at TechEd 2012 in Amsterdamindicate that there are still glitches to be ironed out.Flocking problemBut Microsoft needs at least two things to happen: ODMs to start building tablets, and developers to start writing apps that will run on those tablets.There's another, simpler explanation of the rush to show off Surface: getting the PR boost from being ahead of Google, whose Nexus tablet launch was intended to be made to look like a third entrant into a race. The problem is that Surface, and Windows 8, doesn't exist yet.So are developers rushing to follow that flaming arrow? Not so far. They don't know quite when or where it's going to land. They're sort of hoping to follow the ODMs, because wherever they run to usually means that there's replenishment to be had. The ODMs, of course, think the same about the developers; you end up with behaviour that looks like a flock: nobody's the leader, but everyone knows what they should do - follow the leader.But especially in this case, the ODMs aren't really sure about following Microsoft's flaming arrow. Quite probably Steve Ballmer's team has taken advantage of a contract manufacturer in China to make the Surface. It's intriguing that Taiwan's Digitimes, usually a reliable channel of the latest rumours from the ever-gossipy contract manufacturers, hasn't ferreted out the Surface maker; that either means Microsoft is imposing Apple-style secrecy on the process - in which case, round of applause - or that they just haven't started making it in volume yet.Either way, don't expect anything ahead of October. The flaming arrow is still in the air and is yet to land. Microsoft is hoping, really hoping, that developers will start running after it. The trouble is that they don't seem to be. On Wednesday I sat through a two-hour presentation of Windows 8 at TechEd 2012 in Amsterdam, after which Barry Collins of PC Pro magazine muttered "well, that's been a demo of eight applications that we've already seen before." Which was true: there wasn't a single thing in app terms which hadn't been there at Build. Nothing new at all. And that fact alone indicates that developers aren't moving very quickly after the flaming arrow 0 or indeed the other ones shot into the air ahead of Windows 8.Nexus: joining the tablet threads togetherAnd now the next flaming arrow: the Google Nexus 7, made by Asus as a showcase for Google's tablet ambitions. Quite a bitter pill for Motorola Mobility, which was favoured with the first release of Honeycomb, aka Android 3.0, in January 2011 - remembereveryone's favourite iPad-killer, the Xoom? - but Google seems serious. Andy Rubin, the head of Android,told AllThingsDthat he analysed the market in mid-2011 and realised that for consumers (who were the principal market), what mattered was content (such as apps and music and video).Android tablet sales haven't set anything on fire, of course - ODMs and developers pick up scraps from the fire of handsets, but there isn't the volume and so no scale. For app developers, you might as well focus on the handset market, because it's busy, thriving and expanding. Android tablets.. not so much.And now Google has fired an arrow away from the iPad, towards the 7in, low-cost territory. Carolina Milanesi, Gartner's smartphone analyst, puts it like this: "Microsoft has done Surface to revamp its brand and give a clear sign that it will be part of the post-PC era as much as it was part of the PC one. Android with Nexus 7 is adding to the smartphone facility as a medium to deliver its content and services. It is a means to an end - owning you as a consumer in their ecosystem while at the same time nudging ODMs to move into the $199 sweet spot for consumers."But do the ODMs want to be nudged? Posslby they haven't got a choice. Amazon, explains Milanesi, "was interested in extending the Kindle family and concentrating on selling its content. The Nexus 7 will be competing more with the Kindle Fire, while Surface will compete more with iPad within the professional user and enterprise market. Both the Nexus 7 and Surface are more important for the impact they will have in their ecosystems, not the number of sales they will achieve, as their distribution is limited."Reaction from people who've laidhands on the Nexus 7has been positive - it runs the software and it's attractive. The price is attractive too. When you compare the Surface and the Nexus 7, you'd have to say that right now one is almost vapourware, while the other is already coming out of Asus factories somewhere in the Far East. Especially compared to Android, Windows 8 doesn't exist on tablets. The Microsoft (App) Store isn't properly open, and you can't buy - or even pre-order - a Surface. Steve Ballmer stole a march on Google for publicity, but that's all it's been.Yet nothing's really changed about the campfires. For ODMs, there are few pickings to be had anywhere, unless you're Samsung. And those two flaming arrows are in the air. The question now is which way the developers are going to run. They don't seem to be running after Windows 8 very quickly, if the TechEd demos are anything to go by.Oh Dear MeBut for ODMs, where's the joy in Android tablets? Tim Anderson points out thatGoogle's quite a threat to them on its own: he tried out a pretty dire 7in Android tablet by Gemini running Ice Cream Sandwich: "I thought the JoyTAB was at least good value at £149.00. What chance does it have against a Nexus 7 for just £10 more – and with £15 of Play Store credit thrown in?"In the short term? None, really, and ODMs will have to hope that distribution of the Nexus 7 will be limited. Google is clearly subsidising its cost - Asus wouldn't retail a product with those qualities at that price, because there would be a negative margin in it.But by selling it in the US and Europe, the two biggest tablet markets outside China and Korea, Google's cutting other ODMs - including Motorola, which of course it owns - off at the knees. All that ODMs have left is the knife-fight of low-cost selling in those countries, where price is all. Developers aren't interested in that; people who buy those tablets don't pay for apps.For ODMs, then, the darkness is gathering. PC sales aren't growing (and most have long since been commodities). Android handsets are commodities. Windows 8 tablets, which might be money-making, are a guess at best. Google's slicing into their potential market for tablets. They'll be praying that those arrows land soon and start a nice, warming fire.
Last week, I provided a list of forthcoming games events, taking in everything from big public exhibitions to intimate gatherings for developers and students of game design. I managed to miss a few key examples off the list, however, so here's a revised version.From the Eurogamer Expo to a Bafta discussion on games journalism, there's got to besomethinghere that you really ought to go to. Have a look and get your diary ready!Games BritanniaWhen:2-6 JulyWhere:Magna Science Adventure Centre, SheffieldWhat:An enormously ambitious event mostly aimed at schools, featuring hands-on workshops and lectures on game design from leading industry figures like Ian Livingstone. There is also a public exhibition entitled Replayed, which explores Britain's video game heritage and will include lots of classic games to rediscover. Tying in closely with the campaign to get computer science taught in schools, this should be a fascinating introduction to the games industry.Game Dev North: ReloadedWhen:30 JuneWhere:Kash Bar, ChesterWhat:This is a really informal get-together for developers in the North West of England. It's billed as, "A time to meet some new people, make some new connections, catch up with old ones and talk up your new project. Or show off your fancy business cards". Which sounds good to us. If you can't make it along this month, check the Twitter feed – @GameDevNorth – for info on subsequent events.RezzedWhen:6-7 JulyWhere:Brighton CentreWhat:Organised by Eurogamer and Rock,Paper,Shotgun, this is a brand new event dedicated to PC and indie gaming. Over two days, it's set to offer gamers hands-on experiences with the likes of Borderlands 2, Far Cry 3, Aliens: Colonial Marines and Project Zomboid. There will also be gaming tournaments, and Valve is giving a Dota 2 beta key to every one of the 5000 expected attendees. Tickets are £12 a day or £20 for both days.Bafta Games Question TimeWhen:2 JulyWhere:Pennine Theatre, SheffieldWhat:Okay, this is strictly part of Games Britannia, but it deserves its own entry. Starting at 8pm on Monday night, this is a chance for audience members to put their games industry questions to a panel of experts including Broken Sword creator Charles Cecil and UKIE chairman, Andy Payne. Tickets are free, but pre-booking is advised.Develop conferenceWhen:10-12 JulyWhere:Hilton Brighton MetropoleWhat:Britain's largest gathering of game developers continues into its seventh year with another impressive line-up of speakers including David Braben, Ian Livingstone and Dave Perry. It's mainly aimed at established development studios, hence the higher registration costs (£685 for a three-day pass). However, the dedicated indie day provides lots of valuable discussions and talks for indie studios, and costs £95 for the whole day. There's also a free expo, where a selection of companies will be showing off their titles. Failing that, you can hang around in the Metropole bar and mingle with luminaries from throughout the Western games industry. If you stand still long enough, Mark Rein is almost certain to offer you a good deal on an Unreal Engine 4 license.Bafta Games Journalism PanelWhen:16 July, 7pmWhere:Bafta, Piccadilly, LondonWhat:This promises to be a lively panel discussion about the state and role of games journalism in the modern industry. Are journalists too close to PR departments? How do you become a games writer? And what role does games journalism play in a rapidly changing entertainment sector? The panelists are great – Kieron Gillen, Naomi Alderman, Keza MacDonald, Rob Fahey and Helen Lewis. It's just a pity about the chair for the discussion. Yes, it's me. A limited number of tickets are free, the rest are £5.London Games FestivalWhen:27 Sept - 28 OctWhere:various venues, LondonWhat: After a break last year, the London Games Festival is back, taking in a range of events around the capital. As usual, it encapsulates a series of self-contained treats including the excellentEurogamer Expo(27-29 September, Earls Court), Future's Golden Joystick Awards (26 October) and the always fascinatingMCM London Comic Con(26-28 October). more announcements are due to be made over the summer.GameCity 7When:20-27 OctoberWhere:various venues, Nottingham city centreWhat:The annual games event that I will go ahead and call 'utterly unmissable to anyone who has even glanced with ardour at a video game' is now a week-long odyssey, taking in the usual selection of inspiring talks, indie game expos and amusing evening shenanigans. This year Peter Molyneux will be taking over for a whole day and you can expect lots of insight and indiscreet comments about working for Microsoft. Gamesblog will there too, albeit in a reduced capacity, hosting one of seven different mornings at the Broadway Cinema cafe. We might well find something else to do as well, if the organisers let us.Launch conferenceWhen:13-14 NovemberWhere:Birmingham Science Park, AstonWhat:Aimed at developers, start-ups and students, this friendly and diverse conference is aimed at showcasing the most interesting work coming out of studios and academic institutes in the Midlands. There's a huge range of speakers including Rod Cousens (CEO of Codemasters and all-round industry veteran), Trevor Williams (co-founder of Playground Games, the developer of Forza Horizon) and Jo Twist (CEO of UK games industry trade body, UKIE), plus, I'll be there talking about games journalism! This is a really valuable event for wannabe developers in the region, with lots of access to movers and shakers in the region.
Google has released anew versionof its Chrome web browser for iOS devices, using the same core engine as Apple's own Safari app, but with the ability to synchronise with Chrome's desktop version as its key feature.The new app wasunveiledduring the second-day keynote at Google's I/O conference in San Francisco, where Google also revealed that Chrome already has 310m active users on other platforms: mainly computers, although a beta version for Android was released in February 2012.The iOS version is different to that, because Apple's iOS rules dictate it has to use the WebKit engine used for Apple's Safari browser.A key point, since it means on iOS, Chrome isn't faster to use than its rivals – one of the big drivers of its growth on computers. And yes, that means it's also no use for websites using Flash.Instead, the focus is on bringing Chrome's familiar user interface to iOS, with a single box for URLs and searches, and the ability to open an unlimited number of tabs then swipe between them quickly. On iPhone, you flip through thumbnails of individual tabs.Chrome for iOS' main attraction, though, is its synchronisation with the computer version. Open tabs, bookmarks, passwords and "omnibox data" – the history of what you've typed into that single box – all synchronise across devices, if you're logged in to your Google account.Having spent time using it this morning, it's a really useful feature. Less for the open-tabs aspect, and more for the omnibox data where the sites you visit regularly pop up as suggestions when you start typing a URL.There's a slightly-tweaked on-screen keyboard that has buttons for colon, full stop, hypen, forward slash and .com above rather than on the bottom row.Given the in-app browsers in apps like Facebook and Twitter, Chrome could be the app that leads many people to stop using iOS' Safari browser altogether (standalone, as opposed to working under the hood of those other apps).It certainly has a good shot at becoming the most popular third-party browser on iOS, although there are a number of existing competitors including Opera Mini, Skyfire, Dolphin and Mercury.Mozilla does not yet have a full version of its Firefox browser available for iOS – its Firefox Home app enables people to access their desktop history, bookmarks and open tabs through Apple's native Safari browser – but earlier in June the company showed offa work-in-progress iPad browsercodenamed Junior.Meanwhile, Google continues to work on the Android version of Chrome separately, which has no restrictions on its core engine. That version came out of beta this week, and will be the preloaded browser on Google's Nexus 7 tablet.As Chrome continues its expansion onto mobile, Google will continue to face questions about what data it's collecting on Chrome users, and what it's doing with that data.Critics of the company's approach are unlikely to raise a cheer at the thought of signing in to Chrome across all their devices – although note, it's optional here and can be disconnected if you change your mind.Chrome is likely to get new features faster on Android, but if you're comfortable with the privacy implications and already use it on your computer, the release of the iOS version is welcome – and a genuinely useful alternative to Safari in the same way that Sparrow is a good alternative to iOS' native Mail app.
A selection of 11 new and notable apps for you today:ChromeGoogle sprang a surprise in its second-day I/O conference keynote by revealing a version of its Chrome browser for iOS, and then releasing it the same night. As with all third-party iOS browsers, it has to use Apple's Safari's core, but the key feature here is the ability to sync open tabs, bookmarks, passwords and other data with Chrome on the desktop.iPhone / iPadCSR RacingNaturalMotion's CSR Racing was the only game to be played on-stage at Apple's WWDC keynote earlier in June. Now it's out: a freemium drag-racing game starring a host of cars, eye-popping graphics and lots of customisation.iPhone / iPadBroken Sword: Director's CutHere's a treat for adventure-game fans who own Android devices. Revolution Software has ported the director's cut of its classic Broken Sword game from iOS, complete with a revamped user interface designed for touchscreens.AndroidIMAG-N-O-TRON: 'The Fantastic Flying Books of Mr. Morris Lessmore' EditionUS firm Moonbot Studios had a big iOS hit with book-app The Fantastic Flying Books of Mr. Morris Lessmore, then bagged an Oscar for its animated short. Now the company has launched an augmented reality app to be used with the physical book: "Simply point the IMAG•N•O•TRON at it and watch the pages come to life. Get swept up in a storm! Transport to another world! Play music! Fly!!! It's a wonder of the ages!"iPhone / iPadSidecastr for iPadJust ahead of Zeebox's debut in the US, it has a new second-screen social TV app rival: Sidecastr. The app pulls in and organises tweets around specific shows, but more importantly shows them in sync with an episode. Say you're watching a recorded episode of Breaking Bad a day after it aired – Sidecastr will show you what people were saying at the time.iPadBroadgate StoriesWander around London's Broadgate zone near Liverpool Street station, and you'll overhear a few stories – many of them from tipsy City-boys gabbling about bonuses. The Broadgate Stories app thankfully looks beyond that: an audio guide to the art and architecture of Broadgate, collected and produced by young people in Hackney.iPhoneDead TriggerGrr! Dead Trigger is a zombified first-person shooter so frightening, it's capitalised as DEAD TRIGGER on the App Store. The plot is familiar: collapsed civilisation, strange virus, zombies all over the shop. Your job is to shoot them, while rescuing other humans and securing supplies. It looks beautiful. Well, beautiful in a guts-flying way.iPhone / iPadFinal Fantasy IIISquare Enix is certainly brave, charging £10.99 for the Android version of Final Fantasy III – an RPG first released in 1990. The game has been updated for the smartphone era with touchscreen controls and exclusive "story sequences".AndroidThe Amazing Spider-ManA few hours after The Amazing Spider-Man was in yesterday's Apps Rush (29 June) for iOS, it was also released on Android. The game is the same: 3D web-slinging action across New York, based on the new Spider-Man movie.AndroidNinja RanchWe've had Mafia Farm, so Ninja Ranch is a logical next step, perhaps. Not that this is a farming game: instead, it's a puzzler that sees your ninja swiping animals into groups: a match-three puzzle game that swaps gems for, er, farting cows. And ninjas, obviously.iPhone / iPadSeekerSeeker describes itself as a business and residential directory service, and has just launched in the UK. It aims to help people find businesses while out and about, with additional info on Borisbike hire in London, and the Olympic Games.Android / iPhone
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRIM announces quarterly results &gt;&gt; RIM(Note: PDF)Thorsten Heins, President and CEO. "Our top priority going forward is the successful launch of our first BlackBerry 10 device, which we now anticipate will occur in the first quarter of calendar 2013. In parallel with the roll out of BlackBerry 10, we are aggressively working with our advisors on our strategic review and are actively evaluating ways to better leverage our assets and build on our strengths, including our growing BlackBerry subscriber base of approximately 78 million, our large enterprise installed base, our unique network architecture and our industry leading security capabilities."Translation: BB10 will be even later than expected (people thought it would be out now), and the subscriber base hasn't grown noticeably from 77m last quarter; if it were over 78m he would say so. There is no good news.May 2012: RIM is a ship heading for the rocks of a breakup &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukCharles Arthur:Here's what I think: RIM is heading for the breakers' yard, as surely as a ship that has reached the end of its life. Within the next 18 months or so, the company is going to be broken up for its useful parts - BlackBerry Messaging, the BlackBerry Enterprise Server, its customers. The gravity that is sucking it downwards is now inescapable; to switch metaphors, it's a spaceship trying to get out of a black hole, but it hasn't got Scotty aboard.How to spread the perfect slice of toast &gt;&gt; YouTubeThe breakfast dilemma of trying to spread cold butter straight from the fridge onto toast in the morning has been voted into Britain's top five biggest breakfast annoyances -- and Warburtons, the family baker, has created the Toastie Knife to help the issue.KickStarter!Chrome &amp; Apps @ Google I/O: Your web, everywhere &gt;&gt; Google Chrome BlogStarting today, Chrome is also available for your iPhone and iPad. That means you can enjoy the same speedy and simple Chrome experience across your devices. Also, by signing in to Chrome, you can easily move from your desktop, laptop, smartphone and tablet and have all of your stuff with you.Except: you can't make it the default browser in iOS, and it doesn't get the top-speed Nitro Javascript. Apple's going to come under pressure over this, and in the autumn over the Google Maps app - which is sure to land. Will iOS have to become more Android-like?Nokia's Siilasmaa: Goal to regain competitiveness &gt;&gt; yle.fiThe Nokia chair rebuffed claims that the company had put all of its eggs in one basket by working with Microsoft."Symbian's market share has come down close to zero," he said of the decision to switch to Windows.According to Siilasmaa, Nokia has a contingency plan in place if the Windows 8 Phone fails to live up to expectations. But he said the company was confident that the product would be a success.With RIM imploding, it's starting to look like less of a challenge.Apple looking to launch iTunes Store, App Store overhauls later this year &gt;&gt; 9to5MacThe redesign of the iTunes Store that runs on both the iTunes application for the Mac and the PC is a top priority for Apple. The work on the redesign comes soon after the launch of new services in the United States such as the Spotify music streaming service and the growing popularity of Amazon's online music store. Apple dominates the majority of the digital music market, and it will continue to bet on an in-application download store and not an online store found only in a web browser.Rejoice?Announcing Version 2 of the Google Drive SDK &gt;&gt; Google Developers BlogIn April, we announced the first version of the Google Drive SDK along with a range of Drive apps. Built using the SDK, these apps bring life to the files people store in Google Drive. Today at Google I/O, we're announcing the next version of the Google Drive SDK with a number of updates including an expanded API, a simplified developer experience and mobile app support.We recognised Lulu, because its icon says "Lulu". How you doing with the other 34?Activating 5.6 million units per day &gt;&gt; asymcoAs a percent of total activations, Android is running at about 15% and OS is at 10%. Android has already overtaken Windows activations and with the new iPhone, it's likely iOS will do as well this year.In terms of available headroom this means that iOS and Android are running at a combined share of 25% of available activations.  They both should consider that three quarters of the opportunity is left to go."Windows, the third operating system." The idea that Android activations would outstrip Windows activations within four years of starting would have sounded ludicrous even a couple of years ago.Wall Street sceptical 'Nexus 7' will turn Android tablet tide &gt;&gt; Barrons.comQuoting, among others, Gulbinder Garcha of Credit Suisse:As to whether this [Nexus 7] will capture material share the issue we would have is that given its spec we would believe Google are probably heavily subsidizing this device to achieve a $199 price point, meaning that this is not necessarily a platform its other hardware OEMs will or can follow. Second we believe that Apple will itself launch a smaller 7-8 inch iPad in 2H12 meaning that it has a limited period of time before a major competitor launch. Note while we expect strong tablet growth we have continuously argued that Apple will lose tablet share over time from 70% to 50%, and believe that this is sufficiently conservative.SWAT team throws flashbangs, raids wrong home due to open WiFi network &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaOfficers break the screen door and a window, tossing a flashbang into the house--which you can see explode in the video. A second flashbang gets tossed in for good measure a moment later. SWAT enters the house.On the news that night, the reporter ends his piece by talking about how this is "an investigation that hits home for many of these brave officers."But the family in the home was released without any charges as police realized their mistake. Turns out the home had an open WiFi router, and the threats had been made by someone outside the house. Whoops.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Research in Motion, the Canadian company behind the BlackBerry handsets and PlayBook tablet,announced financial results which were well below analysts' expectations. Excluding impairment charges, the latest loss was 37 cents per share, when analysts polled by FactSet had expecting a loss of 3 cents.Revenue fell 43% year on year to $2.8bn, well below analyst expectations of $3.1bn. RIM said it shipped just 7.8m BlackBerry smartphones in the quarter, down 41% from 13.2m a year earlier.And the company said it would delay its next-generation BlackBerry 10 software until the first calendar quarter of 2013, while cutting up to 5,000 jobs.Analysts were universally pessimistic about the future of the company, whose stock has fallen to $9.13 – valuing it at less than $5bn – compared with $144 in June 2008, and a $32 high in the past 12 months.Matthew Thornton of Avian Securities in Bostonsaid: "It's like watching a puppy die. It's terrible."Edward Snyder, managing director of Charter Equity Researchin San Francisco, commented: "Wow, what a disaster." He said RIM is now in "a handset death spiral" and that "From a numbers point of view, it could hardly be worse, and it's going to deteriorate from here."Colin Gillis of BGC Financialsaid a BlackBerry 10 delay is far worse than he had expected. He said the worst quarters are still in front of RIM and management is not reducing expenses fast enough to compensate for the revenue decline. He expects this to be the last quarter that RIM will see subscriber growth and said he would not be surprised if the company announces more layoffs by the end of the year. "When a technology gets old, it's not a slow fade. It's a sharp cliff," Gillis said. "There is very little market for old technology."Eric Jackson, a hedge fund manager at Ironfire Capitalin Toronto, said: "There's really no guarantee that once they come out on the other side of BlackBerry 10 that it's going to be something that people will want."Shaw Wu of Sterne Ageein San Francisco said RIM would now have to be very careful. "Layoffs are not free – there's a use of cash with that. They have to be very careful with their cash balance. It's a matter of survival now."Michael Walkley, an analyst with Canaccord, called the BlackBerry 10 delay dire and problematic in a rapidly changing technology sector. "The biggest disappointment is the delay of the BlackBerry 10," he said. "It's extremely challenging for them to turn around the business when their new smartphone is launching that late."Ehud Gelblum, an analyst with Morgan Stanley, said: ''I don't know if they can turn it around."IDC analyst Kevin Restivo said launching the BlackBerry 10 software in the quarter after Christmas, when consumer spending would be tapped out, was "akin to launching fireworks underwater".Francisco Jeronimo, smartphones analyst at IDC, said on Twitter: "RIM is like [Finland's] Nokia two years ago – fighting for an old operating system and announcing new versions with poor execution. At least Nokia did a proper restart. RIM faces strong challenges in [calendar] 3Q &amp; 4Q. No BB10, [Samsung Galaxy] GS3 a huge success, new iPhone coming out, new Windows Phone 8 devices. Tough! Nokia is struggling to sell the new devices, RIM is struggling to launch them!" He noted too that "58% of RIM shipments were under $400 in 1Q12. BB10 is late and targets high-end. So, next 12 months will be very tough. Do they have enough cash? RIM has a huge mid-tier presence &amp; new BB10 will 1st target high-end only. I'm afraid the tough quarters will be a lot more than expected."Carolina Milanesi, Gartner smartphone analyst, tweeted: "Unless RIM could deliver in 3q it was left with having to pick between the noise of q4 with iPhone5 &amp; WP8 or leaving it to q1. Either hurts."
Yey, Friday! Retro gaming fans are spoiled for choice, today: The Ratchet and Clank Trilogyandthe Metal Gear Solid collection are both in the shops right now!
Research In Motion's dramatic deterioration has gathered pace, with the maker of BlackBerry announcing worse than expected losses and 5,000 new job cuts.The Canadian company behind what was once the world's most popular smartphone appeared trapped in a tailspin after announcing yet another delay to the new touchscreen handsets which investors hoped would help it to stay in the race against Apple's iPhone.RIM's first BlackBerry 10 handset had been expected to hit the shops in time for Christmas, but fresh delays mean its launch has been put back to the first three months of 2013."RIM is facing existential crisis," said technology analyst Horace Dediu of Asymco. "It's moving down the slippery slope of market distress into increasing financial distress."Revenues were down 33% to $2.8 billion in the three months to 2 June, compared to the previous quarter and analyst forecast of a $3.1bn taking. Revenues for the same period a year ago were $4.9bn.The first quarter loss, which RIM had warned investors was coming, was a worse than expected $518m, compared with a $125m shortfall in the first three months of the year and a profit of $695m during the same period in 2011.The company shipped 7.8m phones in the quarter, missing Wall Street expectations of 8.74m, and distributed 260,000 of its PlayBook tablets. The job cuts follow an announcement earlier this year than the company would lay off 2000."I am not satisfied with these results and continue to work aggressively with all areas of the organisation and the board to implement meaningful changes," said chief executive Thorsten Heinz, who took over from the company's founder Mike Lazaridis and his long serving lieutenant Jim Balsillie in January.The number of subscribers to BlackBerry services rose marginally, remaining at the headline number of 78m.Speculation is mounting that the company, which hired two investment banks to advise on its strategic options, may be broken up and sold.The arrival of the next generation of handsets had been delayed because of the "large volume of code" which needed to be processed, said Heinz. He added that the company expects the next several quarters to remain "challenging" and the company expects operating losses to continue into the second quarter.Lack of demand means RIM kit is beginning to stockpile, with an estimated 55 days of unsold inventory. The company said its customers are not replenishing their BlackBerry stock as rapidly as in the past.
It is known as the "Little French Box", a 1980s design classic now seen as the ultimate in beige plastic kitsch. But once it was an audacious precursor to the world wide web, introduced the first cybersex into people's living rooms and had a user-friendly design that may have inspired Steve Jobs's first Macintosh computer.Yet, on Saturday, the plug will finally be pulled on the Minitel machine, France's one-time pride and joy, 30 years after its launch.And while the nation marvels at the fact that 800,000 of the clunky terminals with massive buttons are still in circulation, the Minitel is shedding its square image and enjoying a moment of mass nostalgia. Farewell parties and newspaper memorials are reminiscing about the time when, thanks to the Minitel, the French public could electronically check the weather, book a holiday, monitor their bank accounts and view share prices or horoscopes more than a decade before any other country. And yet the Minitel failed to sell abroad and existed in almost glorious isolation in France.The Minitel was dreamed up in the 1970s when France was lagging behind on telecommunications, with the nation's homes underserved by telephones – particularly in rural areas. Amid a technological dawn in France, it was, with the TGV railway, a matter of political and national pride.The state communications company came up with a system combining the telephone and information technology and, in 1982, rolled out the Minitel, delivering the sets free to homes – the first widely available screen-keyboard combination in any country.First it was used as an electronic yellow pages. Other services quickly followed, paid very easily through charges per-minute on the family phone bill, with service providers receiving a cut. Soon the French were using it to check exam results, apply to university, book trains and chat online, years before the internet's blogs or social networking.At the height of its glory in the mid-1990s, the French owned about 9m Minitel devices, with 25m users connecting to more than 23,000 services. Former president Jacques Chirac boasted that a baker in Aubervilliers outside Paris could check their bank account on the Minitel, asking pointedly: "Can the same be said of a baker in New York?"One of the biggest hits on Minitel was the so-called "Minitel Rose", the world's first electronic adult chatrooms, where people using pseudonyms patiently exchanged steamy messages that took what would now seem an eternity to appear on screen.Several of today's most influential media bosses made huge fortunes on the "pink messaging" services with their chatroom startup companies. Services with names such as Ulla gained mythical status in France, billboards advertised the services and even a pop ballad, Goodbye Marylou by Michel Polnareff immortalised these late-night erotic chat exchanges, musing on typing on his keyboard "all the voiceless words we say with our fingertips".The longer users stayed online messaging, the more the service providers made.The musician Gerome Nox recently told the newspaper Libération how he had worked on one of the services posing as a hostess called Julie to attract men and keep them online as long as possible. He compared the men replying to his messages to "starving piranhas, no bonjour, no pleasantries, it was direct and crude". He said he decided to stop as "my Julie had become more and more disagreeable and hateful".He unmasked himself, typing: "I'm not called Julie. I'm a man, just here to rack up your phone bill. You've been screwed, which was just what you wanted all along." He was fired.France tried to market Minitel abroad but failed to get big international takers, and it was eventually overtaken in the late 1990s by the world wide web.Minitel's official closure comes as many people in France still use it, ranging from farmers and elderly people without computers to professionals such as florists and tobacconists who still place supplier orders through it and people who kept old Minitel sets as an insurance policy in case their computers picked up a virus. As late as 2007, it was generating high revenues.Janine Galey, 85, a mother of seven in Paris, said she used it for almost 20 years until around 2000, long after the advent of the internet. She did not have a computer at home and recently went straight from Minitel to an iPad tablet computer."As an object, it was pleasing to the eye, intelligently designed, it wasn't heavy and it didn't take up too much space," she said. "At first it sat in the study of my flat and then on a little table in my bedroom. It was easy to operate and I'd use it to find names and addresses, to check train times and reserve tickets."Valérie Schafer, co-author of the book Minitel: France's Digital Childhood, said: "At the start in the 80s, there was a real sense of pride in Minitel as a success story of our national industry – with the one problem that we never exported it; it remained very French. Then at the end of the 1990s and in 2000s the discourse changed and Minitel was talked about as quite square, outdated, behind."But now it's the end of Minitel, we're discovering that the French have an attachment to it, as part of our industrial history. Despite all the negative talk of the past, it's now being seen as a success in terms of the national economy."Despite everything, there's a nostalgia for an era when French developed new ideas, took risks on ideas that didn't just look to the US or outside models: a time when we wanted to invent our own voice."
Britain faces a "national problem" over the lack of young adults studying engineering-friendly subjects such as maths and science, according to a senior executive at Britain's largest manufacturing employer.The head of BAE Systems' UK business, Nigel Whitehead, will warn in a speech on Friday that too few school leavers and undergraduates are tackling the subject areas of science, technology, engineering and maths (Stem).Pointing to statistics showing that only 10% of people in the UK study Stem subjects beyond the age of 16, Whitehead predicts consequences for British industry because up to six out of 10 UK jobs over the next decade will require Stem skills."That tells me that we have a national problem looming," said Whitehead, talking to the Guardian before addressing the Royal United Services Institute, a defence thinktank. School outreach programmes by businesses, educating parents and use of social media would all need to be deployed to redress the Stem imbalance, Whitehead added.BAE, Britain's largest defence contractor, employs 35,000 people in the UK. It is hiring 270 apprentices and 400 university graduates this year. Whitehead admitted that the defence industry, which remains a major employer in the UK with 300,000 workers, was experiencing diminishing appeal among potential recruits because of concerns over ethics and the industry's relevance in the hi-tech age. School leavers and graduates were drawn to different sectors now, he said. "They value cool things such as mobile phones and iPads. They are not going to watch the Red Arrows."Nonetheless, BAE remains a popular employer, with its apprentice programme 20 times oversubscribed and its graduate programme 10 times oversubscribed. Whitehead said the group was also considering whether to launch a scheme to produce apprentices for companies that make components for BAE products."We are prepared to train other people's apprentices because it would be healthy for our supply chain," said Whitehead, adding that such a move would require government support.Whitehead urged the government to continue backing major projects such as the Eurofighter Typhoon, because the investment in continually upgrading such products would ensure the defence industry still had a manufacturing, export and skills base in several decades' time. Referring to the then government's decision to invest in programmes that led ultimately to the Typhoon jet, he said: "Our ability to participate in Libya is a consequence of work decided 30 years ago."Whitehead added that failure to replenish manufacturing industry's talent pool would have consequences for defence contractors. "It would mean that the UK limits its own growth capability, that we would go overseas for the development of key technologies and, for BAE Systems, where we have national projects that require UK nationals [such as submarines] we would have a limited talent pool to choose from." If there were fewer skilled workers, Whitehead added, labour costs would rise and the economic viability of the defence industry would suffer.The Department for Education said: "We agree. Science is key to our economic future - it's these subjects that universities and employers are demanding so they can compete internationally. We're recruiting the brightest science graduates into teaching to inspire their pupils, as well as spending £135m up until 2015 in science and maths education." It added: "We are opening university technical colleges across the country to teach highly specialist technical skills – alongside studio schools, which work with local businesses to offer vocational tailored courses."However, Britain's largest trade union, Unite, warned this week that British manufacturing must diversify "away from its over-reliance on defence spending." Acknowledging that Unite has thousands of members employed in the defence industry, the union said the defence budget should be used to "promote the smooth transition of manufacturing to non-military production wherever possible."
For Sony Computer Entertainment chief executive Andrew House, you would imagine that E3 2012 was the source of some much-needed respite.Never mind the pressures of making a presentation in the white heat of a bells-and-whistles press conference – for the slick, urbane House, that represents his comfort zone.But E3's concentration on games to the exclusion of all else would have offered House welcome relief from Sony's corporate travails, as it battles back from a disastrous 2011.In recent months, Sony has posted the most dire financial results in living memory, and overall Sony president and CEO Kaz Hirai – the previous incumbent of House's job – has launched a company restructure accompanied by significant job losses.House was full of praise for the impact Hirai has had since landing Sony's top job this April: "Kaz has been very clear about communicating that sense of urgency, and gone are the days when individual divisions' concerns would somehow over-reach the major challenges of the organisation overall."So on the positive side, there's a tremendous sense of teamwork and a sense of shared objective. 'One Sony' is the mantra: it's about pulling together the resources of the company in the best way possible, and with no fiefdoms and no infighting to be tolerated. There's a sense that Kaz is a change agent: he has absolutely set out his mantra that Sony will change and he will change Sony."House's situation – and no doubt his intra-company power-base – is helped enormously by the fact that his division, SCE (the PlayStation part of the business) is currently profitable, after a period of loss-making which is inevitable during the early part of a console's life-cycle, so it, at least, should avoid any job-culls."We benefit from the fact that we are a profitable part of the company and are making a strong contribution to the financial situation," he said. "We feel very strongly that the area of networked and interactive entertainment is one of very strong potential growth."That was reinforced when, as part of his very first strategy briefing, Kaz was very clear about three core areas of the business which he felt were critical to growing Sony's presence overall, and we're fortunate enough to be one of those core businesses."Sony at E3We caught up with House the day after Sony's E3 press conference, which garnered some praise for the Japanese giant.Sony unveiled a number of new intellectual properties for the PlayStation 3, notably Beyond: Two Souls (from David Cage of Heavy Rain fame), The Last Of Us (made by Naughty Dog, developer of Uncharted) and the intriguing Wonderbook, which uses the PlayStation Eye, PlayStation Move and a book-shaped accessory to generate all manner of augmented reality – books-meet-games shenanigans.House professed himself pleased with the company's offering."There are a few things that I would point to – not just exclusives, but the opportunity to deliver three potential new IPs in the sixth year of a platform's cycle, is a huge testament to Shuhei Yoshida, who runs Worldwide Studios," he said."I think it's also a testament to the longevity of the platform itself. So seeing Beyond from David Cage and Quantic Dreams, seeing the Last Of Us from Naughty Dog, and then the one that I chose to announce personally, Wonderbook, coming from closer to home for you in the London Studios, was a pretty good showing."Wonderbook is clearly a pet project for House, who is delighted that JK Rowling has got involved – one of the first titles for the new platform will be Harry Potter's Book Of Spells."For me, there's something a little bit magical about it in terms of – as I said on stage – taking one of the oldest information interfaces that we know, which is the book, and then somehow, through the magic of brand-new technology and AR, bringing it to life."I'm a big reader, and I was a big reader as a kid, and I think there's something child-like about fulfilling that dream of bringing books to life. We were very, very fortunate that JK Rowling herself shared our enthusiasm for the potential of Wonderbook, and that enthusiasm grew to the degree that she has been creating new content for the first launch of Book Of Spells."We think Wonderbook is a very interesting model. We're launching with Book Of Spells – we thought it was very important to come out with something associated with an extremely strong franchise and a great story-teller – but the beauty of the platform and the way it's set up is that it provides a pretty easy development environment for lots of other forms of content to be generated pretty cost-effectively."If I look at the value proposition from a parent's point of view, the book itself is a single purchase – one of the early lines was 'One book, 1,000 experiences'. And then there's the opportunity to refresh that content; I think we'll be able to deliver a fair amount of variety in a quick period of time, and hopefully at price-points that the average parent won't baulk at."You can imagine it being an easy sell to parents worried that their kids spend too much time playing games at the expense of reading books."Exactly. And very frankly, that's why JK Rowling was so enthusiastic about it, and she gave the team some great pointers. You'll have seen people reacting to text and so on – I think that's very important as part of its proposition."It's magic, it's wonderful and there's a sense of play, but it is also a book. We get castigated an awful lot in the interactive entertainment industry for a particular form of content, or types of games that are very prominent. I think it's a great opportunity for us to show that interactive forms of entertainment can be taken in other directions."PS VitaWe felt obliged to castigate House – mildly, though – due to one aspect of Sony's press conference.The only PS Vita game on show there was Assassin's Creed III, at a time when the excellent yet largely-ignored handheld console is in desperate need of some headline-grabbing killer games.Sony announced that the PS Vita will get a Call of Duty game, but gave no more details (although, if recent reports are to be believed, it will be called Call of Duty Black Ops Declassified).House was adamant that the PS Vita had plenty of compelling games waiting in the wings, and was eager to push its evolving appeal to the social networking generation."You can be assured that, whether it's first-party or third-party, there's a good raft of content in the works there," he said."I think we also showed that there's a commitment to broadening out network services other than games, whether it's YouTube or Hulu Plus, which aren't at the core of the PS Vita's offering, but provide additional convenience and fun."Something else that we alluded to and will spend more time talking about, given that this is our first network-connected portable games device, we're looking at other ways in which we can leverage the likes of the PSP content portfolio or PS One games and deliver those in a low-cost model."So if we were remiss on not spending enough time on the PS Vita, I'll take that one under advisement, but you can rest assured it's not for the want of any sense of overall commitment. We know that killer games are going to be what sells this device."What about a price-cut, which was required to fuel sales success for Nintendo's 3DS."I've not got anything to talk about concerning pricing strategy right now," he said. "We're comfortable with the proposition: justifying that value is going to be our first and foremost objective."House – understandably, given that the PS3 is now in the most profitable phase of its life-cycle – also refused to say anything about the company's next PlayStation console."There's nothing to talk about on that front right now."Instead, he signed off by talking up a new collaboration between two wings of the refocused Sony – PlayStation Mobile, rebranded from PlayStation Suite at E3 – which will bring games under the PlayStation umbrella to Android phones."Looked at from the perspective of the games business, we're already forging a much greater degree of collaboration and dialogue with other Sony divisions than has hitherto existed," he said."It will take time for us to benefit from that. But I think PlayStation Mobile is a good starting point, where we're combining strength in the mobile space with strength in game development and game development environments, and then combining that with a good business model."We're quietly confident throughout the year. We've got a very strong software line-up which we think will translate into momentum for our platforms."Life without Sony would be unthinkable – yet the company is still recovering from a freakishly bad year which, for a moment, appeared to threaten its very existence. It's fascinating to see that the responsibility for bouncing back rests firmly in the hands of stalwarts of its PlayStation division.
A study by a computer magazinehas found that the internet porn filtering system offered by TalkTalk, one of the biggest internet service providers, could potentially give children access to hard-core pornography.The revelation comes as ministers have said that parents will be asked whether porn should be automatically banned on PCs and smartphones by ISPs.The study by PC Pro magazineinvestigated the HomeSafe filter offered by TalkTalk, which claims to block content from pornographic or violent sites, and optionally from social networks. The HomeSafe system has been endorsed by Clare Perry, an MP who backs the blocking of pornography, and the Sunday Times.But, after turning off the parental controls setting on the Google search engine, the investigation found that they could access pages of pornographic images using Google's image search – even while access to the sites themselves was blocked.TalkTalk told PC Pro: "We note the PC Pro searches and will look at the results in question. If a customer finds a site that they think should be blocked they can alert us so we can take action." The company said that its HomeSafe filter is already used by 385,000 of its 4 million subscribers.The UK internet porn industry is worth an estimated £3bn a year, but campaigners have argued it is too easy for children to access explicit adult content, and have called for blocks to be put on systems so that new accounts have to opt in to access it.More than 100,000 people have signed up to a campaign, Safety Net, run by a Christian group, which calls for the government to introduce legislation to ensure ISPs filter pornography at source.Children's minister Tim Loughton said the internet industry needed to raise its game to help families control what their children saw online."We have always been clear we would turn up the heat on industry if it did not make fast enough progress," Loughton said. But bringing in an automatic filter risks "lulling parents into a false sense of security", he warned."There is no silver bullet to solve this. No filter can ever be 100% foolproof," Loughton said. "There can never be any substitute for parents taking responsibility for how, when and where their children use the internet. The answer lies in finding ways to combine technical solutions with better education, information and, if necessary regulation further down the line."The ten-week consultation will ask parents and businesses for their views on the best way to shield children from internet pornography and other potentially harmful sites, such as those which providing information about suicide, anorexia, and self-harm or promoting gambling and violence.Nick Pickles, director of the Big Brother Watch campaign group, said: "The consultation appears to rule out a UK-wide filter, something that we have campaigned against as government should not have the ability to control what we can see online. Parents do need more help installing and using online safety tools, but using them and what to prevent access to are decisions for parents."The Department for Education (DfE) said that it will also seek views on preventing online sexual grooming and cyberbullying.Parents will be asked for their views on three possible systems – one where users have to "opt in" to see adult sites, or one where customers are presented with an unavoidable choice about whether or not they want filters and blocks installed.The third option would combine the two systems, enabling customers to block some content automatically and then be given a choice to unblock them as they wish.Earlier this year David Cameron said the government needed to look at whether internet services or devices might come with a filter on as their default setting or have a combination of a filter and an "active choice" by the customer.One in five 11 to 16-year-olds have seen potentially harmful user-generated content online, rising to a third of 14 to 16-year-old girls, figures from Ofcom's Children's Media Literacy Tracker 2010 and EU Kids Online II survey showed.Andrew Flanagan, chief executive of the NSPCC, said: "Industry has done a huge amount in recent years and active choice is a step in the right direction. But long term, we back the next step which is the introduction of an opt-in filtering system for all internet accounts in the UK, if necessary, supported by government regulation."This will mean all new internet accounts will default automatically to a setting that blocks access to adult content. Over-18s can then request for this to be removed if they wish."But he added: "No system is ever 100% effective and no filter will automatically stop explicit images or cyber bullying sent between young people."Fundamental to any approach is a strong emphasis on supporting parents in talking to their children and education for young people themselves on how to stay safe and treat each other with respect."
A man has been convicted on conspiracy charges relating to his operation of surfthechannel.com, a website offering links to TV and video content.Newcastle crown court heard Anton Vickerman's site had up to 400,000 users a day and made about £35,000 a month in revenue. While UK prosecutors did not pursue a case on copyright offences, Vickerman was found guilty of conspiracy to defraud and faces sentencing next month.The conviction increases pressure to halt plans to extradite Sheffield student Richard O'Dwyer to the US on copyright charges relating to a far smaller website. At its peak, O'Dwyer's site reached about 300,000 users a month and was estimated by prosecutors to have taken approximately £147,000 in revenue over around three years.Supporters of O'Dwyer argue that if he is to face trial it should be in the UK rather than the US.Wikipedia's founder,Jimmy Wales, launched a change.org petitionagainst the O'Dwyer extradition attempt in the Guardian on Monday, which at the time of writing had more than 87,000 signatories.Among them were two members of the Commons culture, media and sport select committee – its Labour deputy chairman, Tom Watson, and Conservative MP Louise Mensch.Politicians of all parties have raised the O'Dwyer case, including home affairs committee chair Keith Vaz, former Liberal Democrat leader Menzies Campbell, Lib Dem president Tim Farron, Conservative MPs David Davis and Dominic Raab, and Green MP Caroline Lucas.Also among the signatories of Wales's petition was Graham Linehan, writer of the sitcoms The IT Crowd, Black Books and Father Ted, who said the prosecution itself – not just the potential extradition – was a cause for alarm."It just seems to me that people like Richard are being punished for being able to navigate the modern world," said Linehan. "The internet has changed everything, they're doing what comes naturally in these new, uncharted waters and suddenly they're getting their collars felt by people who still have Hotmail addresses."And then [there's] the sheer shocking arbitrary nature of it all … to be told that you could face up to 10 years for sharing links? When I heard that Nora Ephron died, I shared on Twitter a link to the full version of When Harry Met Sally on YouTube. Am I a criminal now? Why? Why not?"The internet means that commerce and communication and culture and morality is changing, and changing so fast that we struggle to keep up."TheFederation Against Copyright Theft (FACT), a trade organisation of rights owners, was a driving force behind the prosecution of Vickerman, passing a dossier of evidence to police, who then arrested him in 2008. The body welcomed his conviction."These are landmark criminal convictions proving that those operating pirate websites are not outside the law but can be tracked down and brought to justice," said FACT director general Kieron Sharp."This was a criminal conspiracy for criminal profit to fund a criminal lifestyle and Vickerman is now paying the price."Others, however, raised concerns about the nature of the conviction against Vickerman and the involvement of industry groups in obtaining it."This was not a case brought using copyright law. The interest groups involved couldn't present a case of copyright infringement and instead decided to press for the use of the common law offence of 'conspiracy to defraud'," said UK Pirate party leader Loz Kaye. "This is one of the most controversial crimes in English law – it criminalises conduct by two or more people that would not be criminal when performed by an individual."The offence was notoriously used in the 1970s to prevent people sharing film cassettes as the TV and film industry believed video was a threat to their existence."In addition to flying in the face of recent findings in similar cases, this prosecution was driven by private interests. It is well known that the very groups representing the victim helped with the investigation, were present at the arrest, given access to the evidence and were present at police interviews. This is deeply concerning."In another UK case Alan Ellis, who ran a website directory of BitTorrent links, wascleared of conspiracy to defraudin 2010 as the court deemed he could not be held responsible if his users used his platform to share links to copyrighted material. In a similar manner, Google is not generally held to be responsible for the contents of its links.
It was a story that Zynga haters couldn't resist. In March, the social gaming giant paid a reported $200m (£129m) for developer OMGpop, responsible for the hit smartphone game Draw Something.A week later, the number of daily players for the Pictionary-style title dropped by 5 million as the viral word-of-mouth explosion began to fade. So has Zynga been caught out?Not according to the company itself. At its Zynga Unleashed event in Tuesday, the top executives from the burgeoning mobile devision held a roundtable interview about Zynga's smartphone strategy.It's widely touted that the developer, which has made its billions from long-running Facebook games such as FarmVille, has had a rough ride on mobile.Although Zynga has 22 million daily active users for its smartphone titles, it's argued the company has struggled to assert such dominance on this much more volatile and competitive market, where most apps disappear within months of release – if they ever make an impression at all.However, speaking about the sector, Sean Kelly, who moved over to mobile after running CityVille, was adamant that Zynga could transfers its more stable gaming eco-system to phones."There's a huge opportunity in mobile to retain users over the entire lifetime of a games as broadly appealing as, say, Words with friends," he said. "We haven't noticed that there are any problems with the shelf life of that title. People are constantly reactivating because different friends engage with them."My own play cycles will rise and fall, but it's the fact that I'm connecting with people I know that brings me back in. We expect there to be just as great an opportunity to have a lifelong relationship with our players on mobile."With the roll-out of its cross-platform social gaming network Zynga With Friends – which promises to provide game titles that can run across tablets, smartphones and the web – the company is hoping to lock mobile users in to the engagement patterns we've seen with Facebook titles, where users will happily play the same game for several years.But Kelly conceded that volatility was something the company would have to negotiate in the mobile space."The social dynamics of how a game becomes known and how is spreads from user to user are very different depending on the design game and what catches the interest of users," he said."Obviously we want to have popular appeal – we want to impact the culture, but we're just as happy to have something that fans are loyal to for a long period of time."David Ko, the company's chief mobile officer, also challenged the statistics which led to news stories about Draw Something's drop in users.The data was based purely on users signing in to the game via Facebook Connect – which Ko said was not completely representative."Facebook Connect is not the only way to access our games," he said. "We offer players the ability to connect anonymously, we offer the ability to connect through a Games With friend-type ID system or through email."A lot of people chose different ways to connect in different parts of the world, so while reporting may just happen on FB Connect it just shows a portion of the actual number."And even if there has been a decline, I would much rather have that game in our portfolio than not. You're going to see new things coming up soon, there are things we're doing to extend that brand."The suggestion, of course, is that with contestant iteration, Draw Something can become a stable proposition for Zynga. And of course, the purchase must partly have been about the ongoing output of the studio.It may well be, however, that Zynga's main hope to gain traction in the mobile space is its partnership programme.The company is working with a number of small smartphone development studios around the world, offering to host its games on the Zynga network, as well as providing analytics and advertising, in return for a share of revenues.Among several companies already involved is Atari, celebrating its 40th anniversary this year (although the current iteration of the company has little to do with the entity originally set up in the seventies).It could be that we'll see heavily social versions of old school favourites such as Breakout, Missile Command and Centipede on the Zynga mobile slate.However, Atari is hardly a major player these days, and mobile gamers have seen countless iterations of these old school titles. The company will need to attract a few more big names – or at least some well known smaller studios – to really impress investors.Inan opinion piece on Gamesindustry.biz on Wednesday, industry veteran Steve Peterson argued that Zynga still had a long way to go to convince Wall Street that its expensive studio acquisitions and partner programmes would reverse a difficult few weeks. Whatever, OMGpop has a hefty weight on those expensive shoulders.
My computer has suddenly become very unreliable. I frequently get a "blue screen of death" and the computer reboots. Most of my user accounts have disappeared, leaving me with just one account that has child protection turned on, making some applications inaccessible and blocking access to the user accounts section in the control panel. Chkdsk sometimes runs on boot up, and often reports lost files. I believe that the hard disk is failing and I want to replace it, but I am worried that I will need to re-register my 64-bit Windows 7 licence and that Microsoft will see this as illegal, duplicate use of the licence. What would you advise?Mike AIt's fairly unusual to get a "blue screen of death" (BSOD) or, correctly, a Stop Screen on Microsoft Windows 7, but the screen should provide some indication of what went wrong. Blue screen problems can be hard to resolve because there are so many possible causes. The most common ones are bugs in video graphics drivers, and faulty hardware, such as memory chips that are not correctly seated or have gone bad. However, both viruses and anti-virus programs can cause BSODs, so it's important to check for rootkits usingGMERand to run a good checker such asMalwarebytes Anti-Malware(MBAM). You can save the free version to your desktop and run a Quick Scan.Microsoft has a trouble-shooting guide,Resolving stop (blue screen) errors in Windows 7, that could help you isolate the specific problem.In this case, it sounds as though you either have a particularly bad virus infestation, with multiple types of malware, or the hard drive really is failing, and needs to be replaced. To see if it is the latter, run the free diagnostic utility,HDD Scan. This will assess the health of your hard drive.Today, Windows 7 machines typically come with a hidden "restore partition" that will return the PC to its factory condition. I expect that the PC manufacturer also prompted you from time to time to create restore discs on DVD or on an external hard drive, so I hope you did that. If the hard drive is decaying, this might no longer be possible.If your machine is from a large PC company, then your copy of Windows 7 is supplied, installed, activated and supported by that manufacturer, and not by Microsoft. Indeed, Microsoft has no knowledge of, and no record of, what you have got – custom drivers, extra utilities, crapware etc.With this kind of cheap deal, the copy of Windows is "locked" to the hardware on which it's shipped and is not transferrable or refundable. This is called anOEM SLP(Original Equipment Manufacturer System Locked Pre-installation). It works as though the activation is tied to the BIOS chip on the motherboard, and this may literally be the case.The versions of Windows supplied by PC manufacturers do allow for a "clean installation" to an empty drive, but you will have to check the support website for precise instructions. Unless you have a disk image of your PC's state before the problems, a clean installation is probably your best bet.In sum, you shouldn't have any problems reinstalling Windows 7 using a DVD supplied by the manufacturer or made from the restore partition, using the Product Key on the Windows COA (Certificate Of Authenticity) sticker on the base or the back of a PC or sometimes inside a laptop's battery compartment. These re-installations do not usually need to be activated, and should be automatically validated when you install Windows Updates. If you don't have a Windows disc or backup, then you can still reinstall Windows 7 from an ISO download, using your Product Key, but you may have to visit the PC manufacturer's website for drivers and utilities.Of course, if you change the motherboard, even to an identical motherboard, then you should expect to re-activate and revalidate Windows. However, in my experience, changing hard drives, upgrading graphics cards and adding memory at infrequent intervals does not.Note: not all Windows licences work in the same way. Microsoft seems to take a harder line with OEM System Builder licences (the sort you can buy cheaply if you build your own PC), and with Upgrade versions. Even Windows Anytime Upgrades – which are quick "in place" upgrades to your current Windows 7 or Vista PC – require Microsoft activation. However, Microsoft seems to take a somewhat laxer view of full retail packages, which you are also allowed to transfer from one PC to another, as long as you delete the previous installation. (I've bought full retail copies of both XP and Windows 7, and you need one of these to run Windows on a Mac.)You can always install Windows 7 and run it for up to 30 days without a key. Finally, if the worse comes to the worst, you can alwaysactivate Windows 7 by phone. One way to do this is to click Start and type "slui.exe 4" (without the quote marks) into the Search box, then press Enter. This should allow you to select your country and get instructions for free activation.
As a follow-on toWednesday's piece about how the smartphone is taking over the mobile phone market, here's some analysis of what's happening in the western European market. (Mobile users:graphic here.)Western Europe market share by manufacturer and type (smartphone/featurephone), 2Q09 – 1Q 12. Original data: IDC(Click for larger version.)The data comes from IDC, and shows numbers for shipments in the western European market since the second quarter of 2009 (which is as far back as they're presently prepared to go).What's most evident is that way that just as with the global market, Samsung has driven into this field like a truck into a glass-fronted supermarket, while Nokia's fortunes have declined dramatically – coinciding pretty much exactly with Stephen Elop's announcement in January 2011 that Symbian, then the Finnish company's smartphone platform, would be supplanted by Microsoft's Windows Phone. (Mobile users:graphic here.)Samsung v Nokia, share of overall western European phone market, 2Q 09 – 1Q 12. Original data: IDCSamsung, meanwhile, has driven its smartphone share up, notably through the very successful launch in spring 2011 of its Galaxy S2; that looks set to continue with the S3, launched in May.Smartphone sales (green) and featurephone sales (brown) in western Europe, 2Q 09 – 1Q 12. Original data: IDCMore generally, though, there are two trends visible in the western European market as a whole: a very slow reduction in overall sales (they peaked around Christmas 2010, and have been showing declines since then); and rapid growth in smartphone share, which passed 50% in the second quarter of 2011 (ie a year ago) and in the first quarter of 2012 was just short of 63% – and is likely to have risen even further in the past three months. (Mobile users:graphic here.)Among other smartphone companies, only Apple has managed to grow its share; HTC, RIM and Sony (formerly Sony Ericsson) have seen their empires rise and fall, squeezed between Samsung's dominance of the Android space and Apple's grasp of the top end.These figures don't include the launch of HTC's One series, which happened during the second quarter (for which figures probably won't be available until August); success there could be vital for HTC's future. Globally, the company had just 1% of the mobile handset industry's profits in 2011, according to Asymco. Apple and Samsung took the rest.But there are other storm clouds gathering for mobile handset makers who aren't called Samsung or Apple. The peak in the fourth quarter 2010 points to the economic recession and eurozone woes putting pressure on subscribers.Some carriers are already seeing a reduction in the number of subscribers: Spain, where the recession is biting hardest, saw the loss of 380,000 mobile subscriptions in April,Tero Kuittinen points out at Forbes. He alsopoints to falls in Russian subcribers; those those aren't part of the western European statistics here, they do point to a general trend in terms of economic effects.So where is it headed? Just as with the global smartphone business, Europe might be headed towards a two-horse race in the branded phone space – unless Nokia can revive itself.Don't count Nokia out, by the way; Microsoft is absolutely depending on its success in the smartphone space so that the Metro design which will soon run across desktops, laptops, tablets and Xbox 360 game consoles will cover the entire space in which you experience "Windows". It's literally Windows everywhere. If Nokia does down, then the Asian companies such as HTC and Samsung, whose present offerings of Windows Phone handsets feel almost grudging, are unlikely to pick up the slack.Asymco's Horace Dediu has a theory that sounds very convincing: if Nokia gets into serious trouble, it will be encouraged to spin off the smartphone business, and Microsoft will finance it by buying some tiny share for billions of dollars – inflating the apparent value of the company (as often happens with startups getting venture capital input) and giving it a cash pile that should see it through to longer-term survival. (Well, it worked with Apple, when Steve Jobs cajoled Bill Gates into ironing out some patent infringement rows in 1997, and Microsoft injected $150m for a chunk of non-voting stock.) One thing Microsoft doesn't want: to become a smartphone manufacturer. "Companies don't approach each other like potential lovers," Dediu said on his podcast. "It's not 'I like you, let's hook up'."But there's one other area that could be crucial: the unbranded or carrier-branded smartphones. Orange has already been selling the San Francisco, and now it is offering the San Diego smartphone, an Intel-powered own-branded Android smartphone (running Android 2.3). It's actually made by a company called Gigabyte (no, me neither)It's cheap-ish – £199 – and does everything you'd want from a smartphone, as long as you don't mind a screen where despite being 4in on the diagonal, the icons are absolutely tiny. This is the sort of smartphone you're going to see plenty of in the futureas the "second 50%" begins buying smartphones whether they want it or not.
