This week the second series of Mad Men – about the adventures and otherwise of a group of advertising executives in New York's Madison Avenue in the 1960s – got under way. And at home we sat there steaming. Why? Because it has started in the US, but isn't going to reach the UK for ... well, I don't think anyone's told us yet.Mad Men, if you haven't heard, is being hailed as the next greatest series since, um, The Wire, The Sopranos, and so on – a story with (as writers say) arc.But it's not on TV. However, it certainly is on the filesharing networks. Anyone who knows how to use those can, if they're so minded, download a high-definition copy and watch it on their PC or TV.You can imagine that nobody's very pleased about the situation. The makers and actors of Mad Men aren't getting paid for those downloads. The BBC over here will see smaller audiences, which will make whatever it has paid for the series look like overpayment. And DVD sales will likely be lower too.It's another example of the internet and its indifference to national borders turning existing models upside-down.To be fair, at least some of the visual industry is alive to these realities. Did you notice how The Dark Knight came out at the same time all over the world? And the reasoning's simple: otherwise, someone in the country that gets it first will film it in the cinema, it'll get acquired by a criminal gang, who'll send the digitised version to whichever countries it hasn't opened in, where their associates will make cheap copies to be sold at car boot sales and outside pubs. (Just like thesnakehead gangs we've written about.)But the TV industry is still stuck with a regional model: TV episodes are made in one place and sold to others. That's fine with most programmes, but once something really takes off – and I hear Doctor Who is very popular in the US – then the way that the TV industry deals with its intractable contracts and time slots and airtime systems is going to have to change.Look, for example, at the outcry when ITV decided that thesecond episode of Pushing Daisies would get in the way of Euro 2008, and so would have to go the way of all flesh. No, not become a presenter on the Shopping Channel, but simply vanish.So what happened? People who'd never known how to download a file via bittorrent but who knew that they did like Pushing Daisies joined the filesharing underground. Oh, dear. (Though it was smart of ITV to cut the second episode, rather than the tenth. That really would have driven the legions online.)It's a tough reality for TV production companies to face, but video filesharing is as much a fact of life as its musical cousin, and it can have an even more brutal fallout: people grab the episode online and then don't watch it when it "officially" reaches their country, which means that audiences and advertising are down on what would be expected. That could, in theory, feed back into fewer TV programmes, or lower budgets.And do you know what that means? Yes, more reality TV shows.Although there is a counter-argument, which is the "filesharing encourages people to buy the real thing" one. Now, many people think that's rubbish. But there may be a data point in its favour. It's this:The Wire, the much-feted programme that nobody watches, is all over the filesharing networks. Yet the DVDs from the four previously aired series are firmly in thetop 10 DVD bestsellers at Amazon. How does that work, then? Either all those folk haven't heard of filesharing for video (possible), or they want the extras that the filesharing networks can't give them. Or they want the quality.You know, if the TV production companies wanted a plan, they'd put low-quality versions of their work out on the filesharing networks timedexactlywith their showings on TV. People would download them, sure, but then they could be tempted to see a higher-quality one ... on DVD. I know, sounds mad.But it's time for the mad men and women in TV-land to get a clue about how the internet is changing everything. It was OK in the 1960s to work with tape and send things by sea. Nowadays? Won't work. Rip up the old ways and build on the new ones.And meanwhile we'll sit and wait, slightly impatiently, for the next series of Mad Men, and we promise not to resort to bittorrent. But you've been warned, guys.
Just back from theFallout 3event. I'll stick the interview up later but the good news is that the game doesn't level up with you like it did in Oblivion. Yes you can now be a "badass", as Pete Hines from developer Bethesda put it, and clear out lower level areas but you can also stumble into areas that are too dangerous for your current level. Canine fans will be pleased to know that Dogmeat, your faithful companion from the original games, will be in Fallout 3 and can help in combat as well as sniffing out useful items. As well as your dog you can also team up with another NPC - no online at all, unfortunately - though which character you join up with depends on your "karma" level. As for the size of the game Hines confirmed the world was smaller than Oblivion but said that with no horse or instant travel - unlike Oblivion, which allowed you to instantly jump to any of the cities, Fallout 3 makes you to find the places on foot before you can do teleport - the world will feel equally as large. Combat? VATS - the strategic combat system that pauses the action - is optional, with usage restricted by action points anyway. But yes, you can play this as a first person shooter, though think more Mass Effect than Halo.I also had a quick hands-on play with the 360 code. More on this later but I was far more impressed by the landscape and setting than I expected. Admittedly I was only on for about an hour but the novelty of wrecked concrete bridges, 50's paraphernalia and two headed cows didn't wear off. The epic draw distance helped too - it certainly felt that you could see more than inOblivion, though obviously Fallout's wasteland has a few less trees thanCyrodiil.The combat felt a little bit spongy, similar to the early stages of Mass Effect. But then the character I played was right at the start of the game so things are likely to improve. The VATS system will clearly come into its own when you have better weaponry and skill but even at low levels it seemed to work well. Perhaps the biggest surprise to me was how much the game felt like Oblivion. From the way armour is stripped from enemy corpses to the insane amount of junk that is quickly picked up Oblivion fans will feel at home. And yes, the voice acting seems better - not that it could be worse of course - with the four conversations I had each voiced by someone different. Yes, previews tend to be positive but from what I've seen so far Fallout 3 looks hugely promising.
Toyota Motor Corp has announced that it is developing the Winglet, "a personal transport assistance robot ridden in a standing position." Unlike the very similar Segway, it will come in three sizes that, like T-shirts, are labelled S, M and L. The press release atakihabaranews.comhas a table with pictures and dimensions. It says:The Winglet -- still being refined -- is one of TMC's people-assisting Toyota Partner Robots. Designed to contribute to society by helping people enjoy a safe and fully mobile life, the Winglet is a compact next-generation everyday transport tool that offers advanced ease of use and expands the user's range of mobility.The systems will be tested before Toyota decides whether or not to commercialise the device. It says:Practical tests of its utility as a mobility tool are planned to begin in Autumn 2008 at Central Japan International Airport (Centrair) near Nagoya, and Laguna Gamagori, a seaside marine resort complex in Aichi Prefecture. Testing of its usefulness in crowded and other conditions, and how non-users react to the device, is to be carried out in 2009 at the Tressa Yokohama shopping complex in Yokohama City.According to a report from theIDG News Service, Toyota is using Sony technologies. It says:The consumer electronics giant approached Toyota last year about transferring some of its technology to the auto-maker's robotics program after Sony closed down its own robotics work, which was symbolized by the Aibo robot dog. In addition to the five Sony employees, two of the Toyota employees on the team previously worked for Sony.It will be interesting to see how it goes, if it ever does, because I thought the Segway had just about killed the idea for anybody else. Would you rather have a Winglet or aJetdek Whistlerskateboard?
What's your favourite piece of technology?MyBosch Classixx 1400 Express washing machine, and matching dryer.How has it improved your life?My landlady has put it in the flat, because I'm renting, and it's really quick, really quiet and means we're no longer having to hand-wash our knickers in the sink.When was the last time you used it, and what for?It's on right now – there's a mixed wash with my temporary flatmate, Richard Herring, who is also doing a show at the Edinburgh Fringe. All our bits are going around together – my lovely girl stuff and his stinky boy stuff.What additional features would you add if you could?A timer delay would be nice.  And I don't know, everything these days seems to have an MP3 player built in, so it should have an MP3 player attached to it too. I'm sure we'll soon get the iWash.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Almost certainly. Washing machines tend to break down more than any other appliance. If I could retrain as anything, it would be as a washing machine repairwoman – they must make a mint.What one tip would you give to non-washing machine users?Take your clothes into the bath with you – that's a very eco-friendly way of doing your wash.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Luddite, I'm afraid. I had aspirations to be a nerd – I've always been a Mac user – but I tend to always write things out longhand first. And I must have the only Mac in the world that crashes all the time. And force quit is my most-used application. And I hate my mobile phone as well – a Nokia N82, which is the biggest piece of crap. It's the size of a brick and it does nothing that I want it to and keeps giving me funny error messages.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I bought a Nintendo Wii, but I had it for just two days before my nephew stole it from me, so it was kind of expensive for the time that I had it – it probably cost me about 100 quid a day.Mac or PC?Mac, although only because I once went out with someone who got me into Macs. Crap reason really, isn't it?What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?It's Love is Like a Butterfly, by Dolly Parton. I now wish that I had made up something a bit cooler, but I do love Dolly.Will robots rule the world?Yes, but they'll be nice robots and I'll do everything that they tell me to do.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Any phone other than the phone I currently have, but O2 won't let me out of my contract. But if anyone wants to send me a new mobile, I'll be very grateful.Lucy Porter(who, by her own admission, updates her website far too infrequently) is appearing thePleasance Courtyardat theEdinburgh Festival Fringeuntil August 25
Yahoo chief executive Jerry Yang faces another test of his leadership today as he prepares for a showdown with angry investors at the company's annual general meeting.He will have to quell a rebellion from shareholders who believe he is the wrong man for the job and explain exactly why the company turned down a takeover offer from Microsoft worth almost $48bn.Yang, who co-founded the company in 1995 with fellow Stanford student David Filo, took over the chief executive's role after the departure of Terry Semel last summer. But despite his assurances over plans to revitalise the internet giant, he has failed to convince many shareholders that he will steer the company in the right direction."The Microsoft negotiations were just the latest example of negligence by this board," said Eric Jackson, a dissident investor who represents a group of stockholders with more than three million shares. "There is still a lot of anger and frustration among shareholders right now."But the Yahoo board will not be facing its biggest critic, notorious corporate raider Carl Icahn, who has said he will not be attending the AGM. Icahn, wholaunched a vicious attack on the company's leaders after the collapse of the Microsoft deal, has quietened down his protests and withdrawn his threat to force a proxy vote to replace directors. This followsa deal in which he secured a minority presence on the board."It will not do shareholders or Yahoo any good to have the annual meeting turn into a media event for no purpose,"Icahn wrote in a statement on his website yesterday."Last week I realised it was impossible to gain enough support from the large institutions to win a majority of the Yahoo directorships.""A few days ago I met with both Jerry Yang and [Yahoo chairman] Roy Bostock, and I believe both gentlemen genuinely wish that we will be able to work together to enhance value. While we still disagree on many points, I have great hope 'this will be the beginning of a beautiful friendship'."Shares in the Californian web company were selling at 19.89 cents at the close of trading on Thursday, valuing the company at $27.3bn.
Luxury jeweller Cartier'sdecision to advertise on MySpacemight have plenty of WTF value, but not everyone agrees. Ad guruRussell Daviesis ready to give them the benefit of the doubt: "I guess it seems silly on the surface, and if that was all they did with their money it would be silly," he told us. "But as a way of dipping a toe in a new medium, with a new audience... it makes lots of sense." We expect Russell to be sporting a shiny new watch any time soon.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
This isn't a reader question, it's a news item, but it has been raised by the Office Watch newsletter inOffice 2003 Service Pack 3 - yes or no?. OW says:SP3 is full of blatant Microsoft cost-cutting measures. Instead of making Office 2003 more secure and fully functional the company chose to block existing Office 2003 features that would have been too expensive for them to fix. It's cheaper for Microsoft to disable a feature instead of making it work properly.The file types blocked by Service Pack 3 include:* All Word documents created before (but not including) Word 6 for Windows. The includes all Word 1 and Word 2 documents, Word 4 for Mac plus early versions of Word for some Asian countries. * All Powerpoint files created before Powerpoint 97. * Excel 4 binary files in .xlc format. * dBase II files - the once very common .dbf format. * Lotus and Quattro files .wk1, .wk4, .wj3, wk1 FMT, .wks, .wk3, wk3, FM3, .wj2, .wq1, .fm3, .wj1 * Corel Draw .cdrYou may not care, of course. However, you may have old files that you still want to read, in which case you will care a lot.I suspect there is also a hidden message that is not picked up by OW: you should be moving to Office 2007 and converting old files to Office Open XML formats.....
Dysonis a beautiful little real-time strategy. It was incredibly developed in under a month fora competitionover at TIGSource -winning second prizefor veteran games developersAlex May,Rudolf KremersandBrian Grangerand nabbing great press from the likes ofRock Paper ShotgunandEdge. I asked Rudolf and Alex to pitch their indie, and it turns out it's a little bitPikmin, a little bitElite, and there's not a hoover in sight.Many thanks to Tim fromTIGSourcefor giving us a Games Pitch boost!Explain your game to my mum in 140 words.Dysonis a game that makes space colonisation feel pretty and poetic. You are in control of so-called Dyson Trees planted on asteroids and the seedlings that they produce. The seedlings can be planted on new asteroids to grow into new Dyson Trees. Taking over all of the asteroids is made harder by the fact that there are others trying to do the same thing and you end up in a cat and mouse game of space conquest between different groups of colonisers. It is easy to play, surprisingly compelling, and we have done our best to create a game that is as much an ambient and aesthetic experience as an elegant strategy game. We are as much inspired by "The Little Prince" as by the work of Freeman Dyson.How do players control the game?The whole game can be controlled with a simple mouse based interface, and we are close to improving this even more to something that should be very easy to pick up and play. The main action the player does is sending seedlings from one asteroid to another, which is done by dragging them in groups from one asteroid to another. The player can also plant trees using their seedlings.What is your background?We are two games industry veterans who want to make the games we want to play. We're tired of making the games that other people think that people want to play.Name your competitors.Ubisoft! We haven't looked at competitors really, we are just trying to make a worthwhile and fun game that stands up in its own right.How many players do you have now and what's your target in 12 months?The game has been downloaded over 20,000 times, and even though we haven't updated in over a month we are still getting 100 downloads a day. Hopefully we will experience surges in traffic with each new release as we add features. We've set up a mailing list to allow people to stay informed about our game.What's your biggest challenge?Sticking to the planned feature set and not get distracted by other cool ideas that pop up in our heads. It's a very common problem when you set your own goals. Working on the game in our spare time while having games as day jobs is also hard.What's the weirdest development experience you've had thus far?It has been a weird experience that something that was a techy little contest entry turned out to become so much fun and has been received so well. It's really interesting to see what people think of your work when you're so aware of its shortcomings. Often what people like about Dyson completely disregards some of the things we think are glaring errors, and other times they echo exactly what's on our minds.What's your distribution/publishing plan?For now we focus on the PC version of the game, especially so we can enter it in the Independent Games Festival in 2009. We also hope to create versions for additional platforms but we will have to see how that develops.Are indie games the latest killer app?There is a serious role to be played by indie games in future game development. "Killer app" to us suggests a short-term boost; we expect indie gaming to establish itself as a viable parallel channel to traditional game development. It's getting there!Are you the next big thing?We are A thing... we make game things... errm Look! A THING over there!!!Send us info about your own indie games to gamesblog +at+ gmail.com and we'll throw 'em up here for all to see
It seems like an unlikely pairing: one is a legendary French jeweller best known for high-priced luxury watches, while the other is a young American internet company renowned for garish web pages and legion of teenage fans.Despite their apparent differences, however, Cartier - the world's biggest seller of luxury jewellery - has joined up with the social networking website MySpace for its latest advertising wheeze.Cartier is plugging its wares through a dedicated page on the website, aimed at bringing its prestigious style to new audiences. Visitors to the page - myspace.com/lovebycartier - can view romantic videos, download exclusive songs or leave messages.The page counts a number of high-profile musicians among its "friends", including Sting and Lou Reed, the former Velvet Underground singer who has a long-running association with Cartier.In general, luxury brands have remained sceptical about advertising on the internet, choosing instead to stick to traditional outlets such as glossy magazines.The parent company of another French giant, the fashion company Louis Vuitton, is engaged in a legal battle with online marketplace eBay over the fact that the internet company allows sales of its branded goods, despite not being an authorised outlet.In recent years, internet advertising has increased rapidly. By the end of this year Google is expected to make more than &pound;1.7bn through advertising in Britain alone, making it more valuable to advertisers than the entire national newspaper industry and ITV1.MySpace's advertising executives say that about a quarter of all traffic to the site comes from households with annual incomes in excess of &pound;50,000. "There's a potential market for luxury advertisers."• This article was amended on Tuesday 20 January 2009. The photograph that illustrated this article was deleted because we incorrectly attributed the key pendant depicted to Cartier.
The following apology was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Saturday August 2 2008Contrary to a statement we made in the column below, the Metropolitan Police do not require professional photographers operating in central London to hold a police permit and wear a radio-linked ID tag. The material on which this part of the column was based was a hoax. This has been corrected. We apologise for its usePrivacy International's fated struggle to stop the Google spy car stalkingthis country's streets has reminded me of my own brush with London's photography police recently. I was being photographed in Covent Garden and the photographer was having a hard time trying to make me look into the middle distance and mellow my scowl. For people born without the Kate Moss gene it's always a difficult situation, but I was giving it my best shot.As I followed the photographer's instructions and tried to come up with a smile that would get people running to the nearest shop to buy my book, a security guard on patrol around the piazza walked up and stood between the photographer and me. The guard was quite a determined professional; he put one hand in front of the camera lens and muttered darkly into his walkie-talkie.I have always had a soft spot for security guards in London as most of them are either part-time PhD students or very poor people given the job of looking after our safety and expected to do it with the help of a cheap uniform and an identification badge. But this was an open, public place, commonly full of tourists taking each other's pictures. The security guard, however, had his orders.Why would a potential terrorist (or people exhibiting suspect behaviour, as the Met likes to describe them in its anti-terror publicity) pose in front of an organic cosmetics stall and religiously follow the instructions of a white, female professional photographer who looked nothing if not an infidel? The photographer tried to test the resolve of the security guard by stepping out of the covered area and making me pose in front of a column. But the guard followed and covered the lens again; he looked like a man with a mission to save London from desperate debut writers and their collaborators in the photographic professions.In the ensuing hour we were chased away from Nehru's bust outside the Indian High Commission, and Citibank. Even the folks at Australia House descended on us after we had set up the tripod, I had perfected my writerly pose and we were only waiting for the clouds to part.The photographer, very bitter by now, told me that the police treat anyone with professional photography equipment as a suspect.You'd think that the Google-mobile would meet the police's criterion of suspect behaviour. Plying the streets in its bid to make a photographic map of London, it looks like an amateur's attempt at turning his personal car intoa Bond-mobile. And we know that Google doesn't do amateur any more.The doomed attempt by the human rights group Privacy International to get the information commissioner to stop Google Street View - and the Daily Mail's outrage at Google's photography project - are steeped in the same zeal as the Met's mission to stop photography in public places. Google Street View is as much a threat to western civilisation as disposable cameras are to London's historic monuments. The most viewed pictures on the US version of Street View include a giant pumpkin, two men leering at a woman bending over and the fractured signboard over a porn theatre.Our photography session finally took place outside a little church on the Strand where an old attendant greeted us with mild curiosity. He held the door open so that we could get the lighting right, and even offered to rearrange the pulpit if we wanted to take pictures inside. Faced with a choice between Google-sized corporations and moronic security agencies, if people get drawn to the sinister charms of organised religion, who should we blame?Watching The Dark Knight with my son Channan and hisfriends Noah and Chika, I realised that American superheroes have gone all angsty. The last Spiderman I saw was supposed to mirror America's "to invade or not to invade" dilemma and the latest Batman has decided that he must invade, but with compassion and stealth, and tap all the mobile phones in Gotham even if he has to ride roughshod over Morgan Freeman's well-paid conscience. Has anyone noticed that the Batmobile has gone all Humvee? When Christian Bale needs to kick ass, it turns into a giant motorbike and probably burns an oil well to cover a Gotham kilometre.To tell you the truth, I dozed through most of the film and only opened my eyes when the wonderful Heath Ledger was on screen. Even then I spent more time wondering if it was his acting or my perverse desire to see a dead man behaving like a clown that kept me awake. Throughout the film, when Bale came on screen, my brain harked back to those scenes in American Psycho where a butt-naked Bale goes through his exfoliating routine. And I wondered if, in the end, all the American superheroes are actually American psychos. All they need to do is start wearing plastic parkas instead of capes and masks.This weekMohammed readJM Coetzee's Youth: "A London guide for the soul, if there ever was one. You can laugh and cry on the same page." He also attended a rehearsed reading of his Edinburgh Fringe show,The Dictator's Wife, in his kitchen: "It needs better lighting, but luckily for my summer mood, I was let off without demands for re-writes."
It was good to see a few positive responses tomy last art posting, so here's another. A long while ago Ibloggedabout artistEmily Allchurchwho creates dark urban environments by modifying the works of 18c Italian artist Giovanni Battista Piranesi. Piranesi was, I think, a talented FPS level designer inconveniently born 200 years too early. His most famous works are theCarceri d'invenzione, or 'Imaginary Prisons', a series of prints depicting vast and hugely complicated gothic jails that closely resemble the sort of labyrinthine, multi-level environments we're used to in games like Quake and Unreal.Anyway, Allchurch modifies and updates these images, adding graffiti, CCTV cameras and billboards, which I think heightens their resemblance to game worlds. You can see them for yourself at theSarah Myerscough Fine Art galleryin London, where they form part of an exhibition entitled Transcriptions, which is running throughout August. Here are a couple more examples:Chiaroscuro number one: LondonChiaroscuro number four: RomeWhen I contacted the gallery to get hold of some images, they helpfully told me about another exhibition that might be of interest.Games &amp; Theoryis on at the South London gallery until September - it's more about sport and other physical activities, rather than games, although some of the interactive exhibitions, including Nils Norman's play architecture installation, resemble life-size videogame levels.
Another week, another late-arriving Best of 'Box posting. There's a lot to catch up on though, so let's just clamber down the muddy bank and start wading around in Gamesblog's chat swamp.Technical difficulties meant that the Thursday 'Box got lost last week as Friday's cropped up a day earlier causing minor mirth and confusion. "I've got Friday off so why am I in the office?" asked a bewildered Alimantado, while Naboomagnoli sensibly declared, "I refuse to use Friday's box until the agreed time." Few others showed his restraint.The first serious question came from Deeness, with a sartorial query - "if the wife has a shoe size of 8 is that the same as a blokes 8?" There was no answer (but I'm reasonably sure they're the same in terms of length, but not width). Next, a few suggestions for evil videogames, a strand of conversation following over from Wednesday, and getting more and more outlandish (Killing Fields: The Game, anyone?). Then Bigbadsam weighed in with "I was wondering what games you all think have the best replay value?". CoD4, Crackdown, Deus Ex and Bioshock spring up as contenders. Does Civ 2 count?OfficePest asked about fanboy-ism, prompting Gamesbloggers to recall when they last considered themselves to be hopeless apologists for their favourite platform. Briggsy's response reminded me about how massively important Square's defection from Nintendo to Sony was back in the mid-nineties:In the 16-bit era I was firmly a Nintendo fanboy. I thought the SNES was vastly superior to the MD, still do. Naturally I poured over every morsel of information about the [then] Nintendo Ultra 64 from the Official Nintendo Magazine which I purchased religiously every month. And when it came out I really wanted one but couldn't afford it.When I finally did get the money together I actually got a Playstation instead. The quite monumental swing was for one reason only...Final Fantasy 7. My brother and I were big RPG fans back then and I remember being blown away at the cutscenes I saw on Movies, Games and Videos. The N64 had nothing to compete so Sony won it in that era for me. I loved massive RPGs, cartridges couldn't do them, simple as that.Later in the afternoon, Dizzyisanegg found himself banned from the Ubisoft forums, before a discussion about the nature of alcoholism and the technical definition of binge drinking slurred into life ("Binge drinking is officially drinking more than 8 UK units of alcohol." Clarified Sheep2).Friday started with a good question from NickT - "Any one here got an embarrassing band they used to like before seeing the light?" Everyone ignored this, however, in favour of a request for jokes - which flew in thick, fast and tasteless. My favourite was Dizzyisanegg's:A young man called directory enquiries. "Hello, operator, I would like the telephone number for Mary Jones in Manchester.""There are multiple listings for Mary Jones in Manchester," the operator replied. "Do you have a street name?"The young man hesitated, and then said, "Well, most people call me Ice Man."It all went downhill from here. Yes, really.There was some PSP love later on, with several readers referring to Sony's handheld as a lovely machine with a decent back catalogue of games, but a slight lack of upcoming Triple A releases. All true. The whole Giles Coren thing turned up (pah, you should see whatIwrite to the Guardian subs, especially when they mess upmyridiculously obscure Yiddish one-liners).Friday. Craggyisland asked for the most disappointing games of the current generation, and named GTA IV and Red Steel to kick things off. Halo 3, Lair, Assassin's Creed and Smash Bros Brawl were later condemned. Riffmagus lamented the state of metal and talk of Eurogamer's downbeat Fallout 3 preview completed a curiously understated day.Monday brought lots of Dark Knight talk which I had to skip - I'm seeing it next week. Pre-packed sandwiches were unwrapped and analysed (metaphorically speaking); Lazybones related his experiences with a thoroughly unpleasant-sounding falafel and custard wrap. A new Terminator movie announcement was given short shrift, especially following the revalation that McG would be directing. Is it just me or was Charlies Angels one of the worst film ever made? I don't think it is just me.Combining whisky with ginger ale proved controversial, as did PES - DanBob wrote a long post apologising for leaving a game, after Craggy's use of the 'cutback' move to score two goals. It's a slight 'exploit', a chink in the PES coding armour, but also guiltily unavoidable when in a crossing position. As Alfboy argued, "I think the problem really lies with the terrible standard crossing in the game. A normal cross flies miles over the far post, and a player is rarely in position for a near post cross." Naboomagnoli also chatted at length about the difficulty of intercepting passes when in defending near the box. Interesting, and the sort of in-depth stuff that wasn't making it in to PS3 PES reviews.It's Tuesday and I'm switiching to the present tense for no discernible reason. HighandMighty asks if anyone can think of a new type of game to counter the onslaught of familiar sequels. Fantomex chirps up with an interesting concept:An FPS-engine game where you are a civilian in a warzone and you have to escape from your bombed and bullet-strewn city and get across the border alive, whilst avoiding two opposing armies. No shooting, stabbing, just scrambling and avoiding death wherever possible. One-bullet kills. That would actually be quite grim.It's similar to the ideas I had for a post-apocalyptic survival game (no weapons, just the sheer terror and trudge of trying to stay alive), but with more of an Escape from Colditz vibe. Ocean did a good game like this back on the C64 - an isometric POW escape game as I remember.Office Pest asks if anyone will admit to visiting the cinema alone, a question that collides and eventually merges with another about multiple movie viewings. Most Gamesbloggers are happy to do both. Over the following day we get 'films not to watch in the dark' with The Orphanage attracting several votes. Then grammatical pedantry takes over, followed by favourite graffiti. Mine is on a road sign in Frome, it says:F**k the Pigs! (Police)Love the fact that they've taken the time to clarify the comment, just in case any one thought it was the work of some sort of unlikely porcine hate group.Later, the fallacy of Intelligent Design and the horror of workplace toilets. We're all alone in a Godless universe and no-one knows how to flush.GamesDues Ex GTA IV PES (as usual) Warhawk (ditto) Siren Football Manager BuzzMoviesBatman Planet Terror Dark Knight Children of Men Descent The OrphanageQuotes and Questions"Has anyone on here ever been to Las Vegas? and if so, do you have any hotel recommendations?"JuanBlanco provides the first of several holiday destination questions."Statistics have no place in football."TonyHayers hits out at the Americanisation of footie. 85% of fans agree with him. Ha ha!Any board game aficionados on here? Any good strategy game recommendations?Goulash123 seeks non-electronic entertainment. I used to like Stratego - is that still available?"Peanuts are not nuts, but a type of legume."Sheep2 clarifies an important distinction."I refuse to believe that someone in a position of such authority as Sandwhich Spokesman would ever tell a lie and so I'm not panicking."Milkncheese on the power of authority figures."You can't feel properly manly until you have bought a crowbar and then actually used it."ImperfectRex provides the only true measure of masculinity. Gordon Freeman must be alllll man.
Yes, I know it's the summer but honestly, have you seen the UK games charts recently? Casual gaming rules. Forget GTA, Metal Gear Solid 3 and the rest of the recent "hardcore" titles - Brain Training, Wii Play and the rest are outselling the lot.This week's chartis typical. Wii Fit is number one - I really must dust my copy down again - with Wall-E and Mario Kart Wii making up the top 3. The rest of the top 10 includes the aforementioned Brain Training and Wii Play which, along with Sonic &amp; Mario Olympics, seem to be permanent fixtures in the top 10.Publishers are responding. EA chief John Riccitiello has said the companyshould have bet on Wiirather than focussing solely on PS3 and Xbox 360. How long before publishers decide to ditch those expensive to develop RPG/shooter epics and replace them with family friendly Wii games that are likely to sell twice as much for twice as long?
Nasa has just announced thatthere is, indeed, water (in the form of ice) on Mars. It's an incredibly early result from the mission, which has only been on planet for 62 days*."We have water," said William Boynton of the University of Arizona, lead scientist for the Thermal and Evolved-Gas Analyzer, or TEGA. "We've seen evidence for this water ice before in observations by the Mars Odyssey orbiter and in disappearing chunks observed by Phoenix last month, but this is the first time Martian water has been touched and tasted."With enticing results so far and the spacecraft in good shape, NASA also announced operational funding for the mission will extend through Sept. 30. The original prime mission of three months ends in late August. The mission extension adds five weeks to the 90 days of the prime mission."Phoenix is healthy and the projections for solar power look good, so we want to take full advantage of having this resource in one of the most interesting locations on Mars," said Michael Meyer, chief scientist for the Mars Exploration Program at NASA Headquarters in Washington.The ice was found in the "Snow White" trench pictured above: "The scrapings were done in preparation for collecting a sample for analysis from a hard subsurface layer where soil may contain frozen water."The trench is 4 to 5 centimeters (about 2 inches) deep and about 23 centimeters (9 inches) wide."You can get more via theMarsPhoenix Twitter feed page. As is becoming the case, Twitter is ahead of everywhere else with the news..So, water. Anyone for terraforming?*Martiandays.Slightly longerthan Earth ones.Update:James Randerson has thewritten-through piece. And as to what it means? Well, water ice isn't that useful to life: too cold. Can't do anything. Mars has too low a vapour pressure for water to exist as liquid (tends to sublimate and evaporate) but having a lot of it at the poles might make it feasible to colonise it - you really don't want to be carrying bottled water to a distant planet. Remember how tedious it is lugging it home from the supermarket.So - still no life (sorry, David Bowie) but a much more welcoming place to try to colonise, if we can only figure out how to exploit it. (Then again - tell George Bush there could be oil..)
I think we broke the news this morning that Google's Street View has beengiven the go-aheadby Britain's privacy watchdog. It won't please theDaily Mail, but does it maketracking the carless fun? No way - at least while it's gettingstopped by police for driving in the bus lane.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Photo fromnowhereelse.frWe're all used to "iPhone cracked" stories, but "cracked iPhone" is a rather more unwelcome twist. Anyway,CrunchGear asks:Anyone out there have a white iPhone? Is it cracking? We got a tip from a reader named Steve, who has a post about the cracking white iPhones onhis site here(in French) which pertains to a thread in the MacRumors forums foundhere.Some users have reported cracks on black iPhones as well. It may just be that they're easier to spot on white versions.In a comment to the CrunchGear post, red14 says: "Odd...Same thinggoing on with the white HTC Touch (XV6900) on Verizon".This might not be surprising because most of these gadgets are now knocked out by the million on much the same Chinese or Taiwanese production lines.It could add to the litany of problems with Apple hardware, which includesscratching iPodsand someflakylaptops.
A few days ago uberhacker andDopplrCTO Matt Biddulph (shown on theright) quipped about the number of startups around London's Old Street - calling itSilicon Roundabout. Cue pieces from theFinancial Times, theEvening StandardandTechCrunch UK. This, ladies and gentlemen, is how memes begin.
Scrabulous, the Scrabble-like game on Facebook, has been shut down in the US and Canada, but its creators, Rajat and Jayant Agarwalla, have returned withWordscraper. This is a tile-based word game with a different appearance and a configurable board.However, in a post on Facebook, Raphael Laderman (San Francisco, CA) says: "This linkwill start a game with a board which should be familiar to most people."Mashable says:Meanwhile, after a sluggish start - which included some downtime - theofficial Scrabble gamefrom Electronic Arts (who licensed Scrabble from Hasbro) appears to be booming - as of this evening, the application is showing more than 50,000 daily active users. We'll now wait and see if the gaming giant moves to shutdown Wordscraper as it did its predecessor. One would have to assume so, but kudos to the Agarwalla brothers for keeping a thorn in their side.Scrabulous obviously has some popular support, but the days have gone when companies could simply release blatant rip-offs like the Defender and Snapper (ie Pac-Man) titles sold for the BBC Micro by Acornsoft -- without, as far as I can tell, the slightest peep from the BBC.Update:Media Guardianhas also covered the story.
Wait, I'll take your pictureThis robot - icHexapod - is on show at the Science Museum from this week: stare long enough at it and it'll take your picture and send it to its website. (Now we have to have robot papparazzi?)You can read more about icHexapod in this week's feature "Have you hugged a robot today?"Redrum? Oh, you mean 00110001!if The Shining were redone using robots instead of people, this would be one of the key scenes. Compare this version withthe original... OK, the new one's scarier if you're a robot. (And yes, OK, we stole the headline fromFuturama.)No, Google is on 379009Avon &amp; Somerset Police's daft 999 phone calls - this one from a woman who sounds, um, slightly the worse for wear (or just normal for Zommerzett?) asking "when the internet began". (Actually, when did..?) The point being though that you can hearexactlywhen the dispatcher fails to get her off the line - when he asks "so what sort of questionnaire..?" As if there would be a questionnaire that needs a 999 call?Got a favourite technology or games video? Tell us in the comments!
The next-generation movie format has been decided by the games console industry, but in China, Shanghai United Optical Disc thinks there's a viable market for a less expensive format (lower rights fees) that is more compatible with the past. It is therefore starting to produceCBHD(China Blue High-definition Disc).Not surprisingly, it's based on Toshiba's HD DVD, which was backed by the multi-vendor DVD Forum, and was previously known as CH-DVD. It was developed by the DVD Forum and the Optical Memory National Engineering Research Center at Tsinghua University in China. However, while Blu-ray and HD DVD used identical video and audio formats, CH-DVD will use China's own much cheaperAVS(Audio Video Standard), according to WikipediaHideki Ono, general manager of Shanghai United Optical Disc, toldThe Hollywood Reporter:"Just as VCDs became enormously successful within China prior to the arrival of DVDs, while being practically unknown beyond Asia, we expect CBHD to have enough leverage to be a convenient alternative to both DVD and Blu-ray formats in China," Ono said.Unlike Blu-ray, which has alliances with major Hollywood Studios, CBHD has not tied up with any major studios. However, Ono is unfazed by the lack of studio backing."The company is not interested in the international markets," Ono said. "Right now we are solely focusing on China."The motive for China is clear enough: Blu-ray is heavily-patented and expensive, and the country would prefer to avoid making massive payments to foreign IP-owners. However, they already tried the same thing withEVD(Enhanced Versatile Disc) and it didn't take off.It's hard to say if there is anything in it for us, but cheap recordable CH-DVD drives could certainly find a home in some PCs.
Golly, aren't Channel 4 liketotallygetting into gaming? They're getting allDare(whichZoe Mode and NCSoft are supporting for the Brighton heat),they're making gamesand now they'rein bedwith theGolden Joystick Awards, the longest-running games awards in the UK.To wit, the last announcement landed in my inbox, and not only is it newsy, but it's also something you can contribute to. First up, voting for the GJAs is open, andthey need you to vote. Second, how's about winning yourself a large cash prize? From the release:As part of the broadcaster's 'Generation Next' month this August, Channel 4 has today launched two new talent initiatives that will ask budding game developers from the worlds of mobile gaming and online flash gaming to submit their ideas and game concepts for the chance to win cash prizes, a Golden Joystick Award and some priceless industry exposure at the top level of their chosen discipline.Budding developers will again be asked to submit their ideas for mobile games and nine individuals will be invited to a pitching workshop as part of this year's London Games Festival. After a final pitch to a judging panel, one idea will be chosen to receive not only a cash prize and an honour at the Golden Joystick Awards but also the chance to have the idea optioned for future commercial development.There's $5,000 up for grabs, so if you or someone you know has developed a Flash or mobile game, get it in.Check out the details here.
We're looking to buy an iMac, but there's no indication of if or when Apple is going to offer Blu-ray drives.Rachael JohnsonIt's more than three years since Apple joined the Blu-ray Association's board and more than two years since Sony announced Windows laptops with built-in Blu-ray drives, so Apple's silence is a mystery. The iMac is based on the same Intel technology that is found in Sony and other laptops that play Blu-ray discs when running Windows XP or Vista, so it's not clear why there has been a delay.However, Apple needs to offer the H.264/AVC High Profile and VC-1 video and various audio codecs, support the Blu-ray Java interface software and implement the required DRM (Digital Rights Management) system -- none of which it appears to do, so far. Monitors must also support HDCP (High-bandwidth Digital Content Protection), but Apple's website doesn't actually say if any of its screens support it, and Apple's Cinema Display screens do not. This makes it impossible to predict when Apple will finally offer Blu-ray, but I'd guess it would come with a new range.You could, of course, connect an external Blu-ray drive, such as the LaCie d2 (£546 at Amazon.co.uk), to an iMac if you wanted to use it for storage. If you want to play commercial Blu-ray movies, I suspect you'd be better off buying a standalone player or a Sony PlayStation 3.
Until two weeks ago, it was all TinyURL. Now it's all Bit.ly. I can't find an article explaining the difference. Is there one?Tim GosslingBoth services let you paste in a very long web address then provide you with a short code that redirects to it. The main thing that Bit.ly adds is URL tracking: in other words, we get a number for how many people clicked each link. Unlike TinyURL, Bit.ly also keeps a copy of each page. For more details, seehttp://bit.ly/3Z5DAANote: We have an article about shortening services,Pointing the internet in a new direction
There seems no way to close the Task Manager in Windows Vista other than rebooting. Once opened, there is no close button, and right-clicking does nothing.Callum BrownNormally you can close applications by clicking the cross in the top right hand corner or by pressing Alt and F4. Not having a close button was a bit of a mystery, but a Microsoft Knowledge Base article (http://support.microsoft.com/kb/193050) reveals that Task Manager has a Tiny Footprint Mode. Briefly, double-clicking the top border of the window will bring back the usual controls. This applies in Windows XP as well.
I was trying to update Windows Defender in XP but the application declared that error code 0x80241001 prevented this. Afterwards my browser, Firefox, kept crashing.Alan BraddockThe error code indicates that an update was not installed successfully. The Microsoft Knowledge Base describes two ways to fix the problem (http://support.microsoft.com/kb/943144). If that doesn't stop Firefox crashing, try uninstalling Firefox 2 and then reinstalling either Firefox 2 or 3.
I submit environmental reports to a local authority. It says: "TIFF files are required for archival purposes as they are uncompressed which means they retain image detail and are stable (ie, do not degrade through successive opening and closing and saving)" unlike JPegs.David LynnJPeg files are "lossy" -- they use a compression system that loses some detail -- but opening and closing images does not cause any degradation. However, loading a .jpg image into a paint program and saving it can cause degradation, even if you don't change it. There is no reason to do this, of course, but paint programs typically have a quality setting somewhere, so you will be re-saving them at "95% quality" or whatever. The rule is therefore not to mess about with original images, only with copies.TIFF (Tagged Image File Format) is a very old but very flexible format and it provides the option for lossless LZW compression, for example.
Microsoft has a nifty new marketing scheme for Vista: show it off to a focus group under another name. This is the"Mojave experiment"[warning: this site crashed my Macreally hard], though it's worth remember that of course (in the words of Bruce Tognazzini, though I can't find the original) that "any sufficiently well-rehearsed demo is indistinguishable from magic".Joe Wilcox of Microsoft Watch thought it a brilliant idea: "Microsoft finally hits a marketing home run", heenthusedon Tuesday. Mojave is an excellent response to negative Vista perceptions.Microsoft really has hit a marketing home run. That said, I can't infer that Microsoft Vista marketing is suddenly going to turn around, even with a $300-million ad campaign about to kick-off in earnest. Good marketing is about appealing to people's emotions, which Mojave does through embarrassment. "I was wrong" isn't the best way to sell a product, although it has some pull here because Vista perceptions are so negative.....The Mojave Experiment is typical, analytical Microsoft. There's smart marketing here, but building off core Microsoft culture rather than corporate behavioral change. That's why I'm taking a cautious view about what Mojave might or might not mean for future Microsoft marketing.He suggests that it's a hypothesis-based piece of marketing: that if people could see Vista working, they'd like it.Yet only 23 hours later he had penned asecond post- completely reversing his position:after looking more closely at Mojave and reviewing Microsoft Watch reader comments, I have to call the experiment perhaps the worst kind of marketing.I apologize to readers. I got caught up in the Microsoft glow after so many months of marketing darkness. Did I drink Microsoft Kool-Aid? Sadly, yes. The reasons why the Mojave Experiment fails should have been obvious.He cites them as these: Microsoft treats its customers as stupid; Microsoft embarrasses Mojave participants (nobody likes being shown up); the marketing campaign blamescustomersfor Vista's problems; there's denial that problems really exist; and it's arrogant - underlying it is the idea that Microsoft is smart, and users are stupid.Intriguing to see him put it like that. The next interesting question is: will people who like Mojave and then find they're liking Vista also feel that they're somehow being talked down to?
Don't go looking for Lost Winds in the shops: the latest game from legendary British developer David Braben (of Elite fame) is one of the first download-only WiiWare titles. Hence the price (it requires 1,000 Wii Points and a 2,000-point card is &pound;14.99). Lost Winds is classic Nintendo-style fodder: a cute, side-scrolling (although it looks 3D) puzzle/platform game which makes imaginative use of the Wiimote. You play Toku, a little boy who befriends a wind spirit and gains various wind-manipulating abilities, enabling him to access otherwise closed areas and take on enemies. Lost Winds is mainly about the puzzles, which are often enchanting. Obviously Lost Winds is short - the Wii doesn't have much storage - and the camera can sometimes annoy, but it's exactly the sort of game that earned Nintendo its lovable image, and the perfect introduction to WiiWare.
It probably is, but the real question is whether you'll be able to buy it.Mojave - codenamed after the desert in the US - is the new operating system that Microsoft "tested" on some ordinary people who only had bad things to say about Vista. Almost all of them liked it a lot - wow, awesome, really cool, the speed is incredible - and were interested in using it.Then Microsoft revealed the truth: Mojave was actually Windows Vista. "You got me," said one. "It's totally different than I had heard," said another. Microsoft has put the video clips online atmojaveexperiment.com.The Mojave Experiment is just one of the ways that Microsoft plans to address what it calls the "perception opportunity" (don't say "problem") presented by the fact that Vista is now much better than people seem to think.Vista SP1 is a pleasure to use, and it's not slower (but nor is it faster) than Windows XP SP3 - assuming it is correctly set up on good-quality hardware. And there's the rub.People who buy Vista in the shops are not getting Mojave set up and thoroughly tested by experts from Microsoft. They may be getting something crippled by out-of-date drivers and overburdened with crapware. When they get their PC home, they have to go through the set-up procedure, sacrifice some speed while Vista indexes the hard drive for search purposes and suffer the UAC (user account control) pop-ups that keep asking them to confirm that yes, they really do want to install some simple utility.So it's not just a matter of fixing the perception of Vista, Microsoft also has to fix the reality. It's trying. The company has put a lot of effort into getting drivers improved and updated and fixing problems with applications. It is also working with OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) to improve their installations.Last Thursday, at its annual Financial Analysts Meeting, Windows group executive Bill Veghte said Microsoft had worked with many vendors "to do what we called the Windows Vista Velocity Program", running their systems and software through "a very extensive set of tests to measure everything from reliability to security to compatibility, boot time, et cetera. We ran over 280 systems through that process and you're starting to see the results of that in the market today."With more than 180m copies sold, if not installed, Vista has been a huge financial success. Microsoft's challenge is to sell another 500m copies before the next version appears: not Mojave, but Windows 7. The stakes are high, so you're certainly going to see it try.
The world of browser-based Flash games is the industry's last bastion of unregulated, every-coder-for-himself anarchy. There are thousands of sites out there, offering access to free online games, most supported by ads. The sad thing is, very little of this revenue finds its way to the developers. Recently, my brother-in-law Nick Harper, a creative director at Ubisoft, started designing his own Flash games, more for fun than profit - which, as he quickly discovered was just as well. "It's the wild west out there. There are a lot of sites that are well known for 'stealing' games from legitimate portals and running them with new ads, thereby siphoning the revenue. Flash game developers are often students or teenagers just hoping to earn some spare cash. They don't have a huge amount of business acumen and many portal owners are willing to exploit this."Tech company Mochi Media thinks it has the perfect answer. It runs a service named MochiAds, which allows Flash game developers to embed ads within their games, usually between levels, which means that Mochi pays royalties every time someone plays, even if the game has been pirated. As product marketing manager Ada Chen explains: "When the games spread across the internet, no matter where they get 'stolen' to, our ad gets displayed."This isn't going to turn every Flash coder into an overnight millionaire. As Harper explains: "The amount of money varies depending on the location the game is played and whether the user clicks on the ad or not. This creates a constantly fluctuating value called an eCPM - it's how much money you earn for every 1,000 plays of your game. An average eCPM is around $0.40, so if 1,000 people play your game you earn 40 cents. To do well you need to get around a million hits on your game." This isn't beyond the realms of possibility. Last year hit strategy gameDesktop Tower Defensewas getting 9m players a month.And Mochi Media isn't alone in formulating new revenue models for coders.Nonoba.comhas just launched a new payment system allowing developers to offer games for free, but then to charge for extra levels or in-game items. This is a hugely popular model in Korea, and is just catching on in the west.But why does it matter that developers are properly remunerated for these projects? Simple. The better the potential rewards, the better the products. As Chen puts it: "I think we'll begin to see much richer, more elaborate and more complex games emerging."In short, it is important that the people producing offbeat games feel it's worth their while carrying on.
This series has been going for a while, always offering real management depth but blighted by primitive graphics and presentation. In the sim department, Cricket Captain 08 is still bulging with options - allowing a host of county or international matches, improved team selection, coaching and tactics, plus a database of 3,000 international players. Some things are looking better too, with more appealing highlights displaying more than 60 crisply animated strokes. However, the bland, blocky menus remain, making your main playing experience seem cumbersome. Quite how the developers can excel in 3D yet mess up a simple 2D interface is anyone's guess. If you really like cricket, this is worth a look. If not, this certainly won't convert you.
New portable PCs are in flood at the moment, with announcements from companies such as Lenovo, HP, Sony, Toshiba and Acer. This is not a coincidence. It has been triggered by Intel's announcement of the new Centrino 2 platform, codenamed Montevina, which is being used in more than 200 new laptops.Five years ago, the launch of the Centrino platform had a big impact on the market, and led to most notebooks having built-in Wi-Fi. Montevina is the fifth iteration of this platform, and calling it "Centrino 2" suggests that Intel has similar hopes for it. However, that doesn't seem likely. Montevina is an upgrade worth having, but you may not notice you've got it.The main change is the inclusion of faster Core 2 Duo processors, codenamed Penryn, based on a new 45nm process technology, instead of 65nm. The new processors use less power and emit less heat, which should result in thinner notebook PCs with better battery life. They will also work with faster (but pricier) DDR3 memory chips.Vista buyers will be pleased to hear that the new chip set includes Mobile 45 Express graphics, which Intel reckons is roughly 70% faster than the X3100 graphics in the previous Santa Rosa platform. You also get some video-processing in hardware, which should help with playing DVD and Blu-ray movies on the widescreens that now seem to have taken over. As usual, the graphics fall short of top gameplaying standards. However, Montevina lets you switch between the built-in graphics and a separate graphics processor without restarting the PC. Using the built-in graphics for word processing, web browsing and similar tasks saves battery power.The one thing that could make Centrino 2 revolutionary is its support for WiMax, or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access, the 802.16 standard. This is, to put it crudely, a long-range version of 802.11 Wi-Fi. One of its aims is to deliver broadband speeds - perhaps 10Mbps - to mobile users. Wi-Fi works over metres, whereas WiMax works over kilometres.However, Mobile WiMax will only become compelling when two things happen. The first, expected "later this year", is the release of Intel's Echo Peak - the codename for a card that supports both W-Fi and WiMax. This could make WiMax as common as Wi-Fi is today. The second thing is the arrival of WiMax services.If you live in the US, you can be reasonably hopeful about both of those things. If you live in the UK, you may not get either in the near future. According to the WiMax Forum, "currently there are more than 305 deployments of WiMax services in 118 countries worldwide". Some are being rolled out in the UK - one is in Milton Keynes - but most mobile users will probably have to wait until Ofcom auctions its "4G" spectrum and the winner(s) get round to installing transmitters and developing service platforms.I think WiMax should be a global standard, like GSM. However,Ofcomis selling off our 2.6GHz wireless spectrum on "a technology and service neutral basis". This means phone companies will be able to buy it and use it for something else - such as LTE or Long Term Evolution - instead of WiMax.LTE, the next version of 3G telephony, is still under development and won't appear for years.This doesn't mean WiMax is doomed. I've already seen an LG home router that provides both Wi-Fi and WiMax, and cybercafes could adopt them. With WiMax, you should have no problem getting broadband in your garden, or several streets away.
It wasn't the sound of his car engine that was distracting Ian Clifford. The chief executive of Canadian business Zenn Motors makes electric vehicles that give off no noise. He was worried that the obvious choice to power his next car - the same stuff that goes into laptops and cellphone batteries - was going to be in short supply."If you look at the increase in lithium prices over the past seven to 10 years, it's been dramatic," says Clifford. Zenn's short-range urban cars traditionally used nickel metal hydride (NiMH) batteries, but his next vehicle - an 80mph model with a 250-mile range - needed more efficiency. "There are very limited global reserves, and they're in potentially very unstable parts of the world," adds Clifford.Supplies under strainThe US moved the previously obscure chemical element to centre stage in the 1950s when its lithium-hungry H-bomb programme kickstarted world production. The rising popularity of lithium-ion (Li-Ion) in batteries has sent demand soaring again, and pundits now worry that electric cars will strain our supplies.Your laptop might use six finger-sized Li-Ion cells in its battery, but US-based Tesla Motors bolts together 6,000 cells to power one of its high-end electric sports cars. Now others, drawn to Li-Ion's light weight and high capacity, are joining in. Toyota's Prius hybrid electric vehicle (HEV) runs on a small battery powered by braking energy that switches to petrol when it runs out. The group will switch its Nickel Metal Hydrid (NiMH) chemistry to Li-Ion in 2010. GM will be putting Li-Ion batteries in the Volt, its plug-in hybrid electric vehicle (PHEV) due out the same year. Other vendors also promise PHEVs, which are similar to HEVs, but with a larger, plug-in battery. Many will take the Li-Ion approach.So how much lithium do we have? 1m tonnes of lithium metal is used to produce 5.3m tonnes of lithium carbonate, says Brian Jaskula, an analyst at the US Geological Survey (USGS), which goes into Li-Ion batteries.Data from USGS puts total world resources of lithium metal at around 14m tonnes. The total world resource includes all the lithium metal we know about, whether it is commercially viable to extract it or not. But theUSGS datais based on a 1976 National Research Council report.A lot has changed in 32 years. Back then, most lithium came from a mineral called spodumene. But in 2001 SQM, a large mining group, began producing it in huge volumes by extracting it from salars - salt flats through which water has leached. The cheaper process sent prices plummeting and put many spodumene mines out of business."That was the last time that an organisation got together to do that type of research," Jaskula notes. But now two independent researchers are hoping to update the facts. In the pessimist corner is William Tahil, research director at Meridian International Research, who predicted two years ago that demand for lithium in cars would outpace supply. "There is no surplus lithium carbonate available for the automotive market. It's all being used by existing industrial applications," he says.His report provoked a rebuttal from retired industry veteran Keith Evans, who worked on the original 1976 report. In March, he released An Abundance of Lithium, claiming a world resource of 28m tonnes, almost half of which he says could be extracted commercially (worldlithium.com). This would produce nearly 74m tonnes of lithium carbonate. "Tahil's argument that the world is short of lithium carbonate is wrong," Evans says. Two months later, Tahil released an even more pessimistic report, claiming that economically viable lithium metal reserves were just 4m tonnes. Evans is due to respond with a further rebuttal soon. Who is correct?"Tahil considers that the total world lithium reserves are 4m tonnes," says an insider at SQM, which produces 37% of the world's lithium carbonate. "However, SQM's proven and probable in situ reserves alone total 5m tonnes."Tahil, who still stands behind another report he wrote in 2006 claiming that the World Trade Center was felled by underground nuclear explosions, also dismisses the potential extraction of lithium from hectorite, a type of clay. But Western Uranium Corporation, a Canadian group, is testing recovery methods that it says could be worth 2m tonnes of lithium. Tahil has also largely dismissed the option of recycling lithium carbonate from Li-Ion batteries.Disagreements over lithium reserves aside, the other debate is about how much lithium we can produce from our reserves, and whether it can match the growth of the car industry. Analysts say that we won't be needing 17m lithium-powered cars for a considerable time.Anjan Hemanth Kumar, an analyst with Frost &amp; Sullivan, says Europe will be the biggest market for electric vehicles, and he predicts that there will be some 250,000 vehicles in Europe by 2015. The US and Europe combined will have about 160,000 PHEVs by then. And Li-Ion battery vendor Hitachi says that most hybrid vehicles will use NiMH batteries until 2015.Prices powering forwardBut there have been some recent speed bumps in the largely opaque lithium market, which relies on bilateral sales agreements rather than commodity exchanges. "There's a difference between long-term availability and short-term supply," warns Nicholas Lenssen, practice director for distributed and renewable energy at IDC. "There are definitely concerns over short-term supply." According to Roskill, which provides information on metals and minerals markets, the price of lithium carbonate rose by 48%. An additional problem was a fire at Matsushita's Japanese ithium-ion battery plant in Japan last September, and another at South Korean LG Chem on March 3.Nevertheless, suppliers and observers are confident. "There seems to have been a big change at the end of 2007," says Jaskula, who tracks supply and demand. "It seems to be largely due to the Chinese. They're inputting their production capabilities, and they may be releasing more stuff that was stockpiled." And SQM, which produces more than a third of the world's lithium carbonate, has 12,000 tonnes per year of spare capacity at present, with permits to increase it.Lenssen nevertheless warns that an electric vehicle market that has been on-and-off for the past decade, combined with the conservatism of the auto industry, could put producers and consumers of lithium out of sync. "For those investments to be made, folks have to have a degree of certainty that in fact this time, these vehicles are going to happen and that oil prices, or more particularly retail prices for petroleum products, will remain high," he says.Peak oil advocates will worry that in spite of Kumar's analysis, we'll be forced to embrace Li-Ion in the coming years because oil will simply run out. But Bill van Amburg of research organisation Weststart-Calstart says that lithium won't have to support the auto industry on its own. "You'll have more efficient cars, alternative fuel, blended fuel, then the hybrids and electric drives, and all of them will have their piece of the wedge," he says.Future technologiesClifford is already taking the road less travelled. Zenn has invested $2.5m (&pound;1.2m) in eeStor, a Texas-based ultracapacitor group. Ultracapacitors are storage devices traditionally used for delivering large kicks of power, but they have little long-term energy capacity. eeStor promises to deliver one that stores as much energy as a lithium battery at less than half the weight - and with a charging time of under 10 minutes. Lockheed Martin has already signed an exclusive licence to use it in military applications.Other technologies are being investigated by carmakers too. Last year, Tata Motors, the Indian carmaker, gave MDI, a company started by a former Formula One engineer, &euro;20m (&pound;15.8m) for the rights to build cars based on its compressed air design. Both Zenn and MDI's US subsidiary ZPN hope to have cars housing their new technologies on the roads by 2010.Fossil fuel cars are unlikely to disappear just yet. But as we seek cleaner transport, other technologies are just around the corner.
Google's controversial Street View service– which will offer ground-level pictures of every UK street online – can finally be launched in Britain, after a privacy watchdog said it had no complaints about the service.Street View faced opposition from privacy advocates who argue that it infringes civil liberties.Some attacked it as a "burglar's charter", allowing criminals to look for potential victims over the internet.But the Information Commissioner's Office, which had been investigating complaints, said in a statement: "We are satisfied that Google is putting in place adequate safeguards to avoid any risk to the privacy or safety of individuals, including the blurring of vehicle registration marks and the faces of anyone included in Street View images. Although it is possible that in certain limited circumstances an image may allow identification of an individual, it is clear that Google are keen to capture images of streets and not individuals."The commissioner's office said it was satisfied with Google's online reporting mechanism, which lets people concerned about their privacy ask to have their images removed from the system.London-basedPrivacy Internationalhad written to Google demanding details of the technology the internet giant would use to ensure that identifying details would be blurred.That data was not forthcoming, but the commissioner's office said the lengthy delay between the images being taken by Google's roaming photographic cars and publication meant that the chances of using the system to track people were very slim.Street View has been available for several big US citiessince last year, where it has generally proved less controversial than under the more restrictive privacy regimes in Europe. However, the US military complained about photographs of a base in Texas, and a Pittsburgh couple filed a lawsuit against Google alleging that Street View indulged in a "reckless invasion" of their privacy when it took photographs of their home from a street marked with a "private road" sign.For some of those less concerned about the potential for invasions of privacy, Street View has achieved something like cult status.Websites have sprung up to track sightings of the Google car– a black saloon with a camera stuck to the roof – as it drives around Britain taking photographs.A number of sites have dedicated themselves to finding the oddest images from US streets. Spots have includedgiant pumpkins, topless womenand drug deals taking place.Google declined to comment on the ICO's announcement. It is thought that it will launch British Street View later this year.
Electronic readerSonyis finally taking pre-orders for its Reader ebook handheld in the UK at &pound;199, ahead of the Amazon Kindle.Orwell, the blogThe Orwell Prize websiteis celebrating the 70th anniversary of the release of George Orwell's diaries by republishing them as a blog.Big Brother for birdsGerman researchers have developed avoice detection systemthat can recognise the songs of different species of birds, which enables population tracking.Breast pinkSamsungis promoting its U800 Pink mobile to women by donating &pound;10 to the Breakthrough Breast Cancer charity for each phone sold.Hello Tosh, gotta Camelio?Toshibais competing in the HD camcorder market with the "palm-shaped" &pound;180 Camelio H10.Google in LondonGoogleis holding a Developer Day in London on September 16.Game to watchWarner Brothersis releasing "an episodic downloadable game" based on its forthcoming Watchmen movie of the DC comic.Free ESX!Facing competition from Microsoft,VMwarehas made its ESXi virtualisation software available free.
An interactive cookbook for your DS? Diehards will be weeping into their Super Mario pillowcases, but Cooking Guide is a pointer to the inclusive gaming future that Nintendo is forging. Not that CG is a game, of course. This is a software/edutainment hybrid that aims to help novice chefs create kitchen magic. Simply choose your recipe - go for a preset option or let the game create a menu from your fridge leftovers - and enjoy the niftily prepared shopping list. Once back from the shops, the real fun starts. Stick your console on the work surface, grab your utensils and listen as your DS talks your through the chopping, frying and stirring. Alternatively you can watch videos or read instructions but the voice-recognition software works well. And the instructions rarely get annoying. Experts needn't bother, but Cooking Guide is surprisingly useful.
Dear Gordon Brown: I know that you have packed your bucket and spade so you can go to the beach at Southwold, but I also know you'll have taken your computer - since the volume of emails that emanates from your machine is feared throughout Whitehall. So perhaps you're even reading this online. Now, I know it's unusual for you to find political advice in the Technology section, but this matters both to you and to us.The bit that matters to you is getting re-elected, or at least raising your popularity rating above the level where a doctor declares it dead. The bit that matters to us is knowing we'll be able to afford to heat and light our homes in the future.Everyone's been carping about your leadership, which is a bit unfair since you've put in place ministers who are far more turned on to the internet generation than Tony Blair ever did: Tom Watson, Michael Wills, Jim Knight and Baroness Vadera are all making a difference. But when there's a dismal byelection defeat and all ministers say is that they'll "listen and learn", people feel there's no leadership going on.What we actually want is some idea that Britain knows where it's going. And the one area where that really, really matters is energy. The airwaves are full of another warning that energy prices are going to rise again, and that perhaps Britain's wholesale market for energy is broken. This matters to people.Which is where you come in with the "leadership" bit. Look, good leaders don't do "listen and learn". They lead. They provide a vision, and they can pull an entire country along with them.Now, here's the wrong way to do "leading" over energy. When oil prices leapt up earlier this year, you said you would tell the Gulf states to pump some more oil. Where's the leadership in that?Real leadership would be to stand up and say: "The price of oil now is above $100 per barrel. At some time in the future it will rise to $200, and then $400 per barrel. This is simple economics: it is a finite resource for which there is increasing demand."The 2006 energy review consultation said that by 2020 we will import three-quarters of our primary energy. AndDeloittesaid in February 2006 that by 2020 we'll need more than 50 gigawatts of energy generating capacity - about two-thirds of current capacity: that's 30 nuclear power stations, or 40,000 offshore wind turbines."So Britain faces a challenge: how to secure our energy supplies. North Sea oil is running dry. We cannot just import gas and oil. If we carry on there will come a point when we cannot afford to heat and light our homes and offices."The challenge for us, the British people, is to make ourselves as energy-independent as possible. Just as the US space programme challenged the ingenuity of that country in the 1960s, this will challenge us. To encourage use of solar energy, we will adopt the German model by which owners of solar cells profit from selling surplus energy to the national grid. Offshore wind turbines and tidal energy systems will get tax breaks, funded by money from petrol taxes and a windfall tax on oil company profits. We'll insulate more homes than ever before. We are not going to be reliant on other people for our electricity."It's going to take sacrifice and it's going to cost money, but that will be saved against the spiralling prices we would have to pay in the future. The time to start is not when oil reaches $200 or $300 or $400 per barrel; it is now, when it is relatively cheap. Energy independence is the key to an affordable future for us and our children. So we start today."See? I think I've even got the style. You can set the timescale. Ten years would be a start. And I'd move quickly. I hear David Cameron's handy with email too, and he can spot a good idea as well as anyone.charles.arthur@guardian.co.uk
In the end, all it took was a bit of ministerial vision and some joined-up thinking. Over the past few days, the government has taken steps to liberate two of the most contentious datasets to feature in Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign.On Monday, Jacqui Smith, the home secretary, announced that every neighbourhood in England and Wales would have interactive online crime maps by the end of this year. The maps will show where crimes have been committed, with some types of crime mapped to individual streets, and allow citizens to compare their neighbourhood with others and hold their police to account.Importantly, the announcement came with an endorsement by police chiefs. Sir Norman Bettison, lead on policing futures at the Association of Chief Police Officers, said that neighbourhood statistics can reassure people about actual levels of crime. Politically, the Home Office's announcement is an astute move because it borrows a pledge made by Conservative leader David Cameron earlier this year. Crime maps also featured in the manifesto of new London mayor Boris JohnsonHowever, the announcement is also a sign that the "power of information" agenda, promoted by justice minister Michael Wills and Tom Watson, Cabinet Office minister, is permeating government policy. The idea is for public bodies to embrace web 2.0 ways of working, using web tools such as wikis and blogs, engaging in social networks - and making data available for re-use.Watson's championing of this cause led to the second breakthrough, even more exciting for free-data aficionados. As part of the "Show us a better way" competition for ideas for new uses of public sector information (showusabetterway.co.uk), Royal Mail has agreed to make available for free its Postcode Address File. The file is the most up-to-date and complete address database in the UK, containing more than 28m addresses. Licences for this data normally start at &pound;110 a year and for large organisations run to tens of thousands of pounds a year. Obstacles faced by public bodies wanting to use postcodes and addresses were one of the main inspirations of the Free our Data campaign.There is a snag: free postcode data is available only for the purpose of the competition. (If anyone abuses the terms, we hope they get caught: Free Our Data does not condone copyright theft.) However, history shows that once a piece of information enters the public domain, it is hard to persuade people that it should be taken out again. The march towards free data continues.&#183;Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
Blu-ray iMacWe're looking to buy an iMac, but there's no indication of if or when Apple is going to offer Blu-ray drives.Rachael JohnsonJS:It's more than three years since Apple joined the Blu-ray Association's board and more than two years since Sony announced Windows laptops with built-in Blu-ray drives, so Apple's silence is a mystery. The iMac is based on the same Intel technology that is found in Sony and other laptops that play Blu-ray discs when running Windows XP or Vista, so it's not clear why there has been a delay.However, Apple needs to offer the H.264/AVC High Profile and VC-1 video and various audio codecs, support the Blu-ray Java interface software and implement the required DRM (Digital Rights Management) system - none of which it appears to do, so far. Monitors must also support HDCP (High-bandwidth Digital Content Protection), but Apple's website doesn't actually say if any of its screens support it, and Apple's Cinema Display screens do not. This makes it impossible to predict when Apple will finally offer Blu-ray, but I'd guess it would come with a new range. You could, of course, connect an external Blu-ray drive, such as the LaCie d2 (&pound;546 atAmazon.co.uk), to an iMac if you wanted to use it for storage. If you want to play commercial Blu-ray movies, I suspect you'd be better off buying a standalone player or a Sony PlayStation 3.From Tiny to Bit.lyUntil two weeks ago, it was all TinyURL. Now it's all Bit.ly. I can't find an article explaining the difference. Is there one?Tim GosslingJS:Both services let you paste in a very long web address then provide you with a short code that redirects to it. The main thing that Bit.ly adds is URL tracking: in other words, we get a number for how many people clicked each link. Unlike TinyURL, Bit.ly also keeps a copy of each page. For more details, seebit.ly/3Z5DAAClosing Task ManagerThere seems no way to close the Task Manager in Windows Vista other than rebooting. Once opened, there is no close button, and right-clicking does nothing.Callum BrownJS:Normally you can close applications by clicking the cross in the top right hand corner or by pressing Alt and F4. Not having a close button was a bit of a mystery, but aMicrosoft Knowledge Basearticle reveals that Task Manager has a Tiny Footprint Mode. Briefly, double-clicking the top border of the window will bring back the usual controls. This applies in Windows XP as well.Failed updateI was trying to update Windows Defender in XP but the application declared that error code 0x80241001 prevented this. Afterwards my browser, Firefox, kept crashing.Alan BraddockJS:The error code indicates that an update was not installed successfully. TheMicrosoft Knowledge Basedescribes two ways to fix the problem. If that doesn't stop Firefox crashing, try uninstalling Firefox 2 and then reinstalling either Firefox 2 or 3.LA in a TIFFI submit environmental reports to a local authority. It says: "TIFF files are required for archival purposes as they are uncompressed which means they retain image detail and are stable (ie, do not degrade through successive opening and closing and saving)" unlike JPegs.David LynnJS:JPeg files are "lossy" - they use a compression system that loses some detail - but opening and closing images does not cause any degradation. However, loading a .jpg image into a paint program and saving it can cause degradation, even if you don't change it. There is no reason to do this, of course, but paint programs typically have a quality setting somewhere, so you will be re-saving them at "95% quality" or whatever. The rule is therefore not to mess about with original images, only with copies. TIFF (Tagged Image File Format) is a very old but very flexible format and it provides the option for lossless LZW compression, for example.BackchatMeriel Whale wanted an MP3 player with a built-in FM radio. On the Ask Jack blog, Paddydog suggested using a mobile phone: "The Sony Ericsson W960i has all the benefits of a Walkman and great sound quality. It also has FM radio and a capacity of 8GB." I also suggested only buying DRM-free tracks, and Peter Killick adds: "You need to make people aware of the big quality differences between what you get from different suppliers for more or less the same cost." An MP3 fromPlay.commight have a bit rate of 320kbps and one from Tesco Digital only 128kbps, he says.&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
It's the silly season for comment spam. Why else would spammers be promoting mercury vapour lamps, poker and porn in late July? While they're lying on a beach somewhere, their spamming software remains hard at work paying for the next long-haul holiday.If you run a blog, then dealing with comment spam is an around-the-clock operation too. I've now attracted more than 342,000 blog spam (comments and trackbacks) in just over two years to my blog (michaelpollitt.com). That's a big number for a relatively unimportant blog and, if I did nothing, would very quickly overwhelm it.In October 2005, the high-profile founding developer of the blogging software WordPress, Matthew Mullenweg, wrote a WordPress plugin (Akismet) and set up a web service to combat the spam menace. It also now works with other blogging systems, giving more bloggers much-needed spam protection. Akismet saves everyone the time they'd otherwise waste constantly deleting spam.Whenever a comment or trackback reaches my blog, the software sends it to the Akismet web service for an instant thumbs up or down decision. Genuine comments pass into my moderation queue (another line of defence) while spam to posts more than a month old is automatically discarded. Anything that Akismet isn't sure about is left for me to decide - it quickly learns, too.Akismet has caught more than 7bn blog spam and, at present, 88% of all comments are spam. Mullenweg publishes a graph onAkismet.comwhich shows comments being exceeded by daily spam peaks of more than 25m. Checking out the spam blocked counter on my blog is satisfying, showing that the spammers are going nowhere fast.As an experiment, I turned off my spam protection to watch the spam-a-minute flow. It seems mostly about porn at present but with the odd addition like "onomatopoeia poems" which linked to a malware site. Time to turn on the defences.So why do they send out so much blog spam? First, lots of inbound links from spammed blogs raise the spammers' websites in search results, making them easier to find. Second, people (very stupidly) buy products from spammed sites, which only encourages more spamming. Finally, systems like Akismet are now blocking significant spam volumes. How do the spammers react? Turn up the spam. That's why it'll never stop - even while they're on holiday.
What happens when digital sharecroppers are not happy on the electronic plantations? A dispute (over the amount of space devoted to advertising) between the wiki-hosting startup company Wikia, Inc and the creators of the sites it hosts, is a case study of the conflicts between so-called community and commerce.Wikia is a for-profit corporation which was launched by several high level people involved with Wikipedia, such as co-founder Jimmy Wales. Wikipedia has no significant financial connection to Wikia. But an enormous publicity benefit accrues to Wikia due to Wikipedia's fame: $14m (&pound;7m) of venture capital has been invested in Wikia. Its business model is to have a "community" (writers who work for free) to build a wiki website about a topic, and then to sell advertising on those pages. In short, Wikia hosts sites in return for all the ad revenues.At the start of June,Wikia's CEOannounced that many changes would be made to the appearance of sites, mainly to have more advertising and for the ads to be more prominent. As Wikia's community development manager put it: "We have to change things in order to make Wikia financially stable. Unfortunately,Google adsin the footer pay pennies a click, and nobody clicks". He went on to explain that ads paying based on view count were needed. And that type of advertiser wants their ad to be displayed where viewers are sure to see it, such as within an article, near the top.In reaction, various content creators made it clear they understood the needs of the company and had no objection to advertising per se. But putting ads inside content risked changing their material from articles into decorated billboards. The conflict between management and (unpaid) labour became acrimonious. There were declarations such as: "If Wikia does not resolve this situation to our satisfaction, then we will leave, taking our content, our communities' inward links, our established service marks and our fellow editors with us."But it is unclear if these statements signified opposition with real power or just empty bravado. Though Wikia makes content open, which means anyone can re-use it (and hence copy a website), there's a possibility that Google's algorithm will have the effect of marginalising any schisming website. Google often automatically penalises or obscures sites which duplicate or are too similar to other sites, as such sites are often attempts by web spammers to gain viewers parasitically. In fact, Google has become quite vigilant about marginalising redundant sites, in part due to the horde of click-seekers who have all had the idea of making a complete copy of Wikipedia and slapping ads on it. Leaving may not be as possible as one might naively think.However, at least one group - devoted fans of the shape-changing toy robots called Transformers - is determined to secede from Wikia. This site was used as part of the chief executive's initial announcement above, but now has a page of accusations against Wikia management. One member working on the move wrote on hisblogthat "the attitude towards the people generating the content they're making money off of has been to lie, pacify, misdirect or condescend".Note that the planned new site, atTFWiki.net, will still have advertising. But, wrote one member, the ads "will be placed more tastefully than the current trend on Wikia ... it's when it goes into the article area that we get testy".The typical digital sharecropping website is a capitalist's fantasy. The workers receive no pay and no benefits, have no rights and their only option to address a grievance is to quit. Yet given the very low profit margins, it's a difficult business. It can become a real-life version of the old joke about losing a little money on each product you sell, but trying to make it up on volume. Yet for all the talk of internet technologies making connections between people and fostering community, for a corporation, commercial imperatives must always have the final word.sethf.com/infothought/blog
For years, no one could understand how Google could possibly make money. Today it's a $151bn company. Today, no one makes money from URL redirection services such astinyurl.comandsnipurl.com. But they're generating billions of URLs and page views. Surely all that traffic must be worth something?In the past two weeks, the scattered pieces of the microblogging ecosystem - such as Twitter and Friendfeed - have coalesced into a storm big enough for people to get excited about. And URL shortening services are at the heart of it.Universal Resource Locators - URLs, or web addresses - looked really simple when research physicist Tim Berners-Lee thought them up in 1989. Then database-driven content turned URLs into lengthy strings of gibberish.Enter the redirection services. They are just huge, simple databases. They trade on the combinatorial power of the alphabet plus the 10 digits: with a "redirection" link just one character long, you could represent 36 possible URLs. Use two, and you have 36 squared, or 1,296; by the time you're using six characters, the possibilities are in the billions.Small is beautiful tooSo: take a huge, 120-character URL and feed it into a dialog box on the shortening site. It first looks in its database to see if it has processed that URL before. If it has, it gives you back the previous answer. If not, it generates a new shortened URL on the fly. Put the shortened URL in your browser's address bar, and the site looks in its database for the matching URL and redirects you there.The first of today's URL redirection services were set up in 2001: MakeAShorterLink (masl.to) - which has since been bought by the biggest such service, TinyURL - and SnipURL.Until the beginning of last year, URL redirection services saw steadily though modestly growing traffic. In March 2004, Wired reported that TinyURL was generating 8,400 shortened URLs a day and 80m page views a month. The Wayback Machine shows that by 2005, TinyURL had shrunk about 5.5m links. In August 2007, it was 42m. Now, it's 90m.It was the arrival last year of Twitter, the microblogging site, that transformed redirection sites from merely useful into absolutely essential.Twitter is blogging for the SMS generation. It enables the "smart mobs" Howard Rheingold wrote about in his 2002 book, Smart Mobs: The Next Social Revolution. Rheingold has said he's hooked on Twitter because it's "a rolling present".Marshall Kirkpatrick, a consultant based in Oregon and lead writer forreadwriteweb.comexplains:"There are lots of other circumstances where shorter URLs might be a good idea, but on Twitter you have to have them because of the 140-character limit."The experience of Shashank Tripathi, founder of SnipURL, backs this up: traffic through SnipURL has nearly tripled since Twitter went live. There are as many as 70 of these services, all free, all with increasing traffic. Some offer added features such as the ability to track how many people have clicked on your link or an open programming interface (API) so developers can build the service into the applications they write.One problem for all these services is dealing with spammers, for whom hiding a link's ultimate destination is useful for bypassing spam filters and trapping the unwary into visiting their sites. Letting users preview sites is one antidote; another is acting quickly to disable bad links when they're reported.Another problem about increasing traffic, however, is: how does a free service scale? Andrew Chapman, one of the four people behind UK-based qurl.com, is not convinced it's possible to turn that traffic into money."This kind of service, people expect to be free," he says. Qurl shortens links to a five-character string and also allows users to pick meaningful words. He says: "I thought originally I would monetise that as a premium service, but I never got around to it."TinyURL does have Google Adsense on its home page, but much more than that, says Chapman, "would just annoy people, and then they'd go to another service. It's part of web culture that lots of things are free to use."In mid-July, Twitter bought Summize, an independent search engine, just for Twitter. Can the acquisition and consolidation of URL shortening services be far behind? And nearly simultaneously, Summize's early investor, New York-based Betaworks, launched its own new URL shortener, bit.ly.Betaworks' chief executive John Borthwick says that while it's not expensive to build a URL redirection service, it is expensive to "build one that scales, grows, and keeps billions of URLs". Until now, he adds: "This market has been made up of developers who've needed something to solve this problem so they put out a solution." Betaworks built bit.ly because, he says, "nothing was quite open enough or scalable enough".Betaworks had expected to launch bit.ly quietly and add to its functionality over the next few weeks to make it clearly different. Instead, people leapt on it.Thinking of linkingWhere TinyURL uses a single server to generate shortened URLs and an algorithm that generates each new one based on the existing count, bit.ly uses a distributed index and multiple servers: it picks the next URL randomly and then synchronises the index tables across the servers. The chances of collisions are remote now because the service is so new, but "we're thinking hard about how to deal with it when we have billions," says Borthwick.An important distinguishing feature: bit.ly keeps copies of the destination pages, eliminating one of the key problems with the older services: "link rot". Bit.ly is also running the saved pages through Reuters Open Calais API, which, says Kirkpatrick, lets it "analyse content and semantic terms". Identifying the concepts and subjects of interest and matching those with geographical data parsed through another API means that "if bit.ly ever got to TinyURL status it will have a pretty rocking database of machine-readable web pages".What Kirkpatrick is talking about is taking search to a new level: a human-selected collection of pages that matter to people. And you don't have to rely on active tagging or pay for all that relatively expensive indexing.Kirkpatrick concludes: "I always assumed that's how somebody was going to make money through one of these services because they're seeing all this traffic come through - links that are obviously important to people."
Oh, Freecom Media Streamer 450 with a one-terabyte hard drive that can play to your TV, I wanted so much to like you. For that vast, vast hard drive, for one thing: with 1,000GB of storage, you'd never run out of space. Surely. And for having both wireless and wired connections, for another.The metal body is neat, though admire it from a distance; close up, the plastic fronting is held on with some hefty screws, but not in enough numbers to make it stable. There's the now-obligatory blue LED on the front to show it's working, and a few buttons, but really you're meant to operate it from across the room, using the remote.That's where the disappointments start. First of all, it's only a media streamer - it can't record content from your TV, which these days begins to feel like a necessity. Second, the onscreen interface is truly awful, with horrible, blocky type. Why not aim high with the interface? There's an HDMI (high definition) output, but I didn't get the chance to try it. Would the blocky type look any better on that, I wonder? For &pound;350-odd, can't someone find a designer?Third, how do you enter a hex number (0-9, a-f) using a remote control that only has 0-9? (You have to be a bit inventive, it turns out.) Fourth, I simply couldn't get that vast, vast hard drive to play nicely on my network, whether via wireless or Ethernet: it remained somewhere out there in the ether, refusing to answer my machine's requests to speak to it. So I had to go with what was on the loan machine.So it's a huge hard drive - don't forget that - which (in theory) you can use to store anything. It can also work (again, in theory; I couldn't confirm it) as an FTP server over the network and the net - though I have to say that I wouldn't recommend this, since you'd have to change the default user and password. Truly, the setup menu is a confusing mess. At least the main screen - where you choose what to play, whether audio, photos or video - is better, and it can play tons of (especially video) formats. One point: the hard drive is fanless, which means the box gets hot.But in my continual search for the best possible way to both record and play back content from your TV, the Freecom Media Streamer comes up short in the first part (doesn't record). On the playback side, why do you need a hard drive right by your TV? Might as well separate the hard drive from the playback part - which is whatNeuros Technology's OSD, reviewed here in February, does: it can record and play back via your TV over the network or a local drive, the interface is good, and while it doesn't do HD, it does everything but. That's still the one to beat. Pity. I liked the idea of a terabyte drive.Pros:Large hard drive; can act as an FTP serverCons:Awful screen menus; no TV recordingfreecom.com
You may think that the cuddly rubber-skinned dinosaur robot on Steve Bannerman's shoulder is just another low-priced Christmas gift. But to Bannerman, a former Apple staffer who set up Quicktime TV (which became the iTunes Store), Pleo, as the dinosaur is called, might just be the future of human-machine interaction.Pleo, made by a company called Ugobe, coos and even sings. Rub its neck and stomach and it blinks its baby-like eyes and turns towards you and writhes happily. It's an instant emotional draw. "Stroke him! He likes it," says Bannerman. "He's got sound and video sensors," he explains. When it's stroked, the machine reacts with - well, you'd call it pleasure.Bannerman has only been with Ugobe since April; he'd previously cashed out of Apple at the height of the dotcom boom. But Pleo fascinated him: "I fell in love with this dinosaur," he says. "I loved the artificial intelligence component." He points to Wall-E, Pixar's latest: "What's cool is that they built character into it. Though then you buy a $99 [Wall-E] robot but they don't work particularly hard to give it personality. And as much as I love my iPhone, there's no chance it's going to love me back." That's the difference about Pleo, he suggests: it will react to you.Rise of the emo machinesBut Ugobe is not alone in trying to build "emotional" machines. This week the Science Museum in London unveiled an exhibition of "emotional" robots called  Emotibots - which, according to Holly Cave of the museum, "is about robots that can trigger emotional responses in people, or even look like they have human-like emotions themselves".One that best demonstrates a sort of personality is iC Hexapod, developed by Matt Denton of MicroMagic Systems. It's the latest in a line of six-legged walking robots created by Denton. It looks like a metallic insect whose eyes are programmed to search for people's faces. When it finds a face, it follows it around. If the human moves towards iC, it recoils. If the human takes a step back, iC stretches out and leans forwards attentively.The emotional response this generates is remarkable. If a child interacts with iC Hexapod, the robot seems to respond with similarly childish movements. If an adult examines iC, the robot studies them back. As a result it becomes easy to project some sort of character and personality on to the robot as it interacts so fluidly and precisely every move.The key to building emotion into robots is about letting people impose their own versions on them, suggests Bannerman, who explains why Ugobe didn't follow Sony by making Pleo a robot dog (or cat): "People have an expectation of what a dog or cat will behave like. It's more difficult to suspend your disbelief when you're looking at something that's like, but isn't, a dog or cat. It's easier with a dinosaur."iC Hexapod doesn't look much like a dog or cat. It stands and moves around on its six legs. Denton also programmed the onboard processors which spring all the hardware into life: a "p.Brain" controls the movement of the legs, body, neck and face.Denton describes himself as an animatronics designer and creative engineer, and his credits include the lip-syncing baby inMassive Attack's Teardroppop video and creatures from Lost In Space and the children's hit In The Night Garden. iC Hexapod comes from a more recent interest in the arts field, which has also included a collaboration with Dante Leonelli, an artist who works with light, at Kinetica Museum's launch exhibition in November 2006. This was followed by last February's Monster Mash, a more DIY affair which provided a platform for a test version of iC and other work from designers in the creature effects industry to let their imaginations run riot, outside of the confines of directors, scripts and storyboards.It's not only iC Hexapod's movements and reactions that appear to mimic humans, it's also its inbuilt sense of memory. "Once I had the initial prototype up and running, and I had a hexapod that could 'see' and respond to the people it met, it became a short jump to allow it to 'remember' them, too," explains Denton. "Once iC has locked on to a person's face, I've programmed it to wait a short time and then capture that face as a digital photo. The robot has an internet connection so, as soon as it has met someone and remembered them - or rather taken their photo - it publishes the image to its blog."The photos on iC Hexapod's blog (hexapodrobot.com), which will also be projected on large screens at the Science Museum, are simple JPegs, but show something quite unique: the expressions people pull when confronted with, and interacting with, a very personable robot. They also show what humans look like from a robot's point of view.Relating to the robotHow useful are emotions in computers, though? "The hardest thing people work at is establishing relationships," says Bannerman. "Pleo is about an emotional relationship and a bond. The endgame is the next-generation interface. It's the difference between R2-D2 in Star Wars and Commander Data in Star Trek: The Next Generation. R2-D2 is limited in its interface. But if you get the interface right then we can explore the whole depth of the machine. It's not that people don't want to use all their machines' capabilities - it's that the barrier to use is too great. So our philosophy is really to breathe life into any machine."He thinks for a minute. "Maybe the next one will be emotional and not entertainment." But for now, the dinosaur will certainly do.
Might sweet peas and a polymer help reduce disfiguring skin contractions after a skin graft? Sheila MacNeil, professor of tissue engineering at the University of Sheffield, thinks so. Thanks to a compound called beta-aminopropionitrile found in sweet peas, plastic surgeons may soon replace uncomfortable pressure garments with a drug-containing polymer gel.MacNeil is also behind the development of an artificial skin scaffold (Scientists spin brand new skin, Technology, August 24 2006). Now, she and her colleagues have turned to an ages-old problem with skin grafts that shrink, become lumpy and, for children with burns, give real problems as they grow. She's combining polymer chemistry with tissue engineering - a technical challenge in itself - along with a desire to do something clinically useful.Getting under the skinSkin is very complex stuff. Apart from the epidermis and the underlying dermis, a key element is collagen, a protein that gives strength and elasticity. Even though a skin graft may be of the patient's own skin, it often shrinks within months and the dermis also "bubbles" with uncontrolled growth. "We don't know why skin contracts, but we can predict who and where," MacNeil says.Plastic surgeons traditionally use pressure garments to push down on the wound. But the younger the patient, MacNeil says, the more likely grafts will contract in places like knees, elbows and armpits - eventually limiting movement and leading to repeated corrective surgery.Years of experience with tissue engineered skin has helped MacNeil understand the problem. When plastic surgeon Caroline Harrison was doing her PhD (she works at Northern General Hospital, Sheffield) on contractions in tissue engineered skin, MacNeil realised that an enzyme is the key: "We came up with one definite hit - an enzyme that skin cells use to tether collagen fibres to each other."The enzyme, lysyl oxidase, initiates cross-linking between collagen in the dermis, resulting in skin contraction. MacNeil's instinct was to inhibit it, and, thanks to a compound called beta-aminopropionitrile (beta-APN) from sweet peas, she could do just that.Beta-APN is found in the pods and seeds, leading to floppy skin and other symptoms in grazing animals due to reduced collagen cross-linking. It can also adversely affect people, if many sweet pea seeds are eaten. But by applying beta-APN externally to skin grafts, any systemic effects could be avoided. The question was, how?Realising that combining polymer science with this enzyme-inhibiting compound may hold the answer, she turned to Professor Steve Armes, also at the University of Sheffield, who had developed a novel polymer hydrogel made from three biocompatible polymers - HPMA, MPC, and disulphide-linked MPC. The hydrogel has the unusual property of being liquid at refrigerator temperature, but when warmed by body heat, it sets into a gel."We were first attracted to these gels because of their temperature profile," says MacNeil. "Where it's possible to take a new approach to the science then this can be very intellectually rewarding and hopefully clinically useful."Hard work finally gelsThe skin polymer in the labOver the past two years, Karima Bertal - one of MacNeil's PhD students - has helped further this new approach. Intended as a gel wound dressing, Bertal is seeing if the polymer will safely yet slowly release microgram quantities of beta-APN. In-vitro testing of tissue engineered skin with beta-APN already shows that it retains 80% of its original size compared to just 60% in control samples. But how easy might the new treatment be?"The hydrogel could be painted on or squirted on containing the amount of drug we want to begin with. It would then set to give a medium firm jelly on the patient's wound bed," MacNeil says. "The gel itself is clear. You can see through it."Consultant plastic and reconstructive surgeon Peter Dziewulski is the clinical director of the burn unit at the St Andrew's Centre for Plastic Surgery and Burns in Broomfield Hospital, Chelmsford.Dziewulski says that, although wound contracture is an important part of healing, the shrinkage of wounds, skin grafts, or scars may lead to problems in burn patients, especially children. He uses therapies such as pressure garments, massaging and the topical use of silicone over periods of 18 months to two years. But despite such intense efforts, patient outcomes may be unsatisfactory."Burn patients are often left with contracted disfiguring and disabling scars which need extensive reconstructive surgery over many operations," says Dziewulski. "I think the development of a topical gel to modulate skin graft scar contracture is an exciting prospect that will hopefully benefit burn patients."The next two years will see MacNeil's team developing a treatment for patients needing skin grafts. Although more lab work and clinical trials remain, an answer to one of plastic surgery's most complex problems is within her sights.
A British hacker who broke into the Pentagon's computer systems said he was disappointed and angry after the House of Lords yesterday dismissed his appeal against extradition to the US.Gary McKinnon - dubbed "the world's most dangerous hacker" by the American authorities - could face trial in the US for his actions, but vowed to continue fighting his case in the European courts."I'm very disappointed and very angry, but not too surprised," he told the Guardian. "It might be naive of me, but perversely, I think I might have more chance in Europe than I do in my own country."McKinnon said the Home Office had delayed extraditing him by two weeks to allow him time to lodge a higher appeal. After that, the case could take two years to reach the courts. "Right now I'd be quite glad of a two-year delay," he said. "It's better than being handed over to US marshals and being put on a plane straight away."He said the case had proved devastating in the six years since he was arrested. With his bail conditions barring him from using the internet, his previous work in IT is near-impossible, while potential employers are scared off."I've lost two jobs because of this - my bosses just didn't want to be associated with the publicity," he said.The 42-year-old hacked into 97 computers belonging to the US military shortly after the attacks on the World Trade Centre and Pentagon in 2001, using the codename "Solo".American officials claim he infiltrated systems belonging to the department of defence, the US armed forces and even Nasa - causing $700,000 (&pound;354,000) damage and threatening national security.If extradited, McKinnon faces up to 70 years in prison and his lawyers have argued that he could even be given "enemy combatant" status, the same category applied to terrorist suspects interned at Guant&aacute;namo Bay. McKinnon's lawyer, Karen Todner, said her client had now exhausted his options in the UK and would be taking his case to the European court of human rights in Strasbourg."Gary McKinnon is neither a terrorist nor a terrorist sympathiser," she said. "His case could have been properly dealt with by our own prosecuting authorities. Instead, we believe that the British government declined to prosecute him to enable the US government to make an example of him."American officials involved in this case have stated that they want to see him 'fry'. The consequences he faces if extradited are both disproportionate and intolerable and we will be making an immediate application to the European court to prevent his removal."McKinnon, an unemployed IT worker from north London, has consistently argued that he was merely a "bumbling computer nerd" who caused no damage but was merely searching for evidence of extraterrestrial life. Between 2001 and 2002 he scanned thousands of US government computers from his bedroom, looking for loopholes which would help him get inside their networks in order to prove his contention that the existence of aliens had been covered up by the CIA.He left messages on the desktops of computers he had hacked into, a mistake that allowed the authorities to trace him."It got a bit silly," he told the Guardian in 2005. "I suppose it means I'm not a secretive, sophisticated, checking-myself-every-step-of-the-way type of hacker."McKinnon's lawyers have argued that he should face trial in the UK as the hacking raids were conducted in Britain. If the courts supported such a decision it would mean he would face a much smaller sentence under the UK's more lenient computer crime laws. The defence argued he was being unfairly targeted because his work embarrassed the US security services.They also argued that an attempt by US prosecutors to make a deal with McKinnon - in which he would be offered a six-month sentence for his cooperation - constituted an unfair derailment of British legal procedures. That contention was rejected by the law lords, who said that granting the appeal would "imperil the integrity of the extradition process".Lord Brown of Eaton-under-Heywood said in the written judgment: "The difference between the American system and our own is not perhaps so stark as the appellant's argument suggests."Computer security experts said it was unlikely US prosecutors would give up their pursuit. "The US is making a clear stand that anyone making any attempts to compromise its computers and data will face the consequences," said Graham Cluley, of IT security company Sophos.Past and present&#183;In the earliest days of computer hacking the main culprits were precocious teenagers with too much time on their hands. Among the early pioneers was British hacker Robert Schifreen, who broke into BT's networks and gained access to private inboxes - including one belonging to Prince Philip. A jury trial in 1985  acquitted Schifreen of any wrongdoing - although his case resulted in the Computer Misuse Act of 1990 He now works as an IT consultant.&#183;Hacker Kevin Poulsen became famous for a series of audacious stunts which netted him large sums of money. His greatest hack involved commandeering the phone lines of a Los Angeles radio competition to ensure that he would be the caller who won a Porsche sports car. Poulsen was found guilty for a series of crimes in 1994 and sentenced to 51 months in prison. He is  now a journalist for technology bible Wired.&#183;Today hacking is popular with organised crime, with hackers employed to commit large-scale fraud. Chief among them is Titan Rain, a gang of unknowns allegedly linked to the Chinese People's Liberation Army, which has raids against government computers in Britain, the US and Germany.
It wasn't a good day for Gary McKinnon, the Pentagon hacker, who todayhad his appeal against extraditionto the USturned downby the House of Lords.He wasn't at parliament to hear the judgment, but I spoke to him on the phone this afternoon to see how things were going: "Not good," he said (perhaps unsurprisingly). "I'm very disappointed and very angry, but not too surprised." Next step, he said, was to try and send the appeal over to the European Court of Human Rights.Wouldn't he rather the ordeal was over? Of course, but "right now I'd be quite glad of a two-year delay," he said. "It's better than being handed over to US Marshals and being put on a plane straight away."
Ok, it probably won't hit till 2010 at the earliest but Elite 4 is coming. David Braben, co-creator of the original game,has saidthe technology behind the game is "almost finished". Quashing fears that Irecently raisedBraben said Elite 4 had "not been forgotten". That's the good news then. Unfortunately fans - and there are plenty of us here right? - will have to wait until after the release of Braben's next game -The Outsider- which is slated to arrive next year.So good news then, despite the wait. The original Elite is - gulp - 24 years old, whileFirst Encounters- aka Elite 3 - is now a teenager, so fans are used to waiting. But imagine the pressure on the development team. Do they keep as many elements of the original game as possible so that it appeals to 30-something gaming veterans? Or do they design it to appeal to a younger, wider audience with no attachment to the Elite "franchise"? Could we even see Elite 4 on the Wii? Just imagine the joy of trying todockusing the Wiimote. Anyway, roll on 2010.
