It’s tough out there in space. Every planet you visit is a crumbling war zone patrolled by gigantic bipedal death machines, and every spacecraft hangar and neon-drenched highrise is populated only by swarming grunts and wall-running pilots – at least half of whom are totally out to get you.Yes, this is the world of Titanfall, the multiplayer sci-fi shooter that’s set to compete with Call of Duty as the go-to game for online battle. Developer Respawn Entertainment has tried really hard to ensure that newcomers don’t fall into the grinding ‘spawn-death-spawn-death’ cycle that has made CoD a nightmarish challenge for the inexperienced. However, it can still be difficult to get a foothold in each match, especially when you’re on servers with people who have somehow racked up 100 hours of game time in the week since it launched.So here are 10 basic tips just to get novice pilots into the groove of the game. It would be great if more experienced players could add their own suggestions in the comments section.Keep moving, keep highAs with most fast-paced shooters, it’s best not to stop still for too long, unless you know the maps really well and are fairly confident you are safe. A moving target is much harder to hit, especially from a distance. Also, use the jet pack and double jump to get some height – the rooftops are exposed but they give you a great overview of where enemy pilots and titans are and allow you to pick off targets on the ground. Being up there also ensures you’re not stomped on by enemy titans. Remember to use wall-running where possible and use the wall-jumping mechanic to zig-zag between to buildings to quickly climb to the top. Stringing parkour moves together also allows you to build momentum so you can leap across greater distances.Start out as a grunt hunterForget other players for a while, when you first start the game concentrate on shooting the AI-controlled Grunts and Spectres. They’re easier to hit, do less damage to you, and you’ll get XP for bringing them down – plus, if you’re playing Attrition, you’ll also get points toward your team’s victory. Select the Minion Detector Kit, which reveals the position of all the computer-controlled soldiers, then get to work. And if you fit a suppressor to your gun, you won’t show up on the map to alert human enemies of your position. It’s sneaky, but it gets you used to the maps. Also, taking out minions will reduce your titan delivery time, so you can get mechanised on their sorry asses. And when you unlock the Burn Cards, make sure you combine your minion culling with a card that provides extra XP.Use your minionsWhen you respawn on a map, have a look around for your own minions – if you see grunts running off in one direction, the chances are they are engaging the enemy, so you can follow them to the action. Also, tagging along with a group of minions is a nice Assassin’s Creed-style ‘hiding in plain sight’ tactic. Not only are your computer-controlled brethren great sources of mobile cover, but opponents will often take them on without expecting serious comeback, so you can surprise your foe with a counter attack.Customise, customise, customiseThe basic pilot and titan charges are fine for a while, but as soon as you unlock the ability to customise your load-outs, go for it. Think about how you tend to engage the enemy – if you do it up close and personal, you’ll want the shotgun or smart pistol, probably with the cloaking ability to sneak up on victims. If you tend to “run-and-gun” and engage at mid-range, you want the R101C assault rifle or the G2A4 semi-automatic, and perhaps the Active Radar Pulse ability to keep enemies in view. If you like to maintain your distance and sneak around, you need a sniper rifle, a few arc mines to keep your immediate area safe and the Enhanced Parkour of Stealth kit for subtle movement. Meanwhile, speed and alertness are important in Pilot Hunter, so the Stim ability comes into its own.Pretty much the same rules go for the titans: work out how you usually play, or your favourite primary weapon and build everything around that. It’s worth keeping a selection of custom load-outs that are optimised for different mode types. For example, it’s a good idea to have the lighter, more sprightly Stryder titan chassis in the Capture the Flag mode, so you can help transport the enemy’s flag to your base (and use the Electric Smoke ability to create cover for your flag-stealing comrades); and as a pilot, the Active Radar pulse is useful for spotting any sneaky enemies hiding around their flag zone. But you may want a beefier Ogre-based machine for Last Titan Standing, as well as a pilot designed to get onto rooftops fast with the most damaging anti-titan weapon possible, as well as the Spitfire LMG. The key thing is to get your primary weapon, tactical ability, kits and Burn Cards working together.Master the ordinanceWhen you get to a certain level you unlock the useful satchel charges which are remote detonation bombs that can be lobbed anywhere in the environment. These are particularly useful in the Hardpoint and Capture the Flag modes. In the former, when you have captured one of the three hardpoint positions, lob a couple of satchels at the hacking terminal (the object at the centre of the location – the one your distance counter runs down to), then head off. Now, if you see on your mini-map that the enemy has started neutralising that location, simply trigger the bombs – the chances are you’ll catch someone in the blast. With Capture the Flag, surround your own flag with satchel bombs and either hide out nearby or leave the area. As soon as you get a warning that the enemy has your flag, detonate the charge. Arc mines are great for defending key entrances to hardpoint locations as they’ll go off automatically if an enemy approaches. There’s a Burn Card that gives you infinite ordinance so go for this one if you’re taking this rather sneaky approach.Learn the mapsThere are 15 maps in the game and they all have their own little quirks, action centres and fox holes. While playing, make a mental note of the key choke points – ie where most of the fighting takes place and figure out how and where you can get a good high vantage point on the chaos. Maps like Angel City and Colony are all about controlling the rooftops, so maybe go for the Enhanced Parkour Kit to ensure you have the freedom to get up there quickly and patrol effectively. Don’t overlook the ziplines that let you travel between points quickly – these are invaluable on maps like Rise, Lagoon and Overlook allowing you to ghost in behind enemy positions. Programming gun turrets is also an easy way of picking up a few extra kills and you earn XP for every target acquired, so remember where these are. On most maps you can use the parameter routes to travel relatively quietly – Fracture even has little concrete pipes to use as rat runs. And if you have to charge into a choke point area, cloak first.Become a Burn Card sharkLearn which cards suit your style of play, and always make sure you have three cards selected at the beginning of every match – it’s easy to forget. As we’ve mentioned, the types of cards you go for can depend on your style of play, but the mode also matters. In Capture the Flag, endurance is of the essence so the Adrenaline Transfusion and Smuggled Stimulant cards are useful, while in Attrition you’ll maybe want one of the Amped weapons cards to ensure you have the upper hand in every armed encounter. The Prosthetic Legs card is handy for Hardpoint because it lets you get to capture points quickly.Be a team playerRespawn hasn’t provided any lone player modes for a reason – this is a game about teamwork. If you’re not confident enough to take the enemy’s flag in CTF, shadow the player who does grab it – provide cover from rooftops or just another target for enemy fire. If you see an enemy attempt to rodeo an allied, titan, shoot them off. If you’re not good at titan battles, guide your mech to a hard point or CTF base and set it to guard mode, then get the hell out. The best way to progress in Titanfall – like all online shooters – is to find a group of friends and play together, mastering different approaches. A good Titanfall team is like a good football team: you need strong defenders, a couple of contrasting midfielders (one holding, one creative) and one or two fast, aggressive strikers. Titan battles are a lot easier if you can coordinate attacks between players so that no-one gets outnumbered. Finding your role on a team, even if its with strangers on a public server, is crucial.Be a wallflowerBefore launch, Respawn reckoned this would be one of the most over-looked abilities so learn it fast and know when to use it to most effect. Basically, while wall running you can hit the left trigger or “aim” button to hang from the wall for a limited period (longer if you get the Enhanced Parkour kit). You can only aim from the hip while in this position, but chose a location on the exterior of a building opposite a window, or high above your CTF flag pedestal or Hardpoint centre, and you can cause some serious damage. You can also detonate your satchel mines from here so plant a couple of those nearby and you have two channels of destruction.Keep calm during the epilogueIf you’re on the losing team, your instinct is to leg it to the evac point as soon as the counter starts, but stay cool – there will be enemies waiting for you. Instead, sneak your way there by wall-running and working between buildings, and if you have to go into exposed areas use the cloak. You want to get high up as quickly as possible, because most evac points are on rooftops and you want your last most-exposed leap to be straight onto the landing platform. Better still, if you have a titan ready to drop, get in and take it to the evacuation point just as your craft arrives, then eject when you’re nearby. Even better, go for the auto-eject kit and when you reach the base either succumb to a firefight with another titan or hit up on D-pad to initiate the ejection sequence – you’ll shoot into the air fully cloaked, given you the time and height you need to aim yourself straight at your escape craft.If you’re on the winning team, you’ll want to head straight for that evac point. As a pilot, get on the pad and prepare to fire. Ordinance is handy here - a few satchel packs or arc mines will soon put a stop to those escape plans. However, if you’re in a titan, keep some distance so you can shoot at enemy pilots as they run across the landing pad, or better yet, gang up with another couple of titans and fire at the ship itself. You’ll need at least three titans with heavy firepower to bring it down, but when you do, it’s ridiculously satisfying.•Titanfall review – futuristic, fantastic, but not revolutionary• Titanfall: a complete beginner’s guide
Xbox One sales in the UK were boosted by 96% last week with the release of sci-fi shooter Titanfall. The game, which is exclusive to Microsoft platforms, including Windows PC, Xbox 360 and Xbox One, launched on 14 March, immediately claiming the number one slot on the all-formats software chart.According to figures released by entertainment sales monitor Chart-Track, 70% of all Xbox One units sold in the UK last week were special editions, bundled with Titanfall. The game has been heavily marketed by Microsoft and publisher Electronic Arts, and is widely considered a benchmark title for the Xbox One machine, especially as it is unavailable on close rival PlayStation 4. Microsoft also accompanied the release with a UK price drop for the console, from £429 to £399.However, according to retail sources speaking to Chris Dring, editor of industry news site, MCV, PS4 sales also rose last week – by 72.4%. “PS4 is in a stronger position,” he said. “It had by far the strongest Christmas out of the two and a really strong start to the year, so has opened a big gap over Xbox One.“Sony’s big issue is making enough consoles. PS4 has been subject to stock shortages in some areas, particularly during February. In fact last week, PS4 sales rose by over 70% last week because there was an increase in consoles shipped into the market.”The comparative strength of the PS4 is also showing up in figures gathered by US research company NPD Group. January saw Sony’s machine outselling the Xbox One by as much as two-to-one, but its advantage is now slowing. “PS4 led hardware sales in February 2014, but by a narrow margin with Xbox One selling over 90% of what the PS4 sold in terms of unit sales,” wrote NPD Group analyst in a news release. “However, with Xbox One’s higher price point it led hardware sales on a dollar basis.”The battle between the two consoles remains difficult to gauge, however, as their approach to global distribution differs. PlayStation 4 is currently available in over 50 territories, including the US, most of Europe and Japan, while Xbox One is only available in around 13.Last week,the New York Times postulatedthat the paucity of PlayStation 4 stocks in the US, may actually have driven consumers to purchase Xbox One machines instead, accounting for the sharp rise in sales in February. The piece quoted Guy Longworth, senior vice president of PlayStation marketing, who referred to “severe inventory constraints” – perhaps a result of the console’s wider global roll-out.It is also likely that Xbox One was boosted in February by players purchasing the machine in preparation for Titanfall, which has received almost universal critical acclaim. If that’s the case, it will be interesting to see what happens when Sony’s PS4 exclusive, Infamous: Second Son releases on 21 March. This is another much-hyped, heavily advertised release with a built-in fan base. And it is likely that whatever constraints Sony was experiencing with distributing its machine last month will be cured in time. “This week will be an interesting test,” said Dring. “I am sure [Infamous: Second Son] will be accompanied with an increase in PS4 supply.”•Xbox One gets price cut to £399 – with free copy of Titanfall• Titanfall review – futuristic, fantastic, but not revolutionary
Sometimes it seems like not a week goes by without news of some bitcoin service getting hacked and losing everything.Thankfully, such attacks are rarer than that. But given the size of the bitcoin economy, they are still far, far more common than they have any right to be. A look at the history of bitcoin hacks is a look at the history of bitcoin itself, from its beginnings all the way to the genesis of the professionalised second generation of firms we’re seeing now.In the interests of fairness, we haven’t covered the black market. While the disappearance of sites likeSheepandSilk Roadtook a lot of bitcoins with them, that says more about what happens if you dabble in drug dealing than cryptocurrencies overall.AllinvainIt’s not a bitcoin service, but honorary mention has to go to Allinvain, a member of the BitcoinTalk forums who, in June 2011, becamethe first person to suffer a major lossowing to a bitcoin hack.25,000 bitcoins were stolen from their wallet after hackers compromised the Windows computer they were using. Even at the time, that sum was worth more than $500,000; it would now be worth a little less than £10m.Mt GoxThe first MtGox hack came a little after Allinvain’s. The company, which at the time had a near-monopoly on the trade between bitcoins and real money, suffered a catastrophic hack just one week later.An attacker with a Hong Kong IP address compromised an accounton the site, and then made a massive sale of bitcoins, causing the price of the currency to drop from $32.00 per coin to mere pennies. Ironically, the hackers themselves didn’t even manage to profit from it; their attempts to withdraw the looted money hit up against Mt Gox’s withdrawal limit of $1000 a day.That didn’t stop the attack having a catastrophic effect on confidence in the currency. It was 18 months before bitcoin would recover enough to hit the highs it had been at before MtGox’s hack.Bitcoin Savings and TrustFollowing the collapse of the first bitcoin bubble, hacking activity died down for a bit. With bitcoins worth single-digit dollars, there was less motivation to steal them. But in the summer of 2012, one of the biggest – in bitcoin terms – scams ever began to fall apart. And unlike much in the bitcoin world, no hacks were needed, just good old-fashioned fraud.Bitcoin Savings and Trust was a bitcoin-based Ponzi scheme, that posed as a virtual hedge fund promising to pay high rates of interest to investors. In classic pyramid style, only the first people to invest ever saw those rates of return, as the money of later investors was used to pay off early ones.The fund was started in November 2011,and by July 2012 users were expressing doubt. But new members carried on joining for another month until August 17th, when Trendon Shavers - the man behind the scheme - announced he was closing it. A year later, the SEC issued a lawsuit against Shavers for running the Ponzi. Over 700,000 bitcoins went through the trust, and Shavers creamed off 150,000 for himself – returning the rest to investors. But only those who got in there early.BitcoinicaAt the same time as Bitcoin Savings and Trust was collapsing, a bitcoin exchange was suffering its own legal troubles. Bitcoinica had already been hacked in March 2012, and lost thousands of bitcoins. But the hack wasn’t enough to bring the company down, and Bitcoincia promised that it would pay back users in full. In May that year, the company was hacked again; that time, it was a killing blow. The company closed its website, and promised to refund 50% of customers holdings.Five months later, that promise still hadn’t been honoured, and four San Franciscan users sued the company for the $460,000 they felt they were owed. It was the second ever US lawsuit involving Bitcoin.The Bitcoinica story ended unresolved. The company built its service around MtGox, and so, once it shut down in May 2012, the bitcoins it had left stayed dormant in that account while the legal situation was sorted out. Which meant that when MtGox lost all its bitcoins and closed its doors, the Bitcoinica account holders finally lost everything.BitFloorThe summer of 2012 was a bad time for bitcoin exchanges. BitFloor suffered its own break-in in September, losing 24,000 bitcoins when a hacker “accessed an unencrypted backup of wallet keys“.The exchange paused operations, with the founder, Roman Shtylman,saying that“I felt it inappropriate to continue operating not having the capability to cover all account balances for BTC at the time.” The company eventually managed to pay most users back, albeit only in dollars.Inputs.ioIf there’s one type of bitcoin business which has a bad name, it’s online wallet services. In theory, they let individual users offload the problems of securing their bitcoins to a trusted third party, while also allowing payments to be made easily and lowering the technical know-how required to get and store the currency.In practice, they are the most tempting target for hackers in the entire ecosystem. Since they don’t interact with the traditional banking system to the same degree as bitcoin exchanges, the barrier to entry is far lower, presenting no shortage of potential opportunities.Inputs.io was one such service.In two hacks in late October 2013, the company lost 4,100 bitcoins, worth over $1m at the time. (At current prices they would be worth $2.5m). The site’s founder, known as TradeFortress, announced the hacks – and subsequent closure of the site – in a post headlined “:(“. He subsequently recommended against anyone using services like his: “Please don’t store Bitcoins on an internet connected device, regardless of [if] it is your own or a service’s.”That advice leads to its own problems: if users aren’t storing their bitcoins – or, more accurately, the private key to their bitcoins – on an internet connected device, spending their money becomes difficult.BIPSA few weeks after Inputs.io, another wallet service was hacked. BIPS lost 1,295 bitcoin from its own accounts, as well as money from “several” consumer wallets. The company disclosed the theft rather quicker than Inputs.io did, but still waited 11 days from the first hack attempt to finally telling customers that they had lost money.In that time, the value of the stolen bitcoins rose from $650,000 to over $1m – though by the end of December, the third bitcoin bubble had popped, and the value had fallen back down to $690,000.PicostocksEven niche bitcoin firms aren’t immune. Picostocks is an attempt to become one of the first bitcoin stock markets. Although it currently has just four companies trading on it – one of which is Picostocks itself – that didn’t stop hackers making off with 6000 BTC in late November 2013.The company announced the loss on Reddit, and confirmed it would be offline for a week (a “:-(“ emoticon ended the message). Impressively, it survived the loss, worth almost $6m at the time andis still trading today.CointerraBitcoins are created by “mining” for them, a computationally intensive task which involves deliberately wasting processing power to prove that you aren’t an attacker bent on cheating the network. Cointerra makes hardware specifically for mining: they currently sell a $6000 computer can do the required tasks 6 trillion times a second. That could earn up to $50,000 a month – but such an investment is speculating, not only on the price of Bitcoin, but also on the number of other people trying to mine for bitcoins. Of course, you have to pay for electricity as well. The box is rated for around 2100W of power – equivalent to running an electric kettle all day every day. And it puts off that much heat as well, so try not to keep it somewhere too hot.But making the hardware which powers the very backbone of bitcoin didn’t stop Cointerra’s email servers from getting hacked in early February. The company takes bitcoin for payments, naturally, but only through a third party company, meaning that its money was never at risk, but the firm had to warn customers to be wary of phishing attempts. “If you have placed an order and paid via bitcoin since 31 January and have been contacted via email by any person purporting to be a CoinTerra representative offering to discount your order… please contact us immediately,” the firm warned customers.Mt Gox, part twoOn February 24, MtGox closed its website and announced that it had been hacked, again. This time, it had lost everything: the sum total of its bitcoin holdings were just 2000BTC, according to a leaked crisis document, while it owed customers around 750,000BTC.It was £284m in the hole.The immediate reaction of some was hope. Not for the money lost in the Mt Gox collapse, which represented 7% of all bitcoins in existence (for comparison, 7% of all pound notes is somewhere in the order of £4bn). That seems to be gone forever. Instead,there’s hope that it can signal the beginning of a new age for the currency, one which takes it away from hacking, crime and fly-by-night businesses and towards the professionalism of venture-backed startups like Coinbase and Bitpay, two of the most respected firms in the area.But is that hope misplaced?Flexcoin, Poloniex, Bitcurex &amp; Canadian BitcoinsThe week after MtGox’s closure two more bitcoin businesses shut their doors after hacking. They even announced the news on the same day. Flexcoin, a bitcoin bank, lost almost 1000 bitcoins in a hacking attack, while bitcoin exchange Poloniex admitted that 12.3% of its reserves had been stolen due to an unbelievable error in coding (the site failed to check whether users had a negative balance, letting them withdraw more bitcoins than they had).This week, Bitcurex, a Polish bitcoin exchange, closed its doors temporarily after a hack brought down its Zloty and Euro exchanges. The company lost “between 10 and 20%” of funds, according to a statement, but plans to re-open shortly.And just today, Canadian Bitcoins, a Canadian bitcoin exchange, revealed it had lost almost $100,000 in the currency when a fraudster opened a chat session with the exchange’s hosting provider. “He claimed to have a problem with a server and asked the attendant to reboot it into recovery mode, allowing him to bypass security on the server,”according to the Ottawa Citizen. At no point in the two-hour session was he asked to prove his identity.It may be that we’re just seeing the last gasps of the old bitcoin infrastructure, held together with glue and hope by coders who threw it together in a lunch break. But there is little doubt that the history of the currency to date can be told in its hacks.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft CEO Nadella may unveil Office on iPad on March 27 &gt;&gt; ZDNetMary Jo Foley:Microsoft has scheduled a March 27 press briefing in San Francisco with news "focused on the intersection of cloud and mobile computing." Nadella will be providing the opening remarks.According to several sources of mine, Microsoft's latest timetable calls for the company to finally introduce the long-rumored Microsoft Office for iPad suite of applications before the end of March 2014. This March 27 event sounds like it might be the time and place.The suite for the iPad is rumored to include only Word, Excel, PowerPoint and OneNote, and possibly no other Office client apps. It is expected to be downloaded from the Apple Store but most likely to require a Microsoft Office 365 subscription, similar to the way Office Mobile for iPhone works.Wouldn't take away from Microsoft tablet sales, because they're tiny; would add to Office sales, because the iPad comprises a sizeable market. What would it do to the tablet market, though?Google's public DNS hijacked for 22 minutes &gt;&gt; SoftpediaOn Sunday, BGPmon, a network monitoring and routing security company that monitors the Internet for Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) attacks, revealed that Google's public DNS service had been hijacked.The attackers hijacked the 8.8.8.8/32 DNS server for approximately 22 minutes. According to BGPmon, networks in Brazil and Venezuela were impacted. A screenshot published by the company shows that the traffic was redirected to BT Latin America's networks.BGPmon has noted that the potential for misuse in the case of such hijackings is "huge," especially since many certificate authorities don't do their job as well as they should.Concerning.Google patent reveals new radial menu design for Android &gt;&gt; Patent BoltOne of Google's latest inventions generally relate to graphical user interfaces involving a radial menu. The radial menu may be a circular menu configured to include a set of menu items corresponding to commands, functions or options that are activated upon selection within the radial menu.In some configurations, a radial menu is a circular menu configured to include a set of menu items corresponding to commands, functions or options that are activated upon selection within the radial menu. For instance, a radial menu is graphically depicted as a circle shape with respective segments dividing the circle shape. Each segment of the circle shape may be associated with a command, function or option for the radial menu.Setting the record straight &gt;&gt; WhatsApp blogJan Koum:Respect for your privacy is coded into our DNA, and we built WhatsApp around the goal of knowing as little about you as possible: You don't have to give us your name and we don't ask for your email address. We don't know your birthday. We don't know your home address. We don't know where you work. We don't know your likes, what you search for on the internet or collect your GPS location. None of that data has ever been collected and stored by WhatsApp, and we really have no plans to change that.If partnering with Facebook meant that we had to change our values, we wouldn't have done it.Chromebook desktop versus Windows desktop: can you tell the difference? &gt;&gt; EIUTCTom Grissom:The Chromebook is fine for lighter duty tasks but I much prefer Windows 8.1 for heavier editing tasks I routinely complete be it word processing, image editing, audio editing for podcasts, or editing video screencasts for YouTube. When the real work needs to be done I reach for a Windows 8.1 device with the complete power of all the Office applications, not apps.Part of this may be out of old habits but I do not think so. I have given the Chromebook a thorough testing over the past three months and would say it meets about 80% of my needs. It is the other 20% that I have to find workarounds for or resign myself to switching devices.I do like the Chromebook for light duty tasks, is boots lightning fast (7 seconds) and the updates are much smaller and faster than Windows updates. I do however have equivalent Windows devices that boot nearly as fast and offer more functionality. Given that my Windows 8.1 devices also run the Chrome browser I am not really giving anything up when using Windows, in fact, I gain functionality while still having access to all the Google goodies via the Chrome browser.UK Visa cardholders made 94.3m contactless purchases in 2013 &gt;&gt; Mobile Money RevolutionTim Green:The card companies are desperate to show that consumers are embracing contactless payments. These latest figures do show the habit is growing, but it's still a niche activity.UK spend for 2013 was over £618m, with £82m being spent in December alone.The number of purchases in Europe in 2013 was 340.1m, with Poland leading the charge...There are now 32.1m Visa contactless cards in circulation in the UK, and 80.6m in Europe.The average UK purchase value in 2013 was £6.09.Ultra-niche. Averageweeklyspend in UK retail in December 2013 was £8.8bn.Apple designer Jonathan Ive talks about Steve Jobs and new products &gt;&gt; TIMESpoiler alert: he doesn't actually talk about new products. Time reprinted John Arlidge's interview, which includes this nugget:It was his teenage love of cars that made Ive decide to become a designer. When he left school, he checked out a few car-design courses in London, including one at the Royal College. He swiftly changed his mind. "The classes were full of students making vroom! vroom! noises as they drew," he recalls, still horrified. So he headed to Newcastle Polytechnic to study industrial design. His work there — notably a telephone and a hearing aid — was so good it was exhibited at the Design Museum in London.Android phone battery suffering? Here's a simple fix &gt;&gt; ZDNetJames Kendrick:Android phones are good smartphones, but they occasionally suffer from the nasty "Sudden Battery Drain Syndome." That's the situation where the phone battery, with no different use by the owner, suddenly drains for no apparent reason. It turns out this is often caused by Google, and there's a simple way to halt the drain.The battery drain doesn't happen often, but when it does it has the ability to leave you high and dry with a dead Android phone. You likely aren't doing anything differently when it strikes, so it's unexpected. This can have serious consequences, especially for workers needing to stay in touch with the office.This situation hits fast, and there's usually no warning the battery is draining to a critically low level. Often, the first warning that something is amiss is a critical battery warning from the phone.It turns out that often this situation is caused by Google. Online research shows the culprit is often either Google Services or Play Services. Google Services is the background task on Android phones that keeps all of the company's services in sync and updated. This covers Gmail and the Chrome environment, among other services. Play Services is the background task that interacts with Google's Play Store, to keep installed apps updated in particular.For some reason, these services sometimes get "stuck" doing their jobs, and this results in a big power drain on some phones. Perhaps the service is constantly polling user phones, resulting in a rapid drain on the battery.Solution: reboot the phone, apparently. (Would have been good to know where the "online research" is that has established this.)Silicon Valley's youth problem &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comFantastic essay on the split between "useful" and "want to do" by a 20-something who is in the thick of it:In pursuing the latest and the coolest, young engineers ignore opportunities in less-sexy areas of tech like semiconductors, data storage and networking, the products that form the foundation on which all of Web 2.0 rests. Without a good router to provide reliable Wi-Fi, your Dropbox file-sharing application is not going to sync; without Nvidia's graphics processing unit, your BuzzFeed GIF is not going to make anyone laugh. The talent — and there's a ton of it — flowing into Silicon Valley cares little about improving these infrastructural elements. What they care about is coming up with more web apps.Long but very much worth it.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
An online tool that claimed to be able to use NHS patient hospital records to reveal treatment "right from initial diagnosis until the current day" has been pulled from the internet after privacy campaigners warned it could be used to identify the precise details of medical care for people in the public eye.OmegaSolver, a company founded last year, had access to NHS hospital episode statistics and offered an "internal database [which] tracks actual patients within every hospital within England providing&nbsp;…&nbsp;up-to-date information for every disease area". The company said its clients included drugs firms.However, the firm'swebsitewas closed down last week after press inquiries to the health authorities regarding the release of "patient-level" data to the company.On Sunday it had emerged that a billion NHS patient records have been sold to a subsidiary of Chime Communications, one of the country's biggest PR and marketing firms, which had been working with the pharmaceutical industry.These revelations will put pressure on to the Health and Social Care Information Centre (HSCIC), the arm's-length body set up to house all of England's patient records, which says it will release within a fortnight the full list of companies, government agencies and charities that have been handed medical data.Privacy campaigners said that if the OmegaSolver online tool's claims were correct then the medical histories of those in public life could easily be tracked. Phil Booth of MedConfidential pointed out thedate when the Labour leader, Ed Miliband, had surgery on his nose to deal with a sleep condition and the hospital where the operation took placewere in the "public domain"."It looks like anyone with access [to the online tool] could pinpoint and read off the medical histories of prominent political figures or pretty much anyone who's had an accident or medical procedure reported in the press or online. Nick Clegg's wife's broken elbow, Tony Blair's catheter ablation, Ed Miliband's nose operation – all reported in the media, providing enough information to spot one event and then read across their every hospital visit. Ministers and officials claim your data will be anonymous, but it isn't."In response the company said that its Patient Analyser tool, which seemed to track individual patients, was an "illustrative example only".It added: "Privacy of the individual is one of the basic principles which underpins the terms and conditions governing access to this data, and OmegaSolver takes its commitment to preserving patient confidentiality very seriously. Measures are in place to make sure that the identity of a patient is never discovered. OmegaSolver has access to data items and analysis and makes these available for grouping and linkage purposes only."The HSCIC said the company had taken down its website. In a statement the centre said: "We have been in contact with OmegaSolver and, while discussions are ongoing, they have assured us that the screengrab provided shows aggregated patient data and does not represent the experience of an individual."However, the information centre came under fire from MPs on the powerful health select committee over its apparent reluctance to take action.Barbara Keeley, a Labour member of the committee, said: "We have seen examples of organisations selling applications which link and then display detailed information about individual patients. It is clear that this data could be linked with other information about that person meaning the state of their health could then be tracked.""Examples have been given of politicians and their family members who received publicity when they had an accident or an operation and were treated in the NHS. If media or social media reports on them can be linked with hospital patient data to track the state of that person's health, it is of very real concern.""It is disturbing that patients are still being left in the dark about commercial uses of their confidential health information. I am asking questions of health ministers about commercial re-use licences and whether these will now be revoked and the patient data deleted. I am also asking for audits to be done so that patients can be reassured that their confidential medical information is no longer being commercially exploited."
MPs and open data advocates have attacked the government’s selloff of postcode data in the privatisation of Royal Mail, and warned that it could presage similar rows if the land registry is part-privatised.The Guardian understands though that the decision followed intense lobbying by Tory sources of the business secretary, Vince Cable, to sell off the information rather than making it free for public use, in order to increase the value of Royal Mail ahead of its selloff.But one expert in the field says that the value put on the file - of more than £500m - is vastly overstated after his own company reproduced it in its entirety for the 2011 Census in a one-off project for just £10m.Areport from the Public Administration Select Committeehas slammed the selloff of the Postcode Address File (PAF), which contains data connecting the 1.8m postcodes in the UK to each of 28m postal addresses, saying that it doubted some of the assurances given by ministers including Michael Fallon, the Conservative MP who is minister for Business and Enterprise, about continued access to versions of PAF.“The PAF should have been retained as a public data set, as a national asset, free to all, for the benefit and the widest benefit of the UK economy,” the MPs say in a damning remark. “Its disposal for a short-term gain will impede economic innovation and growth.”‘Unacceptable and unnecessary’The PASC calls that “an unacceptable and unnecessary consequence of privatisation”.After unsuccessfully lobbying against the sale of PAF with the Royal Mail, open data advocates now fear that the government will try to sell the Land Registry, which holds data about house prices and land ownership, with a similar effect of creating a barrier to open data use.PAFis used by thousands of businesses to target sales and marketing efforts and also for mapping, insurance premium calculations, identification and other uses. But it has been controversial since the Labour government and more recently the coalition government began promoting the concept of open data because it is collected by a publicly owned body, Royal Mail, and uses information provided by local authorities and the Ordnance Survey - both of which are also public sector.But the Guardian understands that there was substantial pressure to sell the PAF along with the Royal Mail. Michael Fallon, who gave evidence to the PASC, told it that the PAF was “an integral part of the Royal Mail; it is a fundamental operating asset on which the business depends. It is the Royal Mail which collects the data and makes sure it is up to data.” He said that Royal Mail “incurs considerable costs in collecting and maintaining this data… It is only reasonable that they should be able to recover some of those costs from the companies that use this data.”The selloff was condemned by Keith Dugmore, of the Demographics User Group (DUG), an independent body supported by the Cabinet Office which advises government on best practices for use of open data. “It’s a disaster,” he told the Guardian. “Retaining ownership of this data is vital because otherwise you’re spending public money to create a private asset.”And Jacqui Taylor of Flyingbinary, which works on open data, warned the committee that “there is no guarantee on future prices of PAF data once Royal Mail is in private sector hands.”Compares badly to Ordnance Survey dataIn astatement, Royal Mail said that it “recognises the importance that PAF plays as a vital dataset supporting and sustaining key parts of the UK economy and we are committed to its widespread availability at a fair price”.Royal Mail says that it receives £27m annually from licensing of PAF, but that it costs £24.5m to collect, check and sell it - leaving it with a profit margin of just £2.5m, or about 9%. AnOfcom review in February 2013reported that Royal Mail estimated that there are 3,000 changes per day to PAF - which translates to about 1.2m changes per year.But the basis for claiming those costs was questioned by Robert Barr, a professor of geographic information systems at Liverpool University, whose company Manchester Geomatics worked with Lockheed Martin and the Office for National Statistics to create a national address database for the 2011 census separate of the PAF.“It took 1/20th of that amount to do the data matching,” Barr told the Guardian. He also said that the cost of upkeep put on the PAF by Royal Mail compared poorly with the costs of the Ordnance Survey, which is responsible for mapping all of Britain, with a national topographic database of 500m objects which sees thousands of changes per day - yet has a budget of £142m annually.Barr pointed out that in Holland, the government was forced to buy back its equivalent of PAF after privatisation because it needed it for public projects.The PASC notes in its report that despite the expansion of the availability of open data about government spending, “there is no sign of the promised emergence of an army of armchair auditors” - citizens who would check spending figures. But it noted that open data releases are often piecemeal and vary by department.It calls for the government to make far more data open, and to make early publication a priority ahead of certainty of accuracy in favour of revision where errors are found.•Apple maps: how Google lost when everyone thought it had won
The Mozilla Foundation has stopped developing a Windows 8 “Metro” version of Firefox because of a lack of users.“In the months since, as the team built and tested and refined the product, we’ve been watching Metro’s adoption. From what we can see, it’s pretty flat. On any given day we have, for instance, millions of people testing pre-release versions of Firefox desktop, but we’ve never seen more than 1,000 active daily users in the Metro environment,” said Jonathan Nightingale, vice-president at Mozilla,in a blog post.That contrasts with the huge number of active users demonstrated by other versions of Firefox on other platforms according to data from analysis companies such as NetMarketShare and StatCounter, which put Firefox’s aggregate share of the global browser market at around 17.7% and19.2%respectively, representing hundreds of millions of users for its desktop version.The low figures come despite Microsoftannouncing in February that it had sold 200m licencesfor Windows 8 since its launch in October 2012. The Mozilla team has only worked on a version for Intel-based systems, not the ARM-based RT devices, which have so far sold poorly.The availability of a “Metro” version of Firefox which could be used on the tile-based Start Screen of Windows 8 to replace its built-in Internet Explorer browser does not seem to have interested users, though.Nightingale said that he had therefore decided to halt the release of a 1.0 version, on the grounds that the organisation could not afford to devote time to projects with such small interest.“We could ship it, but it means doing so without much real-world testing. That’s going to mean lots of bugs discovered in the field, requiring a lot of follow up engineering, design, and QA [quality assurance] effort,” he said. “ To ship it without doing that follow up work is not an option. If we release a product, we maintain it through end of life. When I talk about the need to pick our battles, this feels like a bad one to pick: significant investment and low impact.”He added that killing the product meant that “This opens up the risk that Metro might take off tomorrow and we’d have to scramble to catch back up, but that’s a better risk for us to take than the real costs of investment in a platform our users have shown little sign of adopting.”•Mozilla’s Firefox OS phone might sell - because it’s cheap, not because it’s open
A prolific hacker gang that has breached numerous companies by exploiting Adobe software has claimed another major hit in the form of car manufacturer Citroën, the Guardian has learned.Citroën had one of its German websites hacked to include a backdoor, which is a method of bypassing normal authentication systems, and which may have allowed the attackers to make off with whatever data was sitting on site’s server.A Citroën Germany spokesperson said law enforcement were to be contacted about the breach as it appeared to be a criminal act. Some customer data was stolen, the spokesperson said, but it is unclear how many are affected. Customers have been contacted and will be advised to check their bank accounts for any suspicious transfers.The attackers managed to embed the backdoor on shop.citroen.de, a fan site for buying Citroën-based gifts. After disclosure by the Guardian and Alex Holden, chief information security officer at Hold Security, the backdoor was removed, but investigations into the breach continue. The backdoor file was live from at least August 2013.According to Holden, it was certain the same actors responsible for breaching several sites - including Adobe, PR Newswire and the National White Collar Crime Center - were behind the Citroën site breach. Security blogger Brian Krebs last yearuncovered a trove of information taken in those attacks.The hackers have been scanning the internet for weaknesses in a web application platform from Adobe known as ColdFusion. “The exploitation was targeted across the entire internet looking specifically for ColdFusion exploits,” Holden said.If the hackers did decide to pilfer data from the site, they would have had access to all information on the server. “To explain the backdoor simply, it provides full command line and SQL database access with the rights of the user running the web services, which usually means everything on the web server,” Holden added.Citroën was not responsible for running the site. It contracted web design company anyMotion to run its main German website and the affected fan site.anyMotion said it had fixed the backdoor but was now investigating whether hackers had installed further files or taken data. “We are examining the machines for known backdoors and unwanted software that someone may have installed on the machine,” said anyMotion’s Heinz Brasch.It is unclear whether credit card information was directly compromised, although the advice from Citroën that customers check their bank balances would indicate some kind of financial information was taken. Shopping bags and shipping addresses of users were also stored on the compromised server.Passwords used to access the website and admin passwords for running it have been reset, while shoppers were initially prevented from making purchases as a precaution.The breache has highlighted the risks that face companies through third parties. “You can have all the security in the world inside the company’s four walls, all you need is a third party supplier that’s connected to you, if they’re compromised that compromise has a bridge right into your organisation,” said Rocco Grillo, managing director and global leader for incident response and forensics investigations at Protiviti, a consultancy.“If you’re outsourcing to a third party or relying on a third party, you don’t just shut the door and say that is someone else’s problem. You can outsource the function but you ultimately own the risk. If that third party doesn’t have the same controls in place or the level of controls you need from a risk management standpoint there’s obviously an issue. You’re in grave risk if that company loses your data.”The attacks have also proven the need to update exploitable software. The vulnerabilities in ColdFusion have now been patched.•Blackphone: can a mobile ever truly be hack-proof?
Jony Ive, Apple’s chief of design, said that he would stop designing products for Apple and go it alone if the company ceased innovating.Ive revealed that Apple’s innovation in technology is what keeps his interest at the Cupertino based company, in aninterview with the Sunday Times about product design.“Yes. I’d stop. I’d make things for myself, for my friends at home instead. The bar needs to be high,” said Ive when questioned about whether he would ever leave Apple.“I don’t think that will happen,” Ive added. “We are at the beginning of a remarkable time, when a remarkable number of products will be developed. When you think about technology and what it has enabled us to do so far, and what it will enable us to do in the future, we’re not even close to any kind of limit. It’s still so, so new.”‘Months and months and months’Ive, who leads Apple’s industrial and software design, described the first stage in his relentless process as imaging what “a new kind of product should be and what it should do” with his team of 15 people from the US, UK, New Zealand, Japan and Australia.“Months and months and months” were spent honing designs like the exact shape of the iMac computer stand, according to Ive, who said: “It’s very hard to design something that you almost do not see because it just seems so obvious, natural, and inevitable.”Ive revealed that the majority of the design work at Apple happens within his office furnished with computer-controlled cutting machines and a large wooden display bench topped with prototypes.‘I don’t recognise my friend in much of it’On the various articles and books written about Apple’s Steve Jobs, Ive said “I don’t recognise my friend in much of it.”“Yes, he had a surgically precise opinion. Yes, it could sting. Yes, he constantly questioned. ‘Is this good enough? Is this right?’ But he was so clever. His ideas were bold and magnificent. They could suck the air from the room,” said Ive.• How Apple finallyquelled users’ motion sicknesscaused by Jony Ive’s iOS 7
Dorian Satoshi Nakamoto, the Japanese-American man named by Newsweek magazine as the creator of bitcoin, has issued one final statement “to clear my name”.Issued through his Los Angeles-based lawyer, Ethan Kirschner, the statement “unconditionally” denies the Newsweek report, adding that Nakamoto “did not create, invent or otherwise work on Bitcoin”.“The first time I heard the term ‘bitcoin’ was from my son in mid-February 2014,” the statement continues. “After being contacted by a reporter, my son called me and used the word, which I had never before heard. Shortly thereafter, the reporter confronted me at my home. I called the police. I never consented to speak with the reporter. In an ensuing discussion with a reporter from the Associated Press, I called the technology ‘bitcom’. I was still unfamiliar with the term.”Nakamoto does not address the claim by Leah McGrath Goodman, the Newsweek reporter who named him as the creator of bitcoin, that he tacitly acknowledged his role in the currency by telling her that “I am no longer involved in that and I cannot discuss it… It’s been turned over to other people. They are in charge of it now. I no longer have any connection.” To many, Goodman included, that statement is the smoking gun; butothersargue that it merely sounds like an attempt to make a reporter go away.Nakamoto does address what Goodman notes as a gap in his CV over the last decade, the period of his life when he was supposedly creating bitcoin. “I have not been able to find steady work as an engineer or programmer for 10 years,” he says. “I have worked as a labourer, polltaker, and substitute teacher. I discontinued my internet service in 2013 due to severe financial distress. I am trying to recover from prostate surgery in October 2012 and a stroke I suffered in October of 2013. My prospects for gainful employment has [sic] been harmed because of Newsweek’s article.”Nakamoto ends the statement with a plea for privacy.“Newsweek’s false report has been the source of a great deal of confusion and stress for myself, my 93-year old mother, my siblings, and their families. I offer my sincerest thanks to those people in the United States and around the world who have offered me their support. I have retained legal counsel. This will be our last public statement on this matter. I ask that you now respect our privacy.”• MtGox knowinglytraded non-existent bitcoins for two weeks, filing shows
Google has lit up itsIndian homepagewith a doodle marking Holi, the annual festival of colours. The non-interactive doodle shows a traditionalpichkari(spray gun) splashing colours on the Google logo.The Holi doodle is exclusive to India as the UK homepagefeatures one on St Patrick’s Dayand Google.com does not feature any.Millions of Indians splashed bright colours on each other on Monday to celebrate the popular festival, which marks the start of spring.Revellers poured onto streets across the country, smearing and splashing powder, known as ‘gulal’, and water on others to celebrate the triumph of good over evil.Many politicians, including ruling Congress party chief Sonia Gandhi, celebrated Holi covered in fluorescent hues with party workers, family and friends.“May the festival bring health, happiness and prosperity to all,” prime minister Manmohan Singh wished the country of 1.2 billion peoplein a statement on his website.Opposition prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi greeted Indians on mobile phones with an audio message, in which he urged voters to change the fate of the world’s largest democracy when it goes to polls next month.“The country has been submerged into the colour of elections. Election is the festival of Holi for the democracy. Let’s celebrate this festival of democracy to change the fate of India,” Modi said in his audio message.In New Delhi, the capital, neighbourhoods were splattered in a rainbow of colours as people from all walks of life chased each other with water guns, water balloons and spray paint and danced to the beat of drums in clouds of flying powder.Holi is primarily celebrated in India, Nepal and other countries with large Hindu populations. It falls on the last full moon day of the lunar month at the end of winter.
Google’s Chromecast Wi-Fi dongle for streaming music, video and games to the television is expected to be available from Wednesday in the UK.The Guardian understands that the Google media dongle will be available from Wednesday through high street consumer electronics retailers, although pricing is unknown.Gadget site Android Police also publisheda leaked screenshotof an internal Dixons retail system announcing the launch of the Chromecast in the UK on Wednesday.The Chromecastplugs directly into a televisionvia the HDMI port and acts as a receiver for media sent from Android smartphones and tablet apps, Apple devices as well as computers via the Chrome browser.The Chromecast was unveiled in the US in July last year for $35 (£21). It is expected to cost in the region of £30 in the UK and will likely be sold by traditional retailers as well as Google directly via its Play Store in the UK.• Rokubeats Google’s Chromecast to the UKwith a TV streaming stick
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAsustek's dual-OS devices hit a wall &gt;&gt; WSJ.comShown off at CES by Jonny Shih; however...Such hybrid products, in theory, could appeal to buyers interested in both work chores and leisure-time activities. They could allow users to run PC-oriented application programs as well as mobile-style apps developed for Android tablets.But the software companies have ways to exert pressure to deter the propagation of dual-OS products, people familiar with the situation say.Though versions of Android are available under open-source licenses that give Google little control, for example, versions that allow access to Google's app store must be approved by the company, said Patrick Moorhead, an analyst at Moor Insights &amp; Strategy. "Google wants all-Android devices," he said.A Google spokesman declined to comment.Microsoft has its own reasons for not wanting to share space on computers with Google, particularly on business-oriented desktop and laptop PCs that could give the Internet giant an entry point into a Microsoft stronghold.Computer makers that make dual-OS machines risk jeopardizing a flow of marketing funds from Microsoft that are an important economic force in the low-margin PC business, Mr. Moorhead said.Wouldn't Asus have talked to Google and Microsoft about its plans for a dual-boot machine before showing it off? It seems Microsoft is halting this; two existing Transformer products are being stopped too.Samsung's ultrasonic smartphone case helps the visually impaired sense their surroundings &gt;&gt; Fast Company | Business + InnovationSamsung has developed a smartphone case that helps the visually impaired by enhancing their awareness of their surroundings. The Ultrasonic Cover for its Galaxy Core Advance smartphone helps owners sense the presence of people and objects up to two meters away.The cover includes a number of physical buttons to aid disabled users. The Ultrasonic Cover emits a high-frequency sound, listening for the sound wave that bounces back. When it detects a nearby object, the phone lets the smartphone owner know by sending a vibration alert or text-to-speech notification.Brilliant idea.Data point: iPhone owners are loyal, but how about Samsung? &gt;&gt; WSJ DigitsWhen it comes to brand retention, Apple is far ahead of the pack, according to data from WDS that was compiled by Statista. Among 3,000 people surveyed in the U.S., United Kingdom and Australia, 76% said they stuck with an Apple smartphone.That makes sense: While Apple customers tend to be quite happy with iDevices, once someone puts down roots in the iOS ecosystem there is nowhere else to go. It's easier for someone in the Android world to switch between, say, Samsung and HTC devices. In that light, Samsung's 58% retention rate is a pretty good number.LG, Nokia, HTC, Sony, Motorola and BlackBerry all have retention rates ranging from 37% to 21%. Other things being equal (which they aren't, but it's a starting point), over time the brands with the stronger retention rates will see growth in users, while rivals will dwindle. That matches what's happening in the market.Three secrets of the only five-year-old iPhone hit app &gt;&gt; ForbesTero Kuittinen:One early app hit held on for half a decade of app industry turmoil. Five years later, Lima Sky's platform jumper is still a Top 30 mainstay. It is the only iPhone app with this kind of longevity. Igor Pusenjak, the quirky and intense cocreator of the game, has a very clear and idiosyncratic vision of how to run the one-game empire he built with his brother.  These are Igor's Rules.You probably know the game (and have played it) but not its publisher.Global TV market contracts for second straight year in 2013; China, Asia-Pacific and Eastern Europe suffer rare decline &gt;&gt; IHSThe global television market shrank last year for the second year in a row after total shipments declined by 6% from already soft 2012 levels, accompanied this time by a rare deceleration in the liquid-crystal display (LCD) TV space in China, Asia-Pacific and Eastern Europe, according to a new report from IHS Technology.Shipments worldwide of televisions in 2013 amounted to 225.1m units, down sharply from 238.3m in 2012. It was the second straight year of contraction after a 7% loss in 2012, contrasting with the market's big 11% surge in 2010 and a more modest 1% uptick in 2011…Market for set-top boxes and attachments: healthy. Market for TV sets: not so healthy. Contracting markets squeeze out smaller players and drive commoditisation.Bitcoin and mobile payments: don't get your hopes up &gt;&gt; CITEworldSo far, it's far less convenient than a credit card. Before I get accused of being the guy who said the internet would never amount to anything because you couldn't take your laptop to the beach -- yes, the ecosystem will mature. As the exchanges get bigger, massive thefts like the ones recently experienced probably won't happen as often.That "probably" in the last sentence isn't helping, to be honest.What's next for the makers of Candy Crush Saga? &gt;&gt; The New YorkerJames Surowiecki:In the gaming industry, success has always been highly unpredictable. Parker Brothers, according to a history of the company, found that there was no secret formula: products that tested well often flopped in the marketplace, while "an in-house flop could become the hit of the industry." It says something that King, which has been making games for a decade, had profits of just $7.8m in 2012. The company didn't make eighty times more in 2013 because it had cracked a code; it just caught lightning in a bottle.It's true that a few companies—Disney, say—have been able to consistently ride the Zeitgeist. But King has the misfortune to be in an industry where this is especially difficult, simply because it faces so much competition.The illustration is especially wonderful.Apple launches new featured App Store section dedicated to taking selfies &gt;&gt; 9to5Mac"But which app should I use to take a picture of myself at this plane crash?"You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's okay everyone, Monday is here to save us!
St Patrick's Day is the subject of the latest doodle on Google's homepage. The annual celebration dedicated to the patron saint of Ireland is marked across the world.St Patrick spread Christianity within Ireland during the fifth century and is reputed to have used the shamrock to explain the Christian concept of the father, the son and the holy spirit.Parades are held in many countries, but in the US this year's celebration in Boston was hit by controversy when organisers banned gay groups from participating.In response,the city's mayor, Marty Walsh, refused to take part.In a statement released hours before the parade was due to begin, Walsh said: "As mayor of the city of Boston, I have to do my best to ensure that all Bostonians are free to participate fully in the civic life of our city."Unfortunately, this year, the parties were not able to come to an understanding that would have made that possible."St Patrick's Day is officially marked on 17 March each year – the day Ireland's patron saint is believed to have died – but the festivities have grown and often go on for days within Ireland and other countries with Irish diasporas.St Patrick was born in Britain and enslaved in Ireland as a young man. He escaped but returned to the country as a free man to preach Christianity. According to legend, he also banished snakes from the island.
Price £16,474MPG 76.3Top speed 127mphOn Valentine's Day, my father broke his heart. Literally. Sixteen years after undergoing a triple bypass one of the arterial grafts had failed. The surgeon had told him the operation had been inevitable as he'd had three of the major risk factors – he'd been overweight, a smoker and from Glasgow. He now had to undergo a&nbsp;percutaneous coronary intervention. It sounded gruesome, but the brilliantly named Dr Savage said it would take two hours and he'd be out by the end of the day. My job was simply to chauffeur him in and out ofBristol's Heart Institute. It was a surreal day. Rain and sunshine, fear and laughter, coffee and cake…Then it got stranger. While waiting to pay in the carpark on the way home, the young woman in front of us said: "Is that your car? That's my favourite Vauxhall. It's the new model, right?" I gawped. Really? Do people have favourite Vauxhalls? It seemed bizarre. The car she was admiring was indeed the new model – it's the second-generationInsignia, a big, five-seat family car which goes up against the likes of Ford's Mondeo and Mazda's 6. It's a loyal, workmanlike slogger, a Monday to Friday car. It's not a Saturday special. But before I could ask why she liked it, she drove off – in an ancient Astra.I looked at the Insignia with new eyes and, yes, maybe she was on to something; there is much to admire in an understated way. It has a lovely silhouette – all long lines and grown-up curves. It's exactly the sort of vehicle you'd want to be ferried to hospital in: it feels safe and reliable. The car does have a few surprises up its sleeve, though. It is the most aerodynamic car in its class. Thanks to clever changes to the body design, the engineers have reduced the drag coefficient and boosted the car's slipperiness. There's even an active front air shutter that shunts air below the vehicle and causes less turbulence from its bottom. Maybe my dad could have one of those fitted, too…Inside story: the handsome interior with new infotainment system.The Insignia is available as a&nbsp;hatchback, a saloon or an estate. If you opt for the full eco package and go for the 2-litre CDTi ecoFLEX diesel you'll also get class-leading CO2emissions of 99g/km and a whopping 76.3mpg on the combined cycle. Dipping below the magic 100 barrier means no road tax and no congestion charge. For a car of this size, that seems almost nonsensical. The clever people in Vauxhall's PR department have calculated that the average UK driver covers 8,200 miles – this means you'd only have to visit the garage for a refill seven times a year.Inside, everything has been made a lot simpler. The rash of buttons that used to spread across the old Insignia's central console like shingles has been replaced with a&nbsp;smart 8in infotainment display  and re-designed instrument cluster.The diesel handles well, though it does sound a bit gruff at low speeds – but to achieve such a high economy sacrifices have to be made. The ride is firm and steady. It eats motorway miles with the same quiet determination a teenage boy demolishes a mountain of pasta.The all-round frugality means the Insignia will find its way on to many a&nbsp;fleet manager's list. Will this Vauxhall find its way on to your dream wish list? No, but after a heart operation it offers all the excitement my father could cope with…Bournemouth revs up for a new Wheels FestivalSun, sea and monster trucks: are you ready for Bournemouth's new Wheels Festival?The seaside town's airshow is one of the best in the world, now it's hoping to do the same with a new Wheels show. The inaugural festival will run from 24-26 May. It's free and is aimed at families and anyone who loves cars and bikes. It's set to combine motion, power and elegance in three days of high energy action at locations all round the town and seafront. From beautiful classic cars and world-class BMX stunts to Monster Trucks and supercars there will be something for everyone. The line-up so far is planned to include show-stopping arenas on the beach, a cliff-top demonstration course featuring racing cars and bikes, pier jumps, displays, live entertainment, fireworks and much more. Find out more by visitingbournemouthwheelsfestival.co.ukor following them on Twitter #wheelsfest. For more information on Bournemouth visitbournemouth.co.ukfor some great deals.The world's most dangerous roadsThisinfographic outlines the planet's most treacherous stretches of road– from sheer drops to whole districts known for armed attack from bandits and mile upon mile of baron deserts – it's all in here. It's set out like a world map and you can click on each region to find out why they are so dangerous; how many road deaths this region sees annually and some of the strange road laws enforced in that country…Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
As someone who is supposed to know about these things, I'm sometimes asked to give talks about computing to non-technical audiences. The one thing I have learned from doing this is that if you want people to understand technological ideas then you have to speak to them in terms that resonate with their experience of everyday things.It's obvious, I know, but it took me a while to get it. I can vividly remember the moment when the penny dropped. One of the ideas I was always trying to get across was why open-source software was important. The term "open source" is actually a euphemism for free software, coined because some advocates of free software thought that the US corporate world would associate the word "free" with communism. The key thing about free software is not that you don't pay for it (because sometimes you do) but that you havethe freedom to change itto meet your requirements – on condition that you pass on the same freedom to anyone who uses the modified software.When I tried to explain the significance of this to my lay audiences, however, they invariably responded with blank stares. And then one day I realised what the problem was – none of them had ever written a program. So the next time I gave a talk I brought with me a copy ofDelia Smith's greatComplete Cookery Course. I put up a slide showing her recipe for gratin dauphinois, one of the ingredients for which is 150ml of double cream. "Now," I said, "double cream is not good for me, so I'd like to substitute single cream in the recipe. Can you imagine a world in which, if I wanted to do that, I would have to get Delia's written permission, and possibly pay her a fee? Wouldn't that be absurd?"Suddenly my audience got it. Computer programs are recipes and everyone understands recipes.Now spool forward to the present. One of the things that baffles me is why more people are not alarmed by what Edward Snowden has been telling us about the scale and intrusiveness of internet surveillance. My hunch is that this is partly because – strangely – people can't relate the revelations to things they personally understand.In the past two weeks, two perceptive commentators have been trying to break through this barrier. One is Cory Doctorow, the science-fiction novelist, who had aterrific essay in theGuardianarguing that instead of increasing our security, government agencies such as the NSA, GCHQ and others are actually undermining it. The essay is worth reading in full, but one part of it stood out for me. It's about the thriving, underworld online market in malicious software. Nowadays, if some hacker discovers a previously unknown vulnerability in widely used software, that discovery can be very valuable – and people will pay large sums for such "zero-day" exploits. But here's the creepy bit: sometimes, the purchasers are government agencies that buy these pieces of malware to use as weapons against their enemies.To most people, this will seem pretty abstruse. But with the imaginative skill of a good writer, Doctorow nails it: "If you discovered," he writes, "that your government was more interested in weaponising typhus than they were in curing it, you would demand that your government treat your water supply with the gravitas and seriousness that it is due." In a networked world, in other words, cyberwarfare and cybercrime are analogous to public health issues and our intelligence agencies ought to be treating them as such, rather than polluting the water supply.With similar acuity, the security expert Bruce Schneier homes in on the patronising cant about automated surveillance that is being purveyed by both intelligence agencies and internet companies. In aninsightful blog post, Schneier quotes a Google executive's remark that "worrying about a computer reading your email is like worrying about your dog seeing you naked".Schneier is not impressed. Commenting on therevelation that GCHQ has been scooping up millions of webcam images from Yahoo users, he writes: "When you're watched by a dog, you know that what you're doing will go no further than the dog. The dog can't remember the details of what you've done. The dog can't tell anyone else. When you're watched by a computer, that's not true. You might be told that the computer isn't saving a copy of the video, but you have no assurance that that's true."You might be told that the computer won't alert a person if it perceives something of interest, but you can't know if that's true. You do know that the computer is making decisions based on what it receives, and you have no way of confirming that no human being will access that decision."
Despite the violence, the original Rambo movie,First Blood, did make a half-decent fist of considering some of the attendant issues. Admittedly, the central "war has consequences and they are unpleasant" motif was fairly simplistic but this has a positively statesmanlike air in comparison toRambo the Game. An adaptation of the first three movies, this is perhaps the first time in gaming history where players will long for the glory days of really lazy first-person shooter film tie-ins. Instead, they'll suffer through a lightgun game, played sans lightgun. Rambo moves on a predetermined path, control limited to a half-hearted dodge and an unresponsive aiming reticule. Not that aiming seems to matter, given enemies sport varying degrees of immortality. Some take several headshots without blinking; others die with a shot to the shoulder (but registering it as a headshot).There's at least solid voice acting and plentiful unlockable material, but the latter unfortunately necessitates actually playing the ghastly game. Clearly, more was spent on acquiring the licence than on doing anything with it.
With Square having so successfully rebootedTomb Raider, expectations were high for the new iteration of classic stealth seriesThief, but the deft touch it brought to Lara has deserted it here. The game it presents is functional and mediocre at best, myriad technical shortcomings turning it into an exercise in patience and frustration.There are unending audio problems, major performance issues and tiny levels peppered with frequent and lengthy loading screens. The uninspired plot, involving peasant revolt and magic cults, fails to provide a strong set-up for the larceny and relies on many tired tropes, while an indecipherable map and unusually expensive upgrades simply are the final indignity.Thief, to be fair, does manage a good job of emphasising swooping, non-lethal stealth action over combat and the animations for contextual actions, such as lockpicking, are suitably nimble, but these are the game's few strengths against a host of shortcomings, which was not the new beginning the series was looking for.
God of Light(Playmous, iOS, £1.49) takes the bold choice of pitching the player into a world of darkness as an opening, before requiring the use of "Shiny" to spread light through the gloom. The cutesy glowing mascot is able to use mirrors scattered about the landscape to connect the dots with light, illuminating more of the surroundings in order to find the endpoint. There are also fireflies that can be used to brighten up different spots and offer clues on where to head next. It's a handy device, although it does feel at times as if you're being pushed to spend money (69p for 30) rather than earning them organically. A small quibble and also the only one with this well-constructed, enjoyable, bite-sized puzzler.
Admittedly,Pinball Arcadeprobably isn't pushing the PS4's graphical teraflops to the limits, but its simplicity belies a depth that makes it one of the console's most absorbing titles. Formerly a digital-only release, this packaged edition brings together 22 classic tables – including cult properties such as Star Trek and Elvira – all perfectly recreated, with a host of historical info on each cabinet. It's a pinball connoisseur's dream come true, yet even for newcomers the variety proves an education to the surprising variety pinball can offer.Nowhere is that more apparent – or frustrating – than the newly added Challenge Mode. Playing through consecutive cabinets shows how creative designers can be with simple gameplay, but also highlights inconsistent difficulty. With limited credits, failing one table means restarting the whole challenge; an infuriating proposition. Still, the allure of high scores and the glory of unlocking multiball modes ensures players will come back for more. An unexpected triumph.
Remember the Vauxhall Vectra? It&nbsp;was an honest, down-to-earth, working-class car – staggeringly boring, but you knew where you stood with it. Then the Vectra was replaced, in 2008, by the Insignia, which is a bit posher, or thinks it is. This new model, the Country Tourer, is even more so: it's used its four-wheel drive to climb a&nbsp;bit farther up that slippery social hill. Bourgeois, basically, though underneath everything, it's still a Vauxhall. You&nbsp;know, the girl from The Only Way Is Luton who's making out she's&nbsp;Made In Chelsea.Actually, the car is made at Opel's plant in Rüsselsheim, so it's really German. But that works, too, because it thinks it's an Audi, specifically anAudi A4 Allroad. You know the one? The estate with all-wheel drive and a little bit pumped-up with plastic cladding, as if it's been to the gym, though not obsessively so.I've always quite liked the A4 Allroad, to be honest. I'm not a&nbsp;fan of big sports utility vehicles – they're too big for our roads and they are, according to my own extensive forensic research, 97% driven by wankers. But what if you want something that isn't going to be useless after a frost or half an inch of snow, with extra clearance to make it through if not Somerset, then at least a few puddles without drowning. The Allroad seemed like a&nbsp;possible, albeit pricey, solution.Now this Vauxhall Country Tourer is an Audi alternative. Also all-wheel drive, also a bit (2cm) higher than the regular model, with smart plastic wheel arches to protect the paintwork from… well, rogue runaway trolleys in the car park at Tesco mostly. Waitrose even.It's a handsome car, at least as handsome as the Audi, I'd say – nicely tapering, with a pleasingly scooped-out waist. The extra height and the wheel arches give it a&nbsp;poise and an attitude that a regular Insignia doesn't have. It's likable, too, in spite of its upwardly mobile tendencies. To drive, it's refined, easy, unfussy, if not spectacular. Inside, it's comfortable and cosy, again almost bordering on posh. And it's very practical, with loads of room for all your Waitrose shopping, and a nice flat opening for easy loading. The boot door opens at the touch of a button. Now that is classy.There is one thing it definitely has in its favour over the Audi: it's around about £5,000 cheaper. Five grand: that's an awful lot to pay to have four status rings on the front of your car (£1,250 per ring, by my reckoning). And this one does come with a griffin, even if it is a griffin whose spiritual home, if not its actual birthplace, is Luton.Vauxhall Insignia Country Tourer 2.0CDTi (163PS)Price£26,499Top speed127mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.9 secondsCombined fuel consumption50.4mpgCO2emissions147/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating7/10
Games out this week include the ruthlessly tough but fairDark Souls II(Xbox 360, PS3), the sequel masochists have been waiting for, which once again teaches lessons in humility while losing you in an unimaginably vast underground labyrinth; andSteve Jackson's Sorcery!(Android) is a decent if uninspiring modern take on his choose-your-own-adventure books, now available on Android … Originally due for release last November,Watch Dogs(PS3, PS4, Xbox 360, Xbox One &amp; PC) has a new launch date of 27 May. The hugely anticipated game of hacking and communications-tapping lets you use the city of Chicago as your weapon, changing traffic lights, redirecting trains and making things explode at the tap of your character's smartphone. From the publisher that brought you Far Cry 3 and South Park: The Stick Of Truth, expectations are high.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewAnother week, another zombie outbreak. This time the zombies come in fast, slow and exploding varieties, to be dealt with using an arsenal which you upgrade at fenced-off shopping areas in each level. Taking on the infected involves caution and judicious use of parked cars, which can be shot so that their alarms go off, attracting zombies, before blowing up and taking them all out. Dead Nation's beautifully detailed levels are like looking into tiny, gore-soaked dioramas of hell, in which there's absolutely nothing going on except mowing down zombies.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewOriginally a Facebook game, Here Be Monsters has you touring the world, hunting mythical beasts. Catching them involves traps and bait that demand multiple levels of farming, building and crafting to produce, requiring boring waits you can bypass with time potions. Typically, "free" games take this as an opportunity to ruin all your fun by begging for change but Here Be Monsters shows admirable restraint in this regard. It doesn't involve much skill, although it will stealthily extend your knowledge of geography and each country's peculiar cryptozoological beliefs.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewMario's dinosaur pal hogs the limelight in this origin story in which Mario and Luigi are still babies, reduced to riding about on Yoshi's back. As in previous Yoshi's Island games, the hand-drawn graphics and chalk-on-blackboard menus give it a childlike feel, which is misleading given its surprisingly steep learning curve. Although spiced up with mine cart and helicopter levels controlled by tilting your 3DS, this is religiously faithful to the 16-bit original, stripping away the extra characters and distractions that cluttered more recent outings in the series. It's well made and pretty but lacks the Mario magic.
Tim Berners-Lee's call for "a global constitution – a bill of rights" to protect users of the world wide web is both timely and necessary (Report, 12 March). Until recently, he has (rightly) remained largely silent about the web's evolution, its content and applications. However, increased levels of surveillance of citizens by US and British spy agencies, their undermining of security and encryption tools, together with growing government and corporate influence on the web's character and content, have prompted his proposal. Hopefully, an "open neutral internet" with a "common statement of principles … supported by public institutions, governments and corporations" will no longer tolerate the existence of harmful websites and forums which prey upon vulnerable individuals. Berners-Lee expresses concern that "our rights are being infringed more and more on every side and the danger is we get used to it". Time then to "take the web back into our own hands" and ensure that it is safe, sound, and fit for purpose.Stephen DarbyshireNottingham• With increasing threats and vulnerabilities emerging daily, there is an urgent need to develop a pipeline of qualified and experienced cyber security professionals to safeguard our systems and infrastructure. Research by the IET has highlighted that a significant lack of skilled workers is hampering the UK's fight against cyber-crime. The measures recently announced by the government will help to fill the shortage of skills in this important area – and put us in a stronger position to combat cyber-crime. The challenge now is to make sure businesses are aware of these initiatives and start to view securing cyber security as a priority.Hugh BoyesInstitution of Engineering and Technology
MtGox continued trading for at least two weeks despite knowing that it did not hold enough bitcoins to return every customer their money, according to a deposition from the CEO of the embattled bitcoin exchange.Mark Karpeles, MtGox’s chief executive, gavethe deposition to the Northern District of Texas bankruptcy courton Monday 9 March. In it, he explains: “On February 7, 2014, all bitcoin withdrawals were halted by MtGox due to the theft or disappearance of hundreds of thousands of bitcoins owned by MtGox customers as well as MtGox itself.”It was known before Karpeles’ deposition that MtGox had blamed bitcoin losses due to hacking for the closure of bitcoin withdrawals. But the document shows that it was another two weeks before MtGox halted trading on the exchange itself, when it closed the site without warning on February 25.In that period, MtGox continued to accept trades and earn commission on them. Users couldn’t cash out their bitcoins, but they could still sell them on the site and attempt to withdraw their money. As a result, the price of bitcoins on the site plummeted over the fortnight, potentially lessening Gox’s liabilities while earning the failing company commission fees.Jeremy Kirk,of trade publication Computerworld, estimates that those commissions were worth almost $1m over the 19 days the company was trading while knowingly lacking a complete reserve.While MtGox has pointed to hacking as the reason for its massive loss of bitcoin, the company is quiet as to the reason for a corresponding difference of $27m between stated customer deposits of cash and the amount it was holding.The latest news of MtGox’s troubles comes against the disappearance of yet another bitcoin exchange. Bitcurex, a polish bitcoin exchange, was apparently hacked on Friday morning. Both theZlotyandEuroexchanges are now offline, andusers reportseeing the prices of bitcoin shoot up shortly beforehand, suggesting that the site’s coins were removed.•Mt.Gox v Fort Knox: What happens when a bitcoin exchange collapses
This year the team behind the Bafta video game awards tried something new. Alongside the lavish ceremony itself there was the Inside Games event, an exhibition designed to show off many of the nominated titles.  Spread through a maze of rooms at Tobacco Dock in London, blockbusters such as Titanfall, InFamous: Second Son and Elite Dangerous attracted queues and generated much excitement.At a glance it was like any other games event: maybe a little smaller, perhaps a shade more extravagant. But a closer look revealed what made Inside Games particularly distinct. Through the throng, it wasn’t unusual to spot UK development legend and Raspberry Pi trustee David Braben chatting with enthusiastic young gamers. Or industry celebrities such as the former Sony Computer Entertainment president, Chris Deering, peering at a screen along with spritely developers and eager consumers. Bafta’s recent devotion to bringing industry talks to the masses was also in effect, as the likes of Broken Sword creator, Charles Cecil, orated to audiences that mixed games makers and consumers.The jewel in Inside Games’ crown, however, was its showcase independently produced games – the sort that can easily find themselves boxed away as niche products. The Inside Games Arcade took up a whole room situated a wireless controller’s connection range from Titanfall and its contemporaries. Yet the spirit of indie gaming hung in the air. Bafta’s hefty black tablecloths couldn’t quite hide the trestle tables, and the game studio logos on the walls were clearly pieces of A4 paper, home-printed and Blu-Tacked.In the innovative graphic novel adventure Framed, players have to re-arrange the panels in order to help the protagonist progress.Defining indie in gaming is an increasingly fruitless pursuit, but whatever the financial model behind the titles at the showcase, there were many in-development and soon-to-be-released titles that deserve that attention globally. Australian developer  Loveshack was showing noir thrillerFramed, a curious hybrid of animated storyboard, interactive graphic novel and block-based puzzle game. The player’s role is that of editor, who can shift, rotate and swap around panels in order to change the story and help the protagonist’s progress. We saw the game at last year’s Rezzed event, and since then its innovative interface has attracted lots of interest, including several conference awards. It’s out on iPhone and PC later this year.Monument Valley – minimalistic beauty from London studio, UsTwo.Elsewhere, wasMonument Valley, a lavish Escher-esque platforming puzzler from east London hipster-belt studio UsTwo. Combining elements of Fez and Echochrome, players progress through a series of starkly drawn environments using rotation and perspective changes to forge new pathways. As we saw two years ago with the gorgeous Whale Trail, this team has a striking talent for beautiful, minimal design that begs to be framed and mounted.The Marvelous Miss Take, a stealth game about discovering great art - and nicking it.A few tables down, the cheerful team at Wonderstruck were demonstrating that there is still the capacity for innovation in the stealth genre. Their newly revealed light-footed mouse-controlled theft game,The Marvelous Miss Take, is proudly non-violent, and inspired by documentary The Art of the Steal. Here, the female lead must liberate paintings and artefacts to return them to an independent gallery.  “It’s the first game I’ve worked on in 15 years in which nobody gets hurt,” mused Wonderstruck developer Adam Langridge, an expatriate from the world of triple-A. Miss Take is due on smartphones and PC soon.0rbitalis – a game about the beauty of mathsEqually enjoyable – and a touch more mesmeric – was0rbitalis, a gravity based abstract puzzler by sole trader Alan Zucconi. The former biological modeller conceived the game with the lofty goal of “visualising the beauty of mathematic equations,” and regardless of how accurately he has – or has not – achieved that, his simple, stark creation is captivating both visually and mechanically.  Originally developed for the Ludum Dare game jam, Zucconi is now working on a more extensive release for PC and Mac.Tiki Taka Soccer 2014 – essentially Sensible Soccer for touchscreen devices.Another highlight was Tiki Taka Soccer 2014, from Somerset-based PanicBarn. This fast-paced footie sim serves as an eager homage to vintage favourite Sensible Soccer. While it apes the original’s visuals very closely, it gracefully reworks the formula for touchscreen devices, and strangely enough, uses a control system closer to Sensible Software’s other giant of the Amiga glory years, Cannon Fodder.  It’s coming soon to iPad, iPhone and Android devices.Clarc – a comic book puzzle adventure containing sexy nuclear bombs.Also likely to register as a constant blip on the radar of open-minded gaming fans wasClarcby German studio GoldenTricycle. This is a traditional block-shifting puzzle game reinvented as an isometric sci-fi adventure where a unarmed robot must progress through futuristic corridors, using simply abilities to best increasingly tangled routes to an exit. Drawn in a beautiful comic book style the game boosts 25 levels and, according to the press site, drunk robots and “sexy nuclear bombs“. It was released on Ouya late last year but is now being transported to PC, iOS and Android.Secrets of Rætikon is a visually beautiful and idiosyncratic adventure, inspired by the lush scenery of Austria.Game of the Arcade, however, must go toSecrets of Rætikonfrom Broken Rules. It’s a lavishly realised open-world 2D platformer that does away with ledges and jumping, giving over its world over to a bird that must explore the balance of technology and nature in a rural landscape inspired by the studio‘s Austrian home.  It’s already available via Steam Early Access (complete with Steam Workshop support for user-generated levels), but is also coming to smartphone platforms.So while it was the well-funded giants that enjoyed most of the praise at the Bafta awards themselves, at Inside Games it was the less exuberant creations that conquered.  “When we planned the events, we wanted to make sure we represented all kinds of games,” says co-curator Georg Backer. “So we decided to set this space aside. We just wanted to make sure that along with the blockbusters, we also showed non-blockbusters, and that’s not just indie titles. I set about finding a diverse selection of games for all different platforms from all over Europe.”According to Backer, who famously joined forces with Jonathan Ross to set up game studio Hot Sauce Interactive in late-2012, he was motivated by serving the widest audience possible. “There’s a lot of affection for indie games, and we love that, so you’ll see a lot of indie games in the Arcade, but it’s about more than that.”•Bafta video game awards – Last of Us dominates but Rockstar shines• Bafta celebrates artistry of video games in glitzy awards ceremony
Microsoft’s founder, Bill Gates, says that Facebook and Google weren’t the only companies interested in acquiring WhatsApp: Microsoft was also “willing” to buy the messaging app.Facebookbought the five-year-old WhatsAppcross-platform text message replacement app, which sends messages via phones’ data connections rather than SMS, for $19bn in February. WhatsApp is Facebook’s biggest acquisition and showed the importance of the drive to mobile from the desktop for the social network.WhatsApp rebuffed a $1bn offer from Google in April last year prior to the social network’s bid. Facebook’s founder Mark Zuckerberg said that WhatsApp was on track to connect 1 billion people which is what made it valuable.“Microsoft would have been willing to buy it, too. I don’t know for $19bn, but the company’s extremely valuable,” Gates, 58,told Rolling Stone in a wide-ranging interviewcovering technology, climate change and God.‘User bases are extremely valuable’“I think [Zuckerberg’s] aggressiveness is wise – although the price is higher than I would have expected. It shows that user bases are extremely valuable,” said Gates.Gates, who co-founded Microsoft in 1975, explained that the community and user base is the most valuable aspect and that it might start with messaging, but the company can then expand the service to sharing photos, documents and games.WhatsApp founder and chief executive, Jan Koum, announced at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona that the company would be adding voice messaging in the second quarter of the year.Gates praised Zuckerberg’s drive, but described him as “more of a product manager”, insisting that he was more of a coder starting with architecture where Zuckerberg “starts with products, and Steve Jobs started with aesthetics.”• Mark Zuckerberg said that hewould have paid more than $19bn for WhatsApp
Though the idea of the “Babelfish” - a thing able to translate between any two languages on the fly - was created by the author Douglas Adams as a handy solution to the question of how intergalactic travellers could understand each other, it could be reality within 25 years. At least, that is, for human language.Prof Nigel Shadbolt, a close associate of the web inventor Sir Tim Berners-Lee, says that the idea of automatic machine translation “on the fly” is achievable before the world wide web turns 50.Shadbolt also forecasts that future changes to the web will mean people will be “connected all the time” to medical diagnostic systems – but also that search companies including Google and China’s Baidu may face challenges as web use shifts from the desktop to handheld and mobile devices.Having first used the web in 1993, via an early version of the Mosaic browser while on a visit to Canada, Shadbolt now thinks that it opens up huge possibilities for artificial intelligence systems built by connecting computers across the web - so-called cloud computing - that will be able to enhance daily life.“I think we’ll have a sort of Web 3.0 and smarter systems,” he told the Guardian. “With more cloud computing you can imagine that there will be more machine translation.”The growth of the web and the addition of artificial intelligence systems has already led to automatic translation such as Google’s and Microsoft’s text translation services. But Shadbolt foresees the exponentially growing number of computers connecting to the web providing far greater power.“A ‘Babelfish’ system will be closing in on reality because of the large-scale resources that will be available to do entire voice translation on the fly,” Shadbolt said. “I would be surprised if in 25 years we haven’t got enhanced Bluetooth-based translators that you can just put in your ear.”Machine translation and transcription presently struggles with real-time speech. IBM’s Watson system, whichwon an episode of the quiz game Jeopardy!against the two best human players of the game, had its questions delivered by text (at the same time as the human contestants heard the questions read out). So far no machine has demonstrated an ability to carry out real-time transcription of conversations, though the growing power of cloud computing - and computers generally, which roughly doubles every 18 months - could bring that within reach in just a few years.Update:Microsoft demonstrated a system in 2012which can do almost real-time translation between English and Chinese with a lower error rate than before: “rather than having one word in 4 or 5 incorrect, now the error rate is one word in 7 or 8,” noted Rick Rashid, Microsoft’s chief research officer, in a blogpost at the time.Separately, the OECD calculates that by the time the web turns 50 it could be linking 50bn connected devices worldwide, and thatwithin 10 years people might have as many as 50 internet-connected devices at home.Shadbolt thinks that “lifelogging”, collecting details about what one sees and hears automatically through an internet-connected system, “will be a big future of the web - people will put more and more of their life on the web - and technology and businesses will be around that will monetise that.”The growing spread of the mobile web and of web-connected devices which generate their own information and link to each other though will require shifts. “Google uses links between web pages to build its search index,” he explains. That index means that a search for a phrase will rank a series of web pages based on the perceived “authority” of pages containing that phrase, and of those pages which link to them.“But it gets problematic if people or machines make links that just don’t make sense in the normal way,” Shadbolt says. “Maybe there will be other kinds of search as the ‘machine web’ comes along.”IBM’s Watson proves that you can get “quite deep integration” with the wealth of information that’s online to answer a broad range of questions effectively, he notes.“I foresee a world in which there will be augmented intelligence, where we are made smarter by our connection to the web.” He notes that there will be downsides - “cyberterror and cybercrime” - in which there will be an “arms race around security”.•Is voice control the next big thing for computing?
Electronic Arts; PC, Xbox 360, Xbox One (version tested), 16+, £40It is the crackling sound in the sky above that does it. Respawn Entertainment, a company formed by senior members of the Call of Duty team, knows all there is to know about creating atmosphere in military shooters. But the arrival of your titan, the mechanised armoured transport that gives this game its name, is one of the greatest animated sequence concepts in gaming history.At the start of every match in this online multiplayer blaster, 12 human opponents must face each other on foot. But then up to two minutes in, everyone gets the option to call in their titan mech – and then it is dropped down from the sky, first in a crackle of booster jets then a deafening whoosh and a metallic clang as its mighty feet hit the deck. You climb in, and now you are a walking tank, sending missiles scorching over the rooftops. The rhythm of the game completely changes; you are transmogrified and empowered. But after taking too much damage you must eject, zooming into the air, and back down to fight alone again, to survive until the next titan fall. And all around you is anarchy and gunfire.Titanfall is a bombastic treat, a hulking armoured paeon to Japanese mech anime like Gundam and Macross in the form of an incendiary first-person shooter. Within a few seconds of play, you can also catch the fleeting ghost of genre legends like Doom, Quake and Counter Strike, but all of them have been assimilated into a modern blockbuster experience. This is a game that takes the Call of Duty proposition, so familiar now, so stretched, so intimidating to newcomers, and makes it shine again.The set-up is as straightforward as a Hollywood sci-fi flick: mankind has colonised space, but now a super powerful corporation, the IMC, is bullying outlying colonies, draining their worlds of resources and sparking a rebel militia movement. Now, the two armies must endlessly fight over a variety of planetary warzones.In the short campaign mode, gamers blast their through a series of multiplayer battles strung together into a vague narrative. Cinematic sequences add the plot details, but it's just the usual collection of battle-scarred space soldiers, gruffly administering high-tech death to each other as an orchestral score plays on. It's an interesting concept – the shoehorning of online matches into a story structure – but it doesn't really work as there's little sense of narrative meaning or momentum within the fights themselves. A campaign that more subtly introduced online players into the plotline may have fared better – like Demon's Souls or the forthcoming Watch Dogs. But congratulations should go to Respawn for experimenting with the format when the weight of the world's expectations (not to mention the financial ambitions of Electronic Arts' stockholders), rest on their shoulders.Really, you can skip all that and get into the meat of the game, its range of classic multiplayer match modes. Here players compete in teams of six, across 15 maps. In the early stages of the game, there are three pilot classes to choose from, a basic soldier, a more stealthy assassin and a close-quarters specialist, as well as three different titans which fulfill similar roles. However, as you play you earn XP and beat challenges which unlock custom classes and better more powerful weapons and items. It will be a familiar set-up to Call of Duty or Battlefield veterans, right down to the selection of ordinance options, and the extra kit items (perks, if you will) that allow you to, say, speed up your titan deliveries or view all enemy AIs on your mini-map.Jetpack joyFrom the start of the first match though, Titanfall gracefully separates itself from its immediate predecessors. While Call of Duty's solders are landlocked brutes shuffling between cover points, the combatants here have jetpacks which let them jump high into the air and then double jump even further, immediately adding to the spatial possibilities of the landscapes. Add in the ability to run along and even hang on to vertical walls and each location becomes a a thrilling parkour playground.The controls are utterly perfect and obviously iterated to within an inch of the designers' lives. Leaping between battered industrial rooftops then sprinting sideways across the face of neon signs before arching over a chasm feels just wonderfully liberating. The possibilities for combat tactics expand in turn, so that you have these thrilling chase sequences, each player rebounding between walls and surfaces as though caught on a some kind of deranged life-size pinball table.This too, brings us back to Quake and its sense of hyper-accelerated three-dimensional movement; its rocket jump face-offs and mid-air one-shot kills. Titanfall doesn't feelquiteas icily proficient, as intricate, as open to finesse as Id Software's classic – it hints at the depth and demands of Quake rather than openly providing them, but we'll see how play develops as participants start to really master the maps and weapons.The range of locations is mildly varied rather than truly diverse – from the vast hangers of Overlook to the glinting deserts of Rise and the steamy foliage and craggy cliffs of Smuggler's Cove. There are open areas, there are overlooked killing zones, there are tight, narrow streets – all the stock in trade of FPS mapping conventions; but they are connected together in new and intricate ways, and the sheer urban density on offer in places like Angel City and Colony allows the full variety of gameplay approaches, from run-and-gun bravado to sniper camping. On the latter, Call of Duty sought to expunge its maps of safe nooks and crannies to hide in; Titanfall is filled with them.Power and perspectiveBut yet, the great balancing feat of this game is the way that titans aren't just a brute force power-up mode, they are a means of examining the landscape from a new perspective. Climb in one, and the focus changes, the environment becoming a series of lines that direct you toward Godzilla-style mega fights with other machines, but you also get the elevated perspective needed to scan the skyline for perps with high-powered rifles, embedded amid rooftop scaffolding. Alternatively, opt for the Assassin class, grab the cloaking ability, and patrol those static sniping positions with the excellent smart gun that locks on to targets and quietly eliminates them as you ghost past.Titans can punch each other, fire chain guns, launch rocket silos – they can be fitted with a function that makes them explode like a nuclear bomb when damaged sufficiently. They bring scale and drama to the experience in a very different way to the aircraft in Battlefield – mostly because they are available to all, not just the best players who have the time to learn intricate controls. Titans brilliantly change the pace of each match, too, eliminating the blipvert lifecycle of CoD, extending the longevity of each spawn.Indeed, throughout the game there are attempts to wrestle the online experience from fast-fingered semi-pros. Titanfall ditches Call of Duty's controversial killstreak system (which rewards players who achieve an uninterrupted series of kills with one-off power-ups like airstrikes), in favour of a new 'burn card' feature, inspired by trading card game Magic: The Gathering. As players progress through the game they unlock a variety of cards, each with a different short duration power-up. Some make your pilot run faster, some replace your primary weapon with something much more powerful, some boost your XP – before each match players get to choose three of their deck and then access these in turn throughout the action augmenting their skills at just the right time.It's a subtle shift in design, away from rewarding persistent brilliance in a single match and toward encouraging less proficient killers who can keep plugging away over hours, days and weeks, earning new cards as they go. It also feels as though there is more tactical depth here. The cards are separated into themes, from physical augmentation to weaponry and XP bonuses, and matching the right cards against the right maps – and the right moments in a fight – is crucial. Wary gamers have noted the similarity between the system and Fifa's microtransaction-based Ultimate Team mode, but Respawn has assured everyone that paid-for card packs won't suddenly appear on the system.Working the systemThe greatest test to the complexity and balance of this game, will begin when players adapt to its systems, pairing kits and burn cards to devastating effect. At the European review event last week, journalists were worried about the combo of the explosives kit, which enhances the damage from bombs and mines and the 'dead man's trigger' kit which detonates all your timed ordinance if you're killed. Perhaps this is too close to Call of Duty: Modern Warfare's widely detested Martyrdom perk which drops a live grenade when the player goes down. No one wants the game to become a spiteful puzzle box of exploitative traps and revenge measures.Meanwhile, a key addition to every battlefield is the army of AI troopers augmenting each team. Grunts are reasonably dumb bullet-fodder bots who carry out their own little objectives amid the chaos, shouting orders and updates to each other as they go; spectres are more capable robotic assailants (or 'anthropomorphic battle systems') who'll take on titans and navigate the landscapes with some assurance and simulated skill. Enemy spectres can also be reprogrammed mid-match and then set against their allies – a useful little addition for players who prefer to creep around engaging in acts of sabotage rather than direct combat.Story and directionWhat else do these AI participants add? Apart from bulking out the numbers, which obviously they do with less success than extra human competitors, their constant chatter brings glimpses of narrative, especially when you happen across one soldier attempting to help a wounded comrade, or when you fight amid a group of grunts who'll thank you for providing back up. Weirdly, this brings a sense of humanity that is often missing between players on public servers who often merely shout insults and obscenities through their microphones.As lead coder Jon Shiring recently pointed out to the Guardian, they're also useful for showing recently spawned players where the action is – if you see a group of them running off and firing wildly, you know that if you follow them, you'll find an enemy. It's a subtle and graceful means of choreographing the action. Also, tracking down and shooting minions is a fast and relatively safe way of gaining kills, which in turn lets you call in your next titan faster. Not everyone will be convinced, and many will see this as an unwelcome intrusion of Dota mechanics into the FPS, but the computer-controlled units certainly bring in an extra layer to our interactions with this world.Titanfall is a majestic mainstream shooter that tweaks the underlying formulas just enough so that it remains intuitive and familiar, but yet is also filled with exciting surprises. The range of modes may be unusually conservative – we could have done with at least a couple more experimental options alongside the standard team deathmatch, conquest and capture-the-flag derivatives. But then we do have Last Titan Standing, a sort of mecha-weaponised pub fight in which everyone spawns in their titan and has to keep it functional for as long as possible. Perhaps we'll get more in the inevitable DLC packs.Graphically, the game is certainly not an eye-scorching showcase of next-gen physics effects, at least not on Xbox One. Real-time lighting and shadows are at a minimum and there is some grinding slow-down at times, especially when two or more titans are involved in close-quarters showdowns with missiles and defense shields everywhere.But there are moments of beauty, too; moments when the screen fills with sci-fi action, missiles leaving vapour trails across the sky, distant aircraft zooming by, the sun setting behind a wrecked space cruiser. Titanfall does moments well, it understands how the best multiplayer experiences are fleeting collisions between player-created drama and the possibilities of the world rendered through tight game design. It is not going to revolutionalise the first-person shooter, and complete newcomers have a steep learning curve ahead of them to climb up the score tables. If you didn't like being bullied by 12-year-olds on Call of Duty, you won't like it here either, even if you survive longer between headshots.Titanfall, though, is a sort of masterpiece, so confident in itself and its identity, yet so reverent in its art direction to the science fiction visions of artists such as Shōji Kawamori, Kunio Okawara, Syd Mead and Chris Foss. You will play for hours, get tired, think you're done, and switch it off, but then it nags at you – you're only a few hundred XP from levelling up – a new weapon awaits, a new type of scope for that assault rifle, a new Burn Card perhaps, and you go back. Sure, it is the pattern of compulsion that has governed the genre since Modern Warfare, but here it is tuned and perfected and ever-so-slightly evolved, and it is wonderful at times. Titanfall stamps one gigantic robotic leg into the future; it has ripped off the door and the void is open. Others will come through behind it and change everything.• Titanfall takes aim at the cloud: 'We've really let the designers go crazy'• Titanfall v Destiny – how this war will change shooters for ever
A burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft's PubCenter continues to disappoint Windows Phone developers &gt;&gt; WMPoweruserDevelopers are unhappy, and that is not good for Windows Phone.It appears Microsoft's in-app ad network, PubCenter, is performing very poorly, and worse and worse over time, with poor fill rates (with as low as 2% of potential ads actually provisioned), and earnings dropping from dollars to single digit cents.Definitely bad news for Microsoft - and Google is taking advantage by offering a Windows Phone 8 API to its AdMob service. (Note that it's able to do that while a native YouTube app for Windows Phone remains unfulfilled.)MS offers Windows Phone OS free to Indian players &gt;&gt; The Times of IndiaJaved Anwer:Multiple industry sources with knowledge of Microsoft's negotiations with Indian phone companies told Times of India that it was in talks with local firms to produce affordable Windows Phone devices since last year. But the agreements were clinched only when Microsoft agreed to remove the licence fee it charges from phone makers for its OS.This is unprecedented. Microsoft didn't even give the OS free to Nokia, which agreed to exclusively make Windows Phone in 2011. It reportedly charged Nokia between $20 to $30 for each Lumia device the Finnish company sold. Making the OS free also shows signs of growing frustration within the company at the lack of traction for Windows Phone in the market.A tectonic shift.Weak early random PRNG threatens iOS 7 kernel mitigations &gt;&gt; ThreatpostIOS 6's PRNG [pseudo-random number generator], [Tarjei] Mandt [of Asimuth Security] said, suffered from poor entropy sources and poor use of seed data used to generate outputs. Similar to its deployment in OS X, Mandt said, the PRNG in iOS 6 used Mach Absolute Time to derive outputs."It could return the same value over and over because it was reliant on clock information," Mandt said.This was supposedly addressed in iOS 7 where time-based correlation issues were avoided through the use of a Linear Congruential Generator (LCG). The LCG in iOS 7 leverages information from four state generations, Mandt said, each one producing 16 bits of output. Each time, the lower three bits of each piece of output are discarded because they are considered weak.Mandt said there are generally known problems associated with LCGs, including serial correlation between outputs making them susceptible to brute force attacks.It's clearly Really Quite Abstruse Theoretical Security Weakness Day, if you read on...Google calls it quits on brand banner ad test in search results &gt;&gt; Marketing LandGoogle started the test in October 2013 with roughly 30 brands. The banners ads appeared at the top of brand search results in the U.S. only and for just a small subset of searches. Singhal did not go into detail about what constituted failure in this test, but its possible the click-through rates on the banners were lower than desired. Additionally, when the branded banners displayed, no other AdWords ads appeared on the page.The test marked a first for Google, not only in the introduction of banners in the search results, but in presenting ads that were explicitly branding- rather than performance-oriented.HTC One 2014 forgets it's not official yet, hits eBay &gt;&gt; GSMArena.com newsThe phone itself isn't photographed for the eBay listing, but we already saw the 2014 HTC One withVerizon branding earlier today, when a dummy unit also hit eBay.Yesterday we gave you almost all the information of the upcoming flagship phone you need. We already know the second camera will be used for selective focus and 3D shooting. The phone's specifications are also out detailing the One will feature a 5" 1080p screen, Snapdragon 801 chipset, 4MP camera on the back and a 5MP front-facing camera.Wonder if the comprehensive leaks of this year's product - which we understand HTC isn't pleased about - come from outside contractors; HTC wassaid to have closedsome of its production facilities last year to cut costs.Replicant developers find and close Samsung Galaxy backdoor &gt;&gt; Free Software FoundationWhile working on Replicant, a fully free/libre version of Android, we discovered that the proprietary program running on the applications processor in charge of handling the communication protocol with the modem actually implements a backdoor that lets the modem perform remote file I/O operations on the file system. This program is shipped with the Samsung Galaxy devices and makes it possible for the modem to read, write, and delete files on the phone's storage. On several phone models, this program runs with sufficient rights to access and modify the user's personal data. A technical description of the issue, as well as the list of known affected devices isavailable at the Replicant wiki.Provided that the modem runs proprietary software and can be remotely controlled, that backdoor provides remote access to the phone's data, even in the case where the modem is isolated and cannot access the storage directly. This is yet another example of what unacceptable behaviour proprietary software permits!Affected devices: Nexus S, Galaxy Note 1+2, Galaxy S, S2, S3, and more. But there's a very big proviso encapsulated in that "provided". The NSA or GCHQ might be able to. Others? Likely not.The idea of a "fully free/libre version of Android" seems a trifle redundant, though.The state of LTE February 2014 &gt;&gt; OpenSignalThis quadrant graph allows for an overview of LTE network performance, combining both Time on LTE and Download Speed to build a picture of true network performance. This graph makes it easy to see that Claro Brazil records very fast network speeds but that their coverage is extremely limited. The South Korean and Hong Kong networks perform extremely well for both metrics, with all networks appearing in the top right quadrant. Globe Philippines is the worst performing network, and Metro PCS combines impressive LTE coverage with the slowest LTE speed of all qualifying networks.UK networks fall into "poor coverage but fast" while the US ones fall into "poor coverage and slow". Tortoises and hares?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
Sony will reveal a virtual reality headset for the PlayStation 4 to directly compete with the pioneering Oculus Rift next week, sources have told the Guardian.Gaming magazine Edgereported that Sony will unveil the headset at the Game Developers Conference (GDC) in San Francisco next week along with some limited software from a Sony games studio. Sony refused to comment. But other sources indicated to the Guardian that the report is correct.Third-party developers who have been given a prototype of the headset told Edge that Sony’s equipment is far superior to the current implementation of the Oculus Rift, which has received over $90m of venture capital funding as well as $2.5m from a successful Kickstarter campaign in 2012.Sony is holding a “driving the future of innovation” session at the GDC on 18 March, which is being hosted by senior Sony research and development executives previously involved in Sony’s PlayStation Eye and Move peripherals, as well as Sony’s president of worldwide studios Shuhei Yoshida.‘Future of innovation’The Oculus Rift has shipped over 50,000 units worldwide to developers interested in the virtual reality technology. Legendary games programmer John Carmack, who was the father of Doom and Quake before becoming Oculus VR’s chief technical officer last year, promised a second developer kit will be available soon, based on the improved Crystal Cove headset the company showed off at CES in January.Sony has sold head-mounted displays since 2011 known as the Personal HD and 3D Viewer, but has yet to make public moves into the virtual reality space despite long-running rumours suggesting it was working on a form of VR headset.VR headsets have a long history stretching back to the 1990s, but never took off for general use partly because of price, weight and screen resolution issues. There were also concerns that lengthy use could cause nausea because the landscape the user sees does not agree with what the body’s balance system is experiencing. “Laggy” movement of the display contents could make this worse.Head-mounted evolutionOculus Rift marked the first stage in a new era of virtual reality headsets. It promises to revolutionise gaming and screened entertainment, providing an immersive 3D experience coupled to motion tracking technology. Dozens of PC games are expected to support the consumer version of the Oculus Rift when it goes on sale.Sony’s version, with support from Sony’s first-party development studios and the PlayStation ecosystem has the potential to bring virtual reality into the mainstream.Previous efforts at expanding the PlayStation gaming experience with the PS Move and motion gaming have not found the sales success of Microsoft’s Kinect system, however.• Valve promises totake virtual reality to the masses
The billionaire CEO of Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg, criticised US government surveillance in a Facebook post on Thursday, saying it was a “threat” to the internet – and revealed he had called Barack Obama personally to air his concerns.Zuckerberg made his remarks a day after theThe Interceptwebsite reported that the NSA has been using automated systems to spread malware over the internet, sometimes using “fake” Facebook servers.“The US government should be the champion for the internet, not a threat,”Zuckerberg saidin a Facebook post on Thursday. “They need to be much more transparent about what they’re doing, or otherwise people will believe the worst.”In the post, Zuckerberg said he had called Obama to express his “frustration over the damage the government is creating for all of our future” and said he was confused by the government’s actions.“The internet works because most people and companies do the same. We work together to create this secure environment and make our shared space even better for the world,” he wrote.He went on: “This is why I’ve been so confused and frustrated by the repeated reports of the behavior of the US government. When our engineers work tirelessly to improve security, we imagine we’re protecting you against criminals, not our own government.”Though Zuckerberg has beenopenly critical of government surveillance,the post had a surprisingly strong tone consideringFacebookhaslongbeencriticizedforitsprivacypolicies.However, Zuckerberg is part of a long list oftech giants who have condemned the extensivegovernment surveillance programs made public by Edward Snowden in the summer of 2013.Companies including Google, Microsoft and Yahoo demandedsweeping changes to surveillance techniques in December.Recent revelations about government surveillance activities have shaken the trust of our users, and it is time for the United States government to act to restore the confidence of citizens around the world,” Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer said in the December announcement.
I use the Firefox web browser with Adblock, and I run AVG anti-virus. Frequently, but not always, when I click on a link in a Google search result, it takes me to a page advertising something instead of going to the page indicated. If I go back to the search results and click the same link, it usually goes to the correct site. I thought this might be malware, but I have scanned with AVG and Malwarebytes, including anti-rootkit, and there is no indication of anything wrong. Researching the problem, I came across concerns that the Chrome browser could have this behaviour, and the suggestion was to disable extensions. I’m not very happy to do this because my various Firefox extensions add functionality I value.GeoffGoogle’s Chrome browser has been having problems with something known as the chrome-navigation-error.info redirect, which may be botnet related. This also seems to afflict Apple Mac OS X users and apparently some Linux users, but not Firefox users. Either way, it’s not your problem.Usually, the best way to tackle malware is to identify it, so that you can search for specific solutions. In this case, you’re not sure if your PC has any malware, and you haven’t identified it, so we will have to take a generic approach. This isn’t a bad thing. The danger is that an attacker can use a small security hole to install more malignant software, so it’s best to give your PC a thorough inspection.Before you start, make sure you have all your programs and data backed up, and that you can restore Windows to its factory condition if necessary. Your PC probably has a hidden recovery partition that will do this. It’s also a good idea to make a restore copy of Windows on DVD as well. Your PC may well prompt you to do this each time you restart it.Unfortunately, there are several ways of redirecting search traffic, so we can’t even be certain that Firefox is the problem. It could be something to do with your Hosts file (though it probably isn’t), with a rootkit on your hard drive, or with a “poisoned” domain name service (DNS). Some redirections are the result of websites being hacked, and in these cases, there’s nothing wrong with the user’s PC.PreparationsStart by making a list of your useful Firefox extensions and then uninstalling and re-installing Firefox. Make sure you download the new version from https://www.mozilla.org/ (note the https for security).This linktakes you to a page where you can download all the localised versions from Acholi to Xhosa, including “English (British)”.Don’t use Google to search for this kind of thing: it is targeted by scammers and it is far too easy to be duped by the adverts that Google puts above search results. As when searching for visa, health card and similar application forms, use theDuckDuckGosearch engine, which doesn’t track you and also protects your privacy.Does your new, guaranteed-legitimate version of Firefox still have a redirection problem? If not, you can start to install the extensions you need. You could start withAdblock Edge– a forked version of Adblock Plus – and then install one extension per day. Don’t install a new extension until you’re sure the last one is OK.Next, replace your Hosts file, since one of its purposes is to redirect websites. I recommend theMVPS Hostsfile created by a group of Microsoft-designated Most Valuable Professionals (they’re not employees). This also works on non-Windows systems. Follow theinstructionsto install it, bearing in mind that you must have Administrator access.Finally, in this section, downloadFarbar’s MiniToolBoxfrom Bleeping Computer. This can detect and fix problems with proxy settings and search redirects, hijacked routers and so on. You don’t need to install MiniToolBox, it just runs. In this case, tick the boxes for Flush DNS, Reset IE Proxy Settings, and Reset FF Proxy Settings, then click Go.Problem solved? If not, it’s time to play hunt the malware…Malware removalIn general, I’ve found that runningMalwarebytes Anti-Malwarein Safe Mode is the quickest way to remove malware that has evaded whichever anti-virus program you have installed. Start by saving the free MBAM to your desktop, updating its detection database, and running a quick scan. Remove any malware it finds, but don’t stop there. Reboot your PC and keep pressing F8 before Windows loads, to bring up the boot menu (some PCs may use a different hotkey). When you get the boot menu, select Safe Mode, and run Malwarebytes again. If it finds any malware, delete it and repeat the process. Keep rebooting and re-running Malwarebytes until it doesn’t find anything bad.You’ve already tried Malwarebytes so you may want to try an alternative such asNorton Power Eraser. It’s another program that targets the sort of stuff that everyday anti-virus programs might miss, and it targets “scamware” in particular. Symantec warns that it is aggressive and may detect threats in legitimate programs, but at this stage, a bit of aggression is a good idea.If Malwarebytes and/or NPE don’t find your malware, there are a few more targeted programs you can run. The ones worth trying include – in order – Bleeping Computer’s RKill, Kaspersky Lab’s TDSSKiller, SurfRight’s HitmanPro, and Xplode’s AdwCleaner. RKill tries to kill any known-bad processes running on your PC, which may be preventing other programs from running or finding malware. TDSSKiller finds rootkits. You can download all of these fromBleeping Computer’s Downloads section. There are also lots oftutorialson the site to explain how to do things.When everything else fails, there’s ComboFix. This has been developed by Bleeping Computer to tackle hard problems, and is used by many other anti-malware forums. However, unless you’re an expert, it’s not something you should run yourself. You should create an account at Bleeping Computer (or a similar website such asGeeks To Go), select the correct forum for your problem, and start a new query as explained in theWelcome Guide. One of the site’s volunteers will try to help you to find a solution. This will often involve running RKill and ComboFix and posting logs from your PC, but you need to be familiar with the area to make sense of the logs.Updating WindowsMalware is relatively rare on Windows nowadays, at least since we all stopped using 32-bit Windows XP – I’ve not found any on my 64-bit Vista, Windows 7 or Windows 8 in more than half a decade of running multiple machines. However, that’s mainly because I keep Windows and all my other software up to date. I runSecunia’s Personal Software Inspector(PSI), which does a weekly scan, and I check Windows Update manually, often after Microsoft auto-installs updates on “Patch Tuesday”. I also minimise the amount of Adobe, Apple and Java code on my Windows PCs, though they all have Adobe Flash installed.Microsoft’s SmartScreen filter has also helped a lot. When you run a new program, SmartScreen creates an SHA-256 hash of the executable code and sends this gibberish to a Microsoft server, which looks to see if the same hash is associated with any malware. If it is, it blocks the code or website and puts up a message to say that “Windows protected your PC”. Importantly, it provides protection against social engineering attacks (eg fake codec updates) and drive-by downloads. SmartScreen has been part of Internet Explorer but is now plumbed into Windows 8. Yes, it has some privacy implications, but they’re nothing like as bad as downloading anything from the Windows Store, iTunes, Google Play or a similar service.You don’t have to be perfect. Most malware writers target the “low hanging fruit” represented by the hundreds of millions of users who never install patches, run pirate copies of software with built-in back doors, or are still using Windows XP. Being up to date will not save you from a professional attack from the National Security Agency, GCHQ and other organisations with access to unknown or zero-day exploits, but unless you’re a potential target, you’re very unlikely to fall victim to one of those.
The open web was 25-years-young on Wednesday - and it’s amazing just how much has changed in the last quarter of a century.To celebrate the web’s birthday we asked you to tell us about your first impressions of the internet. From dial up to the thrill of logging in to your first chatroom, some of your memories from the web’s infant years are very different from what we expect from it today. Here are 25 things you may have forgotten about the internet:1. The screech of the modemRemember when you had to listen to this before you could check your email?)Video suggested bybenthom99. There were few things more terrifying than picking up your phone and hearing SKREEEEEEEEEE down the receiver. Speaking of...2. Having to disconnect so your mum/dad/cat could make a phonecallHell hath no fury like parents who just found out you sneaked on to the computer to play some 8-bit game. We certainly don’t miss arguing with siblings about whose turn it is to go on the computer next.3. Websites looked a bit rubbishAdaminTurkeysubmitted this old-school screenshot of Google from around 1997.Google, circa 1997Google as it looked in 1997, two years before I heard of this strange and wonderful website that would help you find anything that you were looking for on the internet. I still remember how wonderful it was back in 1999 and 2000 when it seemingly returned exactly what you wanted, i.e. before commercial interests took over.Sent viaGuardianWitnessByAdaminTurkey12 March 2014, 18:48We feel this may be the time to remind you the website for the film Space Jamstill exists, should you fancy another trip down internet’s memory lane.Space Jam: your new favourite website.4. First venturing into chat roomsRemember when being able to speak to anyone in the world via the click of a mouse and the tap of the keyboard completely blew your mind? Plenty of our readers did.Live Chat RoomsAfter messing around with email (with no-one to send them to) and writing über-basic HTML pages back in 1995, my classmates and I finally discovered the Virtual Irish Pub.  I&#39;m assuming it was one of the first chat rooms and at the time definitely one of the slickest.Eventually though, as with all good things, it became a paid membership site and after using it for 3-4 years we drifted off towards Blogger and eventually Wordpress sites.The golden age eh.Sent viaGuardianWitnessByID098846212 March 2014, 10:585. a/s/l?﻿ being a thing you asked peopleAnd more or less everyone lying with their answer.6. Netscape NavigatorIts era of dominance may have been ended byMicrosoft’s bundling of Internet Explorer, but Netscape was the gold standard for web browsing in the 1990s.7. Thinking it was funny to sign your mates up to weird mailing listsPoorcwghostgot burned by this one.I still cannot believe some of the garbage that I got in those days. I reminded some of them about their misbehaviour but doubt that they would appreciate it now!﻿8. NetiquetteJuicyliciousremembers a time when “it was imperative that you DIDN’T SHOUT by using caps.”SO MUCH FOR THAT, EH, TWITTER?9. The thrill of printing any picture you wantedBattleships &amp; Dennis BergkampOne of my Dad&#39;s old colleagues was the first person I knew with the Internet. He showed it to us one day. I wasn&#39;t very impressed. I had an 8 cd-rom encyclopedia with real footage from them moon landing, what more could a boy need.When asked what I&#39;d like to search for, I just shrugged.&quot;Well; Do you like ships?&quot;&quot;Yeah, I guess&quot;Cue a 5 minute wait for a picture of the HMS Belfast to load before a further 5 to print it out.Getting the hang of it now, I requested a picture of Dennis Bergkamp.The internet was for printing pictures of ships and Arsenal legends for a good 2 years after that.Sent viaGuardianWitnessByDaniel Izzard12 March 2014, 13:1510. The thrill of not having to print anything at allOf course, it wasn’t all about printing off pictures of Arsenal legends. Pippin62 writes:The idea of publishing something without having to pay a printer really excited me and between ‘98 and now, I’ve earned a crust as a web designer.11. Dancing hamstersRemember the Hampster Dance? AllowJo Waltersto refresh your memory:﻿She showed me a page of gifs of dancing hamsters with an annoying midi song on repeat. I remember thinking this wasn’t ever going to be a particular useful thing (though I did like dancing hamsters). Now, I work in digital communications so am immersed in the internet. I do still enjoy animal gifs though so maybe not much has changed.The original Hampster Dance has been preservedhere.May it live forever more.12. MSN MessengerModetoJoy was a huge fan of MSN Messenger.This totally drew me into the internet when I first started using it in 2000. I loved how I used to talk to friends on MSN Messenger all the time. It felt cool and forward-thinking.13. Thinking you could read everything on the internetI was going to read the internetI remember when I first heard about the internet and decided I was going to learn so much by reading it. Yes, that&#39;s right - I was going to read the whole internet!Sent viaGuardianWitnessByID55778012 March 2014, 11:48To be fair, at one point, you probably could read the entire internet. Nowadays, we dread to think how long it would take you.14. Embarrassing Hotmail addressesSomeone at the Guardian had the email speedy_owl@hotmail.com. We’re not going to name them. It definitely isn’t the person writing this article. Nope. It’s alright though, they weren’t the only ones.@elenacrescisillywillydumb @http://t.co/BDLpkhUQZ4is my contribution&mdash; Will Barker (@willdotbarker)March 12, 201415. Finding the whole thing absolutely terrifyingFear of a foreign landscapeI remember feeling like the internet was on one virtual street. One website lined up next to the other. And as soon as i strayed off this path i got incredibly dislocated and felt like i had to close Netscape to start again.Sent viaGuardianWitnessByantmanxl12 March 2014, 12:3616. Being surprised by the giant phone billBack in dial-up days, being online could get pretty expensive,which ID626656 found out the hard way.Back in 1997, 2 years after the internet became available in my hometown of Taipei, I could only get my access to the internet via dial-up on a pay-by-minute basis, which is quite different from what people may enjoy today. Under these circumstances, those interesting explorations into the internet soon became expensive phone bills for my parents.17. Thinking:“Ceefax is way better than this.”Ceefax: better than the internet? Photograph: Sarah LeeActually, a lot of you didn’t think this internet malarkey was going to take off at all. BeansYa told us:In 1991 a friend of mine who was studying to be a patent attorney explained how email and browsers worked. I didn’t like the sound of it and didn’t think it would catch on.18. How slow it used to beHeidi Crook, now a web designer who doesn’t think the internet is rubbish, remembers first logging on and being a mite disappointed.I remember picking out a very long [url] from the music magazine “Select”. We typed it in and anxiously awaited what it would appear. It took ages and all that appeared was a large picture of Blur’s Parklife Album. We were kinda disappointed, we left the library deciding that the internet was rubbish.19. A time before search enginesThe internet before search enginesMy first experiences of the internet were helping my grandfather answer The Scotman&#39;s Factfinder Crosswords using a software meta crawler which you downloaded to your desktop and which queried a number of search engines to get you &quot;the right answer&quot;. Every weekend the desk the family computer was on would be covered in Post It notes with questions like &quot;who scored 182 for 6 against England in 1982&quot; and then a character count for how long the answer was. Everything was dial-up of course with a long telephone cable running down the hall corridor to where the phone was normally plugged in.Sent viaGuardianWitnessByAndrewGirvan12 March 2014, 13:2120. Being polite to Ask JeevesYou could ask Jeeves pretty much anything. Photograph: Richard Levine/AlamyRemember Ask Jeeves? He was the man who knew everything.Ask Jeeves - Politely mind you.When Jeeves was THE search engine we used to be very polite and wordy.&#39;Could you possibly tell me what is the capital of Kuala Lumpur please?&#39;&#39;Would you know how many sheets of paper in a ream Sir?&#39;&#39;I&#39;m not sure, but is the motor at the front of the car please?&#39;It was like you were talking to a real person somewhere. Shame...Sent viaGuardianWitnessBybacktowork12 March 2014, 18:3221. GeocitiesAt one point, GeoCities was the fifth most popular site on the web.Tackler7remembers being impressed by the possibilities for his own website:GeoCities was a particular favourite. I marvelled at the sheer range of interests and the differences in design - from the brilliant to the gaudy rubbish. I decided that I wanted one and with the aide of a free piece of software I built my first site - for my office five-a-side team. I remember being really proud in showing it off for the first time and it was rated as site of the month in a computer magazine, which made my day.22. Using a webcam for the first timePrimitive Webcam ChatI am 23 years old and I am probably part of the first generation to really grow up with the internet and not really remember what life was like without the internet. On the flip-side of that, I still remember when the internet was slow, unwieldy and basically for reading. However my first experience with the internet was in 1995/6. I was in Year 1 of school, so must have been 5 years old. We were supposed to have a webcam chat with a school in America but it was everything you would expect of a webcam chat in 1996 - a grainy picture moving so slowly that it actually only obscured communication. I&#39;m not even sure the audio worked. It was however pretty mindblowing for a 5 year old in deepest darkest North East England to see other 5 year olds all the way in the USA.Sent viaGuardianWitnessBy01rorlin12 March 2014, 21:4823. Huddling around your school’s only computerNowadays, a lot of schools have their own IT room. Back in ‘96, that wasn’t so.Kittyand fox’sprimary school had the one and her secondary school had two.One of which was our library and it would take up to five minutes sometimes just to get a web page up.24. Waiting for images to load line by lineUsually naughty images.25. Last, but not least, the computer you used to access the internet for the first timeThe first device I used with an internet connectionA green text display made by Alpha Micro. Used in 1995. Proper internet, not a limited bulletin board. I cant remember the name of the browser we had. The lack of graphics wasnt too much of a problem in the early daysSent viaGuardianWitnessByDavid Bradbury12 March 2014, 13:21We really enjoyed receiving all your submissions - you can take a look at the rest of them onGuardianWitness. As ever, feel free to add your own in the comments below.
The iOS 7.1update to Apple’s iPhone and iPad softwarenow warns users about subsequent in-app purchases after confirming purchase of an item via the App Store.After making an in-app purchase, the alert cautions that additional purchases ranging from 69p to £69.99 can be made in any app for 15 minutes without requiring the re-entry of the password associated with the iTunes account.The alert also offers users the option to change the settings to immediately require the password to be entered for any purchase, removing the 15-minute implemented in response to US regulatory and legal action over in-app purchases.Thousands of dollars spent without permissionA class action lawsuit from 2011 against Apple over in-app purchases by children wassettled for around $100m in February 2013. It alleged that “Apple failed to adequately disclose that third-party game apps, largely available for free and rated as containing content suitable for children, contained the ability to make in-app purchases.”In January the US Federal Trade Commissionordered Apple to provide a full refundof in-app purchases made without the permission of the account holder, after it received 10s of thousands of complaints. As an example, the FTC said one parent had complained her child spent more than $2,600 in the Tap Pet Hotel app without her permission.As part of the agreement, Apple was ordered to change its purchasing process by 31 March to ensure consumers give full consent when purchasing items in mobile apps.The FTC said Apple failed to inform consumers that they could be approving in-app purchases by entering a password on their device, which this new pop-up warning attempts to address.Google faces asimilar US lawsuit over unauthorised in-app purchasesof virtual currency by children.• How to disable or control in-app purchaseon iPadsandon Android tablets
Boris Johnson has called the German chancellor Angela Merkel “jealous” after she poked fun at the slow rollout of broadband to Britain’s rural areas.Speaking at the launch of the new TechHub incubator in Old Street, the London mayor referred to Merkel’sjibe on Mondayat the expense of Britain’s poor rural broadband. Johnson suggested that Merkel only chose to “outrage diplomatic protocol… because she was jealous.”On Monday Merkel asked David Cameron at the CeBIT exhibition in Germany when the UK would complete its rollout of broadband to rural areas – a project that has seen hundreds of millions of pounds spent but which will not bring high-speed connectivity to significant numbers in more distant locations. Merkel said that Germany will complete its rollout by 2018. Ed Vaizey, the UK communications minister, said that the UK is on track to deliver fast broadband to 95% of the UK by 2017.“She recognises the growing lead of London in the 21st-century industries and 21st century technologies,” Johnson said. “Not in the old industries in which, of course, Germany still excels. Not in metal bashing and making very expensive cars that go jolly fast. Not in that kind of thing - though, actually, come to think of it, we are now the second biggest motor manufacturer in Europe, don’t forget that - but in tech, in the 21st-century industry.”Johnson was outlining his plan to build on the success of the Tech City initiative and promote the whole of London as “the tech capital of the world”.To capitalise on that lead “not just in special effects, not just in fin tech [financial tech], but in bio tech, med tech, in nano tech, in green tech, in ed tech… med tech… tech,” the mayor announced the creation of a team of “tech ambassadors” for London.Decoded’s Kathryn Parsons, Tech City UK’s Gerard Grech and TechCrunch’s Mike Butcher are among the first wave of ambassadors confirmed by the mayor. They will be expected to champion the capital’s digital sector around the globe.Influential figures from London’s tech scene also used the opportunity to push the mayor’s office to continue with its pro-tech policies.“London is our very first place outside of the US where we have opened an engineering office,” said Facebook’s Nicola Mendelsohn, “and we’ve gone from zero to 100 engineers in just over a year… If I’m honest, many of the engineers we hire are not Brits, or Londoners, but they want to come to London because it’s such a culturally rich and creatively vibrant city. We will always support you, mister mayor, to continue to make a spirited, passionate forward-looking case for immigration.”•Home broadband speeds double in two years as UK overtakes EU competitors
With global video game industry revenues expected to surpass £60bn this year, there is no question about the industry's financial clout. Measuring its artistic worth is more complicated. Video games blur the lines between technology and art, fiction and sport and, as such, the medium is not neatly celebrated. This challenge hasn't stopped Bafta holding an annual glitzy awards ceremony, the sixth of which was held on Wednesday eveningin the Tobacco Dock in London's East End.All of the usual awards ceremony sights were on show: the vigorous handshakes of the victors, the rictus smiles of the trounced and the woozy inebriation of the other patrons. But this year, unusually, there was also a chorus of voices from outside the video games world extolling the industry's virtues.The television writer Stephen Moffatt, who presented the story award declared that video games were an art form, before admitting that, as video games begin to dominate the cultural landscape, he was primarily "here to crawl to my new bosses".TV presenter Carol Vorderman told those present that anyone with "half a brain-cell in television will know that you are the future".Television presenter Jenni Falconer turns out to celebrate the stars of the gaming industry. Photograph: Splash News/  Splash News/Splash News/CorbisThe big winners of the night were those games that most closely mimic film with lavish, cinematic productions and Hollywood voice talent.Grand Theft Auto V, a Scottish-developed satirical take on crime in contemporary America from Rockstar Games, which earned more than £600m in the first week after its launch in September, won three awards for British game, game design, and multiplayer. The Last of Us, a grimly hopeful portrait of love and life in a post-apocalyptic world, won five awards including best game and Best Performer.Jodie Kidd, also a games fan. Photograph: Jonathan Hordle/REXPapers, Please, an interactive examination of what it might have been like to work as a passport-control agent in a European communist state in the early 1980s, won the award for strategy and simulation, while Gone Home, a wistful game in which you explore an abandoned house and piece together the vanished family's story, won debut game."It's great that video games are acknowledged here, but I think it's also good to celebrate what makes them different to film and television," said Tom Francis, whose game Gunpoint was nominated. "A lot of their appeal is something that's unique to games. It's great to see Bafta celebrating work on its merit as games rather than just because they look like film."Hideo Kojima, the Japanese creator of the Metal Gear Solid series, said that this year the judges had celebrated games that took advantage of their medium, while Harvey Elliott, chairman of the Bafta games committee, said film, television and video games were three columns of the same temple. "They are all art forms of the moving image. Just because the work is interactive doesn't stop it from being a work of art."
Apple recently updated its iPhone and iPad software to version 7.1,adding and improving a number of features. In the release notes, CarPlay, Siri and iTunes Radio took centre stage, but there were also new accessibility options, showcasing how Apple is still getting to grips with making its mobile OS more usable for the widest range of people.When iOS 7 first appeared, it seemed a dynamic, stark, minimal response to iOS 6’s oft-criticised texture-heavy and taste-light trappings. But frequent use of parallax effects, zooms and slide animations — far more aggressive than those on rival systems — resulted ina number of users feeling physically sick. TidePool mobile app developerJenni Lederwas far from alone in having to close her eyes during transitions, something she considered a ridiculous situation when using a smartphone.A month later, Apple’s7.0.3 upgradehelped many of those who’d been adversely affected, a revamped Reduce Motion control (activated in the Accessibility section of the Settings app) replacing most zoom effects with crossfades. At the time, Leder remarked: “I’m utterly shocked and extremely thankful this happened so quickly. The update was exactly what I needed. I can finally use the phone like a normal person again!”iOS 7.1's app switching can be calmed through Accessibility. Photograph: /Public domainWith iOS 7.1, it appears Apple is further thrashing out the details. With Reduce Motion active, the app-switcher — which had previously retained a lurching zoom and slide when opened and closed — is tamed with the same crossfade effects folders use. Weather’s parallax backgrounds are gone. And in Messages, the entire scrolling area moves as one, rather than before where each message playfully slid around as if on ice but also had the potential to trigger motion sickness and vertigo.iOS 7.1's Accessibility setting can calm the Weather app - though the weather's the same. Photograph: /Public domainiOS 7.1's Accessibility settings can stop Messages sliding up. Photograph: /Public domainWith Apple’s initial fixes working well for so many, it could have been easy to consider the problem solved, butMarissa Christina, a podcaster and writer about hidden disabilities said she was pleased Apple hadn’t rested on its laurels: “These latest adjustments are exciting… emotional. It’s acceptance that balance disorders are being validated, and encouraging to know Apple will not leave people behind.” Christina added she’d “never been so excited to use a weather app” and was thrilled that accidental use of the app-switcher (by double-clicking the home button) would no longer result in potentially triggering severe vertigo symptoms.However, Apple’s other major accessibility update in iOS 7.1 is a stranger addition, in the sense it perhaps shouldn’t be an option at all. Called “button shapes”, it displays the hit area of toolbar buttons in grey; elsewhere, some dialogue and menu buttons gain hypertext-like underlines, to further clarify their purpose and interactive properties.iOS 7.1 brings the opportunity to give 'shape' to navigation buttons - as with the "General" one in the top line. Photograph: /Public domainUser experience expertAral Balkanhas previously been critical of the design of iOS 7’s buttons and usability: “Critics get caught up in aesthetics — the flatter look — but that oversimplified analysis misses both the greatest achievements of iOS 7 and its bigger problems. Respectively, these are removing chrome to make the content central to the experience, and certain elements having weaker affordances when compared to iOS 6.”iOS 7.1's Accessibility setting adds hints to 'action' words, distinguishing them from explanatory text Photograph: /Public domain“Affordances” are clues an object gives regarding how it wants to be used, based on how it looks; those with strong affordances are considered more intuitive. (An example is pull handles on doors that are intended to be pulled open.) By default, iOS 7’s buttons don’t look like buttons, and are therefore not intuitively recognised as such; Balkan considers this a “core usability issue”.He said the new accessibility option was a “welcome addition,” but thought it should be the default: “It’s unbelievable such a core control can have such a weak affordance on a platform that prides itself on its ease of use and heralds its user experience as its main differentiator. I do hope this is something Apple will address in a future update. Sacrificing usability for aesthetics is not a good long-term strategy.”If iOS 7 has proved anything, though, it’s that Apple is willing to take risks and also to iterate; version 7.1’s interface has been refined over that of 7.0 in various other areas, such as redesigned call-screen buttons. But while Apple’s willingness to perfect and polish features for users with disabilities is to be lauded, “hiding” features potentially useful to all within the accessibility settings is still questionable.•iOS 7.1 update fixes fingerprint woes and speeds up iPhone 4
Warnings that phone call “metadata” can betray detailed information about your life has been confirmed by research at Stanford University. Researchers there successfully identified a cannabis cultivator, multiple sclerosis sufferer and a visitor to an abortion clinic using nothing more than the timing and destination of their phone calls.Jonathan Mayer and Patrick Mutchler, the researchers behind the finding, used data gleaned from 546 volunteers to assess the extent to which information about who they had called and when revealed personally sensitive information.The research aimed to answer questions raised by the NSA wiretapping revelations, where it was revealed that the US intelligence agencycollects metadata - but not content - of millions of phone calls on mobile networks.No harm?The researchers cite statements like that of President Obama, that the NSA was “not looking at content,” and ask whether the legal distinction between metadata and content is matched by harm reduction in the real world.“Is it easy to draw sensitive inferences from phone metadata,” they ask. “How often do people conduct sensitive matters by phone, in a manner reflected by metadata?”The volunteers providing the data installed an app called “MetaPhone” on their Android phones, which passed information about who they had called, as well as what was on their public Facebook profile, to Mayer and other researchers at the Stanford Security Laboratory.“During our analysis, we encountered a number of patterns that were highly indicative of sensitive activities or traits,”he explains in the paper on the team’s research. “Though most MetaPhone participants consented to having their identity disclosed, we use pseudonyms in this report to protect participant privacy.”One participant “communicated with multiple local neurology groups, a specialty pharmacy, a rare condition management service, and a hotline for a pharmaceutical used solely to treat relapsing multiple sclerosis.” Another “had a long, early morning call with her sister. Two days later, she placed a series of calls to the local Planned Parenthood location. She placed brief additional calls two weeks later, and made a final call a month after.”A third, over the span of three weeks, “contacted a home improvement store, locksmiths, a hydroponics dealer, and a head shop.”“Owing to the sensitivity of these matters”, Mayer explains that the researchers elected not to contact the three participants for confirmation that their inferences were correct.Speaking to the Guardian, Mayer cautioned that “the MetaPhone dataset is, to be sure, not statistically representative of the American population. In addition to opting in, participation requires an Android phone and a Facebook account.”But he emphasised that the results “are strongly suggestive of the sensitivity in NSA and telecom databases.”A further aspect of the study looked at the amount of sensitive information that can be revealed by the metadata of a single phone call. Almost a third of those in the dataset, which covered three months of calls, contacted a pharmacy, while 10% of them contacted a recruiting service.Meanwhile 8% contacted religious institutions; of those who did and had given their religion on Facebook, almost three-quarters contacted the religious institution aligned with their faith - suggesting that that would be a strong indicator of religious alignment on its own.“Participants had calls with Alcoholics Anonymous, gun stores, NARAL Pro-Choice, labor unions, divorce lawyers, sexually transmitted disease clinics, a Canadian import pharmacy, strip clubs, and much more,” the researchers write. “This was not a hypothetical parade of horribles. These were simple inferences, about real phone users, that could trivially be made on a large scale.”Mayer previously discovered that Google was hacking user cookies in Apple’s Safari browser in order to show tailored adverts, for which it wasfined $17m.•The NSA/GCHQ metadata reassurances are breathtakingly cynical
It is perhaps the perfect Bafta game. A cinematic, emotionally intense and at times subversive experience, The Last of Us may well have triumphed at the film and TV Baftas if it had been a gripping, devastating movie, rather than an interactive adventure.As it is, the critically acclaimed PlayStation 3 title took five awards at Wednesday night’s Bafta video game event, including Best Game, Best Action Adventure title and Best Story. Actor Ashley Johnson, who portrayed the game’s troubled teen, Ellie, won in Best Performance, with co-star Troy Baker accepting the prize on her behalf and praising the game for its depiction of a strong, resourceful female lead.It was also a good night for British titles. Grand Theft Auto V, which on any other year possibly could have expected to sweep the categories, won three awards, including Game Design. But the night’s unexpected heroes were Guildford-based studio Media Molecule who also took three Bafta statues for their beautiful papercraft-inspired title Tearaway. The company brought a boisterous retinue of staff and friends along who loudly cheered them to the stage for the Artistic Achievement, Family and Handheld awards. A boost in interest for this gorgeous PlayStation Vita exclusive would be just reward for the team.In many ways, this was Rockstar’s night. Managing to get Bafta’s rules changed so that the prestigious Fellowship could be awarded to the whole company rather than one individual, the founders Sam and Dan Houser were present to accept the accolade. Dan made an emotional speech about the origins of the Grand Theft Auto series, about how his brother formed the company at 27 with a vision to lift games alongside film in terms of cultural impact and epic scope. At the time, he was either laughed at or ignored, said Dan, but he prevailed. “No executive producer in entertainment has done more to transform their industry,” he said. “Perhaps the only figures he can be compared to are the builders of Hollywood, people like Jack Warner and Irvin Thalberg. And he did all this with no money in a company initially run by crooks, based in the wrong city, in a foreign country.”As is often the case with the Baftas, and rightly so, it was also an evening that celebrated smaller independent titles. There was a Best Debut award for Gone Home, Fullbright Company’s evocative tale of a troubled homecoming, while Best Strategy and Simulation went, not to giants like Civilization V or Forza V, but toPapers, Please, a tense, minimalist study of border crossing politics by lone developer, Lucas Pope. Elsewhere, the critically acclaimed indie console title Brothers: A Tale of Two Sons won for Best innovation, thanks to its innovative interface which gets players to control both lead characters simultaneously with one joypad. And the Bafta One to Watch award, which is made up of entries into the Dare to Be Digital game design competition, was taken by Norwegian/Scottish group Team Dos whose excellent title Size Does Matter crosses Tetris and Guitar Hero to compulsive effect. The smartphone and tablet title has been picked up by Channel 4 Games and will be released in the summer.Finally, Fifa 14 won in the best sport category. A year ago, the proceeding instalment in the series lost to indie competitor New Star Soccer, so EA Sports will be ‘over the moon’ with this return to the top of the football simulation league.It was, then, a night of both deserved mainstream successes and pleasingly idiosyncratic indie wins - although really, what the Baftas show is that these two worlds are becoming ever more difficult to separate and exclusively categorise. With its bleak, almost nihilistic denouement, The Last of Us is more akin to leftfield cinema like Children of Men than to the blockbuster explosion-fests that previous cinematic games have aspired too. At the same time, Brothers: A Tale of Two Sons, developed in conjunction with filmmaker Josef Fares, has the sweeping narrative ambitions of a title made at 100 times its budget.Ultimately, Dan Houser’s speech about Grand Theft Auto and its impact against all the odds – and all the cultural snobbery – said much about the entire games industry. “We have created the things we dreamed of,” he said. “Almost magical living worlds for people to explore. Works of pop art, throwaway nonsense, brilliant, trivial – classify them as you will. The fact is, these made-up but vibrant places have helped to show the unique power and limitless potential of interactive entertainment.”• The Last of Us - review• GTA 5 review – a dazzling but monstrous parody of modern life
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWindows XP security issues: fact v fiction &gt;&gt; InformationWeek"The reality is, the absence of patches for Windows XP just exposes companies to risk," Forrester analyst David Johnson said, noting that companies must be mindful, not only of security concerns, but also of compliance obligations.For its part, Microsoft has been trumpeting for months that Windows XP is six times more likely than Windows 8.1 to contract malware. Some InformationWeek readers labeled the statistics as a scare tactic, pointing out that Microsoft has newer products it wants to sell. This cynicism isn't without merit-- but don't be too quick to label Microsoft a fearmonger. Security experts agree: You stick with XP at your own peril.Sergey Brin and Amanda Rosenberg: inside the Google co-founder's romance with the Google Glass marketing manager &gt;&gt; Vanity FairThe story behind Google co-founder Sergey Brin's liaison with Google Glass marketing manager Amanda Rosenberg—and his split from his wife, genetic-testing entrepreneur Anne Wojcicki— has a decidedly futuristic edge. But, as Vanessa Grigoriadis reports, the drama leaves Silicon Valley debating emotional issues, from office romance to fear of mortality.Futuristic, but tinged with sadness.Google reviewing "not provided," withholding keywords from organic but not paid search clicks &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandDanny Sullivan:When Google moved to secure search in October 2011, it was a blow to publishers, who began losing data about the search terms used to reach their sites. It also opened Google up to claims of hypocrisy, in that advertisers continued to receive the terms. Now, Google says it's reexamining the issue and seeking a better solution.Will clicks on non-paid listings go back to passing along search term data again? Will ad clicks have that withheld? Google didn't say either way, and there could be other possibilities, as well.This is a topic that's very relevant to anyone whose business depends on incoming search from Google. There are lots of alternatives, some of which could have a big effect.Neil Young's Pono music player blasts past Kickstarter goal &gt;&gt; TechHivePonoMusic says the player's digital filter is designed to eliminate any digital pre-ringing that you can sometimes hear on low-quality MP3s. The player's digital-to-analog converter (DAC) chip is said to be "widely recognized in the audio and engineering community" as one of the top DACs available today. The DAC is believed to be the ESS ES9018.PonoMusic partnered with Ayre Acoustics to create the device.When it becomes available for purchase, the Pono will be a triangular-shaped music device weighing about 0.28 pounds. It will have 64GB of internal storage and a microSD slot supporting up to another 64GB, for up to 128GB of total available storage (about 5,000 tracks at CD quality).Yes, triangular. Nestle it with your Toblerone to make a comfy parallelogram.Turning to China – the conglomeratization of US internet companies &gt;&gt; DIGITS to DOLLARSJonathan Greenberg:look at China. The big internet companies there all have a mix of businesses,  but they all tend to have multiple business arms. The underlying services look familiar to us but the ways in which they monetize do are often less familiar.For instance, China's biggest messaging service – Tencent's WeChat – makes money through sales of virtual goods and as lead generator for Tencent's other apps (e.g. gaming). Advertising, e-commerce, search all monetize in different ways and at different rates there.In some ways, I think China's internet market is much more advanced than that of the US and Europe. The Internet companies there emerged a bit later than they did in the US. So they were able to learn from past practices. They also operate in a ruthlessly competitive market. Unconstrained by "how things have always been done" (always meaning back to 1999), they have pursued every opportunity they can.As a result, China's big Internet companies are already conglomerates with social, messaging, gaming and commerce services. These companies tend to mix and match in ways different than what we see in the US. And I imagine that companies here will start to blur things a lot more and begin to resemble the sprawling conglomerates there. Capture traffic anyway you can.700m smartphones &amp; tablets in China &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansUmeng's 2013 report has just come out, and it's full of fascinating data. (Umeng is an app analytics firm, much like Flurry, and has its code in a very large share of apps in use in China.)Striking data points:There were 700m active smartphones and tablets [est 500m smartphones, 200m tablets] in China at the end of 2013, and this almost doubled from 380m in Q1High-end phones are a big market: 27% of the total active base, and 80% of those are iPhones55% of the top 1000 apps include links to the major Chinese social platforms20% of the top games use licensed third-party IPApp use and game use varies by how expense the phone is (unsurprising, but some good data on the details)The Android market remains fragmented: Samsung has 24% (much lower than globally), Xiaomi is in 4th place and 'other' is a third of the marketThere's a link to the report too. Expect those "other" handset makers to start exporting to the rest of the world soon. If the iPhone data is correct, it means China is by far its largest market in terms of installed base - at least 80m compared to 66m in the US. (Note that the "Android" handsets use AOSP; they're not Google-activated.)Chitika iOS 7.1 adoption rate has 5.9% of USA in 24 hours, 12% in 48hrs &gt;&gt; SlashgearIn the first 24 hours of release, iOS 7.1 grew from approximately 0% (a bit more due to testing) of the USA to 4.0% at around 14 hours after release. At around 24 hours after release, iOS 7 had hit 5.9%. Also according to Chitika, 24 hours after the release of iOS 7.0.6, adoption levels had reached 6% of the United States. Meanwhile iOS 7 in general reached 80% (compared to all other versions of iOS) over this three-day study period.Chitika has sent in an update to their study, showing 24 more hours after the first, showing how in 48 hours, adoption rate has reached 12% in the USA. This is a doubling, if you will.Samsung KNOX 2.0 vs. iOS 7 security: an overview &gt;&gt; CITEworldRyan Fass:The following are 14 enterprise, IT, or security-focused features and capabilities touted by Samsung or Apple along with how each platform delivers them (or doesn't). This is meant to provide a broad overview of what each platform offers, and is not the result of exhaustive testing. Where both platforms offer a similar but not identical feature, this article does not attempt to judge which approach is better.Absent BlackBerry, these are the only two in the race for secure BYOD.Everything you know about cyberwar is wrong &gt;&gt; Network WorldSerious as the problem is, however, the hype may be even worse. Polls show that Americans are now more afraid of cyber attacks than they are of Iranian or North Korean nuclear weapons, climate change, or authoritarian China. The Pentagon budget statement used the word "cyber" 12 times two years ago: This year? 147 mentions.31,300 = academic journal and major media articles on cyber terrorism0 = number of people hurt or killed by an actual cyber terrorism incidentAre malls over? &gt;&gt; The New YorkerAmy Merrick:This week, Woodville [a mall that opened in 1969 with a million square feet of space] is being torn down. So are countless other malls across the US — so many that there's aWeb site devoted to "dead malls"that are out of commission. In some cases, the buildings have been converted into community colleges, corporate headquarters, or churches. Others, like the Woodville Mall, have become so damaged by water, mold, and asbestos that city officials are glad to demolish them. In January, Rick Caruso, the C.E.O. of Caruso Affiliated, one of the largest privately held American real-estate companies, stood on a stage at the Javits Center, in New York, and forecast the demise of the traditional mall. "Within ten to fifteen years, the typical U.S. mall, unless it is completely reinvented, will be a historical anachronism—a sixty-year aberration that no longer meets the public's needs, the retailers' needs, or the community's needs," he told his audience, which had gathered for the National Retail Federation's annual convention.You can guess the culprit, but malls might yet have life.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Tim Berners-Lee thinks the internet deserves its own bill of rights. Twenty-five years after writing a draft proposal about what would later become the world wide web – and one day after describing his proposal of an internet ‘Magna Carta’ to the Guardian’s Jemima Kiss – Berners-Lee took his idea to an interested audience: the denizens ofReddit’s Ask Me Anythingsection.A refresher from Kiss’s Tuesday exclusive:Berners-Lee’s Magna Carta plan is to be taken upas part of an initiative called “the web we want”, which calls on people to generate a digital bill of rights in each country – a statement of principles he hopes will be supported by public institutions, government officials and corporations.“Unless we have an open, neutralinternetwe can rely on without worrying about what’s happening at the back door, we can’t have open government, good democracy, good healthcare, connected communities and diversity of culture. It’s not naive to think we can have that, but it is naive to think we can just sit back and get it.”Berners-Lee fielded questions from Redditusers about the importance of net neutrality and gave his views about the actions of Edward Snowden. But he also answered for his bad spelling and an apparent lack of foresight into what would become the internet’s extreme interest in all things feline. We’ve collected some of the highlights below:mart95123: Edward Snowden – hero or villain?Because he ✓ had no other alternative ✓ engaged as a journalist / with a journalist to be careful of how what was released, and ✓ provided an important net overall benefit to the world, I think he should be protected, and we should have ways of protecting people like him. Because we can try to design perfect systems of government, and they will never be perfect, and when they fail, then the whistleblower may be all that saves society.misanthrope: What are your thoughts on the increased surveillance on internet based mediums like GCHQ’s monitoring of all the Yahoo video chats. Do you personally think it should be controlled, non existent or fine the way it is now?I think that some monitoring of the net by government agencies is going to be needed to fight crime. We need to invent a new system of checks and balances with unprecedented power to be able to investigate and hold the agencies which do it accountable to the public.FLYINGSPAGHETTEESHIR: Tim, What other names did you consider other than the world wide web?Mine of Information, The Information Mine, The Mesh ... None had quite the right ring. I liked WWW partly because I could start global variable names with a W and not have them clash with other peoples’ (in a C world) ...in fact I used HT for them)totharescue: What was one of the things you never thought the internet would be used for, but has actually become one of the main reasons people use the internet?﻿Kittens.wobetmit: Do you think in the (not too distant) future we’ll look back and think ourselves lucky to have witnessed a neutral, free, and uncensored world wide web?I think it is up to us. I’m not guessing, I’m hoping. Yes, I can imagine that all to easily. If ordinary web users are not sufficiently aware of threats and get involved and if necessary take to the streets like for SOPA and PIPA and ACTA. On balance? I am optimistic.jron: ... What impact, if any, do you think digital currencies might have on how value is sent over the Internet?I think that it is important to have lots of different ways getting money to creative people on the net. So if we can have micropayment user interfaces which make it easy for me to pay people for stuff they write, play, perform, etc, in small amounts, then I hope that could be a way allowing people to actually make a serious business out of it. Flattr I found an interesting move in that direction.
Access to the data of more than a million teenagers and students and thousands of their parents is being sold to advertisers such as mobile phone and energy drinks companies by Ucas, the university applications body.The Universities and Colleges Admissions Service received more than £12m last year in return for sending targeted advertising to subscribers as young as 16.The service, which controls admissions to UK universities and attracts 700,000 new applicants each year, sells the access via its commercial arm, Ucas Media.Vodafone, O2, Microsoft and the private university accommodation provider Pure Student Living are among those who have marketed through Ucas, which offers access to over a million student email addresses and a market worth a claimed £15bn a year.The Red Bull energy drink firm promoted three new drink flavours by sending sample cans to 17,500 selected students deemed to be trend-setting "early adopters" in order to create a "social media buzz".Applicants can opt out of receiving direct marketing, but only at the cost of missing out on education and careers mailings as well.Meanwhile, the Ucas offshoot Ucas Progress, set up two years ago to serve pupils from aged 13 looking for post-16 courses, is also collecting data. Children who sign up for Ucas Progress via their schools are encouraged by the company to agree to receive marketing by email from "carefully selected third parties". Ucas Progress says it currently only takes advertisements from education and training providers to put on its website and does not mail children directly.Data campaigners condemned Ucas's approach as "underhand".Ucas Media promotes its services to potential clients by emphasising the unique richness and accuracy of its data and the trust associated with its brand. Almost every student applying to a British university from the UK or overseas must use the online Ucas application gateway, which requires them to provide up-to-date identity and contact details. "We help them reach uni – we help you reach them," Ucas Media tells potential advertisers.There is no suggestion that Ucas Media is breaking the law in selling access to data about university applicants and schoolchildren. It does not sell individuals' data directly, but markets access to it, using its own channels to deliver marketing – and keeping possession of a rich and highly valuable bank of personal information.University applicants are given the option of refusing mailings when they register with Ucas. However, they have to opt out rather than in, and Ucas's application form does not disaggregate commercial mailings from information from education providers and employers.As a result students who reject product mailings risk missing out on course information and potential career opportunities.Teenagers using Ucas Progress must explicitly opt in to mailings from the organisation and advertisers, though the organisation's privacy statement says: "We do encourage you to tick the box as it helps us to help you."Under the banner "Your gateway to undergraduates", Ucas Media's website states: "We're one of the most important organisations in the lives of any young person aspiring to get into university … With years of experience building relationships with students and having worked with some of the UK's best-known brands – from multinationals to independents – we can help you reach current and future students, a market worth over £15bn a year."Its million-plus email addresses can be "filtered by age, region, subject, domicile, gender or university", it tells potential advertisers, boasting of reaching 100,000 16/17-year-olds, 90,000 mature applicants aged over 21 and 100,000 overseas applicants.Ucas's website, which also hosts advertising, has more than 1.8 million unique users a month. The company also offers access to the details of 15,000 parents who have signed up with it for more information about higher education.Emma Carr, deputy director of the privacy lobby group Big Brother Watch, said: "Ucas is perfectly within the law to sell on this information, but the way they are doing so, as is the situation with most data gathering organisations, is underhand. It goes far beyond what students would expect them to do with their data."Students should be explicitly asked for their permission before Ucas can sell their information on and Ucas should be open and transparent about who it is selling the data on to."Rob Campbell, chair of the National association of Head Teachers' secondary education committee, said Ucas's marketing raised concerns. His own school, Impington village college near Cambridge, used Ucas Progress so pupils could choose post-16 options.He said: "I have a degree of concern around that principle of to what extent students are aware when they opt out or otherwise what decision they are making. I would also have concerns as an educator and parent about the kinds of advertisers you want to specifically target these groups."The revelation fuels concerns over whether young people are adequately protected against exploitation of their personal data. Data protection legislation does not treat young people any differently from adults, but a growing recognition that teenagers may be giving away highly commercially valuable information about themselves, potentially also risking fraud, has prompted moves to improve education on the issue.A spokesman for the Information commissioner's office (ICO), set up to promote individuals' data privacy, said Ucas's activities did not appear to breach marketing rules under the privacy and electronic communications regulations.But the spokesman said: "It's crucial people are aware of how their personal information is being used by an organisation. Where a company wants to use that information for marketing, it should be clear from the outset, and ensure it has the individual's consent, which must be freely given, specific and informed."The ICO said the organisation was pressing for children to be taught in school about the value and importance of their personal information and how to look after it. There is no specific "age of consent" in the UK for sharing one's own data, though Scottish law states that young people can ask for data held on them at 12 and that age is broadly treated as, in effect, the point of "data responsibility". Many parents would be likely to disagree.Ucas's accounts say "the majority" of Ucas Media's profits are gift aided to the parent company, which is a charity as well as a company. It argues that the contribution keeps down applicant fees, currently £23 a candidate.Ucas, whose 2013 accounts show just over a third of its income came from Ucas Media last year, receives no money from the government and is not a quango.An Ucas spokesperson said: "Ucas and Ucas Media comply strictly with all applicable laws and regulations, in the way in which we handle personal data. Ucas Media has strict guidelines for the different groups that we may cover, based on the age sensitivities of our audiences. For example, Ucas Media does not accept political, alcohol or tobacco related products for marketing."Ucas Media could segment marketing campaigns by criteria such as geography, but "does not use sensitive data filters or any content from an applicant's personal statement".The spokesperson said the number of mailings received would vary between applicants but was reviewed to ensure it was "reasonable" and applicants were told in each that they could opt out at any time.Ucas Progress had no plans to make data from its school-age users available to third parties, and advertisements on its newsletters were "strictly vetted for relevance to help learners to make the right education and career choices for the right reasons with the right outcomes".• This article was amended on 17 March 2014. An earlier version referred to "sales of the emails and addresses of subscribers". Ucas does not sell that data, but sends targeted advertising to subscribers who do not opt out.
The average home broadband speed has doubled in less than two years, reaching nearly 18 megabits per second (Mbps) and helping to propel Britain's digital infrastructure ahead of Europe's other leading economies.The UK now ranks ahead of Germany, France, Italy and Spain for the number of homes that have access to standard and superfast broadband, and has a greater proportion of people able to receive internet over their mobile phone, according to ascorecardpublished by the telecoms watchdog, Ofcom.With internet gradually gaining the status of a household utility alongside water, gas and electricity, more Britons now shop online than in any other European state. The data suggests that using a tablet or desktop computer to buy groceries, clothes and entertainment is becoming a national pursuit.The high street is moving online, with internet-only retailers such as Asos and Net-a-Porter enjoying rising sales, and John Lewis using its busy website order book toovertakeMarks &amp; Spencer in sales this year.Seventy-seven percent of Britons have bought goods or services over the internet in the last 12 months, and 87% say they go online at least once a week. Cyber-shopping is also popular in Germany, where 68% have spent money online in the last year, but far less so in the warmer climates of southern Europe – just 20% of Italians and 32% of Spaniards have made purchases online."We are leading the main EU nations when it comes to superfast broadband and 4G network deployment," said the Ofcom boss, Ed Richards. In a letter to the business secretary, Vince Cable, presenting the latest findings, he pointed out that superfast broadband is available to 73% of households and takeup is accelerating. "Since we published our last scorecard report in 2013, the UK has overtaken Germany and Spain on both measures."The data was published as a rapid rebuttal of Angela Merkel's jibe at David Cameron's expense last weekend. The German chancellor and British prime minister met for a press conference to announce joint research into 5G mobile internet technology, but the united front was undermined when Merkeljokedabout how long it would take for every Briton would have access to superfast broadband.Germany is promising a national minimum of 50Mbps by 2018, an infrastructure project which could cost €20bn to €34bn (£17bn-£28bn), and which the country plans to fund from mobile spectrum sales. The UK, meanwhile, has a target of 95% of homes on superfast broadband by 2017, although the speed target is lower than Germany's.When Ofcom produced its last comparison, between 55 and 60% of households had access to superfast broadband in the UK, behind Germany and Spain. Seventy-seven percent of households had a fixed broadband connection, compared with 83% today.Numbers using the internet at least once a week have risen from 81% to 87%, while those who have never used the internet fell from 11% to 8%."Momentum needs to be maintained if the UK is to become a truly digital nation, which means neglected rural communities and notspots must be connected to this vital part of UK infrastructure," said Dominic Baliszewski, a telecoms expert at the comparison site Broadbandchoices."Broadband has become a utility in its own right and the absence of a working connection can have a seriously negative impact on families, from an educational, financial and social standpoint."The biggest boost has come from Virgin Media, which doubled speeds at no extra charge for millions of customers in 2012, and BT's extension of fibre to street cabinets serving two-thirds of the population. The average download speed reached 17.8Mbps in November last year, up from 9Mbps in May 2012, effectively doubling in 18 months. The UK is also the best of the five big European economies for 4G coverage on mobile phones, and 4 million people now subscribe to the service.Boris Ivanovic, the chairman of the fast home internet firm Hyperoptic, said there were "a number of problems" with Ofcom's findings."The overall conclusion that the UK has the best broadband in Europe is highly questionable as broadband infrastructure in other European countries, especially in Scandinavia, is far superior to ours at the moment."
