Edge has just published its third list ofThe 100 Best Gamesas a £10 special, as mentioned on ourGamesblogyesterday.There probably won't be too much fighting over the choice of Legend of Zelda: Ocarina as the greatest game of all time ... except for the people who think it's a load of twee tosh compared to Quake, Half-Life, Counter-Strike, Metal Gear: Solid, Elite, Defender or even Pong.The whole thing is entertaining, of course, but stupid. There is no rational way to compare, say, Zelda with Halo with Civilizaton IV with Championship Manager 3 with Tetris. I really don't understand why a magazine like Edge doesn't just divide the field into genres and have ten Top 10 lists (but I haven't bought a copy yet, so maybe it does) that compare like with more-or-less like.Having said that, some of Edge's rankings are odd. For example: 20. Civilization IV; 23. Metroid Prime; 50. Shenmue; 55. Counter-Strike. (Sorry: no Sonic, no Madden, etc.) In this sort of list, you obviously expect PC games to be marked down while old GameCube titles get a free power-up, but how do you explain Shenmue? It would be lucky to make a rational Top 1000.TheBBC has a reporton Edge's issue. For an alternative guide,The Best Video Games in the History of Humanityprovides a list of lists.So, which of your all-time favourites didn't even make the Top 100 (below)?This is the Top 100 list culled from Gamesblog, mostly posted by StatusJones.1. Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time 2. Resident Evil 4 3. Super Mario 64 4. Half Life 2 5. Super Mario World 6. Zelda: A Link to the Past 7. Halo: Combat Evolved 8. Final Fantasy XII 9. Tetris 10. Super Metroid 11. Yoshi's Island 12. Grand Theft Auto: Vice City 13. Ico 14. Super Mario Kart 15. Pro Evolution Soccer 6 16. Street Fighter Anniversary 17. GoldenEye 007 18. Final Fantasy VII 19. Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion 20. Civilization IV 21. Okami 22. World Of WarCraft 23. Metroid Prime 24. Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time 25. Sim City 2000 26. Advance Wars 27. Rez 28. Perfect Dark 29. Deus Ex 30. Shadow Of The Colossus 31. Katamari Damacy 32. Project Gotham Racing 2 33. Castlevania: Symphony of the Night 34. R-Type Final 35. Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons Of Liberty 36. Battlefield 2 37. StarCraft 38. Virtua Fighter 5 39. Secret Of Mana 40. Wario Ware Inc: Minigame Mania 41. Gran Turismo 4 42. Rome: Total War 43. Bomberman 44. Super Monkey Ball 45. Company Of Heroes 46. Quake III 47. Far Cry 48. Puyo Pop Fever 49. Animal Crossing 50. Shenmue 51. Pokemon Ruby/Sapphire 52. Disgaea: Hour Of Darkness 53. Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 54. Chrono Trigger 55. Counter-Strike 56. Guitar Hero 57. Soul Calibur 58. Tempest 2000 59. StarFox 64 60. Pac-Man Vs 61. Manhunt 62. Jet Set Radio Future 63. Lumines 64. System Shock 2 65. Darwinia 66. F-Zero GX 67. Geometry Wars: Retro Evolved 68. GTR2 69. PilotWings 64 70. Ridge Racers 2 71. Ninja Gaiden Black 72. Killer7 73. Puzzle Bobble (aka Bust-a-Move) 74. Thief: The Dark Project 75. Burnout 2 76. Ikaruga 77. Football Manager 2007 78. Doom II 79. Secret of Monkey Island 80. Virtua Tennis 3 81. Robotron 2084 82. Lemmings 83. Nights 84. Phantasy Star Online 85. Silent Hill 2 86. Outrun 2006: Coast 2 Coast 87. Mr. Driller 88. Sega Rally Championship 89. Tomb Raider 90. Devil May Cry 91. Super Smash Bros. Melee 92. Resident Evil 93. Paper Mario: The Thousand Year Door 94. Gitaroo Man 95. God of War 96. Wipeout 97. Tekken 3 98. Sensible Soccer 99. Psychonauts 100. Crackdown
Hard sell: Casino Royale. Photograph: Sony/MGM/UnitedMy inbox was just graced with the presence of a release documenting the glorious history of the Blu-ray Disc.Well, sort of.According to Sony Pictures Home Entertainment, it has now sold more than 180,000 Blu-ray discs across Europe - which, it says, is a "stellar" performance.Since the launch of Sony's PlayStation 3 in March, the format has vastly increased the base of people who are able to play it, and that change has left the great war with HD-DVD finely balanced. Blu-ray titles are now 67% of the total hi-def market across the continent, says Sony. And who is selling most of these? Sony Pictures, no less.The figures are a little confusing, but let's try and break them down.Three months to sell 180,000 BDs means that, roughly, Sony Pictures is selling 2,000 Blu-ray discs each day across the whole of Europe. Given that it is claiming 53% of the Blu-ray market in Britain, that suggests a guesstimate (I'm waiting for Sony to come back with actual figures) of half the European market for BD; therefore something in the region of 350,000.That comes on the back ofone million PS3 ownersaround the EU. So, using my back of the envelope maths, the figures suggest that for every three PlayStation 3 owners, just one has gone out and bought a single Blu-ray disc (probably Casino Royale). That doesn't sound like a fantastic conversion rate to me.Still, you can look at this two ways. On the one hand, it's struggling to sell discs - even to those early adopters who have gone out and bought a PS3. On the other hand, Sony's created a market and it's dominating it. Let's see if we can get to the bottom of this.Update:Sony Pictures tell me that its sales of BD in the UK are 70,000, which indicates that British sales of Blu-ray are about 40% of the European picture.
In perhaps the most bizarre WoW relationship story yet seen, a 31-year-old Australian woman has been arrested in America for allegedly attempting to lure her 17-year-old boyfriend - met via Blizzard's World of Warcraft MMORPG - back to Oz.According to News.com.au, the couple intended to marry.Tamara Broome, currently being held in the Pitt County Detention Centre, told her housemate that the boy's parents were paying for her to travel to America so the virtual lovers, "could sort it all out"."Instead, Ms Broome was met by three detectives as she tried to board a train near the teenager's home town in North Carolina. She was charged with attempting to abduct a child after a 17-year-old boy was caught trying to board a flight to Australia."It seems Ms Broome now faces up to two years in jail if convicted.
iHack: Photograph by David Paul Morris/GettyApparently something called "The iPhone" launched over the weekend, and it's already got a gang of hardcore hackers playing with it and trying to decouple it from the AT&amp;T network. The latest? Jon Lech Johansen - better known as DVD Jon.Johansenexplains that he's found a way to activate an iPhone without paying AT&amp;T a penny. Meanwhile, the people at The Unofficial Apple Weblog have also had a crack,and have a different way to make it contract free.Of course, there's one crucial element missing from all these hacks - they mean you can't actually use the iPhoneas a phone. Which, personally, seems to make it just an extremely complex and expensive way of buying a touchscreen 6G iPod and/or Wi-Fi browser.In recent weeks I've had to explain this countless times to excitable colleagues, friends and family why they won't be able to go to the US, buy an iPhone and stick their British Sim card in it. But as each workaround develops, so too does the possibility of an AT&amp;T free handset.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Klein: The new Simon Cowell?It's been an ongoing refrain among the European dotcom community that it's pretty tough going if you're an entrepreneur with a good idea. Where's the support? Where's the money?There's no doubt that Europe has a lot of potential, but hasn't always delivered. Step in Saul Klein - venture capitalist, former Guardian columnist - who has joined forces with a few other people to set upSeedcamp, a week-long incubator project in the UK this September.Twenty projects will be invited to the camp, and at the end of the week five of them will receive offers of €50,000 funding for a 10% stake in the company. A talent show for startups!Seedcamp admits that it draws on principles set byIdealaband Paul Graham'sYCombinatorprogramme among others, but is principally focused on ideas from around the continent. A slideshow presentationover at Saul's blogexplains Europe's position: good broadband penetration, higher-than-average advertising spend, companies likeSkypeandLast.fmable to exit profitably while services likeBetfair,LovefilmandJoost, show that Europe can change the game.I suppose you could think of it like, erm, "Europe's Got Talent". For geeks.
I already know whatI thinkabout voice in games and virtual worlds. I also now know whatWiredthinks about voice in games. I've even read the lengthy discussion about voice in games from the weblog that should know,Terra Nova. But what do you think? Voice + Games - help or hindrance?
For as long as I've been doing this games journalism lark, the UK has been the third-largest developer of interactive entertainment, hanging in there just behind the US and Japan. But a new titbit of information dribbled down viaMCVexplains that Canada has taken the third position, and we're slinking down the doldrums.Not so good.There are several potential explanations for this downward turn of affairs, which I'm not clever enough (or economically-competent enough) to wrangle with here, so I'll only allude to the strength of the Pound Sterling, the small amount of British government support for research and development and the consolidation of UK development companies under fewer banners. Canada must be drawing in bounties of games people with their new business perks, like tax-rebates, because the UK industry numbers do keep rising (to 40,000 nation-wide, according to anMCVarticle from last week).But does it really matter if games which are released internationallydon'tcome from the UK? People who've been reading this blog for a while know that I happen to think yes, it does, as I often bang-on about British culture in games and unique British approaches to game design. So, apparently, does Minister for Creative Industries and Tourism Shaun Woodward.MCVreports that the Department for Culture, Media and Sport called for the establishment of a "'games academy' to attract the talent the UK needs to maintain its success."Areportreleased last weekoutlined a number of issues facing the industry, such as the threat of digital retail models, the need for business and project management skills in games development, the importance of targeting a wider cross section of consumers, and the danger of incentive schemes by foreign Governments draining talent away from the UK.Will games schools do the trick?
While we wait for Singstar on the PS3 - potentially the first killer app for the console - Sony have confirmed the tracklisting for the next PS2 installment of the karaoke game. Singstar 90s - yup that's the bottom of the barrel you can hear being scraped - is launching in August. Billy Ray Cyrus, EMF, Spice Girls, Radiohead, R.E.M are just some of the stuff you'll be able to drunkenly holler over this summer. So we've had 80s, 90s, indies, anthems - what next for Singstar? Do we still want Sony to continue bundling songs for us or will the create-our-own-setlist download model due to premier in Singstar PS3 win out? In the meantime here is the full tracklisting for Singstar 90s.ALL SAINTS Never Ever AQUA Barbie Girl B-52's Love Shack BARENAKED LADIES One Week BILLY RAY CYRUS Achey Breaky Heart CRASH TEST DUMMIES MMM MMM MMM MMM DIVINYLS I Touch Myself EMF Unbelievable GIN BLOSSOMS Hey Jealousy LISA LOEB Stay MC HAMMER U Can't Touch This MEREDITH BROOKS Bitch M PEOPLE Movin' On Up NATALIE IMBRUGLIA Torn NEW KIDS ON THE BLOCK Step By Step NICK CAVE &amp; KYLIE MINOGUE Where the Wild Roses Grow POISON Unskinny Bop RADIOHEAD Creep REM Everybody Hurts ROACHFORD Only to be with You SAVAGE GARDEN I Want You SEAL Kiss From A Rose SIR MIX A LOT Baby Got Back SPICE GIRLS Wannabe SPIN DOCTORS Two Princes TECHNOTRONIC FEAT. FELLY Pump Up The Jam THE CARDIGANS Lovefool THE CRANBERRIES Zombie THE CURE Friday I'm In Love WET WET WET Love Is All Around
But it's never going to happen. As you have no doubt noticed, this blog has had one. Comments are welcome. The programmers would like to fix any problems before the design reaches any other creaky old blogs.....
Don your sunglasses now and pop over to look at the shiny newAsk Jackblog, which has been the first of the old blogs to make the leap to the new widescreen design. This will give you some idea what the Technology blog and Gamesblog will look like, if you haven't made that conceptual leap already.When you get there, look in the top left and click on Science for fast access to theScience blog.If it's all too much for a rainy Tuesday, there's alwaysLoband;-)
Alice at Wonderland has once again proved her elite typing talents with acomprehensive transcriptof the "Creating parallel experiences between entertainment and MMOs" panel at theHollywood &amp; Games Summitheld last week in Los Angeles. Cool conference, excellent speakers. On this particular topic, the pundits included Corey Bridges from Multiverse, Nick Beliaeff from SOE, Mike Lewis from Cryptic, Rob Pardo from Blizzard and Jeff Yapp from MTV. Choice quotes:So people are seeing the relationship with the consumer that these games have - 8 years with Everquest! - and people think, Omigosh, an 8 year paid relationship?from Sony Online Entertainment...we can take people from watching our show to living our show. That's what makes it inevitable.from MTVThese are just at the beginning. There are juicy nuggets throughout the talk.While you're at it,read up on Jesse Alexander's thought on the subject(of course, via Alice). It's mighty pleasing to hear the Executive Producer of personal teevee faves Lost and Heroes talk at length about how important games techniques are to the future entertainment media experience.
Edge magazine has produced another one of its doorstep-sized special editions, this time counting down the top 100 games of all time as voted by readers and sundry industry experts.Sit down, take a deep breath and have a peep at the top ten:1. Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time 2. Resident Evil 4 3. Super Mario 64 4. Half Life 2 5. Super Mario World 6. Zelda: A Link to the Past 7. Halo: Combat Evolved 8. Final Fantasy XII 9. Tetris 10. Super MetroidAccording to Editor-In-Chief Tony Mott, speaking to theBBC site: "If you were new to video games and were going to go out and buy 100 games to make an instant collection, then these would be the games to buy."Surprised not to see Doom or Goldeneye in the list? Or old-timers like Pac-Man? It would seem the remit has been to go for games that are as impressive, playable and 'valid' today as they were when first released. That's a lot of subjective definitions in one sentance, but you probably understand what I mean. I'd play all of these games again, not just for nostalgia, but because they all still 'work' as competitive products.Noticeable Nintendo bias here, though. And I'm guessing Paradroidmustbe at number 11?
Turns out that the quick way to make money on an iPhone (outside of Apple and AT&amp;T) wasn't to flip it on eBay. It was, instead, to take it apart and figure out who made the chips inside, then buy shares in those companies.According to Reuters, "investors flocked to the iPhone's newly unmasked parts makers." Most but not all saw an increase in their share prices.A few companies also did "tear downs" and estimated the cost of parts.Portelligent, for example, from teardown.com, "said a quick study of the device indicated that the cost of components was about $200 for the $500 iPhone, and about $220 for the $600 phone. The prices for materials, however, are initial estimates," according toInformation Week.If true, that should help Apple turn a tidy profit.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
You may not have noticed but Facebook is sweeping through The Guardian and the rest of the British media, and plenty of media people have quite famous "friends" -- at least in the Facebook sense. The questionthe BBC's Rory Cellan-Jonesasks is: are they for real?
So I've posted afewthoughts in the past about what I think a game is, but I'm wondering what you think it is.Is it about goals? Play? Death-matches? Story? Emotion? Character? Actions? Winning? Losing? Getting better at something? Learning? Testing? Experimenting? Interacting? Poking?Friday philosophy comes several days early.
The beta of Insurgency, a total conversion MOD for Half-Life 2, is now available for download. Set in urban hotspots like Almaden, Haditha and Baghdad, it's an attempt to simulate the intense urban skirmishes currently taking place throughout Iraq. From thewebsite:"Insurgency will take you across the modern battlefield, engaging in intense firefights and battles as a member of either a highly organized and equipped conventional force (US Marines), or as an unconventional fighter that uses a combination of firepower and bravery to take on their sometimes overwhelming opponent (Insurgents)."The emphasis is apparently very much on teamwork, not just as a tactical decision but a necessity for survival - "every window, doorway or road block is a potential ambush point and every object on the street needs to be watched with care." To underline this, the game features a morale system, which - I suspect - places handicaps on soldiers cut off from the line of command.It's an interesting concept, following theDesert Combatmod for Battlefield, as well as retail releases like Conflict Desert Storm and the less specific Battlefield: Modern Combat (where you combat a fictitious Middle East Coalition). You may also be aware ofKuma\Wara free 'educational/political' shooter that re-creates key battles from contemporary warzones.I wonder if the military welcomes these attempts to explore the Iraq conflict. In some ways, they may show something of the ground-level reality of the situation, perhaps encouraging empathy with the armed forces among generally apathetic young adults at home. Alternatively, experiencing a simulation of urban conflict, the confusion, the near-impossibility of adequately assessing all possible threats, the sheer vulnerability of these young men and women, may well contrast heavily with the official messages coming out of the Middle East (andperpetrated by certain news channels).Anyway, the beta is available for downloadhere. You'll need a copy of Half-Life 2. Apost on Destructoidpoints out some teething problems, but says the mod has lots of potential.
After almost a year under threat, it seems that Allofmp3.com has finally been closed down by the Russian government. However, "an alternative site run by the same Moscow company has already emerged. MediaServices says that mp3Sparks.com is legal under Russian law, using many of the same arguments advanced in support of allofmp3.com," saysThe Times.On the other side of the pond, Vivendi's Universal Music Group has "notified Apple that it will not renew its annual contract to sell music through iTunes," reportsThe New York Times. This is not the same as withdrawing its music from the service.The story says:But some music executives have been chafing at the flat rate that Apple has insisted upon in its contracts with the big record labels, and they have been pressing publicly or privately for the right to charge Apple more for popular songs to capitalize on demand or, in the event of special promotions, to charge less. Edgar Bronfman Jr., the chairman of Warner Music Group, reinforced that idea at a recent investor conference, saying "we believe that not every song, not every artist, not every album, is created equal."At the same time, Mr. Jobs has refused the industry's calls for Apple to license its proprietary copy restriction software to other manufacturers. Music executives want the software to be shared so that services other than iTunes can sell music that can be played on the iPod, and so that other devices can play songs bought from iTunes.
According to Reuters, "Nintendo sold 270,974 units of the Wii in the four weeks ended June 24, compared with 41,628 units for the PS3," which means it is outselling the PS3 by more than 6 to 1."The Wii's lead against the PS3 was 4 to 1 in April and 5 to 1 in May," adds Reuters.Going for 7 to 1 next month?The Xbox 360 is still doing miserably with 17,616 units sold in June, on Enterbrain's figures. But nobody expected the Xbox to beBig in Japan.Thanks toGamesIndustry.bizfor the link.
Okay, I'm letting you do all the work this week. I have an interview lined up with Richard Bartle co-writer of MUD (the original online multiplayer game) and a living legend in the virtual world community. We haven't interviewed him sinceMarch 2005, so thought that now might be a good time to catch up.So what would you like to ask the man who effectively paved the way for EverQuest, World of Warcraft and Second Life? Put your questions in the comments section below and I'll put 'em to him.
At TechCrunch, Michael Arrington has been trying bothTwitter and the upstart Pownce.Twitter was launched by Ev Williams, founder of Blogger and Odeo, whereasPowncecomes from Digg's Kevin Rose. The key points? Arrington says:Frankly, unless you really like the mobile aspect of Twitter, there isn't a whole lot of difference between the two services. I expect Twitter will add most of the Pownce features in the short term anyway. And many of the unique features of Pownce -- like file sharing, group messaging, etc, are handled pretty well already by ... email.People use Twitter to quickly tell the world (or at least the people who care) what they are up to and what they are looking at on the web. Like blogging, it's a one-to-many application that works very well. Twitter does that perfectly, and does little else. Pownce does it, too, but all the other features are really just distractions.It's doubtful whether anybody actually needs either application, of course, but it always helps to have a head-to-head that includes personalities as well as programs.
From our better late than never department: onThe Secret Diary of Steve Jobs, Fake Steve addressed a rousing speech, sorry, rousing blog post, to the "thousands of Apple faithful ... lining up outside our retail shrines, waiting for iPhone." onThe day the world changed.If the Apple Empire lasts for a thousand years, men will still say, "This was his finest hour."Namaste, Fake Steve. This is so much more important than selling sugared water.
We get far more letters and blog pingbacks than we have room for in print; so here's the full text that last week's were chosen from. People were exercised about phishing, mobile barcodes, and Microsoft's .docx format, but full of helpful advice too for sorting out mail merge problems.PHISHING LICENCESI have a technique for spotting phishing messages that I believe could be made foolproof if the banks took a simple step of co-operation. I look at the "Received" lines in the mail header which are in anti-chronological order and generated by the mail relays as they receive the message for forwarding. The last one from the ISP gives the identity of the mail relay that sent the message. The ISP that I use does does a reverse lookup to establish the identity of the sender (as do most security-conscious relays). An ISP can regard as "phishy" any source that does not come from a domain registered to a bank. Unfortunately, some banks subcontract their email surveys to third parties -- but I do not respond to anything that does not have a bona fide bank domain name in its header. I would like to suggest that if the baks arranged that their messages always went from IP numbers that were registered to their own domain it would be easier for ISPs to detect phishing messages. This really needs to be done at the ISP level as a phisher could insert a bogus "Received" line, but an ISP could detect this by checking for references to itself in the header that it is receiving. David Holdsworth, SettleA couple of weeks ago I sold my car on eBay - or at least I thought I had. I invoiced the successful bidder as eBay instructed me, but three hours later eBay emailed to say the sale had been cancelled, it had been an "unauthorised purchase". When I contacted eBay their response was "it looks likely that the buyer was the victim of a spoof email". Hardly concrete evidence to tear up a legal contract in my view. In fact the buyer was a respected eBayer since 2001 with a 99% rating. Not the profile of someone gullible enough to be taken in by a phishing attempt! I suspect the answer is more simple and highlights a fundamental problem with eBay and many other e-commerce sites. By leaving cookies in your browser you are automatically logged in next time you visit the site. This convenience is good for eBay because it increases trade. But it also means anyone with access to your computer could bid for a valuable item and leave you liable for the cost. A family dispute, a bored child, or a colleague with a grievance could defraud you, the seller and all the other unsuccessful bidders. If I waved to someone across an auction room as the hammer came down, tough luck! But in eBay's case it seems that the buyer is given the benefit of the doubt after only the briefest investigation. My sale was cancelled so swiftly that I suspect this is a commonplace occurrence, something eBay are prepared to do as the price of making it easy to use their site to boost their revenues. So anyone could bid for something, change their mind and claim to be the victim of a spoof. Secure websites, like banks should not and do not use cookies. Ironically, PayPal - also owned by eBay - seems to be the exception even here. I don't believe that internet fraud from email scams or phishing is as big a problem as people believe. It is convenience that is the enemy of security, and the fraudster is much more likely to be someone closer to home. Having sold my item elsewhere for less, I expect eBay to make up the difference because they mismanaged my auction. Why would anyone sell on eBay if the buyer can extract themselves from what would be a legally binding contract anywhere else? Robert Walpole, Robert Walpole Cars, CirencesterMOBILE BARCODESSemapedia is an open, non-profit project started in 2005. It makes it easy to create Data Matrix codes that contain links to web pages (typically, pages on Wikipedia, but you can create links to anywhere). These codes can then be printed by the site visitor and stuck (with appropriate permission) at the appropriate location in the real world. The Semapedia site contains links to software for a wide variety of mobile devices that can "click" Data Matrix codes and follow the embedded hyperlink to the website. Some examples of Semapedia tags in the real world can be found via Flickr. Nik Clayton, Milton KeynesScanbuy currently needs a lens adaptor. The one thing not mentioned is that Nokia is also working with MC2 to help bring about a Universal Reader for all 2D, QR, data matrix codes. In this list of companies on the MC2 site, one will find Neomedia Technologies. They are currently in litigation against Scanbuy regarding patents. Why were the owners of the technology left out? Kenneth D, Warren, MissouriDid you know Scanbuy is currently tied up in patent infringement litigation with NeoMedia Technologies? NeoMedia's patent portfoliohttp://qode.com/en/patents.jsp. NeoMedia is a member of the Mobile Codes Consortium along with technology leader HP, marketing powerhouse Publicis Groupe, handset manufacturer Nokia, and carriers O2, KPN, and silent backer Vodafone.http://www.mobilecodes.org/What happens to Scanbuy when MC2 releases their Universal Code Reader capable of reading and deciphering 1D UPC/EAN and 2D Datamatrix, Aztec, and QR codes? What happens to Scanbuy when this Universal Code Reader gets embedded by the handset manufacturers and shuttled into the carriers stacks, and becomes the de facto standard mobile code reading application both in Europe and North America? Food for thought :) Sean Sommers, New YorkThis article seems to have been written largely on the basis of Scanbuy's publicity machine. If you'd done more thorough research, you'd have included a report on the Mobile Codes Consortium (http://www.mobilecodes.org), which is the only body seriously aimed at building a mobile codes ecosystem. It is setting the standards that others will follow. It's where Nokia -- not to mention Telefonica O2 -- is really at with mobile codes. None of which is to decry Scanbuy's efforts per se, BTW. I just thought you might like to do a broader article some day. See also:http://activeprint.orghttp://mobilecodes.nokia.comhttp://www.champignon.net/TimKindberg/webid.phpTim Kindberg, Hewlett-Packard laboratories, BristolI read your article on barcode reading on mobile phones and thought I would draw your attention to our company in the UK which provides a service for recognising images on mobiles. With this technology you no longer need a barcode as an image of the object itself becomes a hyper-link to related digital information. Anthony Ashbrook, Managing Director, Mobile Acuity Limited, EdinburghMay I suggest that using a cameraphone to read barcodes is outmoded -and draw your attention to a UK technology (http://www.scenereader.com) which may supersede them? Patrick Andrews, MD, break-step productions ltd, Cambridge2D barcodes are already widely used in industry for applications such as parcel tracking and patient identification, so it comes as no surprise that companies are now exploring their application in more wide-spread consumer markets as suggested in Matthew Wall's article. Mobile phones are increasingly being used as a method to present bar codes, with companies in the UK are already texting consumers with messages that appear as bar codes on the screen. These can then be used as electronic tickets to gain access to leisure events or redeemed as coupons in marketing promotions. David Barnes, EMEA Product Manager, Advanced Data Capture Devices, Motorola Enterprise Mobility businessMEDIA PLAYERSMat Smith should move to Vista 64 bit. Real Networks for one do not provide a version that runs on that OS. Oddly the BBC uses Real Player as its player of choice so I've lost access to much of their on-line stuff. John Loader, FordhamDOCX GOOD OR BAD?I was flabbergasted when I read this article (Why Microsoft's .docx format is a good thing). It smacked of utter ignorance of the issues associated with Microsoft's 'open' document standard. I hesitate to accuse The Guardian of simply printing something handed to it by Microsoft, but I would suggest that to many people this may seem to be the case. [I disagree that "many people" would think that, and it didn't come from Microsoft - Tech.Ed.] Use of XML is certainly to be applauded, but OpenXML (i.e. the .docx format) is so tied to Microsoft's products that to call it a standard, never mind an open standard, is completely disingenuous - ask yourself if it can be freely implemented by OpenOffice (i.e. not restricted to those companies that have signed agreements with Microsoft). This is such a blatant attempt on Microsoft's part to retain their proprietary stranglehold on businesses using Office that it just isn't funny, and it reflects so badly on the ECMA process of accreditation that it renders the ECMA, to all intents and purposes, completely devalued in the world of standards definitions. For The Guardian to support OpenXML as this article does is to support the continued use of proprietary document formats that tie companies to Microsoft's software. The complete opposite of the goal of open standards like XML. Steve Welshman, Gillingham"The big question, of course, is why Microsoft didn't simply adopt ODF. So I asked. The answer was that unless businesses could interchange documents between the old and new formats, the new standards would be difficult to adopt. ODF was not defined with Microsoft compatibility in mind, and couldn't offer the level of compatibility it required." With such a big question, isn't there a risk that Microsoft might not be completely honest about their motives and try to present facts with a bit of bias? Especially considering their lucrative monopoly might be at stake? Asking a celebrity what their favourite food is, you might not need to even consider ulterior motives, but when corporate interests worth billions of dollars are at stake, taking things at face value might be slightly naive. "And you don't have to use either the old or new formats: you can still use plain text, RTF, HTML, PDF, ODF or whatever else does what you need." It's worth noting that ODF alone will be implemented by a 3rd party plugin unlike the rest, which all have native support. Furthermore using ODF in Office it seems that Microsoft has ensured that it will be as cumbersome as possible, while still able to claim some level of support. At least they can still sell windows to Norway and Belgium that way. When mentioning making document data human readable is a good thing as it help developers understand the format and makes it possible to improve interoperability with the examples you mentioned like data mining etc. It might be worth considering which of ODF (600+ pages specification) and OOXML (6000+ pages specification) are easier for a developer to understand, but I guess such a minor detail of highly technical nature would be hard to fit in and could confuse readers. Jan Hornboll Hansen, Soborg, DenmarkFor joe users, searching for the " document.xml" is like a wild goose chase with no guarantee that the document can be found, as the standard allows the file to be renamed at the developer's whim. Finally, when you open it, you will find it difficult to read, as the sentences are chopped up in small little fragments. You will also need to find an open a different XML file for your "xlsx" (Excel) and "pptx" (PowerPoint) file from their respective zip packages. Compare this to the alternative of OpenDocumentFormat (ODF), the format guarantees that you only need to look into "content.xml" file in the root directory. Like your HTML documents, "content.xml" is more readable because it does not chop your sentences into pieces, Worse, in "xlsx", Strings are store separately from the spreadsheet, which means you have to try to understand the spreadsheet without the column/row names you entered. Dates are stored as numbers of days, the earliest possible date is Dec 31st 1899. The date systems does not follows the Gregorian Calendar but use a calendar system that reflects the accumulation of problems in legacy office applications such as Lotus 123 and Microsoft Excel for Mac. Full 100% compatibility with existing documents is not necessary. It is a artificially created differentiator that is purely a advertising gimmick. The proof is Microsoft' never succeeded in achieving this goals with updates of Microsoft Office **and** we all survive it. It is widely documented that Microsoft, on its own accord, choose not to participate in OpenDocumentFormat (ODF) standardisation. Hence, if ODF cannot "truthfully" represents Microsoft document, it is the results of Microsoft not fighting its corner for its users. The cynic in me says Microsoft's own commercial reasons leads it not to support the ODF process. Since the jolt from Massachusetts dropping Microsoft's format from its procurement strategy, it is doing damage control ever since. Microsoft rushes through Office Open XML through ECMA, a feat that is remarkable for the size of the standard (6000+ pages) and the speed of approval. From an IT perspective, Office Open XML is a badly written standard. Its greatest mistake is to contradict human-readability guidelines for XML. It squanders the chance of correcting mistakes made by earlier Microsoft and non-Microsoft office applications. Rather than reusing or extending existing standards such as MathML or SVG, it choose to reinvent the wheel. In at least one case, it resurrected a Microsoft proposed standard which was rejected by a standard body in favour of the standard we have now. There are a lot of undocumented material referred to by Office Open XML that means nobody but Microsoft can fully implement the standard, at least without fear of legal threats from Microsoft. Obviously, choosing between Office Open XML and ODF is a beauty contest for most of us but please remember that it has lasting consequences to the IT industry. I ask that everyone make their decision wisely. Cinly Ooi, Cambridge, UKI read this quote: "The big question, of course, is why Microsoft didn't simply adopt ODF. So I asked. The answer was that unless businesses could interchange documents between the old and new formats, the new standards would be difficult to adopt. ODF was not defined with Microsoft compatibility in mind, and couldn't offer the level of compatibility it required." This claim by Microsoft is not correct. The ODF format was indeed designed with Microsoft compatibility in mind, and it can indeed support everything known about in Microsoft's formats. Microsoft were invited on the OASIS committee which designed the ODF format, and indeed Microsoft sent a representative to every single meeting, but said not one word the whole time at those meetings. Microsoft had every opportunity to include additional support for whatever they required in the design of ODF, but Microsoft refused to actively participate. Nevertheless, the ODF format was indeed designed with compatibility with Microsoft's formats in mind, and there are today two "plugins" (not mere convertors, but true plugins), one from the OpenDocument foundation called the daVinci plugin, and another one from Sun Microsystems, which should in the near future perfectly illustrate why this claim is in fact incorrect.http://opendocument.foundation.googlepages.com/homeNeither of these plugins are complete and released as yet, because Microsoft "broke" them in the final release version of Office 2007 and Vista. Nevertheless, they both can achieve prefect conversion to and from Microsoft documents in Office memory and the ODF file format on disk. There is available a proof of concept demonstration of the 100% fidelity round-trip conversion that is possible using this technique ... as long as one avoids going via the deliberately obscured .docx format in the first place, such as the Microsoft-sponsored Cleverage ODF converter does. (no name or post town given)WII SALES&gt;&gt; If there wasn't a Wii where would those sales go? Microsoft? Sony? Something else entirely?http://forums.projectego.net/console-sales-tickers-3700/LYNDSAY WILLIAMS DEPARTS&gt;&gt; She would rather invent useful devices; they appear to believe that writing academic papers is what they are about. Strange.http://gcoupe.mobile.spaces.live.com/ent.aspx?h=cns!6AA39937A982345B!3819SQLITE: NOT LIGHT&gt;&gt; The article is also a veritable infomercial for automated testing... If Dr. Hipp et al. hadn't spent all that time writing automated tests, I'm sure that SQLite would also have a very small user base as well.http://mcoyle.botonomy.com/2007/06/21/good-mainstream-sqlite-article/&gt;&gt; Believe me, many software sales people have trumpeted far less useful pieces of software as the second coming and worth thousands of dollars in licensing fees. If Mr. Hipp had wanted to muscle up, marketing-wise, I'm certain he could have made untold millions from SQLite. People are embedding it in other applications (that they sell) and I'm sure it's going to spread like wildfire in mobile devices.http://roboticat.com/robokitties/?p=38MAILMERGE CONT'DWhilst using window envelopes (Merging on the Ridiculous 21 June) may be handy, these envelopes are environmentally unfriendly as before recycling the window must be removed and binned as it is plastic. Most people don't bother. Peter Baker, LondonI still use an old Avery program which came with Office 97 - works brilliantly, don't need Avery labels either. I have to use W97 to use it though - but again works as it says on the tin! Roger Hancock, GranthamDavid Stevenson (Merging on the ridiculous, June 21st) needs my shareware program Easy Label Printer.http://www.studio-soft.co.uk/Greg Chapman, RamseyThe best, by far, I have ever encountered is Easymail Plus from Home Plan Software. It really works, the only caveat is that you have to be careful to set it up for European sizes etchttp://www.easymailplus.comNick Eborall, Stratford-upon-AvonONLINE RADIOLike many, I listen to on-line radio much of the day. My favourite choice is Mostly Classical on sky.fm (they have some 25 channels) but in common with other streamed radio stations, they have recently had their royalty rates greatly increased to the point they will have to close if this goes through. They say "every $1 we earn before even any expenses, we actually owe about $5 in royalty fees." Based in New York they are campaigning for listeners to contact their Senator. In the UK we cannot do that, but any ideas how we can help to keep these stations running? David Williams, CirencesterQUIET PCS CONT'DThose in search of a quiet PC should investigate the Mac Mini - small, silent and powerful enough for everything except possibly gaming. I use mine for graphics and video editing amongst other things. On the other hand, Safari is not so wonderful - I use Firefox on the Mac as Safari fails to correctly display two websites I need to use regularly. Roger Shufflebottom, HertfordSusan Witterick's claim that computer fans provide useful masking noise (Letters, June 21), remind me of a drummer friend who lives besides the North Circular Road in London. When asked how he coped with the noise, he said it was great because he could practice all day and no one could hear him! Martin Davidson, LondonVISTA NO WOESDo you remember running a story about problems with getting the express vista upgrade from Moduslink? Perhaps I am one of the the lucky ones. Moduslink after asking me this and that for about 6 months backwards and forwards decided I did qualify and then mysteriously "lost" my cheque although it was posted via recorded delivery, and decided in their wisdom to cancel my order. They directed me to my "OEM" (Packard Bell) for further advice. So I posted all the relevant correspondence to Packard Bell 3 weeks ago, and the silence has now become deafening. Vista is now perceived to be half-baked in all departments by me and many others, i feel quite chuffed that i still have my good ol XP Pro. Olly Curtis, St Mary CrayNO VIRGINYesterday my Virgin broadband went wrong – several big sites (e.g. Google, eBay) were unobtainable. Instead, I was redirected to a Virgin.com page, happily telling me: "We're giving your browser a boost. "We've noticed that the internet software you're using needs a little fine-tuning before you can start browsing again. "Don't worry, we've set out some simple instructions for you, and it will only take a couple of minutes to change your settings." Following their simple instructions got me nowhere, of course, so I phoned their (rib-ticklingly misnamed) Helpline. Their 'customer care' person told me that (a) there was no problem, (b) that they didn't 'support' Safari (used on most modern Macs) but that they could give me the number of a 'PC Helpline' (another misnomer, although I am not sure of the correct term for a phone line that charges £1 a minute and is staffed by young people skilled in evading direct questions; perhaps 'Ching' would suffice). Back to the story. After some consultation with superiors, she changed her tune, and told me there was an 'issue' (never a problem) which their engineers were handling, and which would be resolved 'in a day or two', and perhaps I would care to call back if my service wasn't restored by then. So, Virgin caused the problem, then denied there was a problem, then tried to charge me money for fixing the problem. Total time on the phone? About 25 minutes. And after July 1st when they increase their helpline rates to 25p per minute? Over £5. I wouldn't mind if Virgin just shot themselves in the foot, but now they're aiming at me. I'm off to Sky. Allen Ives, LondonSATNAV QUESTIONSWe have purchased a Garmin Nuvi 660 car navigation system which works wonderfully well with UK addresses, however when touring France and Spain it does not recognise their addresses. The only method we have discovered at the moment is to zoom in and pinpoint either the area or road. As we tow a caravan this can sometimes be a challenge. Has anyone found a better way? Diane Reynolds, WimborneLOUD CDS CONT'D(18 Jan 2007) I consider myself a music lover, but radio stations and producers seem determined to stop me buying music by making it sound awful. Surely the time has come for listeners to be given a choice. My ideal world would be double sided CD's, where one side would be as natural and well recorded as technology allows. I reckon about 95% of all the comments I've read about "loudness war" have been in favour of a return to well produced recordings. What sort of an industry is it that continually ignores its customers? – One that deserves to go out of business, that's what! Dave Payne (no post town given)
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
...and by that I mean a casual gaming phenomenon that everyone's talking about. Edge magazine has just run a big feature on browser gaming, Wired has alinkto the very interesting political satire-'em-up (note to self: stop using 'em up as a 'comic' genre term), Redistricting, and CNET sent mehere, for a look at the latest browser game aggregation sites.The relatively cheap availability of broadband, together with better browser applications and a growing interest in casual gaming have opening up the market for these quick 'n' dirty games. Free browser titles are often used to entice us toward subscription-based games channels where users play simple stuff for nothing, then pay for more 'advanced' titles - this can either be compared to the 'loss leaders' approach of the retail sector, or to basic drug-dealing theory - depending on your cultural/sociological leanings. Either way, there are a lot of free games out there.The way these sites work is evolving along web 2.0 lines. Lots offer multiplayer titles now, and there are social networking elements, allowing users to build up buddy lists of regular opponents. I like the way, too, that profit share elements are on the rise, allowing browser game authors to benefit from ad revenues, etc.Anyway, I'm interested in getting a list of recommended browser titles together. Anyone got any favourites? I really like the calm, unashamedly style-over-substance offerings onOrisinal(one of their titles is pictured above) and the sort of 'serious'/current affairs titles that turn up onWatercooler- these allow me to pretend I'm taking part in global political discourse without the inconvenience of reading The Economist.So, favourite browser games please - with links and reasons. This way we can get the week off to a nice, job-threatening start...
I've avoided writing aboutSecondfest, last weekend's 3-day music festival in virtual world Second Life, here on the gamesblog because I knew the reaction of this community would be negative. However, that's where I've been for the past week. So if you are interested in this ground-breaking event, where over 30 bands performed to over 15,000 people, you can read what I wrote about it ontheMusicBlog. You can also see photos onMySpaceand check out the iterant life-blogging onTwitter.Hearty congratulations to everyone who took part, including The Guardian, Intel, Rivers Run Red and in-world music promoter Slim Warrior. The virtual site was jam-packed for the three days (I missed Pet Shop Boys because the servers were too full), and apart from the anticipated difficulties with the technological limitations of the application, the whole thing was a great success.Best non-Second Life bands of the weekend for my money were Hot Chip, The Aliens, Florence and the Machine, Rob da Bank, The Cinematic Orchestra and Gilles Petersen. Best Second Life bands were Strangefates, DJ Doubledown Tandino and Slim Warrior - all very different sounds, each using the space in a unique way.I grabbed Slim to ask about her role as in-world music promoter. Keep reading if you'd like the knowledge.Why did you decide to use Second Life as a music platform?I joined Second Life in November 2005. I joined so I could promote not only my own music but other musicians too. I was the first British musician to perform live there and the second female artist. I also did the first singing duet 'live' on one stream with another musician who is based in Texas and that led on to me realising that this was also another way of pushing technology and I decided to organise Metajams Second Life's first online multi streaming concert featuring seven musicians from around the world with duets and more. That was a huge success and I hope to do more. There is nothing as cool as jamming live with another musician who is thousands of miles away and having an audience. Incredible!Where do you do it?I bought a virtual island called Menorca which is dedicated to Live music events and there I perform not only my own music but also I host and promote other musicians who use Second Life. To date it has hosted over 200 live concerts in the year it has been open. Having also just finished my first album I will be trying to promote it in world and also everywhere else that I can.In SL I am responsible for the entire management of an online show from initial hosting through to performances. From Large scale events to solo performances. I work extensively outside of the platform to encourage new musicians to sign up or by artists/bands and management and labels contacting me directly and I have been doing this for 18 months now.How many people perform in Second Life?There are approx around 120 live musicians in Second Life. It obviously varies each week as to how many perform but the numbers are growing each week, along with the number of listeners.Do performers lose anything by using Second Life as a performance/distribution medium?I don't think one can look at using Second Life as a 'loss' to any musician. SL is a platform for promoting and gaining worldwide exposure for one's music. When used in conjunction with normal methods of promoting your music, i.e. local gigs, internet websites like MySpace or the hundreds of other music sites, then as a distribution medium, SL is part of that. It is however a very unique platform in the fact that one gets immediate feedback and you are able to interact with your audience in real time even though they may be across the world on a completely different time-zone.What does the audience get out of it?I think the audiences get a huge amount from using Second Life to hear music on the internet live. They are able to interact with the artists directly. Because you have a visual aspect as well, then you get a far more interesting immersive experience. So, rather than going to listen to music uploaded on a site, you are immersed in that show, without of course the hassle of having to get to a concert, it is right there in your own home. You also get to discover some very talented musicians that otherwise you may not ever hear.How does it compare with the traditional distribution paths?Second life offers a unique platform as far as exposure is concerned to an artist. The costs of setting up local gigs, transport for many bands/artists is hard. Using SL as a medium offers instant worldwide distribution for ones music and you can do it from the studio or your home studio and as many musicians do, stream in their live shows into SL and back out again and that is proving to be very successfulOne must remember that SL alone is not necessarily going to get you noticed by the industry. One must use it along with other ways of promoting music. You do need a good computer of course. There are limitations of course with any technology, but if you take these all into consideration I'd say that the pros far outweigh the cons.Is it set to surpass MySpace as THE online music medium?If you are a musician and you want to get your music heard and gain a fan base you will look at every possible way to do that. MySpace is one example of somewhere musicians can post their music in the hope of getting heard and increasing album sales. There are many sites on the internet that do that and if you are serious about your music you will use these all in conjunction. I don't feel personally it will take over from MySpace, but I do think that it has tremendous potential for ANY musician signed or unsigned. You have not only the listening experience but also the real time interaction which you don't get unless you gig to a real audience. I would certainly encourage musicians to use Second Life as your audience is certainly far more attentive and the experience far better than just using a website. More than anything it is also a lot of fun to do.Why did you choose the bands you programmed to perform at SecondFest?These are musicians who perform in Real life as any other band does; they have just used the available technology and therefore are actually a few steps ahead in utilising this 3d virtual platform - not only for album sales but in experience and worldwide listenership. For instance the Wiredaisies, a hugely successful band signed to EMI (Transistor label) have a huge following of people who use Second Life as well as a huge fan base in real life. The same for many bands/artists, in fact I think for all of us! The difference being is that we get to be heard worldwide rather than just locally. And that is very important.There are so many talented musicians who use Second Life, if I could have, I would have asked many more. You have to remember, these are not just people who only use second life as a platform; they are exceptionally good musicians who use real life too.What do you think will make the mainstream music industry sit up and take notice of Second Life?I think that slowly the mainstream industry is noticing Second Life. Already we have had well-known artists come into SL, and I welcome that, but it is in a sense like any other online community. What you put in you get back. If you bring in an artist you cannot expect them to gain new fans by just having them appear once and then not coming back. It defeats the objective of using Second Life. For unsigned artists it gives them more exposure and the chance that mainstream A&amp;R may possibly pick up on them. I would love to see that. It would be wonderful to see an independent/unsigned artist who uses the virtual world actually be signed to a RL label. That would be awesome, and of course I would love to be one!You can check out Slim's tunes onMySpace, and headhereto see the other Second Life bands who performed this weekend
Another month, another batch ofsales stats. And nope, the Wii shows no sign of slowing down. Japanese data showed Nintendo's console outselling the PS3 by 6 to 1. The Wii shifted 270,974 units compared to 41,628 PS3s and 17,616 units for the 360. Analysts keep saying that PS3 will eventually pull through to maintaining Sony's industry domination. But are they right? Could the Wii actually "win" this console war?
I'm a big fan of Professor Duncan J Watts, who wrote a good book about network effects calledSix Degrees. However, I missed his latest piece on the topic,Is Justin Timberlake a Product of Cumulative Advantage?in the New York Times Magazine, until alerted to it byMarc Andreesson's blog.Watts and his colleagues ran an experiment at theirMusic Labwhere users could download songs, and the point was to find out whether being able to see the number of previous downloads made a difference. No suprise: it did. People were more likely to download the ones that had been most frequently downloaded. (I've pointed to this excellent Clay Shirky paper,Power Laws, Weblogs, and Inequality, several times.)What was interesting is that people who could see the number of downloads were divided into different groups. The result was that different songs became "hits" in these separate universes. In other words, social effects could easily overwhelm quality. Watts writes:This, obviously, presents challenges for producers and publishers -- but it also has a more general significance for our understanding of how cultural markets work. Even if you think most people are tasteless or ignorant, it's natural to believe that successful songs, movies, books and artists are somehow "better," at least in the democratic sense of a competitive market, than their unsuccessful counterparts, that Norah Jones and Madonna deserve to be as successful as they are if only because "that's what the market wanted." What our results suggest, however, is that because what people like depends on what they think other people like, what the market "wants" at any point in time can depend very sensitively on its own history: there is no sense in which it simply "reveals" what people wanted all along. In such a world, in fact, the question "Why did X succeed?" may not have any better answer than the one given by the publisher of Lynne Truss's surprise best seller, "Eats, Shoots &amp; Leaves," who, when asked to explain its success, replied that "it sold well because lots of people bought it."The point is as follows:it is always possible, after the fact, to come up with a story about why things worked out the way they did -- that the first "Harry Potter" really was a brilliant book, even if the eight publishers who rejected it didn't know that at the time -- our belief in determinism is rarely shaken, no matter how often we are surprised. But just because we now know that something happened doesn't imply that we could have known it was going to happen at the time, even in principle, because at the time, it wasn't necessarily going to happen at all.
I was going to have some deep thoughts about the iPhone and What It Means, but my colleague Neil McIntosh has already done the job on his personal blog, so instead I'll just point you toiPhone: but what does it all *mean*?What's missing is an explanation for why Apple tied itself to such a slow network for such a long time. If Apple really wanted to change the phone business, it could have offered a programmable smartphone that would take any SIM, so users could buy directly from Apple. Then it could have set up the equivalent of the iTunes online store by becoming a "virtual network provider" like, say, Virgin Mobile, which also doesn't have its own network. With the iPhone already tied to iTunes on the PC, Apple would have its own preferred lock-in system parallel to the iPod.The only thing I can think of that users would have lost is the visual voicemail, which is no big deal. The chat-style SMS would still be there, because the Treo has been offering the same thing for years.One minor iPhone hiccup is thatit doesn't work with 64-bit versions of Windows XP or Vista. (Yes, the 64-bit versions also run 32-bit code, notwithstanding Steve Jobs being economical with the truth in his last keynote.) Still, the number of people using 64-bit Windows is tiny -- maybe even smaller than the number of people using Mac OS X.Finally, the Free Software Foundation attempted to capitalise on the iPhone hype by launching its GPLv3 open source licence at the same time. It also put out a press release,iPhone restricts users, GPLv3 frees them, saying:Peter Brown, executive director of the FSF said, "Tomorrow, Steve Jobs and Apple release a product crippled with proprietary software and digital restrictions: crippled, because a device that isn't under the control of its owner works against the interests of its owner. We know that Apple has built its operating system, OS X, and its web browser Safari, using GPL-covered work--it will be interesting to see to what extent the iPhone uses GPLed software."Apple's Safari browser is based on the open sourceWebKitsoftware, released under the[corrected]BSD and LGPL (Library GPL) licences.GPLv3 has been designed to stop commercial companies ripping off free software and using it to create non-free products, a process known as Tivoization. But I'd have thought the chances of WebKit being released under GPLv3 were zero, and it's not as though FSF supporters had a wide choice of free-software phones to choose from.The Linux-basedOpenMoko touch screen phone-- which was shown before the iPhone -- has recently been delayed, with the mass market Neo 1973 versionnot due until October, according to Sean Moss-Pultz. I wouldn't bet on that date, either.
Last April, The Observer reported how Justin Kan, a 23-year-old in California, strapped a camera to the side of his head and invited the world to log on to his website and share his unabridged 'lifecast'. Even when he goes to the bathroom or bed, the camera is never switched off.Now Kan has company. HisJustin.tvwebsite has been relaunched with eight live channels offering similar 24/7 coverage devoid of privacy. Their subjects include a fashion designer, a breakdancer and a hip-hop radio station. First to join Justin.tv was a woman named, fittingly, Justine, a 23-year-old who seems to be the antithesis of Kan and his fellow computer geeks. Justine Ezarik, a blue-eyed blonde graphic designer from Pittsburgh, got her break on Justin.tv by dancing with a street performer in a San Francisco square.Kan, who claims the site has millions of unique visitors per month, told The Observer of his recent highlights: 'I had a bit of drama with a girl I was seeing off and on, which I should probably not go into for her sake. I've also had a flying trapeze lesson [and] jumped in a pool with my clothes on after losing a bet with the viewers.' He has also suffered the indignity of being thrown out of his flat because his landlord objected to it being turned into the headquarters of a reality TV network. But he plans to open Justin.tv to all would-be lifecasters and said: 'I'm still having a great time.'
I've had a couple of letters from people who say the new-style Guardian Unlimited Web site layout crashes their browser, and I'd be interested to hear (1) if you have had the same problem and (b) if you've found a fix for it. Also (iii) I've just noticed my numbering is inconsisent.I noticed a dramatic increases in browser crashes with the arrival of IE7, most of them incriminating Flash. Most of these stopped after I went to Manage Add-ons (on the Tools menu) and disabled the Browser Helper Object for getflash.dll, used by the FlashGet download manager. There is no connection between Adobe Flash and FlashGet, except a coincidence of naming.Sites that use Adobe Flash still seem by far the most likely to crash IE7, but I suspect this due to a combination of factors involving Adobe, Microsoft and other software, rather than being a general problem. Also, this means Ask Jack (which, unfortunately, uses Flash for headings) seems at least as likely to crash IE and Firefox as the new GU front.
Dave Winer of RSS fame has introduced theTwitterGramand aTwitterGram web service, which lets you send 200K MP3 sound files instead of text messages.For more details, gohere-- Winer's Scripting News Annex. You can listen to a few TwitterGrams athttp://m.twittergram.com/.Tom Simonite, an online technology reporter at New Scientist, wrote about this last Monday inTwitter ye not. Comments to this post point to similar features atOdeoandPodGlo, but these are not Twitter-related: I think you're much more likely to succeed if you extend a popular service than if you have to start a new one. Otherwise I tend to agree with the comment from Michael Clarke: "It'll take off when you can just phone in your message" instead of having to record and upload an MP3 file.Guess what: inPhone-to-twittergram breakthrough!, Winer says "Roger Stricklandhas a bare-bones phone to Twittergram system working. I just called his service on my Blackberry, recorded a Twittergram, and it was posted through the web service.Yehi!!" Other people are working on the same idea.
Somehow we got involved with reporting iPhone frenzy without benefitting from the odd billion or however much Apple spent on saturation TV advertising in the US. But there were other topics this week, and you can check out a whole week's posts by clicking on the Weekly Archives menu (right) orhere.Otherwise, Bobbie wins the Hand Pulled Golden Quill Award (with bar) for the two most-commented posts,The class divide between Facebook and MySpace(58) andFinally - iPlayer to launch next month(76).
Megaman ZXNintendo DSCapcom has a reputation for producing games that are quirky, inventive and stray far enough from the beaten track of driving, fighting and shooting - the type big boys like Electronic Arts or Activision wouldn't dream of releasing. Peculiar then that Capcom also publishes Megaman, a game that even after many dozens of iterations is the same side-scrolling shooting and platform jumping game it's always been. For devotees, that's not quite true and they will perfectly fairly point to the fact that Megaman ZX is an evolution of the form, bringing together sprawling, vertiginous Castelvania-style maps and a far more polished set of mechanics - it feels like the game the series has been warming up to for years. If, on the other hand, you've never played a Megaman game, you may be put off by its uninspiring looks, frustratingly high difficulty level and refusal to acknowledge the turning of the century.&#183;Capcom, &pound;30Call Of JuarezXbox 360Call of Juarez is a chase through the wild west in which you play both Billy, a boy accused of killing his own parents, and the fire and brimstone reverend-turned-bounty hunter, Ray, whose mission is to hunt Billy down. Splitting your time between stealth (Billy) and yee-hawing gun slinging action (the Reverend), the story unfolds across an old west rife with seedy criminals, gunmen and barns full of precarious planked catwalks. With the valiant intention of being Half-Life with cowboys, Call Of Juarez often puts you in situations with two or more possible approaches to victory, as well as offering several puzzles that rely on manipulating pieces of scenery, a couple of which are unfortunately utterly excruciating. Despite graphical rough edges and the odd section that really doesn't work, this is way more than the sum of its parts and is another superb addition to the Xbox 360's already beefy summer line-up.&#183;Ubisoft, &pound;40
Manhunt was a game seemingly designed with upsetting moral guardians in mind. In it, you play a man forced to take part in a depraved game show that rewards you for committing imaginatively brutal murders. Having run out of hyperbole lambasting perfectly innocent first-person shooters, the tabloids' ire was indistinguishable from its usual levels, even though Manhunt was one of the nastiest games ever released, even if it was surprisingly well made. The BBFC's announcement that its sequel won't be granted a certificate for release in the UK is less surprising given its slightly more graphically accurate depiction of slaughter and mildly disturbing planned release for Nintendo Wii, which would have players acting out the gestures of bludgeoning/strangling/knifing to death their hapless (although hardly innocent) prey. But given the ease with which games can be imported, censorship is hardly final in this instance.
Rock StarsDave Navarro6767.comRed Hot Chili Pepper guitar dude tells us his dinner plans.Pete Townsendwww.petetownshend-whohe.blogspot.comThe Who man wonders why he's here.David Byrnejournal.davidbyrne.comThe perils of cycling in New York trouble the Talking Head songsmith.Franz Ferdinandwww.franzferdinand.co.uk/blog.php?poster_id=%The fab four take turns uploading live clips and Glasgow shopping tips.Brian Maywww.brianmay.com/brian/brianssb/brianssb.htmlAccording to Brian, it's a "karma thing, you have to own your own poo".Thom Yorkewww.radiohead.com/deadairspaceStudio clips, pictures and, er, International Sex Day.Courtney LoveOn her daughter's role in a school staging of Guys And Dolls.www.myspace.com/courtneylove
RatatouilleThe new movie from Pixar (makers of Toy Story, The Incredibles and Cars) centres on a Parisian rat with a taste for five-star gourmet cuisine. Here, rather brilliantly, you can watch a sneak peak of nine minutes from the film, which is out later this summer. On top of that, there are video podcasts on the secrets of CGI food and the importance of "Frenchiness". After you've exhausted those, some very funny games include Grab The Grub, an animated version of Pac-Man with evil chefs.johnny Deedisney.go.com/disneypictures/ratatouilleM.I.A.Anyone sent into a spasm of disgust by the 2012 Olympics logo is advised to avoid the official site of this rapstress born in Hounslow and raised in Sri Lanka. Stand back 12 feet or don Timmy Mallet style sunglasses to enjoy Day-Glo flickering and chintzy colour clashing fun. It's worth remembering that back in the 1990s, before the blogging revolution, all DIY websites looked this gaudy. Naturally, M.I.A. has a blog too, one so laden with textspeak, random capitalization and daring spelling experiments - "brrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrap" - that it feels like a parody. Elsewhere you'll find plenty of videos, some art, press clippings and news of her forthcoming album, Kala.JDmiauk.comWhat we learned on the web this weekThings a manshoulddo over 30All Ur 80sR Belong To UsSympathyfor Paris Hilton reachesall time lowMore thanyou really wanted to know aboutbelly button fluffThe 100 bestStar Trek episodesWhat celebritieslooked likewhen they were kidsIggy PopisdemandingRealitysucks, but there are alwaysother optionsThere are badhair days andbadass hair daysWhere to ODonMonty PythonHow to preparefor imminentvelociraptor attackSteven Wrightis stillthe funniest man aliveBlog roll: Rock StarsDave Navarro6767.comRed Hot Chili Pepper guitar dude tells us his dinner plans.Pete Townsendwww.petetownshend-whohe.blogspot.comThe Who man wonders why he's here.David Byrnejournal.davidbyrne.comThe perils of cycling in New York trouble the Talking Head songsmith.Franz Ferdinandwww.franzferdinand.co.uk/blog.php?poster_id=%The fab four take turns uploading live clips and Glasgow shopping tips.Brian Maywww.brianmay.com/brian/brianssb/brianssb.htmlAccording to Brian, it's a "karma thing, you have to own your own poo".Thom Yorkewww.radiohead.com/deadairspaceStudio clips, pictures and, er, International Sex Day.Courtney Lovewww.myspace.com/courtneyloveOn her daughter's role in a school staging of Guys And Dolls.
&#183;Things a manshould never do over 30tinyurl.com/yrpdnh&#183;All Ur 80sR Belong To Ustinyurl.com/3y247y&#183;Sympathyfor Paris Hilton reaches all time lowtinyurl.com/2qz8vt&#183;More thanyou really wanted to know about belly button flufftinyurl.com/pstf&#183;The 100 bestStar Trek episodestinyurl.com/32cavg&#183;What celebritieslooked like when they were kidstinyurl.com/2zkpuh&#183;Iggy Popis demandingtinyurl.com/fnbnn&#183;Realitysucks, but there are always other optionscampaignagainstreallife.com&#183;There are badhair days and badass hair daystinyurl.com/35u8oc&#183;Where to ODon Monty Pythontinyurl.com/3cajbj&#183;How to preparefor imminent velociraptor attackvelociraptors.info&#183;Steven Wrightis still the funniest man alivetinyurl.com/2jd9vxScreendaily.com
MondaySummer gamesManhunt 2 fun againTuesdayHand-drawn gamingFlattenedNo videogame addictionWednesdayNicole and NintendoWii has a blastWii leave the storeThursdayHardware catch upManhunt 2 againFridayPotter FridayMobile games beat ringtones
Former Microsoft Geek blogger Robert Scoble is at the head of the iPhone queue in Palo Alto (seebelow) wherehe reports:First of all, Bill Atkinson is in line here. He was Apple's first software developer. He wrote Mac Paint. Hypercard. Did the windowing system. And much more. Most historians believe he's one of the top software developers Silicon Valley has ever seen.He's been telling folks in line all sorts of old Macintosh stories (he was on the original Mac team). We streamed his conversation live and it really was incredible.Thomas Hawk of photo-walking fame has photos of Atkinson talking and other people (Kevin Rose from Digg, Don MacAskill from SmugMug etc) onZooomr. Hawk is also chatting live onZooomrTV.Also in line? The Quicken Mac Team. Zooomr. Smug Mug. TechMeme. Quite a few others.Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak is elsewhere. "Woz is first in line at the Valley Fair store," says Scoble.
The originalCivilization, published in 1990, quickly established itself at the top of many "best ever" games lists, including mine. Now it's coming to games consoles in the form of Sid Meier's Civilization Revolution, which is "slated for a spring 2008 release for next generation consoles and handhelds."According to the press release:"Civilization Revolution is the game I've always wanted to make!" said Sid Meier, Director of Creative Development at Firaxis Games. "We are excited to take advantage of the power of next generation consoles and the ingenuity of handhelds, to create a great and unique strategy game for newcomers to the series, as well as the millions of fans around the world who enjoy Civilization on the PC."For anyone suddenly gripped with a similar nostalgia, I noticeDOS Gamerhas the original version available as "abandonware". But I don't know if you can play it without a manual, which you needed to answer the challenges used as a form of copy protection. I still have the DOS and Amiga floppies, of course.
This surprised me quite a bit.Accordingto the Telelecommunications Industry News, reporting on a study by GfK M², mobile games have now overtaken ring-tones as a revenue generator in the UK"UK customers spent a total of £83 million (US$165 million) on mobile games in the first quarter of this year, compared with £76 million on ringtones, and just £23 million on the much-hyped mobile music sector."I wonder if this has anything to do with recent decisions by T-Mobile and 3 to offer 'all-you-can-eat' subscription charges for data downloads. One of the key barriers in the past has been uncertainty over download processes and charges.Of course, another thing that's stopped people downloading mobile games is that they're generally perceived to be a bit rubbish. Once most people have snapped up Tetris and Pac-Man they come to a grinding halt, assaulted by far too many poor movie tie-ins and dull quiz games.I genuinely believe things are changing though. This year has seen a huge number of extremely good titles. I'd recommend Digital Chocolate's fraught puzzler Pyramid Bloxx and its fun social sim, Office Wars, a cute little mini-game-based title, filled with comic touches. Gameloft has loads of fantastic titles including platformers Pirates of the Seven Seas and Shrek the Third, both offering lovely scenic detail and compelling puzzles. There are some great driving games, too, including Driver: LA Undercover, which makes a decent stab at the gangsta adventure, and Fast and Furious: Fugitive, filled with, ironically, Driver-esque chases and challenges.I've also heard that the God of War title is stunning. Oh and Worms 2007 is absolutely essential.
USA Today has aQ&amp;A with Apple's Steve Jobs and AT&amp;T's Randall Stephenson.The pair defend the Edge network, with Jobs saying: "EDGE will be faster than people have read in the reviews. Some of the criticism of EDGE is more theoretical. Blackberrys use EDGE, and in many cases is slower, because our software is better."There's also the question about whether the iPhone will change Apple. Jobs replies:I hope it doesn't change Apple too much, we like it the way it is. We've got two strong legs on our chair today -- we have the Mac business, which is a $10 billion business, and music, our iPod and iTunes business, which is $10 billion. We hope the iPhone is the third leg on our chair, and maybe one day Apple TV will be the fourth leg.Trivia point: In the transcription, Jobs refers to the operating system as "OS10". For the many Mac users who can't pronounce and can't spell the name of the Mac's operating system, the correct format is "OS X". ;-)
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
If you've had the misfortune to play any of this summers film tie-ins - Pirates of Caribbean, Shrek the Third, Spiderman 3 - you may not be expecting too much fromHarry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. But you'd be wrong. While Pirates, Shrek and particularly Spiderman felt like cynical marketing merchandise, Potter, released today, feels different. Yes it still suffers from the lazy collect-a-thon gameplay that bedevils Pirates and Shrek but the difference here is you don't mind. And this is mainly because of the setting - Hogwarts. The school is wonderfully depicted - the way the shallow sun glints off the stone is reminiscent of PS2 classic Ico - and players are finally allowed free-rein to roam. It's not quite GTA: Potter but there is a level of freedom here that will make fans very happy. I've been playing the 360 version - those achievements are just too tempting - but the Wii may be an option. Casting spells with a wiimote is likely to be far more fun than fiddling with a pad. Of course, there are bound to be issues of accuracy - some of the spells are a little fiddly to pull of on a pad let alone the wiimote - but the Wii could be theversion to get.Potter refuseniks needn't worry - there are a pile of new releases today. Top of the list are More Brain Training and The Darkness. If you have spent time shouting at your DS - blue, blue! - then you'll know that More Brain Training is a must. I can't make my mind up about the Darkness though. The comic book/long trenchcoat thing is instantly alienating to anyone who prefers My Bloody Valentine over My Chemical Romance but it's been a while since a decent story-led shooter and this is one of the better ones. So, what game are you buying this weekend?
In San Francisco, former Microsoft geek blogger Robert Scoble and his son (a big Apple fan) want to buy iPhones and ashe says on his blog: "We're still the first two idiots in line. But it's been good for PR. We've been interviewed almost constantly since 9:30am."They've been featured byPalo Alto Online, with pictures, andThe Secret Diary of Steve Jobsblog, which is having a caption competition.They have also been "posting live video and chatting with people from the line overon Kyte.tv".The New York queue is headed byGreg Packer, who does this kind of thing often.Apple staff don't have to queue: "all fulltime Apple employees in the US who have been there for a year will be getting an iPhone at the end of July," reportsArs Technica.
You know, one of the best things about the whole iPhone launch is the feeding frenzy. AsCharles wrote today, it's setting new records for achieving unprecedented levels of hype/dismay before even being released.But it's also brought an incredible number of people out of the woodwork who fancy freeloading on the public relations whirlwind that Apple's created. I've lost count of the number of shonky nobodies who have suddenly declared that they want to discuss some "important" aspect of the iPhone - my inbox is overflowing with them.The reason it's so funny is because, of course, it's almost certain that none of these pundits with apparently unique insights have everseenan iPhone in the flesh -let alone used one. Not only are their insights into the iPhone likely to be startlingly unoriginal (and I can do that kind of thingall by myself, thanks very much), but they're very often not even people who track this sort of stuff on a day-to-day basis.But, quality aside, some of it is just comedy gold. Take this headline:"Fifteen Percent of Online Americans Ages 13 To 64 Say They Are At Least Somewhat Likely To Buy iPhone... Ninety-Six Percent of Those At Least Somewhat Likely to Buy Will Wait Before Buying."Yes, it's real. And it doesn't stop there.I can't take credit for this - I nicked it from PR bloggerThe World's Leading(who has therest of the release too). But, well, it's got to rank as one of the most terrible attempts to jump on somebody else's publicity, no?Anyway, in a remarkable bit of completely imperfect timing, I'm taking my girlfriend to Paris for her birthday tomorrow. Sod you, iPhone!
If your understanding of videogame culture has come solely from reading the newspapers this month you'd be forgiven for thinking that developers are, for the most part, irresponsible psychos with a target audience of demented murderers and heretics. The cases involving Resistance: Fall of Man and, more importantly, Manhunt 2 and Law and Order: Double or Nothing have prompted a torrent of anger and condemnation, with Labour MP Keith Vaz making the predictable request for tighter regulation.This is despite the fact that Manhunt 2 is the first game to be denied a BBFC rating for a decade, and that the publishers of the last game to receive similar treatment - the idiotic pedestrian-squashing street racer, Carmageddon - appealed against the decision and won. According to ELSPA, the industry body, more than 70% of videogame releases are rated as suitable for all ages. Hardly a writhing hotbed of raw, uncompromising evil.It should be obvious to anyone lucky enough to own a Nintendo Wii that Manhunt 2 is out of tune with where videogames are going. Rockstar's idea of cool ultraviolence belongs in another era when publishers really did think like - and aim their products exclusively at - teenage boys. Like death metal music or the movies of Lucio Fulci, it should be viewed as a piece of niche exploitation - or, as the BBFC has now ensured (rightly or wrongly) - never viewed at all.These days, most violent games have a brain and, Lord help us, a conscience. Haze, the latest shooter from UK studio Free Radical Design, studies the disturbing connections between large corporations and the military within the context of a fictional civil war.Bioshock, the forthcoming PC and Xbox 360 adventure, draws on stem cell research, art deco architecture and the writings of Ayn Rand to build its bizarre undersea dystopia. In the next-gen era, you're not just handed a machine gun, you get a 30-hour course in philosophy, social history and the ethics of military intervention.Nothing symbolises the broadening of videogame culture more than the burgeoning concept of the games festival. Once the industry events calendar was dominated by E3 - a bloated, sense-shattering monster of a show, crammed with million-dollar stands and overexcited American games journos whooping at CGI trailers.Now there are hundreds of smaller, more reflective and inclusive events like the hippyish Game Developers Conference and US-based fanboy get-together PAX, as well UK versions such as Nottingham GameCity and the Edinburgh Interactive Festival.If you're enjoying the ever-growing diary of outdoor music events, you might want to try a videogame equivalent. It's eye-opening stuff. At the same time, tendrils are being sent out from videogames into all other media.The aesthetics and semiotics of game design are shaping music, TV, movies and novels. Manhunt 2 - nasty, depraved, faintly ridiculous - has no real place in this diaspora of ideas and functions.It might re-emerge in a different guise - Rockstar won't let it die without a fight - but it should not form the basis of rational debate on where games are. They are not here. They are somewhere better.
So, I cover Manhunt 2 and other attendant controversies in this week'snewspaper columncontrasting Rockstar's approach to game design with other developers who're trying for a more complex, meaningful approach to violence. This burgeoning culturally enlightened atmosphere is, I argue, reflected in the new era of videogame festivals, which have largely replaced the loud, obnoxious industry events of old.Also on the subject of Manhunt 2, you may have already seen that NGamer Magazine has reviewed the title and given it 92 percent. 'However morally dubious it may be, we love this game,' they say. You can read more excerptshere.Meanwhile, Nintendo of America President Reggie Fils-Aime has told Newsweek that Nintendo's decision not to approve Manhunt 2 as an AO title is nothing to do with Wii's image as a cuddly fun puppet of a console. "Wii welcomes games rated E, T and M. We haven't approved AO-rated games. I doubt we ever will. What Rockstar has right now is a game rated outside our spectrum, outside any manufacturer's spectrum."
