Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
ERNIE-1in the Conservation Laboratory Science Museum, SwindonOne of the first popular uses of computing in the UK was to pick prize-winning Premium Bond numbers in 1957, and ERNIE -- Electric Random Number Indicator Equipment -- did the job for 16 years, until 1972. It has been stored in an aircraft hangar in Swindon, but will become part of the Science Museum's History of Computing gallery in London on Thursday June 26. The Science Museum says:Aside from its cultural influence, ERNIE has great technological importance. It was the 'son of' the world's first digital electronic computer, the code breaking Colossus, created during World War II to read messages sent by German commanders. ERNIE was built at the same place as Colossus, the Post Office Research Station at Dollis Hill, and by some of the same engineers. The Colossus machine was so secret that it was not until well into the 1970s that people began to hear of Colossus's wartime code breaking exploits, and the link between Colossus and ERNIE became clear.You cansee the resemblanceto the reconstructed tube-based Colossus in a photo with my recent article on the proposal for a National Museum of Computing at Bletchley Park, the now-famous code-breaking centre, and onthis blog.ERNIE tends to make news when the hardware is changed. For example, we ran a big feature in Computer Guardian in the late 1980s when ERNIE 3 was installed, andMoney Guardiandid one when ERNIE 4 arrived in 2004.The table below, fromNational Savings &amp; Investments, shows how technology has advanced. It shows the effects of inflation, too.
People are re-discovering play. After years of being told that play is for kids, and spurred on by the success of video games, media organisations are scrambling over themselves to implement playful 'experiences' that will keep consumers' eyes trained on their brands and products.But new, less nefarious, movements are afoot. The social web, alternate reality games, location-based games and festivals likeCome Out and PlayandHide &amp; Seekare actively encouraging adults to shed their grown-up exteriors and to have silly, nonsensical fun.We asked Alex Fleetwood, producer of this month'sHide &amp; Seek Festivalin London, why interactivity was suddenly capturing the imaginations of the masses, and how computer gaming has inspired this trend.What's your background - why interactivity?My original background is classical music, but recently I've worked in TV, at Channel 4, then as an independent producer. About three years ago I went to see a show byPunchdrunkcalledthe Firebird Ball. I remember thinking at the time that it was a mix of warehouse party, first person RPG, and theatrical performance. I really love all of those things, so this was very exciting. I could see that, as there's a route from a straight play to a movie (like Madness of King George) there was a route from a Punchdrunk show to some kind of online experience. ThenPerplex Citycame along, I found out about ARGs, and we had a model for that kind of online experience. I had a bunch of ideas for hugely expensive ARGs that strangely no-one wanted to commission. In the process of developing them I met some great people, all of whom were aware that games design had a great deal to offer.The next big step was heading to the firstCome Out and Play Festivalin 2006. Games like Journey to the End of the Night and Cruel 2 B Kind were a revelation. I started to glimpse the potential power of this medium - how it took all the great things to be learnt from game and interaction design and applied them to a new set of social, human-to-human activities. So I came back and - with the support of the Jerwood Foundation, Gideon Reeling and the BFI - set up the first Hide and Seek last year. We ran a weekend of games and the response was incredible. So we've scaled up the festival to a bigger programme, hosted by the Southbank Centre.I'm inspired by the social possibilities of playing together. I want to invite artists from different disciplines to collaborate with games designers, to make work for public spaces, mainly so I can experience the results. There is an enormous uncharted space between traditional artforms and games (video games, MMOs, ARGs) which I'm passionately interested in exploring.Who comes?We have a core audience of keen creative people aged 20-35 but we're working hard to make a range of events and experiences that appeal to a variety of ages and interests. Everything that is happening on the Sunday of the festival is playable by families, for example.Why should traditional computer gamers be interested?Because the most photorealistic, socially networked 3d environment you can play a game in is real life. Because it's midsummer, and even hardcore gamers need to get out in the fresh air every now and again... Because they will hopefully be inspired to make better games for us next year.Why should adults play? Isn't play just for kids?Adults play all the time, every day. Apart from the fact that, you know, games are a colossally popular form of entertainment, not to mention sport, we play in numerous contexts. Nicknames are play. Knowing where to stand on the tube platform so you are opposite the exit at the other end is play. Facebook is a game. We want to encourage different kinds of play, that's all.What are your favourite things that real-world festivals adopt from video game culture?We're trying to adopt quite a few things. When you register for games at the festival, you'll be able to create a player profile, connect with your friends and see what they are playing too. When you arrive at the actual festival, there will be a lot of simple things to try out that help you understand what we're all about and build up your skills for getting involved in the bigger games. I think these are innovations - I don't know of other festivals that have tried to use principles of games design to make festival experiences more coherent and accessible.Why is there a shift from consuming to producing, reflected by a festival like Hide and Seek, social media trends, alternate reality games and video gaming?As broadcasters discovered to their cost with the phone-in scandals, no matter how great your content, treating audiences as an undifferentiated mass, a giant number of consumers who will absorb whatever is sent to them, is a losing game. But I also think that the initial web 2.0 promise of 'look, you can become a creative and publish your own content' is an equally limited offer. So my video's up on youtube - now what? There's no context, no reward for having done it.Hide and Seek tries to reach a point beyond those positions; one that's rooted in the fact that people are sophisticated, interesting and playful. The artists and designers all work incredibly hard to make things that people will enjoy, and to reward people who invest their time and energy to get more involved. We don't want to demand that everyone who comes has to run around, talk to people or make stuff - we want to structure things so you want to run around, talk to people and make stuff. Ideally all at once.It's worth noting that Hide and Seek sits in a very old tradition as well. Slow walks across tower bridge, situationism, happenings, GK Chesterton, cheese rolling, maypoles, Carnival; there is a long and venerable history of playing games in public spaces...How will play change with technology over the next five years?There are so many possibilities here I don't know where to begin. I'm focussed on technology that can work for mass participation and play - so I'm really excited by the things you can do with Wii hacks, for example. We're just starting to explore the possibilities of GPS gaming, mobile devices with inertia sensors, seeding an area with sensing and tracking technology, and I'm sure we'll see all those areas develop in exciting and unforeseen ways in the next 5 years. I hope we also see a return to the ideal of the video arcade - a social, public space for technologically enhanced play. I think that in 5 years we'll see a lot of real-world / online collaboration - an MMO where one player needs to be in a physical location, and another player in its online equivalent, and they play together. I can't wait.
I missed yesterday's description drive due to wrangling with large statistical datasets (don't ask), so you've got a treat today - not two butthreeSpaceship!locationsfor your describing pleasure!Spaceship! is the gamesblog'sWikigamedevelopment project in which we, the players, work collaboratively and via social media to build a fully playable text adventure. The end result will be a game that we will flog to independent gaming festivals for ultimate glory.And here's your chance to help! The designers only have one week left before they let the programmers into the party. The coders need all theroomsdescribed so they can hard-code them, and we're chipping away at the locations list.The descriptions are very top-level, like this from one of the gamesbloggers describing the Janitor's Cupboard:The door to the Janitor's Cupboard creaks open with the unwillingness of an old man's knee. Interestingly, due to intelligent Company approved usage of space-time rifts the janitor's cupboard appears around 40% bigger inside than it is outside. However, due to these rifts also causing any unsecured items in the room to slowly slip into other areas in the universe people on the ship have traditionally used the cupboard as a dumping ground for anything on board that has no clear storage location. As your eyes sweep around the room you notice, in no particular order: a box full of mop heads; a copy of Space Janitor Magazine; a stuffed space gerbil; a half-eaten packet of Fruit Pastilles; the steering wheel from an Austin Allegro; 6 oversized hats with viking horns on; a foghorn; a dead mouse; and a shelf consisting of an e-book reader loaded with the complete works of Jeffrey Archer. Sighing, you console yourself remembering that these items will be floating in orbit around the second moon of Jagulon Beta within a week. ... The Janitor's Cupboard is dark, and smells faintly of turnips. This in itself is curious, as the turnip is genrally not allowed on board space faring vessels since the Alpha Centaurian vegetable scandal of 2075. A variety of hooks and shelves adorn the walls, holding all manner of janitorial accessories. A badly damaged box of hoover bags balances precariously on a small footstool on the floor, and a collection of threadbare brooms finish off the room in style.That was one of our rooms from Wednesday. We've also requested your creativity for theCrew's Quarters(still up for grabs!), theRec Roomand the all-importantEscape Pod.Today, we've gotthreetreats for you:The Airlock(a room integral in completing the game inthesepuzzles), theBriefing Room(I'm thinking Battlestar Galactica here) and theEngine Room(where our haplessjanitor bot Bryanhas found himself unwittingly trapped).As Wikigamer DennisChow explained to Fantomex onWednesdy's post,having an overactive imagination and a scathing wit more than qualify you for participationHappy scribing!
Yahoo cut off all merger talks with Microsoft last night as it clinched a search advertising deal with Google.Yahoo said the ending of talks, which had been off and on since Microsoft made its approach public in January, had come after Microsoft made it clear in a meeting on Sunday that it was no longer interested in buying the company outright, even at the price of $33 per share which Microsoft had last suggested. That would have valued Yahoo at up to $47.5bn (&pound;23.5bn).After Yahoo rejected Microsoft's initial approach, talks focused on a joint venture between the two businesses designed to take on market leader Google in the lucrative search engine market.Last night Yahoo said such a deal would have left the company without an independent search business that it views as critical to its strategic future and would not be in the best interests of Yahoo stockholders.Shortly after announcing that it had called off talks with Microsoft Yahoo announced a deal with Google in the north American market that could add as much as $800m in annual revenues to Yahoo.The deal, which is likely to be scrutinised heavily by the US regulatory authorities, is effectively an admission that the company can no longer compete with Google in the US and Canadian markets.The global online advertising industry is projected to grow from $40bn last year to approximately $75bn by the end of the decade but is dominated by Google.Yahoo has spent tens of millions of dollars trying to catch up but has failed to do so. For Microsoft a deal with Yahoo would have made it a serious rival to Google. But now it will be a distant third in the market.The deal with Google is likely to infuriate Carl Icahn, the American billionaire who has built a small stake in Yahoo and intended to oust the board at next month's annual meeting and restart talks with Microsoft.Under the deal announced last night, Yahoo will use Google's search and advertising technology to display Google ads alongside its own search results in the US and Canada.Yahoo will continue to operate its own search engine, web properties and advertising services. The two companies also plan to allow users of their online instant messaging services to communicate with each other."This commercial agreement provides Yahoo with the opportunity to deliver more relevant adverts to users and provide advertisers and publishers with better advertising technology to help them succeed in their own businesses," said Eric Schmidt, chairman and chief executive of Google.The 10-year deal is not exclusive but analysts admitted last night it was highly unlikely that Microsoft would get involved.
The tale of the Xbox 360 RROD (red ring of death - keep up at the back) is one that has turned out very costly to Microsoft. As in, $1bn costly.And the reason, according to Bryan Lewis of Gartner, is that Microsoft wanted to avoid having an outside companies make its application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC).The ASIC in question was for graphics, and Microsoft hoped it would save tens of millions of dollars on the contract, Lewistold the Design Automation Conference. (Because Microsoft's really short of cash, isn't it? It isn't? Oh.)The trouble, however, was that Microsoft turned out not to be that good at designing ASICs. Not surprising - it's a specialist game, and software-only companies turn out to be a bit pants at the trickier aspect. (Interestingly, Apple retains a high-quality ASIC team, which helped it get the iPod developed comparatively quickly.)And so Microsoft's ASIC put out too much heat, which created all sorts of problems for other components. Recall that Robbie Bach called the problem "a design issue" and wouldn't go any further. And nobody at Microsoft has. (Still hasn't. Despite usgrilling the UK headin the podcast.)Eventually, recognising its error (durr), Microsoft went to an outside ASIC vendor. Which made a newer chip. And the latest bunch of Xbox 360s you see use those chips. Which get less hot. Which means fewer failures.(We previously had aninsider saying it was the GPU. Seems that's not quite right; hard to know how reliable that insider was.)Interesting too to read Paul Thurrott describinggoing along to Microsoftwhen they were working on pre-production of the Xbox 360:More important, I recall that my biggest "gotcha" moment that day was when I saw the Xbox 360 development system, which was three—yes, three—PowerMac G5 towers linked together. Think about that for a second: These systems were ginormous. Three of them were required to emulate a 360. What made this troubling was that Microsoft had just recently revealed the final design of the 360 console itself, a relatively tiny and white box. How the heck, I asked Headrick [I think he means Jeff Henshaw, exec producer for Xbox digital entertainment - CA], was Microsoft going to fit the power of three PowerMac G5s into that tiny little white box?"Oh, we've got guys who have already figured that out," Headrick told me, smiling. Like a used car salesman, in retrospect. "Smart guys."Right.So, satisfied now? Or do you want Microsoft to 'fess up in public?
Like Gilligan's Island and the American Constitution, everything I know about summer camp, I know from Hollywood movies and occasional references on Friends. My mental image is of a nightmarish health Gulag, with kids herded into remote countryside camps to play 'soccer' and have Wonder Years-style developmental experiences. I didn't think they'd get to learn about games.From this summer, however, US teens will be able to spend two weeks atCamp Fatal1ty- an educational videogame getaway taking place at Emory University, Stanford University, UCLA and Villanova University, and overseen by successful pro-gamer, Johnathan "Fatal1ty" Wendel. From the press release:At Camp Fatal1ty students will have the once-in-a-lifetime experience of learning a variety of Unreal Tournament 3 tactics and strategies developed by Fatal1ty and other professional gamers. These strategies have been honed in international competitions. Teens will test their new battle skills against classmates in tournament play.Additionally, they'll learn to create machinima and build highlight video reels of their best in-game moves and shots. Besides learning how to create games, students can expect late-night NVIDIA-hosted gaming tournaments and LAN parties. To further introduce teens to the world of gaming, students will tour a major game development studio and will learn first-hand how industry professionals create premier commercial games. At the end of the course, each student will take home a Fatal1ty-branded keyboard.So learn about games all day and play them all night? Parents of America - forget the great outdoors, forget sport, if you love your children this is where they must be sent. It's $3,499 (plus $300 for optional weekend stay) well spent.
Those who were interested inyesterday's Street Fighter postmay well want to know about this.SNK Playmorehas confirmed a UK release for itsSNK Arcade Classics Vol. 1collection. Due out this autumn on PS2, Wii and PSP, the disc packs in 16 absolute legends of the 2D era, including several of SNK's beautiful hardcore fighting games.Beat-'em-up connoisseurs will get to enjoy Art of Fighting, with its Spirit Gauge innovation, Fatal Fury, with its odd two-plane dodge system and brilliant co-op mode (later employed in the IK+ series), the original King of Fighters title (KoF 94, of course), the blood-splattered Samurai Shodown and the cult NeoGeo gem, World Heroes (actually developed by ADK, also responsible for Ninja Master's(sic) and Magician Lord, which is also included in the collection).To casual observers, SNK's 2D fighters were mere imitators of the Street Fighter series, but this is not the case. The combat systems are totally different, with SNK's Art of Fighting series introducing the whole concept of the super special move that would go onto to become a beat-'em-up staple. Also, although both employed luxuriously rich, detailed 2D visuals, SNK's backgrounds were more expressive, and often filled with comic touches. It's also worth pointing out that staff have switched between the Capcom and SNK camps over the years, with original Street Fighter creators Takashi Nishiyama and Hiroshi Matsumoto, going onto to work at SNK, notably in the King of Fighters and Fatal Fury series', while famed illustrator Shinkiro started at SNK but now works for Capcom.Aaaanyway, the package also includes the original Metal Slug, fun proto-footie sim, Super Sidekicks 3 and the sadly almost forgotten, King of Monsters, a sort of Rampage-style destruct-'em-up. US reviews hint at some emulation issues, which is disappointing, but I'll reserve judgement until I get a Pal copy...
I don't expect you've been watching the progress of USB3, the latest version of one of the interfaces that we owe mainly to Intel.Well, Intel has fired back at what it calls "rumours" in a blog post headedUSB 3.0 for the masses - Dispelling the myths. The gist of it is that the USB3 spec is being developed by a committee made up of Intel, Microsoft, NEC, NXP, and TI -- well, it's a standard -- while the host controller is being designed by Intel. And if you want the host controller, you have to wait until it's finished. The post says:In parallel, but separately; Intel is investing heavily (think gazillions of dollars and bazillions of engineering man hours) in resources to create an Intel host controllers spec in order to speed time to market of the USB 3.0 technology. Think of the host controller spec as a 'Dummies Guide' to building a USB 3.0 compatible piece of silicon; it is NOT the USB 3.0 specification itself. The industry is keen to get this guide as it will allow them to build USB 3.0 compatible circuits without repeating the massive investment undertaken by Intel.Of course, there are plenty of companies out there who could spend the odd gazillion developing a rival system that might be wholly or just slightly incompatible, but whether they'd get enough market share to compete with Intel is another matter. In any case, they won't, because there's no profit in it for them. By investing huge amounts of money in USB technology, making it a standard and giving it away, Intel gets more or less what it wants.Aren't open standards wonderful?In the old days, of course, everybody just followed IBM, even if IBM failed to follow the standard correctly. Today, Intel is right in the same way, because it's much more importantto usersto have something that works.
Jeremy Zawodny has announced on his blog that he is leaving Yahoo after nearly nine years in which he has been influential on its use of open source technologies such as the MySQL database (and we'd bet PHP: Yahoo is the biggest user of PHP on the planet) and also pushing web feeds (aka RSS) which he long ago declared would be ubiquitous. Well, they're all around me. And they're a big part of how Web 2.0 can get done at the edges.Heannounced his departureon his blog, sayingI won't at all be surprised if some people think this is related to Microsoft or Carl Ichan and the uncertainty surrounding Yahoo's future. The reality is that there's nothing pushing me out the door at Yahoo. The reason I'm leaving is that something very compelling has come along to lure me away. Despite what the current press sentiment might be, Jerry and David have built a remarkable company.That may be true, but there are people outside who have other thoughts for what to do with the company.To them, and to his fellow soon-to-be-ex-employees, Zawodny says:As for the future of Yahoo, everyone working at Yahoo today knows in their gut what Yahoo should be and needs to be. My advice is to work on making that happen. Don't let anyone else (inside or outside the company) try to tell you what Yahoo is. Trust your gut. And, if you have the chance, re-read the farewell note thatIan Rogerssent outwhen he lefta few months back. It's good stuff.And, by all means, don't take the stuff you read in the press at face value. You're all smarter than that.We're not here, obviously, but there may be inbuilt reasons for that.
Firefox 3, which has been going through various release candidates for a while, will have its official launch date on June 17 (that's Tuesday). The Mozilla Foundationwants to set a Guinness World Recordby setting the record for the most downloads in 24 hours.The present record is held by... actually, it isn't held by anyone, so that should make this pretty easy to succeed in. One assumes that this won't be from mirror sites, but from the Mozilla servers themselves? Otherwise it would be hard to track.And speaking of tracking...On his blog, John Lilly, Mozilla's chief executivenoted in Maythat after a conversation with Mike Arrington of Techcrunch, thatwe asked ourselves what we can do to help unlock some of this latent potential — and started thinking about whether there's a project we can do at Mozilla that does a few things:1. Collects &amp; shares data in a way that embodies the user control &amp; privacy options which are at Mozilla's core.2. Enables everyone — from individual researchers and entrepreneurs (both the social and capitalist types) to the largest organizations in the world — to take usage data, mix it up, mash it up, derive insight, and hopefully share some of that insight with others.3. Helps move the conversation around data collection and web usage forward, to help consumers make more informed decisions.But as he notesWe've got a couple of projects started at a small level in this area — one is called Spectator, an add-on mostly used to improve the user interface of Firefox, and another is a project in Mozilla Labs called Test Pilot. They're both early and very limited in scope.It's that idea of tracking *at all* that has got some people worked up. "Spyware" is one of the words being thrown around (in a rather cavalier fashion, it must be said). Lilly replies:nobody plans to make [Firefox] spyware, I tried to make it clear that we'd only do this by figuring out a way to be very very opt-in, the data would be open to everyone, and not personal in any way. That's why we're talking about it in the very early stages as we explore the space.We'll have to watch to see that this meme doesn't get amplified.But that aside, is FF3 (as it's being known) going to be any good? Firefox 2 was heavily criticised as a memory hog, for having memory leaks. But there's been a lot of work on FF3,especially on the memory footprint, and it seems people are much happier. Walt Mossberg hasdeclaredit "the best browser out there right now" (make of that what you will).Are you going to switch? Back? Forward? Sideways? (Me, I'm happy withCamino, a Mac-only build that uses the Gecko core. Fast, light, even if it doesn't have a million extensions, because it's got a Mac look - which Firefox has never managed.)
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Thanks for answering my query last week. However, I still can't open Gmail!Deborah FoxIsuggestedusing the ui=1 address (egmail.google.com/mail/?ui=1) to get the Older Version of Gmail, which I assumed would work for people who had been using that quite happily until the Newer Version was imposed. Two alternatives are to attempt a secure connection by usinghttps://mail.google.com(note the extra s), or by usinghttps://mail.google.com/mail/h/to get the simpler HTML version.I assume quite a few people are having problems because Google has a troubleshooting link on the mail page that says "I cannot access my account", and tackles a list of"known issues"at Gmail Help Center. There is also a trouble-shooterhere.But remember that you can pick up your Gmail using a standard POP3 email client such as ThunderBird or Microsoft Outlook/Outlook Express etc at no extra charge. Not only does this allow you to work offline, it means you have backup copies of emails even if you can never log on to Gmail again.
Bloomberg reportsthat Japan's NEC "notified the government of 261 incidents of faulty computers, one of which caught fire, while the others produced smoke or a burning smell, the ministry said on its Web site today." The problem, apparently, is connected with overtight wiring to the display -- it sounds like they were too close to something that got really hot.The company will recall around 970,000 notebooks "and isn't aware of any of the notebooks catching fire," a spokesman said.The models affected are "LaVie" series notebook PCs for consumers shipped between May 2003 and August 2004, and "VersaPro" model notebook PCs for corporate users shipped between May 2003 and March 2006.You have to wonder how many notebooks made in 2003-04 are still in use, and whether they are actually worth repairing. If I owned one, I think I'd rather NEC offered me a discount on a new model....
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..We interview Kevin Rose of Digg, look at a very quiet change to the UK banking code which means you might not be compensated if you don't have "up-to-date" antivirus protection (and where does that leave Mac users who don't bother with it?), whether a "laptot" is a better buy than a secondhand notebook, plans to make surgeons' deathrates public, and oh, much more. Click through for the links and the full story, or just go and seethe full content.Banks slip through virus loopholeIs your money safe? A quiet rule change allows British banks to refuse to compensate the victims of online fraud if they do not have "up-to-date" anti-virus protection, says Danny BradburyGames reviews:Alone in the Darkbrings a new level of real-world physics to console gaming, particularly as far as fire is concernedLego Indiana Jonesinstantly playable, genuinely funny - with some delightful tongue-in-cheek references to Star Wars among the cut scenesNinja Garden 2a hack-and-slash game, complete with gorgeous graphics and a nonsensical plotCan low-cost 'laptots' stand up to their more pricey competitors?So if all you use a laptop for is reading and writing, what is the point of the extra money? Surely all you need is a keyboard, a screen, wireless and a couple of USB ports? By Andrew BrownWhen will BT start its next ad-serving trial with Phorm?"Very soon", according to a BT spokesman, although he declined to say precisely how soon. Charles Arthur reportsNewsbytesHP regains its touch | Intel investigated again | Choices and resources | Nokia's GPS festival tip | The declutter directory | Edinburgh games, again | Women on the run | Grassing via SMS | Ringtones for iPhonesNHS plans to reveal surgeons' deathrates onlineMichael Cross: As politicians and police chiefs agonise over whether Britons are capable of handling raw crime statistics, the government has pledged to post even more sensitive data on the web.Kong is king as Hollywood finally frames a game storyAleks Krotoski: Movies based on videogames suck. You want proof? Two words: Street Fighter. Another two: Resident EvilApple upsets the iPhone cartThe iPhone's features - or, in some cases, the lack of them - surprised observers at Apple's WWDC this week. Charles Arthur reportsI'm searching for Google alternativesVictor Keegan: Are the tectonic plates in the search market starting to move? You wouldn't think so from the seemingly unstoppable march of GoogleLetters and blogsNHS IT woes | Picture this | Twitterati | But will it flyTechnophileLight on the pocket (in both senses) the PocketSurfer2 is an easy way to get online while out and about. By Neil DaveyAsk JackLooking for a lightweight | Gmail revisited | Lost email links | Mini-DVD longevity | Backchat'The democratic approach is a very valuable thing'Kevin Rose, the founder of the social bookmarking site Digg, plans to turn it into a social network - but remains elusive on making it pay. Interview by Zoe MargolisHow bones can be tailor-madeNew software will enable surgeons to create made-to-measure titanium bone replacements within hours. Mark Zakian reportsBritish police join rest of Europe on the AirwavesMichael Cross: This is a story of Britain leading European integrationRed hot chillies go down the nanotubeProfessor Richard Compton of the University of Oxford has been experimenting with the world's hottest pepper sauces, writes Michael Pollitt
I have been searching for a lightweight notebook but I have been unable to identify a machine which has a screen of over 180mm high. Computers such as the Sony VGN SZ, or the ThinkPad X300, appear to be designed for DVD watching rather than working on text, which is my main use for the machine. My present ThinkPad T60 has a 15.4in screen which is 230mm high, but it is too heavy to carry around.Adrian ZuckermanI don't think such a thing exists. The "ultraportable" equivalent to the ThinkPad T60 is the Lenovo/IBM ThinkPad X61, which is almost half the weight (1.2kg against 2.3kg) but only has a 12.1in screen -- around 180mm high. This is the standard screen size for ultraportables. For each inch of screen diagonal that you add, you can expect to add about a pound in weight (though you may also reduce the price).The latest generation of ultraportables, such as the ThinkPad X300, Dell XPS M1330 and MacBook Air have 13in-wide screens that sound larger, but of course, they're only wider. They don't give you any more screen height than a traditional 4:3-format LCD, though they are bigger and heavier than old-style ultraportables.One drawback with current ultraportables is the limited native screen resolution, and the ThinkPad X61s only offers 1,024 x 768 pixels. Newer widescreen designs such as the Dell M1330 have 1,280 x 800 pixel screens, so you won't see less text, though it might be slightly smaller text.On the other hand, there is a flood of cheap ultraportables coming out, led now by the Asus Eee PC901, which puts 1,024 x 600 pixels on an 8.9in screen. I expect to see similar models with 10.2in screens and usable (90-95% size) keyboards later this year. It's not what you asked for, but if you try one, you might find it's a good compromise at the price.
I have Windows XP SP2 and Firefox. A recent problem with email in Outlook Express is that I cannot access web links.Don CurtisThe Microsoft Knowledge Base has a help article on this:Internet shortcuts in Outlook Express do not start Web browser. Since Outlook Express is a companion program to Internet Explorer and both are Microsoft products, the suggested fixes include making IE your default browser and, if necessary, correcting the HTML file associations to point to iexplore.exe (ie IE). If you can get web links working for a bit, you can change the default browser back to Firefox and hope that Firefox sets itself up correctly.Another possibility is that a popup blocker is preventing the links from working.Either way, bear in mind that phishing exploits and other attempts to install malware can start when you click an obfuscated email link, so it could be a security risk. It's safer to copy and paste links as plain text.Also, Outlook Express has been superseded byWindows Live Mail. I'd upgrade to that before trying to fix Outlook Express.
I use Sony DVD-Rs with my camcorder. What are the projected lives of these discs?Colin JonesThe 8cm (3 inch) mini DVD discs used in most camcorders are made in the same way as their larger siblings, so good ones should also last for 25-50 years or so. However, DVDs can be pressure sensitive so they may require more careful handling. TheDigitalFAQ media guiderates the Sony DVD-R discs as excellent, whether made in Japan or Taiwan, but it's always wise to make back-up copies. The stated manufacturer may not actually have made the discs, butDVD Identifierand similar programs can usually identify the source.As always, avoid using DVD-RW (or CD-RW) for anything you want to keep. These "optical phase change media" were not designed to last.
Are the tectonic plates in the search market starting to move? You wouldn't think so from the seemingly unstoppable march of Google, but recently there have been some interesting straws in the wind. I know it takes a long time before straws in the wind become a haystack, but they are worth considering. The theme is a move away from what has been described as "supply side" search - reflecting the needs of producers - towards demand side: a shift towards results being determined by what you want as opposed what is generated by corporate algorithms.Search engines are becoming dominated by advertisers. This is especially true of Google, which is generally accepted as being "clean" in terms of separating paid advertisements from sponsored ones. The contextual ads on the right of the screen and immediately above the results are paid for. That's fine. But so, in an indirect way, are the "clean" results because they are often the consequence of "search engine optimisation", a multi-billion-pound industry paid to get corporate sites to the top of search results. If you type in something like "quiet family hotel in Venice" you will mainly be led to hotel groups or travel search firms rather than a bespoke hotel.And the winds of change? Last week's relaunch of Jimmy Wales' Wikia (re.search.wikia.com) is a great advance on the original search engine, which lacked content and depended too much on Mr Wales' Wikipedia. The new version still has huge gaps - news, for instance, is often hopelessly out of date - but now you can see where it is going. If you think an entry on, say, Gordon Brown is incomplete (which it is) then you can add new search terms or type in a new web address (URL) and see it appear in your next search. You can use other search engines such as Google or Yahoo and make corrections to other people's results. On some searches I was surprised by the relevant material it displayed, which would have been buried deep in the earth by Google. If - and it is a big if - Wikia gets a critical mass of people, it could develop into something really useful.Another interesting new site launched last week - and British to boot - claims to have reverse engineered the process of search (findsyou.com). Initially concentrating on property and cars, it is a simple one which has nobody advertising their goods to you. Instead you type in, say, a cottage you want to buy (or sell) in Cornwall, near the sea, with three bedrooms and a garden, just like you would in a classified ad. You then wait for replies from estate agents - who are being signed up to watch for selling opportunities - or individuals so you will, hopefully, only get relevant replies. It has partnered with What Car? and the fascinatingnethouseprices.com(which reveals how much houses near your postcode have sold for) to help generate traffic. It is not yet at the stage where you can get a decent local plumber but if it can attract users it could go far.In response to a recent column, readers pointed out sites such aspixsta.comthat uses images not words, andclusty.com?, which I hadn't tried for years. Clusty offers uncluttered options to search web, images, Wikipedia etc. But if you press the "more" button and then "labs" there are two dedicated searches for Shakespeare or Benjamin Franklin and also the fascinating Clusty Cloud which disaggregates your searches into a "cloud" of subsections offering a shortcut to what you want. It looks very useful. Sadly, although Clusty was my default engine, as soon as I navigated to other links it disappeared and the omnipresent Google toolbars appeared at the top of the page, making it time-consuming to get back to Clusty. I am still a big fan of Google, but there are definitely issues arising from its increasing dominance. Some serious competition would do it no harm at all.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&middot; This article was amended on Thursday June 12 2008. We originally omitted the web address of findsyou.com in this piece. This has been corrected.
"Very soon", according to a BT spokesman, although he declined to say precisely how soon, for fear of leaving a hostage to fortune. The second trial of Phorm's server-side adware system has been much delayed since BT's relationship with Phorm came to light in February; it transpired that the broadband provider did not get the permission of the 36,000 customers who were included in the first trial, in September and October 2006, which may technically have breached the law. Richard Clayton, a security expert at the University of Cambridge, has called forBT to be prosecutedfor intercepting peoples' communications without their permission.This time around, BT is being much more careful, gaining the permission of those taking part, and making sure the tests are completely legal. It says it will announce the date of the trial on its site, atbt.com/webwise, and forums atbeta.bt.com/bta/forumsA document that has surfaced at theWikileaks site, and confirmed to be valid by BT, claims that in the first trial "no BT customer helpdesk calls were received which were directly attributed to a defect of the PageSense [Phorm] system". This, though, is misleading, because a number of people did notice redirections via a Phorm-owned site, and called BT to express concerns. However, that didn't mean the Phorm system was broken; it was working as designed.One criticism of BT that has arisen from the report is that it made it sound as though Phorm-bought adverts had replaced paid-for adverts for charities: "the [Phorm-bought] adverts were used to replace a 'default' charity advertisement (one of Oxfam, Make Trade Fair or SOS Children's Villages) when a suitable contextual or behavioural match could be made by [Phorm's] PageSense system". But BT insisted this week that Phorm had not replaced any ads bought by charities: "It's as if we had bought 100 billboards but only been able to put ads on 80 of them for traditional products, so we put charity ads on the other 20," said a spokesman. "The charity ads wouldn't have been shown otherwise."Pressure against server-side ad-targeting seems to be growing in the US, where 15 pro-privacy organisations have written to the House of Representatives demanding public hearings on the use of such technologies by companies such as Phorm, NebuAd and Front Porch. Charter Communications, a US ISP, plans to start testing NebuAd's system, which resembles Phorm's, later this month on a few hundred customers. The European Commission, meanwhile, told The Register website this week that it is considering an intervention after the Information Commissioner decided not to take any action against BT over the earlier Phorm trial. "We are continuing to monitor this closely," an EC spokeswoman said. "If need be we will take action."
Next, let's fry our brains!Put some unpopped popcorn between four mobiles. Ring the four mobiles. Watch the popcorn pop. Reflect that it's a good thing you hold your phone vertically, not horizontally, for calls ...Hang on, the scanner's off-keyWhen Radiohead asked people to remix their songNude, James Houston used old computer gear - Sinclair Spectrum, hard drives, scanner, printer - to mimic the instruments and voice. Stunning.What's the backslash for?Themuch-missed robotsof Sci-Fi Theatre remind us how the rivalry between Apple and Microsoft used to sound.Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Gamers of a certain age may remember the original of this game, which invented the survival-horror genre in 1992. Not that they would recognize much in this high-tech resurrection of the franchise, which commendably tries to harness the Xbox 360's power (the Xbox 360 version is vastly superior to the others) in an innovative way. It brings a new level of real-world physics to console gaming, particularly as far as fire is concerned (you spend more time using fire extinguishers than your gun) and in terms of turning found objects into useful implements: a gun, a rag, a lighter and some fuel, for example, enable you to fire flaming bullets - the only way to kill the hordes of zombies is to burn them. You start the game in a New York building, but the bulk of it takes place in a gratifyingly open-ended manner in Central Park. Ambitious, different and thoroughly absorbing.
Ninja Gaiden's appearance on the original Xbox may have passed you by. Even committed fans who bought in mostly gave up, such was the vertical difficulty level. The sequel remains a hefty challenge, albeit a little more forgiving than before. This is a hack-and-slash game, complete with gorgeous graphics and a nonsensical plot. The fun revolves around the fluid, relentless and visceral combat. Taking out a host of enemies is consistently entertaining. The gore level has been upped with assailants continuing their attacks despite having severed limbs and blood is splattered liberally throughout. Over the top and darkly amusing, but Ninja Gaiden 2 is a mixed affair. Play for too long and the combat gets repetitive, while the difficulty spikes will annoy. Ninja Gaiden 2 is best appreciated in short bursts, ideally with caffeine on tap.
Movies and videogames don't play well together. Sure, the games industry does "well" out of its relationship with movies, just like a prostitute does "well" out of her relationship with a pimp, but rare is a game based on a film any more than a bit of extra filthy lucre for the Hollywood machine. Let me revise my initial statement: movies based on videogames suck. You want proof? Two words: Street Fighter. Another two: Resident Evil. You want more? Tomb Raider. Super Mario Bros. Dead or Alive. I could go on. I won't. It hurts too much.Clearly, game movies' poor performance in the hearts of gamers hasn't stopped Hollywood from plundering their much-loved properties, building up their little gamer dreams and then smashing them brutally into the rocky ground of reality. If anything, Hollywood's repeated failure to translate interactivity into passivity seems to spur the filmmakers on, Sisyphus-like, over the eternal hill into the gully of straight-to-video releases.I'm being harsh. There is one frame where Hollywood does gaming good: as a platform for storytelling and character development, movies surpass games at every press of the button. That's why documentaries about videogames, like The King of Kong: Fistful of Quarters, are the best places for the twain to meet. KoK:FoQ had a modest cinema release in the UK last week, and is out on DVD next Monday. The film, which follows a bitter rivalry between two grown men competing for the high score on retro arcade machine Donkey Kong, is a triumph of translation so well realised that immigration policy makers could learn a thing or two from director Seth Fordon's careful videogame-movie integration.He gently presses together the staples of both movies and games: the down-at luck good guy (family man and world record contender Steve Weibe), the cocky bad guy (hot sauce mogul and world record holder Billy Mitchell), the love interest (Steve's eternally patient wife Nicole), the double-cross, the climax, retribution. Fordon exposes this seemingly innocuous world, with its ancient grudges and alliances, and turns a fictitious pixellated plumber's fight against an oversized ape into a mighty battle for honour.Throw a couple of cowboys in there and you'd be forgiven for mistaking this movie for Kurosawa's classic Yojimbo. Put it on the Dreamcast and, honestly, you could be playing Shenmue.King of Kong is a window into another world - albeit a very small one - but a world nonetheless where passions are high and winning is real. This film's ultimate story is that even in today's bling-laden, high-tech, high-earning contemporary professional gaming competitions, the real drama goes beyond the machine. Games may not be able to capture that yet, but Hollywood certainly does. And in King of Kong, that's a fact worth every penny.&middot; For your chance to win a copy of The King of Kong on DVD, go toblogs.guardian.co.uk/games
It's the new punk rock, I find myself thinking, as the mosh-pit throngs with excited fans. A thousand people jostle for space in the packed venue and scream and cheer as the main event begins. The sound is deafening, the enthusiasm infectious.I'm not at a rock gig though: this is a live Diggnation, the cult weekly podcast hosted by Kevin Rose and Alex Albrecht. They're likable individuals with a captivating (if laddish) onscreen presence, and on stage they feed off their live audience. But what struck me as impressive was not their jovial personalities, or the crowd's enthusiasm for the hosts, or even the queue for the event, which stretched for blocks - instead, it was the devotion to the brand behind it all: Digg.To these folk, Digg is not just another tech site. Because they themselves contribute to it with links and stories that they recommend to others, it's theirs. Any mention of its name and the crowd went wild; there were scuffles as the audience quite literally fought for the Digg freebies being volleyed out over their heads.As Rose threw Digg stickers into the cheering New York mass, he looked like any geeky boy from the Valley, not the so-called "poster boy of web 2.0" who, as the founder of Digg, was on the cover of Business Week magazine in 2006 under the strapline: "How this kid made $60 million in 18 months." Beer in hand, laptop on his lap and a wide grin on his face, it's clear how much he loves what he's created - and the fans love him for it too.Just before the show, I managed to grab Rose to find out where Digg is at now and what future he sees for it. What's striking is his passion for Digg, not just as a business, but also as an idea that he truly believes in.Can you Digg it?The social bookmarking site began in 2004 and offers a way for users to contribute and share news stories and items of interest with others; the most popular get the most "Diggs", highlighted on the front page. It now gets 26 million unique visitors a month, with 3 million registered editors (people who submit, share and vote on, ie Digg, stories and links). That's no mean feat for an idea dreamed up while its founder was showering one morning.Why is it so popular? "People want to have a voice and a say in what is news," Rose anwers. "We've levelled the playing field by accepting all other forms of content, whether it's sources from CNN, the Guardian ... it's about seeing what the masses want to surface, which articles they are finding the most interesting, and oftentimes they unearth and promote stories to the front page that you wouldn't find anywhere else; that would be buried on a traditional news site."Is Digg his main source of news then? "It is the distinct flavour of the community that gets me excited about going back to the front page. That's not to mean that I don't go off and surf my favourite tech blogs or Salon.com or whatever: I have a whole list of Google Reader RSS feeds that I go through - and if I find something interesting, I'll submit it to Digg. That's the beauty of it: I can share it back with the community. The democratic approach to news is a very valuable thing." But, he adds: "We're always going to be dependent on the quality of reporting of mainstream media."So if it's not an alternative to mainstream media, what else is Digg offering? "We're creating algorithms that take a look at what you've dug and compare it to other people, inside the system, in real time. We have this working on our staging servers right now - it's not something that we've launched publicly - but essentially, when you Digg an item you're agreeing with that item and all those other people who dug it. So let's say you're Digg number 4,000 on something: who are those other 3,999 people you agreed with? What we're doing with the math behind the scenes is we're saying 'OK, you agree with all these other people, what else are they finding out there that you might like? That you might also find interesting? So we're working on ways to surface those stories - to find quality content before it becomes popular -  but also introduce you to new people based on what you've been Digging."So Digg will incorporate social networking for its users alongside their bookmarking of items? Yes, says Rose: "That's [going to be] something that's unique to Digg that you won't find anywhere else, and it's going to be a cool experience: you won't be able to do that on any other news site."With that in mind, will Digg's user-submitted methodology become a standard for other companies or websites to employ to obtain feedback? Rose nods. "Digg will serve as a means of gathering metrics for third party websites, providing them insights into who's digging their content, who they are spreading it to. We want to enable publishers to have a better idea of which authors are most popular on their site; which content types are striking a core with their readers, and I think we'll provide those tools for them."Will Digg be branching out beyond its original home then? Will it expand into a more mobile medium? "We're looking into ways of digging all types of content ... right now it's bound into web-based articles, news, images, that type of stuff," he said, smiling evasively, "So, we'll see ..."Digging for goldWith so many other 2.0 companies being sold recently, will Rose float Digg? Sell it? How will Digg make money? He smiles, somewhat warily. "If there ever becomes a partner that can help us achieve our goals and where two plus two equals 10, then that is something that I would consider. Right now we're happy going it alone."I sense that the "when are you going to sell Digg?" question is something Rose hears on a daily basis, given how many of his contemporaries are selling up. But if, like Facebook, Digg will offer targeted advertising, based on users' interests, and since content will soon be suggested based on the previous stories and links that Digg users made favourites of or dug, and combined with the plan to create social connections between users based on shared Diggs - surely this will provide a way to make money. Equally, media organisations might like - and pay for - the data on who's Digging their content.Rose's focus though, remains with what the site offers to its users. He gets most animated when talking about Digg's interactivity and its "community". "Any time you can work with the community and stay active and in touch with the community, the better. I'm trying to get out there and be in touch with people who use our service. The best thing I can do is get constant feedback from the community. They help us shape our products, they tell us when we're screwing up; and we've screwed up." (Rose bowed to user revolt in May last year after the code to crack HD DVDs was repeatedly posted - strictly, illegally - on the site, repeatedly removed by Digg's admins, and reposted.)"You can't just say, 'We're doing our own thing'... when something's bad on you; you have to say, 'That's bad on me and I'll do anything I can to correct it' and that's the two-way conversation that's happening now in media and the people that do that embrace that. So that's something we've opened up over time; when we first launched Digg it wasn't like that, but now we realise there's so much value in that, that it just is the thing to do."Besides wanting to "turn Digg into a verb", Rose's original ambition, he says, was to create something people would enjoy and to just be able to cover his rent. I assume he's achieved the latter. As for the former, the screaming crowds awaiting his arrival downstairs seems to prove that.
The idea of having an irreparably damaged bone scanned, a titanium copy created in a replicator and then surgically inserted into our bodies seems more Star Trek science fiction than modern-day medicine. But advances in three-dimensional printing and a key piece of breakthrough software mean that, within a year, this will be a reality.It's the vision of engineer Siavash Mahdavi. Mahdavi was studying robotics at University College London. Frustrated at being unable to build the robots he envisioned in his head, he turned to sintering - where thin layers of powder are laid down in a chamber, then turned into a three-dimensional object by a laser.Do the mathsMahdavi started sintering the materials he needed, but faced the problem of working out the appropriate internal structure for these objects. He knew that, given all the variables, it would take a computer a lifetime to do the maths. So he designed an artificial intelligence optimisation engine to develop software that could do the calculations quickly. In 2005 he started Complex Matters, a design consultancy that works with designers and engineers who want to use this method to make items that exploit the potential of the software.Mahdavi's microstructure optimisation software has arrived at a time when sintering is developing from a technology for creating rapid prototypes to a fully fledged manufacturing process. In the past six months, machines capable of printing in high-quality titanium have been developed.One of the first practical applications of the new sintering software will be to create made-to-measure orthopaedic implants. "Imagine a hip-bone replacement," says Mahdavi. "A surgeon will have the existing bone MRI scanned. This information is passed via a CAD programme to the 3D printer. By the time the patient gets to the operating theatre, we will have printed out a medical-grade titanium bone which is an identical match to the one being replaced."But can we be sure they will be as reliable as existing implants? "Better," insists Mahdavi. "Firstly, they are much lighter as, like human bone, they are porous rather than solid. And having an internal mesh means you can fuse the implant to the bone, so the natural bone will grow into the holes and lock itself in. Because it's a porous structure, you can x-ray the implant and see how the natural bone is melding with the implant. And, though these e-manufactured implants are only a quarter of the weight of solid ones, the laser makes a finer material than cast metal - so is it is actually stronger than the current technology."E-manufacturing implants could have a surprising number of benefits for the health service. "Firstly the sintering is cheaper than both custom-made and off-the-peg prostheses,' says Mahdavi. "It is better for the environment, as the laser only fuses the powdered metal that you need; the rest can be recycled. It should be particularly helpful in complicated surgical cases, where an expensive custom-built orthopaedic implant, which currently takes three weeks to prepare, could be replaced by a cheaper one made in two hours."Joint effortTanbir Hossain, an orthopaedic surgeon at Heatherwood and Wexham Park HospitalsNHS Trust, is collaborating with Mahdavi on the development of sintered implants. He is optimistic that this new technology will offer significant improvements for patients. "The problems with the current hip and knee replacements is that, over time, the contact between the bone and the implant loosens and the joint wears, due to a less-than-perfect fit. This can mean further surgery. With the sintering technology, the bespoke implant will be more securely attached to the human bone and the custom fitting should suffer less wear. This would result in fewer surgical revisions.""We are also working on sintered titanium spinal implants," says Hossain. "The first of these should be used in surgery in January 2009."In the long term, 3D printing could replace traditional implants completely. It can be used for any bone in the body. The great thing about this technology is that allows the precise design of bespoke pieces. So if someone needs a custom-made prosthetic implant this is a very good solution."Mahdavi hopes that the bureaucracy of the National Health Service will move quickly to adopt this new technology, which has the potential to save the NHS millions of pounds every year, as well as improving the outcome for patients.
This is a story of Britain leading European integration. When the core countries of the EU abolished border controls in the 1990s, they wanted their emergency services to enjoy the same privileges as migrants and holidaymakers. The result was a digital communications standard called Tetra (terrestrial trunked radio). It was created to enable police units from one country to stay in radio contact when they crossed a border, and for multinational teams to work together in major emergencies.Usually, the UK's attitude to such initiatives is either indifference or hostility.  However, although Britain turned up its nose at borderless Europe, it went wholeheartedly for Tetra. The Home Office took an active part in creating the standard, and procured the world's largest Tetra network, Airwave, to replace a mixture of insecure and obsolete analogue radio systems. The network, now owned by the Macquarie company, handles the three main emergency services.Airwave's introduction was a case study in how to not to handle the "soft" issues of technological change. Police chiefs dragged their feet because the Home Office wanted them to pay locally for a service whose main benefits would be national. They complained (rationally) about the risk of digital communications cutting out without warning and (less rationally) about the health risks of radiation. But in the end, central funding won over the police chiefs, while familiarity and research have taken most of the heat out of frontline grumbles.One of Tetra's original selling points was its ability to handle data as well as voice. While there are some exceptions, such as Scotland's Northern Constabulary, police forces have been painfully slow at exploiting this ability. This is strange, because it's hard to think of any other part of the public service that could benefit so much from mobile data. Northern Constabulary, for example, is able to transmit photographs of suspects and missing children immediately to every officer on patrol.The big problem is that Tetra is slow. And now we have GPRS/Edge coverage in most urban areas, good commercial off-the-shelf alternatives are available. A popular choice is the BlackBerry - now issued by 50% of police forces, according to Research in Motion. The latest big deployment is at Thames Valley, where 1,100 officers are getting BlackBerries under a &pound;50m scheme to enable police to spend more time on the beat.So, after they initially resisted digital communication at all, it's becoming more common to see police officers carrying two mobile IT devices on their vests. Is there a case, then, for dispensing with Airwave and just letting police forces equip themselves with commercial off-the-shelf tech? Actually, no. Commercial networks will always be patchy and vulnerable to overloading; and, in the event of terrorist attacks, being switched off. Tetra is a dedicated network, designed with resilience in mind, and if the entire central infrastructure fails, a handset can communicate with others within range. A new version of the standard should greatly improve data handling: among other measures, the industry is lobbying for spectrum freed up by the switch to digital TV to be made available for emergency services.This is not, however, a case for running everything from the centre. The UK does not have a national police force, and it seems sensible to let individual constabularies innovate alongside Airwave, so long as they meet three conditions. First, use off-the-shelf kit; second, share the lessons; and third, carry out robust, independent and public studies of costs and benefits. At the moment, we seem to be neglecting number three.
The PocketSurfer2 does exactly what it says on its appealingly shiny back. It's a pocket-size device - well, at 152mm x 75mm x 15mm, a jacket pocket-size device - that allows you to surf the internet, contract-free, on the move.The internal gubbins uses GPRS to access the web and compress your chosen page to the relevant dimensions and, remarkably, manufacturer Datawind's promised seven-second download time is pretty much on the money, unless you happen to be in the blackest of mobile blackspots or opening something with lots of pictures.This makes it rather similar, of course, to a number of mobile phones and BlackBerry-like devices. However, if your experience of mobile surfing has resulted in a bill the size of Bolivia's GNP, the PocketSurfer2 has one distinct advantage: a simple counter that tells you how many of your 20 hours a month you've used so far.This monthly deal is included in the purchase price - about &pound;170, but less if you shop around - for the first year of your subscription. If you need more, you can go unlimited for an extra &pound;5.99 a month, which is the same monthly cost as your second year of subscription. Accordingly, it's pretty economical.In terms of handling, the PocketSurfer2 is not fantastic, as the keyboard, while a full QWERTY one, is flat and unresponsive and the four-direction, button-operated mouse is frustrating. However, after a couple of days of use, I was seeing the hassles as foibles rather than major negatives because of the speed, size and slickness of the package as a whole.The screen is impressive (although you wouldn't want to stare at it for hours), initial connection takes less than 60 seconds, it's simple to use, battery life is decent - albeit around three hours of reasonable usage rather than the five Datawind claim - and it can also handle Google Docs. There's no sound or video, but rumour has it they're coming in version 3 or 4.If you're looking to reply in length to emails when on the move, need access to huge sites or are addicted to YouTube, your best bet is probably still the shoulder-straining laptop or a web tablet such as the Asus Eee PC and a map of Wi-Fi hotspots and/or a mobile dongle.If, however, you're looking to remain in occasional contact, send simple email replies, surf for basic information or need a spot of satnav from time to time, the PocketSurfer2's a very decent alternative. And considerably lighter.Pros: Simple to use; surprisingly fast; very portable; economicalCons: ZX81-esque keyboard; no sound or videodatawind.com
The government yesterday signalled its support for a common set of standards for internet content in response to worries about the impact of violent and sexual output online.The culture secretary, Andy Burnham, said he wanted to see online content meet the same standards required for television as the boundaries between the two media continue to blur. Television in the UK is governed by the broadcasting code of Ofcom, the media regulator. There is no overall regulation for the internet."In the same way that there are standards that are essential to broadcasting, in this converging world I believe there should be a set of standards online," Burnham told a media seminar in London.He also floated the idea that websites such as the video-sharing portal YouTube should include warnings on clips which include bad language, violence or sex. "If a clip on YouTube gets a million hits, it is akin to broadcasting and it doesn't seem to me to be too difficult to have an alert on that clip with regards to language or violence or for sex. That to me is not overly intrusive."Referring to the recent government report by the child psychologist Tanya Byron, on the effects of the internet and video gaming on children, which raised concerns about a "climate of anxiety", Burnham added that people felt "a sense of risk and uncertainty about this world they are roaming".He denied his focus on internet standards was due to the subject being a potential vote winner. It was, he said, a reaction to public concern. "I just sense the moment in time where people need to have this kind of discussion about the online world. There is an unease out there about it. What I am challenging is this slight sense of helplessness."However it was not the government's policy to "react to the challenge of the change the internet presents by retreating to a position of protectionism or heavy regulation". Burnham also pledged to introduce laws banning product placement on British television. It is thought a European directive due to come in to force soon will open the door to the practice.Product placement, whereby manufacturers pay producers to show their goods on shows, is prohibited by Ofcom, but ITV and the advertising industry have been pushing for the rules to be relaxed.But Burnham said there should be a firm line between editorial content and advertising. "There is a risk that product placement exacerbates this decline in trust [in television] and contaminates our programmes," he said. The UK advertisers' trade body ISBA said Burnham's stance was a "lost opportunity" to help fund British TV.
Looking for a lightweightI have been searching for a lightweight notebook but I have been unable to identify a machine which has a screen of over 180mm high. Computers such as the Sony VGN SZ, or the ThinkPad X300, appear to be designed for DVD watching rather than working on text, which is my main use for the machine. My present ThinkPad T60 has a 15.4in screen which is 230mm high, but it is too heavy to carry around.Adrian ZuckermanJS:I don't think such a thing exists. The "ultraportable" equivalent to the ThinkPad T60 is the Lenovo/IBM ThinkPad X61, which is almost half the weight (1.2kg against 2.3kg) but only has a 12.1in screen - around 180mm high. This is the standard screen size for ultraportables. For each inch of screen diagonal that you add, you can expect to add about a pound in weight (though you may also reduce the price). The latest generation of ultraportables, such as the ThinkPad X300, Dell XPS M1330 and MacBook Air, have 13in-wide screens that sound larger, but of course, they're only wider. They don't give you any more screen height than a traditional 4:3-format LCD, though they are bigger and heavier than old-style ultraportables.One drawback with current ultraportables is the limited native screen resolution, and the ThinkPad X61s only offers 1,024 x 768 pixels. Newer widescreen designs such as the Dell M1330 have 1,280 x 800 pixel screens, so you won't see less text, though it might be slightly smaller text. On the other hand, there is a flood of cheap ultraportables coming out, led now by theAsus Eee PC901, which puts 1,024 x 600 pixels on an 8.9in screen. I expect to see similar models with 10.2in screens and usable (90-95% size) keyboards later this year. It's not what you asked for, but if you try one, you might find it's a good compromise at the price.Gmail revisitedThanks for answering my query last week. However, I still can't open Gmail!Deborah FoxJS:I suggested using the ui=1 address (eg mail.google.com/mail/?ui=1) to get the Older Version of Gmail, which I assumed would work for people who had been using that quite happily until the Newer Version was imposed. Two alternatives are to attempt a secure connection by using https://mail.google.com (note the extra s), or by using https://mail.google.com/mail/h/ to get the simpler HTML version. I assume quite a few people are having problems because Google has a troubleshooting link on the mail page that says "I cannot access my account", and tackles a list of "known issues" atGmail Help Center. There is also a trouble-shooterhere. But remember that you can pick up your Gmail using a standard POP3 email client such as ThunderBird or Microsoft Outlook/Outlook Express etc at no extra charge. Not only does this allow you to work offline, it means you have backup copies of emails even if you can never log on to Gmail again.Lost email linksI have Windows XP SP2 and Firefox. A problem with email in Outlook Express is that I cannot access web links.Don CurtisJS:TheMicrosoft Knowledge Basehas a help article on this: Internet shortcuts in Outlook Express do not start Web browser. Since Outlook Express is a companion program to Internet Explorer and both are Microsoft products, the suggested fixes include making IE your default browser and, if necessary, correcting the HTML file associations to point to iexplore.exe (ie IE). If you can get web links working for a bit, you can change the default browser back to Firefox and hope that Firefox sets itself up correctly. Another possibility is that a popup blocker is preventing the links from working. Either way, bear in mind that phishing exploits and other attempts to install malware can start when you click an obfuscated email link, so it could be a security risk. It's safer to copy and paste links as plain text. Also, Outlook Express has been superseded byWindows Live Mail. I'd upgrade to that before trying to fix Outlook Express.Mini-DVD longevityI use Sony DVD-R with my camcorder. What are the projected lives of these discs?Colin JonesJS:The 8cm (3in) mini DVD discs used in most camcorders are made in the same way as their larger siblings, so good ones should also last for 25-50 years or so. However, DVDs can be pressure sensitive so they may require more careful handling. TheDigitalFAQmedia guide rates the Sony DVD-R discs as excellent, whether made in Japan or Taiwan, but it's always wise to make backup copies. The stated manufacturer may not actually have made the discs, butDVD Identifierand similar programs can usually identify the source. As always, avoid using DVD-RW (or CD-RW) for anything you want to keep. These "optical phase change media" were not designed to last.BackchatMalcolm Myles-Hookwanted faster Wi-Fi (and fewer dead spots) and asked about upgrading his network to the draft 802.11n version, which is still being standardised. Two of our most knowledgeable blog commenters promptly suggested using HomePlug equipment - which sends signals over the mains wiring - instead. HomePlug 1.0 has a theoretical speed of 14Mbps while HomePlug 1.0 Turbo offers 85Mbps and HomePlug AV gets close to 200Mbps. There are also HomePlugs with Wi-Fi that can put Wi-Fi into any room on the same mains ring as your ADSL router.&middot; Get your questions answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Is there any point to buying a full-size laptop now that small, light and cheap ones are all the rage? For the past five years I have used IBM X series ThinkPads, which are light, and fairly small, but no one could call them cheap. The latest, the X300, competes directly with Apple's MacBook Air and costs a thousand pounds more than the little Linux-powered Asus Eee.So if all you use a laptop for is reading and writing, what is the point of the extra money? Surely all you need is a keyboard, a screen, wireless and a couple of USB ports? Not that the expensive models from Apple and IBM/Lenovo offer much more than that.I can't be the only person thinking on these lines, because the price of secondhand laptops has fallen sharply, as I discovered last week when I had to make this choice for real because my daughter's old ThinkPad X31 died. The motherboard had failed. It wasn't a repair worth making. Besides, she's in the middle of important exams, and needed a replacement at once.It looks obvious at first that a "laptot" - as the Eee-type notebooks are known to The Register - would be the right choice. They are in theory meant for students, though the only ones I have come across have been in the hands, or handbags, of grownups. They don't do distractions like CDs and DVDs, which has to be an advantage for work. And the laptot would be brand new.All these advantages - even the last one - shrivelled when I considered them more closely. In general, stuff made for students or aimed at that market is just not as well built or well thought out as stuff aimed at business people. I once dropped a ThinkPad three feet onto a hardwood floor. The battery never worked properly again, but everything else was unscathed.A three-year-old, lightly-used business laptop may well have more life in it than a brand new consumer item and will certainly be easier to get spares for.Portability is fine within limits, but my daughter is not going to carry her laptop around from classroom to classroom - only from room to room at home. She probably carries it less than I carry mine, which I really do take from office to office, and to cafes where I would like to work. A CD drive isn't essential by any means, but it is intermittently useful.But the real deciding factors were the three elements of any laptop that you interact with every day: the screen, the keyboard and the battery. The keyboards on ThinkPads are just marvellous. They are large, well laid out and with an excellent feel. Anything smaller - and the laptots are significantly smaller - is just harder to type on accurately and at speed. Since the purpose of a student's laptop is to write, not read, this really matters. Large screens probably matter less than large keyboards. But I do think a 12in screen is notably better than a 9in one for writing on. There are more words on screen, or the letters are larger, or both. Finally, the laptots all seem to have deficient battery life.This matters a great deal, since the purpose of this kind of computer is just to replace an A4 notepad with something as simple where you don't have to write all the content yourself, and they never run out of paper. So in the end I bought, on eBay, a reconditioned ThinkPad which came with a media slice that holds a spare battery (which, of course, we had from the defunct one) and an optical drive.The idea of a two-piece computer - one that can be a simple and lightweight writing device when that is all you need, but also transform into a portable media centre - is something that has never really caught on. I don't know why.But some ideas like this are always being rediscovered: even the laptot is in some respects only a rediscovery of a lovely little black-and-white screened notebook computer that Hewlett Packard made in the early 90s, although that relied on a modem for its internet connection, and the batteries lasted for eight hours or more.Perhaps the two-piece computer will come back in five or 10 years' time; folding screens will then connect to mobile phones, and be controlled from lightweight folding proper keyboards. We can but hope.thewormbook.com/helmintholog
Having charmed with their Lego interpretations of Star Wars, LucasArts turn their attention, and the plastic bricks, to another great fantasy franchise: the whip-cracking, fedora-wearer himself. Lego Indy is instantly playable, genuinely funny - with some delightful tongue-in-cheek references to Star Wars among the cut scenes - and beautifully observed, from character foibles (snake phobias, bad backs, girly screams, etc) to authentic sound effects. Better than that, the game itself is nigh perfect. It's challenging, but with a well-judged learning curve. And, with its hidden layers, bonus features and extra challenges, it requires hours of revisiting in "Free Play" mode. You'll just about have completed it in time for - oh, happy day - Lego Batman later this year.
As politicians and police chiefs agonise over whether Britons are capable of handling raw crime statistics, the government has pledged to post even more sensitive data on the web.From next year, the NHS Choices website (nhs.uk) will reveal the deathrates of patients undergoing major surgery at NHS hospitals in England. The data will reveal which surgeons are most likely to have patients die under their knives.NHS Choices is one of the government's most lavish web projects, designed with web 2.0 very much in mind. Among other services, it promises "a social network for health". A strategy published earlier this year says: "When people want to comment directly on their experiences of particular services, whether positive or negative, NHS Choices will become their first port of call." The two-way information flow "will empower people to make informed decisions about their health and social care".However, while the strategy enthuses about the power of information in the new web world, it makes no mention of allowing re-use in mashups and commercial ventures. The site's terms and conditions themselves suggest such use is out of bounds: "For your own personal non-commercial use you may copy, download, adapt or print off copies of the materials, information, data and other content included on NHS Choices ('NHS Choices content'). You will need to obtain permission in writing from us before you make any other use of NHS Choices content."NHS Scotland, which in 2006 set a precedent by revealing statistics (indicators.scot.nhs.uk), has similar conditions. Its copyright notice allows information to be reproduced for use within NHS Scotland or educational purposes, but not by commercial organisations.While there is no sign of anyone wanting to re-use surgeons' mortality data in commercial or other products, the NHS's policy appears at odds with the government's commitment to last summer's Power of Information review, which called on public bodies to allow free re-use of data. Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign has been arguing for such a policy for more than two years.Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
A small addition to the Banking Code seems like such a minor thing. But the change, which came into effect at the end of March, has analysts and academics alike alarmed at what it could mean for online banking customers. Since the 2005 edition of the code (which dictates how UK banks do business with customers), section 12.9 has advised customers to keep their PCs secure. "Use up-to-date antivirus and spyware software and a personal firewall," it says.The contentious addition to the new version is section 12.13. "Unless you have acted fraudulently or without reasonable care (for example, by not following the advice in section 12.9), you will not be liable for losses caused by someone else which take place through your online banking service," it says.Thieves in the siteTo banking security expert Steven Murdoch, that signals an official shift in liability for online banking fraud to the end user. "The most likely way the new rules will be applied is that the bank will decide they don't want to refund a customer, and may choose to quote this rule in their reasoning," says the researcher in the security group at the University of Cambridge's computer laboratory.It's easy to see why banks might be worried about online security. Although losses from online banking fraud dropped a third last year compared to 2006, banks still lost &pound;22.6m to online banking thieves. And Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at antivirus firm Sophos, warns that banking trojans - malware that watches your PC in an attempt to steal your banking details - is becoming more sophisticated."The traditional way they do it is to log your keystrokes, but more sophisticated ones examine your mouse clicks or even take a little movie," says Cluley, adding that the trojans often target UK banks.The code seems to allow it, but would banks ever really dictate that customers must use antivirus software if they're going to be compensated for internet fraud? "I wouldn't say never, but it's not on the agenda currently," says Sean Gilchrist, director of electronic banking at Barclays, which already distributes a pinpad which provides two-factor authentication for customers accessing its online banking service."I think that there may be particular circumstances where there has been a piece of fraud and we might challenge a customer harder," says Gilchrist, "but we're saying that we have an online fraud guarantee, and there's nothing in our plans to review that stance."While at least some UK banks leave their options open, experts worry about other banking industries that have set a precedent by imposing draconian online security measures.Breaking the bankThe New Zealand Bankers' Association (NZBA) revised its own banking code with a clause giving banks the explicit right to access customers' computers in the event of a fraudulent transaction. They could check whether the computer had anti-virus and anti-spyware protection, and if customers refused to hand over their equipment, their fraud claims could be dismissed.Upset by customer protests, some New Zealand banks subsequently distanced themselves from the NZBA's code, essentially creating an unofficial, more lenient interpretation. "If they had gotten away with it, it would certainly have deterred a lot of defrauded customers from claiming," says Murdoch's colleague Ross Anderson."And what would happen when you bank using your PC at the Guardian, you get defrauded, [the bank] demands the PC, and the Guardian says no?" asks Anderson. "What if your wife or your daughter says no, as they have personal and sensitive data on the PC?"Eric Domage, research manager for security products and services at analyst firm IDC, worries about social exclusion. If banks decide to interpret the UK Code in a way that forces computer users to guarantee the security of their PCs, a subset of UK society could be affected, he warns."Those who can't afford to have a PC but use a web cafe PC - including many immigrant workers in the UK - how would they have access?" he asks. After all, verifying the security level of a publicly used PC is as difficult as verifying the security of a private PC, weeks or months after a security breach.Such arguments are premature, according to banking industry spokespeople eager to ease customer concerns. "This is not an offloading of responsibility," says one spokesperson at the British Bankers' Association, which administers the code. "We don't envision banks saying 'you lost money online so we're not paying you'."Mark Bowerman, spokesperson for APACS, argues that the new provisions are there to protect customers by making responsibilities for online banking security clearer. But where one ambiguity is resolved, others may arise. "The Banking Code is a recommendation and always vague and high level," says Domage, who worries that banks may interpret the code as they see fit in the future. Are APACS and the BBA really in a position to guarantee that won't happen?The code leaves other ambiguities, too. "For example, what is a good antivirus software?" Domage asks. Barclays is currently reviewing the F-Secure antivirus software that it provides for free to members of its online banking service and may switch packages. Would banks be happy for customers to use antivirus software that they didn't authorise?  Several respected security researchers have a dim view of antivirus software overall. "It's not completely worthless, but mostly worthless," says Joe Stewart, senior security researcher at SecureWorks, who writes his own malware analysis tools from scratch.Part of the problem is that malware writers increasingly test their work against antivirus engines before trying to infect computers with them, he says, which gives them a head start over the companies writing the antivirus software.You can't stop them allMost security vendors agree that there's no silver bullet for malware, and that a complete security guarantee is unlikely. But you're better off with antivirus software than without it, they add. "You won't be able to stop 100% of the viruses and infections," says Cody Pierce, a researcher at security research and intrusion prevention firm TippingPoint, "but you'll stop some of them."But if you can't guarantee that you'll block banking trojans or other malware with antivirus software, how useful is it to mandate it in the Banking Code (or, as New Zealand's code did, to explicitly suggest that your fraud claim would be dismissed without it?)Bowerman emphasises that banks would only begin to question customers' online security in cases of obvious negligence. "If you are the victim of a phishing attack, the vast majority of people get their money back," he says. "But if it happens seven times in seven weeks, then the bank is probably within its rights not to give you your money back."That would be a clearcut case, but not all incidents are as black and white. Exactly what constitutes negligence when it comes to online security? "Every bank has their own fraud investigation team and will look at each instance on a case-by-case basis," says Bowerman. This makes it difficult for customers to know where the line is drawn.Even though security experts may have difficulty agreeing on how effective online security measures really are, the Banking Code's new clause seems pretty clear on what insecurity means. Using such resolute language to address a problem as complex and volatile as online security apparently leaves the banks as the only party with room to manoeuvre.
NHS IT woesI don't know if it's Cerner's problem entirely since the NHS wrote the specs (I assume) and they've run off other big vendors with their inflexibility (Fresh trouble for NHS IT system, June 5). If the NHS didn't budget money for scope creep localisation and Cerner is already on a tight margin, I can see why there would be a stalemate on who pays.My opinion is that no vendor can make them happy for the price they want to pay. Cerner would take a black eye for losing business there, but I bet it's so minimally profitable that they wouldn't be too upset (once shareholders got over it, anyway). There's always the Middle East.histalk2.comPicture thisI am a member of a photography forum,talkphotography.co.uk, and one of the matters frequently discussed is harassment from officials (Since when did photography become a security threat? June 5). Many of us wrote to our local MP on the matter and I have a reply given to my MP from Tony McNulty, a Home Office minister of state, that I now carry in my photo bag to show any overzealous official I am doing nothing wrong.Mark Oldreive, Spalding, LincolnshireThe issue with photographer's rights is a symptom of a larger issue. People are simply more and more unaware of their basic rights in confrontation with authority. Even the authorities themselves don't know where their boundaries are. My hats off to those who complain, critique and criticise. You are doing the rest of us an important service.schneier.com/blogAs a result, we get movie-plot security, which, unfortunately, only works in movies.heim.ifi.uio.no/I do often struggle to see how pictures that I'm taking when I'm stopped could have helped a terrorist. Nonetheless, if security experts think that [stopping] photographs might stop an attack, then I'm willing to give them the benefit of the doubt and allow them to question people taking photographs.byjoeybaker.com/blogThis utter confusion over what is allowed and what is not is wonderfully and comically encapsulated in a clip from Fox5, where during an interview with the PR officer for the train station in which he explains that there are no restrictions on photographing there, a security guard comes over and tells the crew to stop filming!eflections.edublogs.orgTwitteratiCongratulations on writing another incredibly boring Twitter piece, recycling opinions that have been floating around for well over a year (Twitter really needs to start charging (the right) people, June 5). How about looking into why Twitter doesn't charge anyone? Or how if it had this fatal flaw it could still command the kind of valuation you mentioned?Ben Holden, by emailTwitter could start to receive money from other ways, such as advertising. I know people do not want to adverts on Twitter, but surely it is the lesser of the two evils?shinyred.tvThe API is what made Twitter what it is today, and the volume of requests is what makes it so popular - it's all about the "ambient conversation". Charging for either of these would provoke a backlash from the community, who would see it as turning against those who got it where it is.guyrintoul.comBut will it fly?This is the third article in the Guardian within the last four weeks that features airships, which shows that they are experiencing a big comeback (Could Zeppelin's airships soon be gracing our skies again? June 5).airshipworld.blogspot.comRead all this week's letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
HP regains its touchHewlett-Packard has launched a newTouchSmart All-in-One PCwith a touch-sensitive screen, an idea it tried in 1983.Intel investigated againIntel says it is being investigated overcompetition in the chip market.Choices and resourcesThe London Transport Museum has launched aFuture Generatorto explore what cities might be like in 2055.Nokia's GPS festival tipStand by your tent and clickSave on your Navigatorphone's maps menu. It will guide you back, says Nokia.The declutter directoryWaste Not Want Notoffers help to UK users to declutter or clear an old house with the least waste possibleEdinburgh games, againThis year'sEdinburgh Interactive Festival, on gaming and games culture, will be held on August 10-12.Women on the runTraxee, now in beta, is "a supportive site" created by and for women runners.Grassing via SMSCrimestoppers UKis testing an SMS tip-off service in three east London schools, to fight crime.Ringtones for iPhonesDJ Nitrogen has launched a version of itsRingtone Labfor the Apple iPhone.
a href="http://www.thisistruck.com/&gt;Truck, featuring the Lemonheads performing the"wholeof It's A Shame About Ray), the line-up of big videogame events is growing, both in terms of size and diversity. So here's a quick guide, just in case you find yourself with a free weekend and a desire to play - and learn about - lots of lovely new titles...NLGD Festival of GamesUtrecht, Netherlands June 14-21You'll have to be quick to catch this busy event, combining conference, workshops, expo and career fair. Like E3, it's mostly targeted at industry professionals, but students can gain access to most of the programme. Highlights include talks by Shinichiro Kasama, Senior General Manager at Taito, who'll discuss the evolution of the Space Invaders and Chris Swain, co-founder and director of the EA Game Innovation Lab. Interestingly, they're also running amultiplayer location-based mobile gaming tournament, based around footie title, Navball.Game developers Conference ParisParis, France June 23,2450 sessions, 70 speakers and possibly the only games event of the summer with its own art exhibition, the Parisian arm of the renowned GDC series is another industry-aimed combination of expo and keynote-stuffed conference. Blizzard's VP of Game Design, Rob Pardo, and Media Molecule's Mark Healey and Alex Evans are among the talkers.E3Santa Monica, USA July 11-13Radically downsized but still essential highlight of the games calendar, now marketed as an intimate networking and demo-ing event. You'll need to be an industry insider to gain access as it's invite-only, but if you manage it, you'll see lots of big Christmas and 2009 titles. There's aconsumer versionlater in the year - or you can keep up to date via the website.Develop in BrightonBrighton, England July 29-31Aimed at the development community and organised by the trade magazine of the same name, Develop is a popular industry shindig, based around a packed schedule of business and development sessions as well as the main expo. There are over 90 guest speakers on the agenda, including David Braben (Frontier Developments), Damian Isla (Bungie Studios) and Richard Lemarchand (Naughty Dog). Gamesblog will be there, too, hosting our own event - more on that later...Edinburgh Interactive festivalEdinburgh, Scotland August 10-12A landmark event, drawing on the atmosphere of theEdinburgh International Festival, to provide a range of panel sessions, debates and games screenings as well as a public exhibition area. With the backing of all three console manufacturers expect plenty of Triple A gaming action. You'll also get to see the latest projects developed for the University of Abertay's annualDare to Be Digitalcompetition. A must for the cultured gamer.Games ConventionLeipzig, Germany August 20-24Now that E3 has transmogrified into a diddy business expo, GC is the key games event in the West, filling four halls and one outdoor area. 185,000 visitors turned up last year and the organisers reckon more have registered for the 2008 event. All the major publishers will be showing of their big forthcoming titles, while events like the German finals of the World Cyber Games and a case-modding contest add extra flavour.
'Warcraft' Sequel Lets Gamers Play A Character Playing 'Warcraft'It's funny because it'll upset Greg.
a href="http://www.battleofdestiny.com/&gt;Battle of Destiny taking place at London Metropolitan University's Rocket Complex. It's the European qualifying event for the massive"Evolutionfighting game tournament, celebrating its tenth anniversary in Las Vegas later this year. Even if you're not interested in seeing expert brawlers (what? why?), there's a casual zone where you can play Super Street Fighter II HD and...Street Fighter IV! They'll have six arcade machines linked up for VS play - the first chance for UK gamers to play the coin-op version this way.Ah, Street Fighter - almost all gamers of a certain age have fond memories of playing SFII on the SNES. Later, one of my best ever reviews was an epic six-pager on Street Fighter EX Plus Alpha for Games Master. I painstakingly accessed the special attacks for every character, screen grabbing them all - a process that took me several hand-cramping hours.It's great to see how XBLA has revived interest in traditional 2D fighting. Capcom's PR chap Leo Tan got it right when he explained why SF HD has been such a huge success on the platform - "Street Fighter II is the business. And also because we all got home drunk one night and downloaded it". Before the likes of Dance Dance Revolution and Singstar came along, SFII was the ultimate in post-pub gaming. Bouts are fast and frantic, the sound effects are great, the collision detection is pixel perfect providing instant visual gratification for successful moves. And it's fun to watch.So, which Street Fighter character do you compete with and why?
Today'sWikigamedesign crunch post is brought to you by theCrew's Quartersand theJanitor's Cupboard.Yes, it's the end of the day (perhaps the beginning for some readers) and it's time to wind down with a bit of creative doodling. Where better than on the gamesblog's wikigame design page, where fearless bloggers are working tooth and nail to get the location descriptions done before the programmers get their dirty mitts on the content.Yesterday, we were looking for help with two of the most important rooms on the ship: theRec Roomand theEscape Pod. And you know, we got it. Many thanks!Now, we need help with two more. And they're profoundly important this time - essential in the slate of hilarious secondary puzzles gamesblogger and puzzle design competition winner cavalcade devised for your playing pleasure. If these don't get described, our cav's puzzles won't make the cut. On your heads be it.All you need to do to contribute is to go to one (or both) of the links below and add your wordy description of what the player can find upon entering the locations in question. Here's a great example fromthe Infirmary:The ship's Infirmary, usually home to Medical Officer Reynolds. The room itself is illuminated by independently powered emergency lighting, in order to ensure medical treatment is available even in emergencies. Of course, medical "treatment" is a slight exaggeration as, since the introduction of Biotec TM's bio-robotic synthetic organs, most medical therapies these days consist of swapping the faulty organ for a "spare". Such spares would appear to be kept in the locker immediately in front of you.There is a small table to the right which has an auroscope and stethoscope lying on top of it. There's also a slightly tatty looking examination couch. To the left is the drugs safe.If you think you're up for the task, here are the two rooms we need location descriptions for today:The Crew's QuartersThis is where folks hang out when they're not doing ship-like things. But importantly, it's also the location of a few of the more amusing secondary puzzles we'd like to include:A Juvenile Password(wherein our hapless hero must cope with the arrested development of his absent crew member to get into his locker),The Distress Signal and the Idiot(wherein our hapless hero must answersci fi popular culture quiz questionsto get a (modified) distress signal out of another crew member's locked locker) andLove Me, Love My Fungus(wherein our spore-obsessed hero must drink a can of psychadelic pop to open the locker of a girl he loved and lost).Access the Crew's Quarters here. Or, if you'd like to contribute to the ever-growing list of obscure sci fi pop culture questions,please do so here.The Janitor's CupboardIt may not seem a sexy location - or perhaps it does? - but the Janitor's closet offers a Very Important Clue for a later puzzle -Saving Janitor Bot Bryan. Dear Bryan, our game's answer to Marvin the Martian, is notably absent from the cupboard. Why? Because he's stuck in the generator, of course. Thank DennisChow for that one.Contribute your location ideas to the Janitor's Cupboard here.And that's it for today! Keep your eyeballs peeled for another two locations. By gum, we'll get this done.
You'll have readJohnny Dee's piecein today's G2 on how mobile phones don't actually make popcorn pop. (You'll enjoy tomorrow's YouChoose in the paper then..)See "the American one" of them (there are three):OK, so, now, popcorn can't do this. Or phones can't do this. Aphysicist told Wiredthat this can't happen - mobile phones don't put out enough microwave energy.University of Virginia physics professor Louis Bloomfield... author of How Everything Works: Making Physics Out of the Ordinary, dismissed theories bubbling up in comment threads about the videos that suggest harmonious vibrations are heating the corn."Ringing the phones doesn't help because they're interfering with each other and receiving a signal [from a cellphone tower] -- not transmitting it," he said. Furthermore, while it is possible to heat with sound, it's not likely to happen at the low volume emitted by a mobile phone. "It would be like gathering opera singers together to sing, and trying to make the corn pop," Bloomfield said.Snopes.com, which grew out of the fabulous myth-debunking newsgroup alt.folklore.urban,discredits it too(and you can't do it to eggs either).Suggestions so far: trick editing (I don't think so - OK, it's on YouTube, but there's no suggestion of a cut at all) or a heating element under the table. The latter seems more likely, but it must have been carefully timed to figure out how to do it.And if it's a viral marketing stunt (which seems more likely than it being the work of people who think Mobile Phones Are Evil, because this is done with some panache) then it has to be said - it's got the brand name as embedded in my mind as that advert where the fish flies over the airport.So what's your take? How would you do it?
The Google co-founder Sergey Brin has invested in a US space tourism company and hopes to go into orbit himself within three years, according to a report today.The 34-year-old president of the web search giant has put £2.5m into Space Adventures, which has already sent five space tourists into orbit, the New York Times said.The investment also serves as a deposit on a future flight, most likely in 2011, the paper said."I am a big believer in the exploration and commercial development of the space frontier, and am looking forward to the possibility of going into space," Brin said in a statement.Space Adventures clients travel to the International Space Station (ISS) on Russian Soyuz flights, occupying one of three seats on the craft.The Russian space agency has warned that berths for tourists could disappear from 2010, when the ISS crew expands from three to six, requiring all the seats on the Soyuz.Russian space officials are reportedly not keen on space tourism and carry paying passengers reluctantly as a means of raising revenue.According to the New York Times, Space Adventures plans to get around this by paying for its own Soyuz mission in 2011, with the option of buying more. These flights would carry two passengers, with a Russian commander occupying the other seat.Space Adventures has seats reserved for flights to the ISS in October and in April next year. The cost per passenger is between £10m and £20m.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
click to see the YouTube videoWe've all heard about YouTube pranks in the past - where kids engage in a series of lame jokes and then post them online for all to see. Thankfullyhappy slapping seems to have more or less disappearedfrom the radar, but it's not gone entirely - leading one judge in Florida to take an interesting approach.As part of their punishment for conducting a'fire in the hole'splattering of fast food worker Jessica Ceponis last year, he's forced a pair of teenage boys to post an apology for their prank on the video site.The Timeshas some details, but a report on MSNBC suggests thatthe victim wasn't happy:In the apology, the boys reenact their prank, but this time don't go through with it. Instead, they talk about how smart it was not to do something that could get them arrested. They are shown with their hands behind their backs lying across the hood of a police cruiser. But their faces are not shown, and the video appears to have been scripted by attorneys, not written by the boys themselves.Ceponis... said she's unhappy that the boys' faces are not shown, as hers was: "That was a problem for me. I was approached at work by people I've never met before who recognized me from the actual YouTube video that they aired."[attorney Tony] Hernandez said that the video sanction might have been more effective if the court had made the boys show their faces -- but they were prosecuted as juveniles, which meant that their identities are protected by law.And though millions of people will have seen FITH videos, I can see there are just 24,000 viewers of the apology. Apologies or corrections - whether they're in print oronline- rarely manage the same distribution.Our ownJeff Jarvis has wondered about this in the past, but it doesn't really go to solve the basic problem: perhaps apologies just need to befunnier.
Mobile phones charged while you wait (Image courtesy of kiwanja.net from itsMobile GalleryAfrica now has 300 million mobile phone subscribers and "a penetration rate fast approaching 30%," according to an article in the latestReceiver, Vodafone's online magazine. Many more people use them, of course, because they work as pay phones. If you need to make a call, you can hail a boda boda. Ken Banks, the author, writes:Mobile phones are attached to bikes (two and three wheelers), and even boats, and taken to where the business is. In Uganda these bikes, known locally as boda bodas, are hooked up with spare batteries and desktop mobile devices to create what are affectionately known as 'Bodafones'. I met the owner of one on Kampala Road last summer, and got talking to him through the universally accepted language of English Premier League football.Some mobile phone functions can be more useful in Africa than Abingdon, such as the ability to work as a torch. Charging phones is more of a problem, though the arrival of cheap solar panels should help solve that.One service that would be (maybe is) useful in the UK is'Call Me', which allows Vodacom subscribers in South Africa to send up to five messages per day, free of charge, requesting a call back from the receiver. Services such as these have emerged in response to consumer behaviour, users who would have previously 'flashed' the person they wished to speak to by ringing their phone once and hanging up. 'Call Me' formalises the process, helps minimise network traffic through fewer prematurely disconnected calls.Most parents with teenagers are probably familiar with the idea.Banks "graduated from Sussex University in Social Anthropology and currently divides his time between Cambridge (UK) and Stanford University in California on a MacArthur Foundation-funded Fellowship". He says:A lot of the research, often the catalyst for these new devices and services, is increasingly led by fellow anthropologists - notably Jonathan Donner at Microsoft Research and Jan Chipchase at Nokia, both of whom spend considerable amounts of their time studying mobile phone use in the field and, in Jan's case, working his way through a fair number of bicycles in the process.
You'll recall Bruce Schneier - BT's chief security technology officer, and one of our newregularcolumnists, being an expert as he is on security matters.We're grateful to him for pointing us tothis page from HM Revenue and Customson "National Insurance Numbers (NINOs): Format and Security: What to do if you suspect or discover fraud", which just in case it changes, we have a screengrab of below:Anyone out there from HMRC prepared to explain?Update:Aha: thanks to Eddy Madix ofBluejay, who asked HMRC what was going on, and got the reply:Thank you for your email.The text on this page has been withheld from the general public due to exemptions in the Freedom of Information Act 2000.(Yes, we sort of guessed that.)The manuals used by Her Majesty's Revenue &amp; Customs (HMRC) are written for internal instructional purposes and because of that we have to withhold certain information when these manuals are published to the website as it's not intended for public consumption. These manuals are published in line with the Code of Practice on Access to Government Information.So... it's a sikrit manual intended for internal consumption.Which they published to the world-readable internet.Hope that's all clear now.
You cansit through the whole two hours of Steve Jobsand Phil Schiller and then every geek who managed to write a game or other thing for the iPhone demonstrating it. (Requires, unsurprisingly,Quicktime.)Or, below, you can watch it in 60 seconds:(Thanks to Mahalo, as will become obvious when you watch it.)Or of course you could listen to our analysis on thepodcast (launches popup window)A comment that winged past on Twitter: isn't Steve Jobs lookingthin? (Yes, I know that it sounds like something froma Doctor Who episode. But even so.)
Apple overturned not one but two prevailing expectations on Monday, abandoning the iPhone revenue model by which carriers paid it a slice of monthly income in favour of application sales, and announcing that the next version of its Mac OS X operating system - "Snow Leopard" - will focus on performance, not features.The iPhone 2.0 announcements include a dramatic drop in price, which in the UK will mean that in some cases the new handset, available from July, will be free with a &pound;45 monthly tariff. In the US the price was dropped from $399 (&pound;204) to $199, with a $45 a month tariff. The price seriously undercuts the leading player, RIM, with its BlackBerry, which is priced at $350 in the US. Apple last cut the price of the 8GB iPhone in the US in September, after it had been on sale for just 60 days, from $599 to $399, and discontinued the 4GB model. The latest cut means the price has fallen to a third of its starting price in just a year.Fooling the punditsBut it was iPhone's features - and, in some cases, lack of them - that surprised. As expected, Apple added 3G capability, but it shunned improvements to the 2 megapixel camera, did not add voice or speed dialling, picture messaging or SMS forwarding, and did not add Bluetooth profiles, any of which would increase the flexibility of the phone for little power consumption. Instead it added GPS, which despite being comparatively power-hungry will allow third-party developers to write location-based services that could be lucrative for Apple, developers and the services themselves.The announcement, made at the company's annual Worldwide Developers Conference in San Francisco, put iPhone applications at the centre of Apple's plans for the coming year, before a receptive audience who can benefit from selling their products to iPhone users: Apple will keep 30% of revenues from applications sold on its "App Store", which will resemble the online iTunes Store.By contrast, the next version of the Mac OS X operating system was pushed far into the background; Jobs barely mentioned it, except to confirm the code name. The name - following on from the previous version, dubbed "Leopard", which was released last October - implies the changes that Apple confirmed in a later press release, saying that instead of packing it with features it will focus on shrinking its footprint and adding performance.Snow Leopard will be released some time in 2009 - which may see its launch occur in the same timescale as the next version of Windows, where Microsoft has been going in the other direction, promising multi-touch features. Microsoft paused in a comparable fashion with Service Pack 2 for Windows XP, released in autumn 2004, though in that case the focus was on security, not performance, after it became clear that flaws in the software were being widely exploited online.Apple, however, seems to feel that consumers are, for now, sated with things to do on their computers, and that the operating system should move aside. The next version will "hit the pause button on new features", said Bertrand Serlet, Apple's head of software, in a statement. The new version will be optimised for the multi-cores now common in the Intel processors Apple uses, incorporate support for Microsoft Exchange (making it more attractive to businesses considering Macs) and be able, through 64-bit addressing, to use up to 12 terabytes of RAM (6,000 times more than is standard on present Macs). It will also be able to access spare cycles on graphics processing units, which are growing in power as quickly as CPUs.One hint in the announcement suggests that Apple will, seven years after launching Mac OS X, rationalise its inconsistent interface, where different window designs and interaction methods proliferated.Different thoughtsBut it was the iPhone announcements which garnered the most attention. "Initial European iPhone purchasers are between one and seven months into 18-month contracts," commented Ian Fogg, personal technology analyst at Jupiter Research.O2 moved quickly to reassure them, offering free upgrades from July 11 for those on &pound;45 or &pound;75 monthly contracts, and &pound;99 for &pound;30 or &pound;35 contracts - as long as they sign up to a fresh 18-month contract. The move may also make it harder to "unlock" iPhones.Fogg pointed to the camera quality, in particular, as retrograde: "Here [in Europe] even the new crop of business smartphones have 3 megapixel cameras. The current batch of consumer-grade ones have 3-5 megapixels, branded optics, and real xenon flashes."But Apple is clearly focussed on making revenues from its App Store, which will sell applications for the iPhone and iPod Touch online, into a replacement revenue stream. Observers thought the price cut could leave rivals in trouble. "Competitors in North America now may not be able to innovate fast enough to catch up with Apple's new iPhone," said Aleksandra Bosnjak, lead analyst at StrategyEye Digital Media. "The price slash is a victory for Apple in North America even if it was largely driven by stagnating sales of its more expensive range."Reflecting that concern, the stock prices of RIM and Palm both fell in the day after the announcement, while Apple's, which fell slightly during the announcement, recovered slightly.
It appears there is something new we can do with our mobile phones once we're bored of snapping, surfing, blogging, tweeting, texting, globally positioning ourselves and occasionally calling our loved ones to say we're on the bus and ask them if we need milk. If four separate homemade videos on YouTube are to be believed, it's now possible to cook popcorn using the energy emitted from ordinary ringing mobiles.In the clips - which feature groups of friends from Japan, France and the US casually lounging around tables - a small handful of corn is placed in the middle of a circle of phones.After a few seconds of them ringing, to much delight, the magically puffed-up kernels start leaping into the air.Since first appearing on video- sharing networks last week the four clips have been viewed millions of times and have spawned heated debates on YouTube and various blogs about their authenticity. Some commenters feel the clips provide evidence of the health risks of mobile technology, while the independent media site World News links the films to claims that 3G phone signals have led to the declining population of sparrows in Britain. Others have decided the clips are an elaborate hoax.In reality it appears to be scientifically impossible. Popcorn kernels need to be heated to around 450 F before the moisture inside them turns to steam, causing them to explode and pop. If mobile phones emitted that much microwave energy, the water in the fingers of people holding them would heat up every time they used them and our ears would literally burn.In search of the truth we gathered all the phones in the G2 office, placed some freshly purchased uncooked popcorn in the centre of them and simultaneously dialled them all. The result?Absolutely nothing.We're not alone in our disappointment, and now YouTube is filling up with videos of groups of friends attempting to replicate the trick and subsequently failing to excite a scattering of corn. In terms of excitement, it's the exact opposite of the experimental craze that hit computer screens last summer when it was discovered that adding a Mentos sweet to a bottle of Diet Coke would create giant fountains of roaring foam.All four popcorn videos (you can view themhere) can be traced back to a pair of French YouTube accounts, which has led to speculation that it's part of an elaborate viral marketing stunt. Who for remains a mystery.
Steve Colbert, Webby Person of the Year18:00 ESTThe anticipation is mounting: even the red carpet seems to be melting outside in the stifling 100 degree heat. But it's payment in sweat for this intrepid reporter: join me in an hour for live updates from inside the throng of it all - the 12th Annual Webby Awards 2008.18.30 ESTI'm sat in the main ballroom of Cipriani's - the mothership of the Webbys - and have been wondering why it is so quiet in here. Then I remembered that right now all the web-celebs are downing the free champagne in a pre-Webbys reception across the road. I, however, am drinking water and warming up my fingertips for a long night of typing. Professional, me. (The cocktails will come later in the after-party, don't worry.)19.00 ESTThe ballroom is filling up with mixture of geeks (the ones in hipster-wear) NY media folk (in tuxedos and ballgowns) and press (scruffy, the lot of us. Well, not me, perhaps: I am in a posh frock.) I can smell the food that is about to be served for the attendees' four-course meal and my stomach is rumbling. A lot.19.18 ESTI'd just like to point out that the ladies' lavatory is at the far end of the ballroom to where I am seated. And I will be live-blogging for another three hours. That is all.19.26 ESTI am beginning to suspect there are more stage managers than geeks in this place, according to how many walkie-talkies and headsets I keep seeing.19.35 ESTThus, it begins. "Roll VT!!!", I imagine is being shouted somewhere, as the room goes dark and NOTHING HAPPENS.19.38 ESTDavid Michel Davies Executive Director of the Webbys welcomes everyone and a cheer goes out for "Internet Week New York". Welcome to you too, David. May I have some of your food, please? I am rather hungry. (I can see this becoming tonight's pressing issue.) (For me, anyway.)19.41 ESTIcanhazcheezburger just got a cheer, after being mentioned as being "in the house tonight". Mm, burgers.19.46 ESTSeth Myers - head writer of Saturday Night Live - takes the stage: he's the host for tonight. "If you don't know me, that's because I work on something you might not know: television." Much laughter, but there are a lot of telly people here tonight. I can tell. They look funny.19.50 ESTSeth Myers: "Here tonight we are here to honour the 2% of the Internet that is not dedicated to pornography."19.51 ESTFIRST CELEBRITY SPOTTED!!! Stephen Merchant! That bloke from The Office and Extras, woohoo! Oh, hold on. He's a telly person. And he's British. What's he doing here then, 'eh?19.56 ESTFirst award, for "Services". (I could make a sarcastic sex-industry related joke about that, but I shan't.) The first winner came on with a banner, so I couldn't figure out what he had to say. The second winner spoke really quickly. The third and fourth winners mentioned their brands in their (Webby-specified) five-word speeches, so I shan't give them free advertising; the fifth winner came on and said "One word: thanks" That's only three words! He broke the rules. Next up, the British Moo.com: "They said print was dead." Classy: us Brits rule, clearly. Oops, I missed two more Service winners. But they brought them out really quickly, and they all spoke too fast, for me to be able to keep up, honest.20.08 ESTI think it's now the award for Interactive Advertising, but I was distracted by someone proposing to their girlfriend live on stage. Aw.20.10 ESTVT from The Onion about World of Warcraft has the crowd happy. Loveisrespect.org wins Best Activism. Digitaria win the People's Choice Award, and accept by saying, "Angelina Jolie can't do everything." Whatever that means.20.13 ESTIt's time for the "Society" award - Non-profit/NGOs.20.18 ESTBiggest cheer of the night so far comes from Arianna Huffington speech: "President Obama. Sounds good, right?20.21 ESTThe most important moment of the night: a kind floor runner just brought me a plate of pasta. I am immensely grateful: now I have blog-fuel!!!20.23 ESTI've just noticed that the Webby Award (the actual jobbo on a plinth) resembles a "Slinky" toy from the 1970s. Dual use: nice.20.30 ESTThe auditorium just got Rick-Rolled. Not so much a "Heh," as a "Meh," response.20.33 ESTBest quote of the evening (in my opinion, but I think I will be proved right) comes from Connections winner, Post Secret: "Net neutrality: Today, tomorrow, forever."20.42 ESTMedia Award winners are being announced. My typing is going to have to speed up, I think.First up:National Geographic. 76 Media for The SImpsons movie Music: BBC Radio One - Meet the DJs. Resident Advisor NY Times.com wins for news and newspaper: "Elliot Spitzer, we thank you" is their speech BBC News wins People's Choice Award for News BBC World Service wins for worldwide radio AcmeTunes by Acme Radio wins People's choice radio Discovery ivideogame20.50 EST...And here's Ludacris handing a Webby Award to Will.i.am. They're running VT of the "Yes we can" music video of Obama speeches/Will.i.am and the audience is standing. An ovation? Or just to get a better view? I'm not sure, but I did feel a little bit of partially digested pasta find its way back into my mouth.20.55 ESTFinally there's a toilet break! Er, I mean dinner-break: the slebs are being served. More updates when the ceremony restarts in 45 minutes. (Or before, if I spot any juicy gossip.)21.40 ESTI bumped into Arianna Huffington in the ladies' toilet. For such an astute woman, I am surprised she doesn't wash her hands. I'm just saying.22.05 EST...And we're back.22.08 ESTI am eating a chocolate-covered strawberry kindly donated by Webby Award winning fellow Brit Richard Moross, CEO of Moo.com. I suspect this might be my high point of the evening.22.14 EST(Some quick forgotten awards - not by me, surprisingly, but by the attendees not showing up on stage earlier) I'm not going to describe what Motorola just did, but really, self-promotion is OK, but whoring your company out on stage by asking people in the ballroom to text you? Not so good. The audience slow-clapped in sarcastic appreciation.22.17 ESTNext up: Mobile winners...NBC's Heroes NY Times Mobile Real Estate Zagat Mobile: "Actually, it's pronounced ZAGG AT" JP Morgan Chase SMS banking: "Fuck corporate design, hire me" Bantos Podlines Mobile NY Times (for news): "Please, help us monetize this" CNN mobile ESPN.com wireless (and three others who didn't speak clearly)22.38 ESTInteractive advertising (banner ads!) awards up next... I bet this blog's readers are jumping for joy now. I certainly am.22.48 ESTStephen T. Colbert is being introduced. The crowd goes wild and gives him a standing ovation. His acceptance speech? "Me me me me me." Sums up most of the Internet, then.22.53 ESTI realise I haven't yet explained that each award category includes about twenty different companies/individuals who each come up and give a five-word acceptance speech. It's mayhem here: 15 seconds for each award winner, max. Hence why I'm only grabbing a selection of names/speeches: my fingers are not that nimble, sadly.22.57 ESTFeatures Awards: Best copywriting award goes to Wired.com. Acceptance speech: "I'm Twittering. It's taking a while" Never a truer word said.22.58 ESTThey keep playing the same tracks from LCD Soundsystem. I think they've run out of audio clips to use.23.00 ESTTed.com wins its second award of the night23.01 ESTDigg: "Webbys dug for free drinks"23.04 ESTLifetime achievement award. Laurie Anderson is going to be presenting this award to David Byrne. She's getting a standing ovation.23.07 ESTDavid Byrne takes the stage. The whole room is standing. (Besides me: my laptop's too heavy to type standing up.) Mr Byrne came on, accepted his award, and said, "DJ, can't you play another tune?". Sweet.23.15 ESTAnd with that, The Webby Awards are over for another year. The place is emptying quickly: where free booze flows, (the after-party), the people will follow... Night, all.Jack adds: There's an incomplete compilation of5-word acceptance speechesfrom 1999 to 2008 on the Webby Awards site. Zoe Margolis has a site atZoeMargolis.co.uk
