Nintendo has announced a deal withfree-hotspot.comto provide over 5,000 free Wi-Fi hotspots to 3DS owners throughout Europe.The partnership will include fast food restaurants and hotel chains across the continent including McDonald's, Burger King, KFC and Subway, as well as Ibis Hotels and Etap Hotels.3DS owners will need to have downloaded the console's browser and then performed a system update. Subsequently, if everything's set up correctly, the device will automatically access compatible Wi-Fi connections, even if it's in sleep mode.Via the SpotPass system, game updates and other content can then be downloaded onto the console, includinga new range of 3D videos. Users will also be able to browse the web for free, or play multiplayer games.In a financial briefing last week, Nintendo chief Satoru Iwataadmittedthat the company has to simplify its digital offering, making it easier for gamers to shop for Nintendo content online, via the 3DS and forthcoming Wii U consoles.A card-swiping system is reportedly being considered for the Wii successor, allowing users to buy downloadable content by swiping their credit card across the machine's tablet-style controller.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 28 JanuaryPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (37)Wii (6)PSP (3)182 (4)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (37)PC (3)123 (2)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (33)PC (10)124 (3)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (81)Xbox 360 (15)PS3 (5)165 (5)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (36)PC (8)146 (–)Resident Evil: Revelations(16+)3DS (100)17 (6)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (76)Xbox 360 (20)PS3 (4)448 (7)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (39)PC (1)119 (12)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (45)PC (2)1110 (8)Zumba Fitness 2(PG)Wii (100)511 (10)Rage(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (34)1112 (9)Rayman Origins(7+)Xbox 360 (40)PS3 (35)Wii (26)613 (11)Mario Kart 7(3+)3DS (100)914 (16)Football Manager 2012(3+)PC (93)PSP (7)815 (–)Sonic Generations(7+)PS3 (48)Xbox 360 (36)3DS (15)PC (1)616 (13)Super Mario 3D Land(3+)3DS (100)1117 (–)Your Shape: Fitness Evolved 2012 (3+)Xbox 360 (100)218 (–)Kinect Sports: Season Two(3+)Xbox 360 (100)719 (20)Cars 2(3+)Wii (41)DS (40)Xbox 360 (11)PS3 (7)1420 (18)WWE 12(12+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (41)Wii (12)5UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAnalysis: Patent plaintiffs target Facebook as IPO approaches &gt;&gt; ReutersLast year, Facebook was named as a defendant in 22 lawsuits accusing it of patent infringement, double the number from 2010, according to a Reuters analysis of court documents on legal database Westlaw, a Thomson Reuters unit.The IM Conversation In Which 19-Year-Old Zuckerberg Decided To Build Facebook, This Year's $100 Billion IPO &gt;&gt; Business InsiderYou can just hear Zuckerberg's machine gunfire elocution.The Quiet Man: Meet the Face of the Facebook IPO, CFO David Ebersman &gt;&gt; AllThingsDDavid Ebersman was recommended by Art Levinson, of Genentech and the Apple board.Facebook readies to file US$5bn IPO, could grow &gt;&gt; IFReFacebook is expected to file to raise US$5bn in a preliminary IPO prospectus on Wednesday morning, which while less than anticipated could be increased to ultimate investor demand, according to sources close to the deal.10 awesome Android tablet tips and tricks &gt;&gt; ZDNetAwesome:This collection of tips and tricks for Android tablets range from settings to make them run better, to special features that can be unlocked by those who know about them. They work on any tablet running Honeycomb, which is most of them, and many should work on Ice Cream Sandwich, too.Don't lots of Android tablets run 2.x? The (few) commenters also indicate that different browsers means variable results.Here's why Soundcloud ditched Flash for HTML5 &gt;&gt; GigaomInroads being made:Social sound sharing startup Soundcloud is switching to HTML5 for its default widget, essentially demoting its Flash widget to become a fallback solution. Soundcloud only introduced its HTML5 widget some three months ago, but a spokesperson told me today that it's been a hit with users: "People are eight times as likely to share the sounds after playing them (with the) HTML5 widget as compared to the Flash version," the spokesperson wrote via email.Note: the widget referenced in the post works on Firefox, doesn't work on Chrome for us.Angry Nerds: Copyright Theft Is Bad, When It Happens To People We Like &gt;&gt; PandoDailyCurebits v 37Signals! Paul Carr gets popcorn, then turns thoughtful:What's interesting, though, isn't that some developers plagiarized some stuff from some other developers. What's interesting is the overwhelmingly hostile response to the theft from the wider tech community. Do a quick search on Twitter for Curebit and behold at the self-righteous rage at the original crime and the extremely grudging acceptance of the inevitable apology. The last time we saw this kind of outpouring of rage amongst tech people was when -- uh -- the government tried to clamp down on copyright theft.A bit of a curious case &gt;&gt; Mark's MusingsMark Goodge on how one should interpret the incident mentioned above.How an AT&amp;T smartphone comes to life &gt;&gt; Dustin CurtisThe amazing thing here is that AT&amp;T actually employs bureaucrats who drive the product development of their suppliers. When AT&amp;T wants to sell a new "differentiated" phone - that is, one with another stupid gimmick - they formally request that it be built by one of their manufacturers. Then, astonishingly, the phone makers actually comply with these ridiculous requests, and they build the phones. When you think about the implications of this process, you realize that AT&amp;T's product managers are basically acting as phone designers by proxy.The more amazing thing perhaps is that it's been like this for so long. There's only one company that doesn't go along with it.How wings really create lift &gt;&gt; New Scientist One-Minute Physics TVYou have to watch this. All your preconceptions are wrong.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
A selection of 17 apps for you today:The Humble Bundle for AndroidBundles of independently-developed games have been very popular on PC, but now the idea has come to Android. The latest Humble Bundle includes Anomaly: Warzone Earth, Osmos and Edge – all marvellous – with a pay-what-you-want model. Pay more than the average user, though, and you'll get World of Goo thrown in too. What's more, buying the Humble Bundle for Android also gets you the games for Mac, Windows or Linux, as well as the soundtracks. At the time of writing the average purchase price is $5.91.AndroidBBC NewsThe BBC has upsized its Android news app to make it native for Android tablets, initially in the UK but with a global edition to follow. It runs on Honeycomb-toting devices, with tablets running earlier versions of Android sticking with the smartphone version.AndroidTNW MagazineExcellent tech website TheNextWeb has launched a "digital monthly magazine", pulling in some of the key articles from each month online, as well as exclusive content. Available as a free iPad download, it costs $1.99 a month or $9.99 for an annual subscription.Update:It seems the app went live on the App Store a little earlier than expected, but the site has asignup pagefor people to find out when it comes out officially. We have changed the link in the title accordingly.iPadBeing GlobaliOS and Android book-app Being Global is aimed at parents who want to "cultivate conscious little ones" – kids who respect other traditions, religions and values. Besides the story, there is a colouring feature, a quiz game and a digital diary.Android / iPhone / iPadAviary Photo EditorStartup Aviary's photo-editing SDK has been used by a number of apps, but now it has a standalone plug-in for Android devices. It's not a standalone app – instead, it's accessed through the share option when viewing photos on the device. A range of editing features are included, as well as effects packs bought in-app.AndroidBosch Navigation UK &amp; IREBosch is the latest company to enter the mobile satnav market, with its iOS app for the UK and Ireland (separate versions are available for other countries). Expect 3D maps, offline navigation to save on data costs, and integration with Facebook and Twitter.iPhone / iPadCall of Cthulhu: The Wasted LandH.P. Lovecraft's Call of Cthulhu is reborn as an iOS turn-based strategy RPG. Battle against an "ancient enemy" in a First World War setting, with beefy visuals and a choice of tactics.iPhone / iPadLikes!Android app Likes! uses Facebook to pull in things your friends have liked on the social network – everything from restaurants and pubs through to films and plumbers, apparently. It also uses location to show the things that are nearest to you right now.AndroidInside the World of DinosaursStephen Fry provides voice narration for this new book-app, which claims to be "the most comprehensive interactive dinosaur encyclopedia on the iPad". More than 60 dinos are included, with 200 pages of text, 84 videos and – wait for it – 60 "original dinosaur sounds".iPadTag your Love by Moët &amp; Chandon Rosé ImpérialBrands' desire to spend money on commissioning social apps knows no bounds. Here's champers brand Moët &amp; Chandon with an app encouraging people to get "tagging your photos with a touch of graffiti chic and discover the secrets of the world's most loved champagne".iPhoneEdge ExtendedMobigame's block-based puzzler got an extended edition for iOS last year, and it has now made the leap to Android. Roll your cube around 48 levels, evading obstacles and recording the best times.AndroidPhatPadPhatPad is a new Android note-taking and collaboration app that includes handwriting recognition features and Dropbox integration. The idea being that Android tablet users can scribble notes and pictures (and even record voice notes) before sharing the documents with friends and colleagues.AndroidLusteriPhone app Luster promises "your fashion world on the go". Which means a way for people to take photos of their new clobber, tag the location it was found in, and share it with other Luster users.iPhoneGhost Finder LondonTake a tour of the capital's spooks with this iPhone app, which maps more than 300 haunted locations across the city. Stories are included on each so you know which ghoul should be doing what, wherever you are.iPhoneReport A TaxiReport A Taxi helps people to report poor service from cab drivers, for the benefit of other users. It's initially only for New York City and iPhone, but Android and BlackBerry versions are on the way, along with global support (including London).iPhoneKidz4MationiPhone book-app Kidz4Mation stars a cheerful monkey called Mikey, who aims to help children be "more confident, stronger and happier". The idea being a story that also inspires self-confidence in kids.iPhoneShrek Forever AfterAndroid has lagged far behind iOS in the number of good book-apps for kids, but there's a discernible tide-turn happening in 2012. iStoryTime's Shrek Forever After has made the jump from iOS to Android, with a story based on the film of the same name.Android
January is over! It's the last month of Winter!
Amazon tripled sales of its Kindle e-reader devices over the Christmas period, but it was not enough for the online retailer to meet Wall Street's expectations.In the fourth quarter of 2011, Amazon raked in $17.43bn (£11.06bn) in revenues, 35% higher than the same period in 2010. But profits fell 57% for the quarter as Amazon poured money into its online strategy. The revenue figure also disappointed analysts, many of whose forecasts were substantially higher. The firm's shares fell in after-hours trading.For the full year Amazon's net sales increased 41% to $48bn, compared with $34.2bn the year before. The company net sales were up 37% compared with 2010.Amazon's outlook for the first quarter also fell short of analysts' expectations. The company projected first-quarter sales between $12bn and $13.4bn, and said it was likely to make somewhere between an operating loss of $200m to a profit of $100m.Jeff Bezos, Amazon's founder and chief executive, did not reveal exactly how many Kindles the company has sold, but said Kindles were Amazon's bestselling items in North America and Europe. According to analysts at Stifel Nicolaus, the Kindle Fire sold nearly 6m units during the last quarter of 2011. In Britain a survey found that one in every 40 adults was given an e-reader for Christmas, and of those 92% were Kindles.Bezos said: "We are grateful to the millions of customers who purchased the Kindle Fire and Kindle e-reader devices this holiday season, making Kindle our bestselling product across both the US and Europe."Colin Gillis, an analyst at BGC Partners in New York, said the company was overvalued and that sales of physical products – books, DVDs – were being hit by the move to digital."They are the number one in electronic books but not in films or music," Gillis said. "I understand the strategy but I don't think they should have a premium just for being in investment mode."
Mark Zuckerberg owns 24% of the company he founded as a student at Harvard. His network was credited with sparking the Egyptian revolution and his stake could be worth up to $24bn (£15.2bn).Accel Partners, the Palo Alto venture capital firm, snaffled 15% of Facebook when the company was valued at $98m. The deal included million dollar bonus payouts for Zuckerberg and two others. Accel remains joint biggest outside investor with 10%, worth up to $10bn.Yuri Milner's early investments included a macaroni factory, but this son of a Moscow academic now prefers social media. His fund channels oligarch wealth into Silicon Valley, with stakes in Groupon, Zynga  and Twitter. Milner companies control an estimated 10% of Facebook.Dustin Moskovitz had the good fortune to share a room with Zuckerberg at Harvard. He dropped out of his economics course to work for Facebook full time as chief technology officer, leaving in 2008 with a 6% stake, which could be worth $6bn.Eduardo Saverin was one of the three co-founders and a classmate of Zuckerberg's. Initially granted a 30% stake, he took a commercial role at Facebook but left after falling out with Zuckerberg. His holding, whittled down by funding rounds, now stands at 5%.Sean Parker, the hellraising Napster founder credited with persuading Zuckerberg to hold off selling advertising on Facebook until it had reached critical mass, left in 2005 after a cocaine-related incident. He holds 4%.Peter Thiel became Facebook's first significant outside investor when he put up $500,000 in 2004. Involved in the web's hottest properties from PayPal to YouTube and LinkedIn, he remains on the board and holds a 3% stake, now worth up to $3bn.Microsoft invested $240m in 2007, gaining a 1.6% stake, after chief executive Steve Ballmer's offer to buy Facebook was rebuffed. Now worth up to $1.6bn.U2 frontman Bono found what he was looking for when his Elevation Partners investment group amassed a 1.5% stake in Facebook. It might be worth $1.5bn – which would compensate for less successful gambles on Palm computers and Forbes magazine.Greylock Partners and Meritech Capital Partners hold an estimated 1.5% each, having participated in Facebook's third round of fundraising.
Any day now, perhaps as early as Wednesday, Facebook will announce it is going public. The firm is looking to raise $10bn selling shares in an initial public offering (IPO) that will value the firm at somewhere between $75bn-$100bn, according to reports. Not bad for a seven-year-old firm that has only recently started making money and apparently made $1bn last year. It will be the biggest tech IPO since Google, and investors (and rivals) will finally get to see what makes Mark Zuckerberg's social network.Is Facebook really worth $75bn-$100bn?That's the big question. This is the most hyped IPO in years, and if the company is valued at less than $75bn, that wiill be seen as a major setback on Wall Street. Even at the low end, Facebook would be worth more than Disney (valued at $70bn). The company has 850 million users, more than the combined populations of the US, Brazil and Mexico. But what are they worth? Facebook has already overtaken Yahoo to become number one in online display advertising revenues, taking 16.3% of the market, says eMarketer, a research firm. eMarketer reckons Facebook's ad revenue will be $7bn by 2013. But for comparison Disney's revenues were over $40bn last year. Facebook's outsize valuation is a big bet on a big future.What will I notice?Not much – at least to start with. Facebook is no stranger to innovation: its news feed, "Like" buttons and timeline are just some examples of how the company has evolved over time—and users are likely to continue to see changes with or without the IPO. "Their internal slogan is: 'Facebook's only 1% finished'," says Nate Elliott, a principal analyst focusing on interactive marketing at Forrester Research. "We will continue to see changes in Facebook between now and when they go public – and after. I don't think any of those changes will be a function of the IPO."So: same old, same old?Not really. As a public company, anything Facebook does will be parsed by analysts looking for how it will hit the bottom line. The best way to do this is by more targeted advertising, say analysts.Catherine Tucker, a marketing and IT professor at MIT's Sloan School of Management, expects Facebook to ramp up what she calls "social advertising" efforts, where ads are served up to users based on their friends' preferences. For instance, if I "Like" Whole Foods on Facebook, you, as my friend, are presumed to harbour a preference for organic food as well – hence you are more likely to see a Whole Foods advertisement when you log on.Does this mean you should be concerned about how Facebook handles your information?Yes. When Facebook goes public it will be under increased scrutiny, held more accountable, and required to be more transparent. But, at the same time, the need to maximise returns means the use of personal data is likely to increase, only raising privacy concerns. Facebook has already been slapped on the wrist over how it treats user data. In November, the companyreached a settlement with the Federal Trade Commission,which accused it of engaging in "unfair and deceptive" practices, making public information that users had supposed was private."Facebook is probably going to face some difficult balancing issues, in terms of meeting its new shareholders' expressed desire to exploit the data they have with the fact that if they exploit the data too much it can drag down the effectiveness of advertising," says Tucker.Why bother?Facebook has to pay off its early investors, and it now has too many shareholders to stay private. But more than that, Facebook could use the cash. Google has $50bn of cash to spend snapping up start-ups. After it went public, Google bought key chunks of its business, including YouTube and ad firm DoubleClick. Facebook could raise $10bn in the IPO, enough cash to make some big purchases.Debra Aho Williamson, principal analyst at eMarketer, expects Facebook will use its IPO cash to strengthen its mobile site."Facebook has always lagged a little bit behind in delivering a really solid user experience on mobile devices," she says. "As Facebook moves into markets where mobile is the primary way people access the internet, it is important to deliver a good mobile experience."What are the risks?Alongside Apple, Facebook is arguably the hottest company on the planet. But it's not easy to stay hot (just look at Apple before Steve Jobs came back).Nearly all of the hot ideas online have come from start-ups, not public companies, and there's a reason for that. Public companies have to be accountable, and that accountability often means lopping off freewheeling, creative endeavoirs that you hope will make money and concentrating on making cash with what you have.Google used to boast that staff spent 20% of their time on whatever they wanted. Not any more. Last year it closed Google Labs – "a playground where our more adventurous users can play around with prototypes of some of our wild and crazy ideas." Labs was culled so Google could devote more resources to "high-impact products" – for which you can read ones that make money.From now on Facebook will have to do its innovating in public, and will be answerable to shareholders as well as its users.
Mark Shields, a communications worker in Washington DC, did not intend to become an activist calling for Apple to clean up its act over allegations of brutal labour abuses in its Chinese supplier network.But, listening to a recent radio show on the subject, Shields, a dedicated user and fan of Apple products, felt he had to act. He was going to write a letter to Apple until a friend suggested he start a petition at change.org, an online group that facilitates campaigning on controversial subjects.In its first 48 hours, Shield's petition attracted more than 140,000 signatures.Now more 147,000 people from all around the worldhave signed up, and it has become one of the main focuses of consumer discontent at the way Apple makes its sleek computer products that have become a mainstay of much of modern life. "I am an accidental activist here. I have never started a petition before," Shields, 35, told the Guardian. "I am an Apple person, I have my MacBook and iPhone. I love all that stuff. These products have changed my life,but they are coming at a cost in human suffering," he added.Apple is current facing a wave of bad publicity overa New York Times story that exposed many problems with Apple suppliers in China. They included industrial accidents, abuse of workers for long hours and the use of underage labour. Though such problems also occur at many other western consumer electrical companies that have their products made in China, Apple's position as a brand leader – and its huge profits – make it a high-profile case.The Times story itself followed on the work of playwright Mike Daisey, whose one-man show, The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs, has highlighted the issue, and was featured on the National Public Radio show that Shields listened to.Some columnists and observers of the American tech scene have warned that Apple might now face a boycott of its iPhones, iPads and iPods: products that have made it one of the biggest companies in the world. Shields said that he himself did not advocate a boycott. "I don't think they really help," he said.But at the same time he had found himself unable to buy a new Apple gadget. "I would really like to go and buy an Apple TV and I can't do that right now in good conscience. I would feel bad about it," he said.Instead, Shields' petition asks Apple to release a new worker protection strategy for the period around its product releases, when the huge pressure to deliver a high volume of sought-after new products could potentially cause a spike in worker abuses. It also asks Apple to increase transparency and publish the names of its suppliers who have violated labour standards and exactly what those violations were."Please make these changes immediately, so that each of us can once again hold our heads high and say: 'I'm a Mac person,'" the petition said.Apple did not immediately respond to a request to comment on the petition. However, last week, Apple chief executive Tim Cook did send an email to the firm's staff – leaked to the media – which promised to crack down on problems, while admitting that issues had occurred. "Any suggestion that we don't care is patently false and offensive to us. As you know better than anyone, accusations like these are contrary to our values. It's not who we are," Cook said in the email.He added that the firm was working hard to resolve things and discover abuses."No one has been more up front about the challenges we face. We are attacking problems aggressively with the help of the world's foremost authorities on safety, the environment and fair labour," Cook wrote.However, the rapid growth of the petition shows the depth of the potential PR disaster that Apple is facing. Many comments written on the petition expressed similar sentiments to Shields' views, coming from dedicated Apple fans."Apple, you have the power, and most certainly the resources to change things," wrote "Gabrielle" of Grandville, Michigan, who confessed to standing in line for hours to buy an iPad when the tablet was first released. The success of the petition was also hailed by organisers at change.org for its swift growth."It has been incredible to see the resonance Mark's campaign has had with other Apple users, and to watch him become part of a growing movement of consumer-driven change," said Amanda Kloer, change.org's director of organizing.
British computer chip designer Arm Holdings beat forecasts with a 45% increase in fourth-quarter profits to £69m as it gained market share in sales of smartphones and mobile computers.Apple's favourite chip designer beat the consensus profit forecast of £55m, and said full-year revenues had risen 21% to £492m, with profit before tax for the year up 37% to £230m. Total fourth-quarter revenues rose 21% to £138m.Arm already dominates the smartphone market, but 2011 saw it grow share by increasing the number of its designs in each handset, from an average of 2.4 to 2.5 chips.Crucially, Arm said its products were being licenced for use in smart TVs. These sets, which connect to the internet, are expected to become a major new trend in consumer electronics, with Apple believed to be readying a smart TV for later this year."Arm has seen strong licensing growth, driven by market-leading semiconductor companies increasing their commitment to Arm technology, and more new customers choosing Arm technology for the first time," said the chief executive, Warren East. "We have also seen our royalty revenue continue to grow faster than industry revenues as the Arm Partnership gains share in our target markets."Arm, which designs but does not manufacture chips, signed 25 new processor licences with factories in the fourth quarter. Many were for televisions, mobile computers and smartphones. The news sent Arm's shares up nearly 5%, or 27p to 625p, by the market close.The number of Arm chips in mobile phones and mobile computers was up 10% year on year to 1.2bn. While analysts are forecasting that across the whole of the industry, semiconductor revenues declined about 10% in the fourth compared to the third quarter, Arm defied the trend.Its processor division licensing revenues were up 25% in the final three months of the year, to £68m, compared to the same period in 2010, and its royalties from the division were up 23% to £100m."Clearly Arm's licensing and royalty momentum seems set to continue in coming quarters as well, not withstanding the broader weakness in the overall semiconductor industry," said analyst Janardan Menon at broker Liberum. "Our bigger concern on the stock is the threat posed by Intel in the smartphone and tablet market, now that it has been able to bring its power consumption down to comparable levels."Arm's American rival Intel has until now been frozen out of the smartphone market because its chips consumed too much power, meaning batteries expired in less than 24 hours. The company announced at the Consumer Electronics Show in January that it has new designs to be used by Lenovo and Motorola which it says will challenge Arm.East reiterated full-year guidance for 2012 but said the biggest threat would come from the world economy. "The global macroeconomic situation remains uncertain and is likely to influence consumer and enterprise spending, thereby potentially impacting semiconductor revenues and industry confidence," he said. "Assuming the macroeconomic situation does not deteriorate significantly, we expect group dollar revenues for the full year to be at least in line with current market expectations of just over $860m."Mobile devices account for 55% of Arm units shipped, the second largest category is "embedded" – simple "microcontroller" chips in medical equipment, car engines and on credit cards. Shipments of Arm-processor based microcontrollers grew about 80% year on year, compared to 5% for the overall microcontroller market.Enterprise products such as chips for servers represent 16%. Home, for devices such as television sets, is at just 4% but predicted to become a fast-growing market as more devices such as fridges are connected to the internet."We see Arm in very good shape for 2012 and 2013 whatever the weather," said analyst Lee Simpson at Jefferies bank..
Bankers, bloggers, stock market traders and internet entrepreneurs from Singapore to Silicon Valley are holding their collective breath. Facebook's record-breaking stock market listing, the largest ever for a technology company, is imminent.Papers must be filed soon if Facebook wishes to press ahead with plans for a May public offering. The world's leading social site, with 800 million members worldwide, is expected to sell off a 10% stake for between $7.5bn (£4.8bn) and $10bn, implying an overall value of $75bn to $100bn.The multiples are on a par with those achieved by Google when it joined the Nasdaq in 2004. By then, Google's superior engineering had allowed it to secure an unassailable position in search, a utility without which the web would be impossible to navigate. Seven years on, and Google is making more than $10bn a quarter with a market capitalisation of $188bn. Does Facebook have the same potential?The bulk of Facebook's income will be from advertisers. WPP, the world's biggest marketing services group, already spends $200m a year with Facebook, an eighth of the $1.6bn it pays to Google. A vote of confidence, but WPP chief executive Sir Martin Sorrell has "fundamental doubts" about the extent to which social platforms can be monetised."The point is that Facebook is asocialmedium, not an advertising one, like search or display," he told the Guardian. "It certainly is one of the most powerful, if not the most powerful branding medium. It is, however, a word of mouth or PR medium. You interrupt social conversations with commercial messages at your peril."Mark Zuckerberg was initially cautious about foisting advertising on his followers, to the extent that it led to a parting of ways with his co-founder and Harvard friend Eduardo Saverin. The commercial coyness is long gone, and moves to monetise the audience with new forms of advertising have often provoked backlashes.Facebook's Beacon ad system, which monitored members' activity on partner websites and then publicised these movements on their Facebook news feeds, so outraged users it led to a class action lawsuit. Beacon was shut down in 2009.Another legal claim was given the go-ahead in California in December, from users unhappy that if they clicked the 'like' button on a company's page, Facebook could use that member's image and name in an advert endorsing the same company.The experience of Myspace, Britain's Bebo and Friends Reunited would suggest these forums can be passing fads, whose users are quickly drawn to other novelties. The social network founded eight years ago in Zuckerberg's Harvard dorm room has soared in membership while rivals melted away, but Google is biting at its heels.The search giant recently pegged staff bonuses to the success of its own social offering, Google+, and the effect has been dramatic. Its membership ramped up to 90m users in January, having doubled in three months.There are signs that Facebook's membership is reaching saturation point in its biggest markets. The number of UK monthly visitors fell 2.2% to 32m from November to December, while US visitors declined 2.1% to 166m, says web measurement firm ComScore. Its worldwide audience is still growing, however, adding 1.4m visitors from November to December, boosted by rapid growth in Brazil and India.The deep level of penetration in small or remote nations like the Falkland Islands (75% of inhabitants are users according to research site Socialbakers) and Iceland (68%) suggests that in some communities Facebook has become not just a pastime but a social service, integrated into the fabric of everyday life."For some users Facebook is the internet," says ComScore European managing director Mike Read. He identifies two trends that point to success for Zuckerberg. "Facebook's user base is growing and the amount of time people are spending online individually is growing. Not only is the audience maturing, the way in which people use Facebook in a commercial sense is maturing."Once membership stops growing in mature markets, increasing the amount of time each user spends on Facebook will become a crucial measure of its success. In October 2010, the average user idled away 4.5 hours a month on Facebook. This rose to 6.5 hours in December 2011.If Facebook can imitate Google by becoming a landing page from which users access games, video, music or online shops, the advertising money should follow. It is already the largest internet display – as opposed to search – medium in the UK, with 18bn ads seen on the site in December compared to 4bn for its next largest rival, Yahoo. But online display is still embryonic compared with the millions once poured into newspaper and magazine advertising.Facebook has not shared its numbers for 2011, but the most recent leak suggests earnings of $1.5bn on revenues of $3.8bn. A $100bn valuation would equal 66 times earnings and 26 times revenues. In 2004, Google was valued at $23bn, around 67 times its 2003 earnings and 24 times its revenues.After disappointing performances from games group Zynga and coupon network Groupon, Facebook may prefer to avoid a fall in the weeks after it goes public by pricing at the lower end of expectations. Trades in the firm's privately held equity, through services like SharesPost, imply a $83.5bn valuation. Guessing is a dangerous game."Perhaps it is worth $100bn, who knows," says Sorrell. "I thought $15bn was too much. More fool me."Facebook's roster of celebrity backers, which ranges from Bono and Microsoft to Russian billionaire Yuri Milner would suggest something of a bubble, but its ability to attract investors has continually defied expectations.
Since it now seems unlikely we'll see a PlayStation 4 announcement this year, the eyes of the incurably attention-deficit games industry have now flicked back toward the next Xbox. So what are Microsoft's plans for the console that people are (erroneously, yet conveniently) calling Xbox 720?If you've managed to fall behind on all the latest speculation, here's a round-up of the key stories.18 January: The next Xbox will feature a chipset named Oban, including an ATI graphics cardTech site SemiAccurate claimed to have heard from reliable sources that the chipset that will power the next generation Xbox went into production at Christmas. The site said it was 99% sure that Microsoft would be employing an IBM-built Power PC CPU with an ATI GCN/HD7000/Southern Islands GPU. The chip's name? Oban. On January 19, Fudzilla came in witha similar story.This would certainly reflect the architectural make-up of the Xbox 360, which employed an IBM Xenon processor and custom ATI Xenos GPU.24 January. No wait, the Xbox 720 GPU will be a Radeon HD 6670IGN reported last week that its sources confirmed that Xbox 720 processors were in production but claimed that the GPU was based, not on an ATI 7000 series architecture, but the olderRadeon HD 6670which retails at around £60 as a PC card.25 January: Xbox 720 to feature Blu-ray player, Kinect 2 and... anti-pre-owned games technologyKotaku reported on a selection of titbits from an anonymous industry source. The most intriguing is that Microsoft will be looking to prevent Xbox 720 consoles from playing pre-owned games. It could be that titles come with a one-off activation code, or that each game is tied in with a specific Xbox Live account, thereby ruling online multiplayer out for any pre-owned purchasers.Hmm, this seems... unlikely. It would be a popular move among many publishers and developers, who get no income from the sale of pre-owned titles and who feel that the pre-owned market makes the development of original/offbeat titles almost impossible. But consumers and retailers will not be happy. The likes of Game and HMV make much of their income from second-hand titles – and with retail sales increasingly losing out to digital distribution, they'll fight this latest incursion into their revenue stream with considerable passion.Microsoft has dismissed the story as rumour and speculation, but this doesn't mean it's not true – console manufacturers have, after all, sought to inhibit and control software distribution for years via regional locks; this is another way f ensuring consumers play by the rules.30 January: Xbox 720 will NOT be at E3 2012This one comes from VG247, courtesy of French site,Le Point. During an interview, Cedrick Delmas, marketing director of Microsoft France, seemingly poured scorn on suggestions that the next Xbox will be at this year's E3 exhibition:"We're in an industry that talks a lot, that likes to tell stories. I am not convinced things will happen this year. Xbox 360′s cycle is not at all finished. The proof is that we don't see the logic in cutting the price this year. E3 is still premature. What's certain is that there'll be nothing new in 2012."I doubt this represents definitive proof that there will be no Xbox 720 at E3. The LA event will certainly be "premature" in terms of announcing a release date for the machine, but if the processors really are rolling along the production lines, its timing is just about perfect for unveiling the design.30 January: Microsoft will launch TWO Xbox 720 iterationsIn its own version of the story regarding the Le Point interview, Eurogamer went on to claim that Microsoft is planning to release the new Xbox machine in two versions: a stripped down set-top box with Kinect 2 functionality and a fully-featured version with Blu-ray and a hard drive.This is certainly possible as it continues the Xbox tradition of different hardware SKUs for different demographics (hence the old hard drive-free Xbox 360 Arcade console). It also suggests Microsoft has its eye on two sectors: the traditional games market and the emerging smart TV segment, where Apple and Google will also be battling it out to provide interactive services to family audiences via cheap set-top hardware.So, yes, it's all much clearer now - the Xbox 720 will have a brand new, yet comparatively old GPU, with a Blu-ray drive, but also no Blu-ray drive, and it absolutely will (won't) be revealed at E3.Next!
Aleks Krotoski and Charles Arthur tackle the week's biggest technology headlines in this edition of Tech Weekly, picking apart the rumours of the Facebook IPO, the fallout from the European ACTA MEP resignations, and the challenges Twitter faces after posting a new policy on tweet censorship.Just how ready is Facebook to float on the US public stock market, and what implications will this have for the site's longevity? How will Kader Arif's resignation from his position as rapporteur for the Anti-Copyright Trade Agreement affect the next stage in the ratification process? And how is Twitter's so-called censorship policy any different form other services – like Google, Facebook, Yahoo and Amazon – that have come before?Aleks is also joined by two experts in connected television: Richard Lindsay Davies of the Digital Television Group, a British organisation responsible for establishing the standards of the next generation of our broadcast entertainment systems. Gareth Klose is a former YouView developer and digital technologist who works on apps for our TVs. What's the difference between the TV in the corner and the computer screen, now that the former is increasingly incorporating the interactive features of the latter? And what will this mean for how we consume content in the future?Finally, we offer a heartfelt salute to Scott Cawley, Tech Weekly's producer of five years, who's going to pastures new. We hear tributes from Bobbie Johnson and Jemima Kiss.
Nokia is working on a Windows Phone model that incorporates NFC (Near Field Communications) technology to connect to external accessories – and is even considering versions with wireless charging, its design chief has indicated in an exclusive interview.The company is also working closely with Microsoft, which is providing the software for its new top-end smartphones, to co-ordinate software details such as tile colours to match its hardware accessories, Marko Ahtisaari, Nokia's head of design, told the Guardian.New versions of the Lumia design, introduced to showcase Windows Phone in November, will also remove the flip-up plastic tab that presently covers the micro-USB charger for the phone – one of just two moving parts on the Lumia 800 phone."If you can take away a moving part and make it [the phone] more beautiful in the placement of the components, we'll do it, so that's something where we can certainly keep improving," Ahtisaari told the Guardian. "Take it to the extreme, and why are there any connectors?"Nokia Lumia 800: the first versions went on sale late in 2011Ahtisaari is extremely influential within Nokia, having beenappointed last week to its leadership team, reporting directly to chief executive Stephen Elop.The removal of the USB connector would imply the use of wireless charging – a system that has already been demonstrated by products such as HP's TouchPad, which had a wireless charging system. A Nokia spokesman said the company declined to comment on future product features.Speaking in Nokia's headquarters in Espoo, Finland, earlier this month, Ahtisaari said that new elements will "ship with the product that we will ship in the future". Nokia already has "open NFC" incorporated into a number of its smartphones to enable rapid, password-free setup of Bluetooth pairing between phones and accessories such as speakers and headsets.Although current versions of Windows Phone do not include NFC elements, Microsoft has indicated that it could be included in versions shipping by October 2012. And Elop also said at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas that although the current Windows Phone Lumia models – the 800 and 900 – do not have NFC, "it is growing in importance, and I personally believe in it".NFC "open" allows Bluetooth pairing without the use of password by tapping the devices to be paired together: an exchange of electronic tokens takes place, so that Bluetooth connection – for a hi-fi, speakers or headset – can occur within seconds with virtually no other interaction. Current secure Bluetooth pairing otherwise requires the user to enter a password of up to eight digits.Nokia has shipped more than a million Lumia phones since introducing them in November. The company decided to abandon its Symbian platform for high-end smartphones in January 2011 after Elop decided it could not compete against Apple's iOS and Google's Android mobile operating systems.He also suggested that touchscreen interaction is in its very early days, comparing it to the early days of the automobile: "In the 1880s in the car industry cars had tillers – it took 15 years to agree on the steering wheel controlling the front wheels. We're in the middle of that part of the evolution of interaction."Charles Arthur's trip to Finland was paid for byFinnfacts, an independent media service organisation that provides contacts between international media and Finnish business.
There's a certain look in Marko Ahtisaari's eyes as he walks over to say hello. We're inside Nokia's headquarters in Espoo, a short drive from Helsinki; a blizzard has blanketed the roads and surroundings (though, this being Finland, everything carried on without pause). "Cold and dark, eh?" he says by way of opening. "But at least you got the other bit right."I realise that he's referring to a tweet of mine from earlier the same day as I waited for the sun to rise (which in January doesn't happen before 10am; though in the summer, the days are endless) and observed that what I'd learnt from a week in Finland was that it's "cold, dark, and the company name is pronounced 'Knock-ya'." He'd been researching me.Ahtisaari isn't cold or dark; he's affable and speaks excellent unaccented English, as so many Finns do. At Nokia for the past two and a half years (having been there previously, left for a startup and then returned), he's the senior vice-president of Nokia's hardware and software design team, which makes him the equivalent of Apple's Sir Jonathan Ive – though arguably his work is seen by many more people, since Nokia sells many more phones every year – 400m against 93m in 2011.But Nokia's problem is that it's struggling to keep pace in the smartphone market as first the iPhone and then Android phones such as Samsung's models have eaten into the top-end market, while cheap low-end versions have attacked the Symbian market. The long bright summer of success has turned into a dark winter of financial struggle and abbreviated market share. Nokia's response, to ally itself with Microsoft and adopt Windows Phone for the interface, has been described (though not by Elop) as a Hail Mary pass – an American football phrase for staking everything on one attempt.The first incarnation of that alliance is the Lumia 800 phone, released last November.The Lumia 800, Nokia's first Windows Phone deviceSo what, I asked, could Nokia bring to the smartphone table now?"There's a point of view about design that all innovation in the interaction with the phone has been done," Ahtisaari says. "Nothing could be further from the truth. The phase we're in now is like the 1880s in the car industry. Back then, cars had tillers – you would steer them like boats, with a wheel at the back. It took 15 years to settle on the steering wheel at the front controlling the front wheels. And we're in the middle of that part of the evolution of interaction."He warms up to his explanation. "Look at iOS. Multiple pages of apps, and folder, with a physical home key. It's very elegant; it was a great innovation five years ago. But the core interaction hasn't evolved much. It's simple but constant. It's like a house where you know that you can always get to the kitchen from the living room – but you have to go through the front door."He adds quickly, "OK, so there's been some changes. Now you can get there if you skip on one leg" – referring to the double tap' introduced by Apple in iOS 4 for fast switching between apps via a "drawer" at the bottom of the screen."The other model, of Android and Symbian, is multiple, personalisable home screens with widgets. There's some fragmentation in button layouts where different devices have them in different ways. The hope is that having personalisable screens is so organic that you end up using it via the home screen."These, he says, are the two dominant candidates for smartphones. "But these can't be the only ones that can exist. In the past year we have seen a different way to do it – Live Tiles [as used in Microsoft's Windows Phone interface] – they're abstractions of data, a panoramic view of your data. It's a different approach - 'glanceability', such as in the People Hub." He explains that "our goal in the studio is to design so that people can have their head up again. Touchscreen designs are often immersive; we'll often see couples in a restaurant pinching and zooming, but not interacting with each other. And there's a trend of having smaller and smaller targets on screen so you have to get closer and closer. If we can make the interfaces more direct, so you can have your head up again – this is something that, while it would never come up in a focus group, is deeply appreciated by people, because the most important things are happening not only in the vessel of your phone, but also with the people and the environment around you."That element of "glance-and-go" is one that has been emphasised by Microsoft, and now Nokia too. But, I note, the Nokia N9 – which was released first (in countries such as Finland – I saw many people using them), and which wasn't released in the countries where the Lumia 800 subsequently was (such as the UK), has the same physical design as the Lumia, apart from the extra camera button on one side on the Lumia. And the Meego software that it runs is a cross between the Android/Symbian model and the Windows Phone model: there's a main screen and then apps folders, but also multiple live screens that you swipe between.So where did the Lumia design come from? "We had been working on new design language for the N9, and we took best design there and evolved it into the 800 and now [Lumia] 900 [announced at CES 2012]. The idea is to take away everything unnecessary; do less but better."But the Meego interface is closer to the Android/iOS paradigm than to Windows Phone, I suggest, "The N9 has the [icon] pattern without physical keys,", Ahtisaari responds. "You have to swipe things away."His theme is that we shouldn't think that iOS or Android (or Symbian) has ended user-interface evolution. The sun's just coming up on that. "I think there will be more diversity in user interfaces rather than less. In automotive, you need to have some standardisation for safety reasons – you can't have wheels in some and tillers in others. So you want a standard, or standards." That doesn't apply in phones: "Here, they will be more diversity in user interface because you can design more ways to use a phone. Some people would say that the iPhone is the new generic form. My point is more about competitive diversity. What's really important is that this isn'tstyling." He becomes emphatic. "This asethetic come from the way that we build the product."In this, his intensity is similar to that of Steve Jobs and Ive, the people best known for Apple's design aesthetic. Jobs said design isn't how it looks, it's how it works. Ive has echoed that. When I met Ive some years ago, he had a similar intensity to Ahtisaari.The N9/Lumia 800 handset is a remarkable piece of design. The surprise comes when you hold it: the material, a polycarbonate, doesn't feel like plastic, but not like metal either. It doesn't feel cheap; the texture is more like charcoal, but, of course, without the mess. The rounded sides fit easily into the hand. It's unlike any other handset on the market.So where did they start? He picks up a Lumia, one of three arrayed on the table in front of him, and stands it on its end, the screen facing me. "The front read is a hard rectangle," he says. "But when you turn it around, then it has these extruded ends and a pillowy back. The severe front read makes it recognisable at retail. But the challenge is making a language that's organic. It's very difficult to make something that stands out but is true to itself."He continues: "The question was: how do we take away everything unnecessary? But equally, we didn't want it to be cold." There's that word, the one he wants to avoid. No designer wants to make cold personal items."We also worked on the post-finishing so that there's a completely seamless body." (The body is in fact made of two parts, but you'd never see the seam unless you used a microscope.) "The polymer is coloured - it's not sprayed or finished - so that if you scratch it, then it's still the same colour." He's clearly proud of this. "It's a very simple thing that Nokia is known for – different colours. The goal is to create something by taking away, but to make sure that it has a human sense of warmth. That's the physical side of it." The screen, he adds, is included by a process "rather like putting a ship in a bottle" – it's (somehow) slid beneath the polycarbonate."While it's important to be different, we have given form and shape to a new ecosystem that many people will be hearing about for the first time. If people get it in their hand then they like it. Getting it out and recognised is important."To that end, it's noticeable that Nokia has been working hard on its marketing – with the Lumia popping up recently in adverts for Vodafone, for example.So how will he take it further? "Things like making sure of the antenna's quality of reception – the polycarbonate means better reception and calling. Innovation in the optics for the capture experience, in both the hardware and software. And everything to do with location and motion. Being able to benefit from data about your and others' anonymous information, such as traffic patterns."Doesn't the tieup with Microsoft mean that Nokia is withdrawing from the software side, to become just a hardware maker? "Nokia working with Microsoft is critical," he replies. "But our portfolio goes a long way down. I'm as interested in the phone costing 10 euros as the expensive one. In the other phones as well we're doing innovative things in the user interface. The portfolio is broader, and the question is, what can we innovate?  Here – the core UI which is a tight design sets some constraints. But depends on which part [of the UI they're looking to change] how deep we can go. The interaction between the teams at Microsoft and Nokia is very tight."How does that interaction take place? "Meals are important in the studio. Important for creativity. We talked about principles – 'content not chrome' – there was a one-to-one mapping of principles. We fed back things that we have learned."He says that before meeting the Microsoft people he "did a little anthropology" on them, reading up key speeches they had given to search for clues to their personalities, their likes and dislikes, and soon spotted a couple of linguistic tics: "super-excited" and "rockstar".So, when he sat down the first time at a meal with the Microsoft designers, he opened proceedings by saying: "I'm super excited about working with such a team of rockstars!" He researched them. Clearly, it's a habit."And that," he says with a smile, "pulled the rug from under them."But what sort of feedback can the Nokia design team give to the Windows Phone design team? How deep can they go, and how much can they get changed? "You might ask for something like, so it fits with our phones better, for the rectangles of the tiles to be more rounded," he says (but quickly emphasises that Nokia has not made this request). "But real competitiveness is in tweaking things that people use 50 times a day, not some weirdo feature that will allow somebody to do something that they never do." (This sounds like a dig at Android's vast customisability, especially in 4.0, which brings in a huge array of "I'd never thought of that" features.)"They will ship with the product that we will ship in the future." What sort of changes? The sort that will work with accessories. So Nokia already has NFC technology in some phones which works with speakers – you touch the phone to the speaker and it starts playing via Bluetooth. (It's very neat.) "Touchscreens as user interfaces are immersive. My goal is give people their head up – give people a UI that'slessimmersive, so that we can be more present for each other, and more present for the environment that we're in right here. NFC shortcuts through dozens of pokes and taps and swipes."But, I counter, one of the things that people really like about touchscreen smartphones is that process of doing things with them. As long as it's not outright frustrating, then it is what the usablity expert Don Norman describes as a sensual experience. You're interacting as directly as you can with the software, short of donning a virtual reality headset. So if he succeeds in getting us to use the phone less, won't that mean that you love your gadget a little less?"It's not about the amount of time you spend," he counters.  "It's the difference between a glance, and [he mimes] tap, tap, tap, tap. Ultimately, people will appreciate being present for their environment and the people around them more. It's poor design that makes an object require more attention than it needs. It doesn't follow that people wouldn't love an object that just works."One commentator, I say, described the Lumia 800 as like the negative of the iPhone 4: it's rounded where that is square, square where that is rounded, curved where that is flat. And it feels really nice in the hand. So was the Lumia/N9 thought of as a negative of the iPhone?There's a long pause. It's like waiting for Finland's winter sun to rise."We at no point thought about it," Ahtisaari eventually says firmly. "But we didn't start from that. Our aim was to start and make the most beautiful phone, where we took away every unnecessary element. In the N8, we had the extruded form. And looked to rapidly evolve it, with better materials. To build something that looks advanced but feels very human. We tried hundreds of variants. This aesthetic follows what way this is manufactured. Two pieces of polycarbonate, which is then just finished using material finishing technique for the speaker holes. And the display, which is laminated so it folds into the surface of the product."And what about the next designs? "This is a funny industry," he replies. "As soon as you see something beautiful the question is 'what's next then?' We have something beautiful on the table, let's just enjoy it. But, yes, we are working on the next parts of the portfolioWill the next design perhaps omit the popup USB cover – the one design oddity and only moving part in the phone? "Definitely, if you can take away a moving part and make it more beautiful in the placement of the component, we'll do it, so that's something where we can certianly keep improving. Take it to the extreme," he adds, "why are thereanyconnectors?"The Lumia 800's micro-USB connector is covered by a plastic flip lid - its one moving part. Is it for the chop?It's a thought. With open NFC, and wireless charging, you wouldn't need any connectors – either for power or sound. It's quite an aim."It's something that we can and will improve in the future," he says. (I get the impression that it really bugs him; it's such an odd element, and so – well – unnecessary. Other phones manage with exposed USB ports.) "We're going to evolve it and keep making new ones."He's clearly proud of the creation, a modern twist on the phone,. "Perhaps it's a European modernism, but it's never cold, it's always human we're going to keep refining and refining, bright colours, give people more choice and all constantly innovating in the materials as well.  So I think we're in a good path."It could take a while for the sun to rise again on Nokia. If it does, though, it will be Ahtisaari's chance to really shine.Charles Arthur's trip to Finland was paid for byFinnfacts, an independent media service organisation that provides contacts between international media and Finnish business.
Every time I play Battlefield 3, it happens, and I am not sure why. It happens amid tense urban skirmishes, and during quiet spells broken by unseen sniper fire; it happens in home bases, and on the perimeter of enemy-held positions. It happens all over the map, all the time. Players are nice to each other.I don't just mean the tactical interactions provided by the game – the ability to chuck first aid kits and ammo at teammates, and the option to revive them if they're shot. I mean stuff like waiting in a vehicle until another player catches up, allowing them to hop in, or providing covering fire when someone else (often me) is stuck out in the middle of a street with an empty clip and a lousy sense of direction.There is an argument of course, that this isn't altruism, it's simply part of the game – Battlefield 3 is predominantly a team endeavour, in which you earn more points at the close of a match if you're on the winning side. Helping other players ensures that you're not churning through re-spawn tickets, and in this sense can be as valuable as shooting an enemy. If you think that's the definitive answer, you may want to stop reading right now.The thing is, this highly developed sense of macro-strategic thinking is not what we're led to expect from FPS players, certainly not on public servers. When you're playing with friends, you import your existing interchanges of loyalty and reciprocity into the experience; but playing with strangers, most of whom aren't wearing headsets and can't or won't communicate, separates us from those human bonds. And yet it happens. People are nice.What's more, people are not only nice, they are often selfless. Choosing to revive a downed comrade can put you in harm's way – this may not only make the act counter-productive in a strategic sense, it will also have ramifications for your own kill-death ratio. This is important stuff. The famous Prisoner's Dilemma exercise has taught us that under duress, humans may have to think tactically, and to assume the worst from others. Yet, as social animals, we have relied on the evolution of altruistic traits to keep communities together. The whole field of game theory has developed to understand these contrasting facets and to plot the behaviours of rational participants – and here they are, playing out continuously, on every server of the Battlefield 3 universe.And, call me crazy, but I'm pretty sure the fleeting group relationships formed on public Battlefield servers have genuine research value to mathematicians, anthropologists and evolutionary psychologists who want to understand human motivations. Battlefield teams are essentially primitive tribal units, usually lacking in verbal communication and formed around the need to defend boundaries against rival groups. Interplay is instinctive and focused – it's like role-playing the dawn of man, but with M16s rather than clubs and spears.Of course, the problem is, key crowd behaviours are often reversed in online games. There's a well-known phenomenon known as the bystander effect, in which the likelihood of people rushing in to help someone who's being attacked or has had an accident in the street is inversely proportionate to the number of witnesses.  Large crowds instil us with a sense of audience inhibition – we don't want to look silly if we try to help someone who actually isn't in distress at all, or we don't want to take responsibility for doing the wrong thing. But in Battlefield 3, where situations are both anonymous AND lack ambiguity, people chuck out med kits and jump in to revive injured colleagues with total abandon. In some choke point areas, med kits just start to pile up uselessly, becauseeveryonewants to have a go.I'm still surprised, though, that gameplay generosity remains common in Dice's series 15 years after it first arrived. In the original Battlefield 1942, I put it partly down to the fact that, even without comms headsets, players were able to jab the relevant function key to send out a request for ammo, medical help or just a lift in a passing tank.  In the Xbox 360 version, you can make a context-sensistive call for help, but these operations are tucked away on the select key, which is not particularly intuitive, and they are not always noticed amid the chaos.When I discussed all this with fellow games writer Christian Donlan he came up with another theory, which was less heart warming, but probably just as valid. As gamers, we're conditioned to interact continuously with the virtual world; we're almost always hitting buttons. However, in Battlefield, there are often long periods where you're just guarding a base, or camping on a hilltop with a sniper rifle waiting for an enemy to wander by. In these moments, we begin to crave inputs, we need to dosomething– so hitting a button to lob a health kit or an ammo box at a passing comrade is at least a feedback loop, however insignificant. Maybe this is the same impulse that drives players, in the countdown before a Battlefield level starts, to make their avatars jump up and down or twirl on the spot. We just need to be inputting. It's altruism as compulsive behaviour.Perhaps there is a simple truth that online games get the players they deserve. If you're pitching your title as a fast-paced twitch shooter in which speed and individual excellence are the key requirements, you will get players who work in isolation. Modern Warfare 3 has attempted to build altruism into the Call of Duty experience with its support package, but by awarding experience points for altruistic acts, it's merely generating a new form of currency exhange. Psychologist Alfie Kohn has famously posited that generously rewarding people for being good doesn't make good people, it makes people who want more rewards.I do wonder as well, whether EA has fabricated this sense of brotherhood by disabling team killing as default. In early iterations of Battlefield it was possible to shoot teammates or blow up their vehicles. There was always a small population of players who did this, either as an act of anarchy, or to force another craft to spawn so they could get in it themselves. In the latest versions of the game, team killing only operates in the 'Hardcore' mode. Battlefield players, then, perhaps rely on strict boundaries and benign systems in order to be nice to each other. We are human after all.Anyway, over to you. Have your experiences been different? Do you think it's all down to the type of game that Battlefield is? Are there other shooters that engender even more benevolent behaviours? Let us know in the comments section...
About time too.Facebook is on the point of filing paperswith the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in preparation for its long-awaited initial public offering. This is both big news and no news at all.It's big news because, as a friend who works on Wall Street tweeted yesterday, a Facebook initial public offering (IPO) is to Wall Street what a pony is to a little girl. So excited is the financial world about what the Wall Street Journal calls the "Big Kahuna of stock listings", that the NYSE and the Nasdaq are fighting like rabid dogs to host the listing. To keep people guessing, Facebook has reserved the ticker symbol $FB on both exchanges.Meanwhile Facebook's IPO is no news at all because, well, we've all been talking about it for years. In fact Facebook has been around for so damn long – and is so damn high profile – that it's almost a surprise to hear it's still privately owned. The beyond-healthy secondary market for the company's shares only adds to the illusion that it's already a public company: private trading of Facebook stock on Sharespost.com currently values Zuckerberg's empire at $84bn (£53bn). Some analysts – or at least enthusiastic bloggers – are predicting a valuation hitting $100bn when the company IPOs.We'll know for sure soon enough. We'll also know how much money the company makes selling ads next to all of our embarrassing party photos and banal status updates. Spoiler alert: it's a shedload..But first Facebook has to enter its mandatory quiet period – where everyone closely involved in the company has to keep their collective mouth shut as potential investors, the media and regulators dig around in the company's business and figure out if there's anything important we should know before we buy shares. For recent Silicon Valley IPOs such asGrouponandZyngathe quiet period has been a tragedy wrapped inside a comedy. And not least because Valley CEOs don't seem to understand the meaning of the word "quiet".When Zynga CEO Mark Pincus faced a roomful of investors in December – days before his company went public – he gleefully informed them that Zynga would likely double its number of paid subscribers. The announcement left financial commentators aghast – the prediction wasn't in the company's prospectus and is precisely the kind of thing that CEOs aren't supposed to say during a quiet period. Still Pincus's ballsy prediction did little to boost Zynga's prospects – despite being a hugely profitable enterprise (those virtual goods quickly add up), the stock dropped 5% on its first day and has consistently traded below its $10 offer price. Or as Forbes put it when reporting those numbers: "Zynga IPO goes SplatVille". The reason for the failure? Forbes suggested that the market simply wasn't sure how long the world will continue to buy imaginary tractors to tend digital crops.And then there's Groupon: the discount group-buying site thing that originally priced at $20 at a share, enjoyed a day-one increase of 31% but is currently trading back down at $19.6. Like Zynga's Pincus, Groupon's CEO Andrew Mason is a renowned loudmouth. When, as often happens, critics took advantage of Groupon's quiet period to write negative reviews of the company, Mason came up with a breathtakingly ham-fisted way of fighting back. He wrote a series of "private" memos to staff addressing the criticisms – memos which, wouldn't you know it, ended up being leaked to the press. The SEC was, to put it mildly, unamused.So, given the, uh, shaky track record of recent Valley IPOs, are we likely to see Facebook crash and burn? Or can we at least look forward to fireworks during the quiet period? Actually, probably not. For one thing, despite what you might have seen in thatridiculous movie, Mark Zuckerberg is no Mark Pincus or Andrew Mason. Even when not bound by a quiet period, Zuckerberg is notoriously tight-lipped in making statements about his company. Only very rarely, say when a mob armed with burning torches is marching towards his office over changes to Facebook's privacy settings, does Zuckerberg force out a terse statement explaining himself. Hell, he probably can't wait to be legally barred from speaking.But even if Zuckerberg was mindful to respond to critics, it's hard to know what's left to respond to. Facebook has been more carefully scrutinised than a three-time presidential candidate. There have been dozens of books, tens of thousands of articles and all kinds of legal scrutiny over the years. The company's scandals have all been covered and re-covered to the point where there's barely anything left to know.Finally, unlike Zynga or Groupon or most other high-profile tech IPOs, there's not much chance of Facebook going out of fashion any time soon. We've been declaring Facebook "over" for many years now but it stubbornly refuses to become unpopular. Instead it has slowly become the de facto login for so many services that it's hard to imagine life without it.So, while Wall Street might be salivating over the events of the next few months, and while the few major shareholders who haven't already cashed out are about to get very rich, for the rest of us there's likely to be only one surprising thing about Facebook's IPO. And that's just how dull a $100bn flotation can be.• Follow Comment is free on Twitter@commentisfree
Contemporary fighting games aligned with arcade culture are strange beasts. In the demanding world of the hardcore beat-'em-up, a blinkered fascination with intricacy and control can, for the inexperienced, feel rather sterile.Soul Calibur Vis different. Despite beginning life in the arcades, today it is very much positioned for consoles, where spectacle is king. It is a beat-'em-up of enormous variety and is as graphically ambitious as it is aurally rich.It does lack some of the gameplay purity of the arcade stalwarts that devoted fighting fans revel in mastering, but for most modern gamers,Soul Calibur Vwill be immensely thrilling. A game that favours the experience itself over subtlety of control, this is perfect for those who warm to the fighter template, but find the minutiae of arcade controls unwelcoming. It doesn't better the likes ofStreet Fighter, but it might be more suited to many living rooms.
Google, Facebook, Microsoft, Yahoo and 11 other big tech companies are jointly designing a system for combating phishing email scams that try to trick people into giving up passwords and other personal details.The scams, for which hundreds of millions of emails are sent every year, make emails look as if they come from legitimate businesses, and direct users to fake sites – often on compromised computers – copied from the original bank or company. But when the victims enter details such as their username, password or date of birth, they are captured by the "phishers".Fifteen major technology and financial companies have formed an organisation to design a system, calledDMARC– short for Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting and Conformance – to authenticate emails from legitimate senders and weed out fakes.The Anti-Phishing Working Group (APWG) said more than 300 brands are hijacked by phishers every month.DMARC builds upon existing techniques used to combat spam, such as the Sender Policy Framework (SPF) system that has been evolving over the past 10 years. Those techniques are designed to verify that an email actually came from the sender in question. The problem is there are multiple approaches for doing that, and no standard way of dealing with emails believed to be fake or whose origin cannot be verified but which might be authentic.The new systemaddresses the issue by asking email senders and the companies that provide email services to share information about the email messages they send and receive.In addition to authenticating their legitimate emails using the existing systems, companies can receive alerts from email providers every time their domain name is used in a fake message. They can then ask the email providers to move such messages to the spam folder or block them outright.According to Google, about 15% of non-spam messages in Gmail come from domains that are protected by DMARC. This means Gmail users "don't need to worry about spoofed messages from these senders," Adam Dawes, a product manager at Google, said in a blog post."With DMARC, large email senders can ensure that the email they send is being recognised by mail providers like Gmail as legitimate, as well as set policies so that mail providers can reject messages that try to spoof the senders' addresses," Dawes wrote.Work on DMARC started about 18 months ago. From this week, other companies can sign up with the organisation, whether they send emails or provide email services. For email users, the group hopes DMARC will mean fewer fraudulent messages and scams reaching their inbox.The APWG said inits report on the first half of 2011, published last November, there were more than 112,000 unique phishing attacks worldwide in the period – though that was lower than in 2009, when phishing peaked due to the use of botnets to send out emails and host fake sites. Part of the rise was by China-based phishers, whose targets lay inside and outside the country. A total of 520 institutions were targeted in the six months, including banks, e-commerce sites, social networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter, lotteries, government tax bureaux and stockholding securities companies.The group's founders are email providers Microsoft, Yahoo, AOL and Google; financial service providers Bank of America, Fidelity Investments and PayPal; online service companies Facebook, LinkedIn and American Greetings, and the security companies Agari, Cloudmark, eCert, Return Path and the Trusted Domain Project.Google uses it already, both in its email sender and email provider capacities. The weight of the companies that have already signed on to the project certainly helps, and its founders are hoping it will be more broadly adopted to become an industry standard.
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFeaturephones now more profitable than mid-tier smartphones &gt;&gt; ForbesThis is remarkable:For many handset vendors, the world has turned upside down. Nokia's $40 feature phones are vastly more profitable than Sony Ericsson's $200 Android models. This is not how the smartphone revolution was supposed to turn out. The latest handset industry reports reveal a market still characterized by exceptional smartphone growth - and deep trouble for most vendors. Globally, smartphone volumes mushroomed by more than 50% YoY in 4Q11. Feature phone sales continued a gentle decline. But in 2012, volumes are still likely to be close to the billion unit mark. Most vendors fled this billion unit market 1-3 years ago, leaving it essentially to Nokia and a cluster of Asian white label firms.Nokia gets 13% operating margin on featurephones - which could buy it much-needed time in the smartphone market.Is Facebook Killing Google? No, But... &gt;&gt; Jeff MatthewsMatthews recounts his experience of trying to buy ads for his book on Google and on Facebook. He preferred the latter. And:if you really want your head to spin, think about this: according to a friend in retailing, the average Facebook woman updates her relationship status to "Engaged" within two hours of the guy actually proposing...so Facebook sells that relationship status information to retailers who have bridal registries.(Via Galavantmedia.com)Apple infiltrates the enterprise: one-fifth of global info workers use Apple products for work! &gt;&gt; Forrester BlogsThis may explain how Apple's share of the computer market keeps growing:Have you noticed an increased presence of Apple products in public spaces and workspaces in the last few years? Turns out that 21% of information workers are using one or more Apple products for work. Almost half of enterprises (1000 employees or more) are issuing Macs to at least some employees - and they plan a 52% increase in the number of Macs they issue in 2012.Demand for iPhones in China could skyrocket, analyst says &gt;&gt; LA TimesIn fact, could equal the rest of the world:For some context, Apple sold 72m iPhones in its fiscal 2011, a staggering number that required all the muscle of the world's most valuable technology company, as well as a network of Asian factories pumping out the devices at a breakneck pace. The sales came from more than 100 countries. Now Chinese consumers may want to buy nearly that many iPhones all by themselves. That may well happen, says Morgan Stanley analyst Katy Huberty, who in a note to investors guessed that Apple may soon be selling 57m iPhones annually in China, capturing 60% of the projected market for smartphone buyers there. That would be a sixfold increase from the 10m iPhones Chinese consumers bought in 2011.When you consider how eager people were to buy them (even if they were middlemen queueing to sell them on - so clearly with a market) it looks feasible.Google chafes as lawyers it hired sue company's Android partners &gt;&gt; BloombergHilarious, ironic or awful?"In short, Pepper Hamilton is accusing its own client of infringement," Mountain View, California-based Google said in the filing. "Pepper Hamilton should not be allowed to continue alleging infringement against the products and interests of its current client." Google, which has used Pepper Hamilton to help it apply for patents related to its Android mobile operating system, accused the law firm of disloyalty and said confidential information it shared creates conflicts of interest in the Digitude case. With so much patent litigation among technology companies there is bound to be some overlap among lawyers, said Scott Daniels, a partner with Westerman Hattori Daniels in Washington. "Conflicts are hard on law firms," Daniels said in an interview. "You don't want to anger your clients."(Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Anti-vaccine activists, 9/11 deniers, and Google's social search &gt;&gt; Slate MagazineA somewhat contentious viewpoint:In more than a dozen countries Google alreadydoes something similarfor users who are searching for terms like "ways to die" or "suicidal thoughts" by placing a prominent red note urging them to call the National Suicide Prevention Hotline. It may seem paternalistic, but this is the kind of nonintrusive paternalism that might be saving lives without interfering with the search results.Morozov argues that Google should do the same for vaccine wackos, 9/11 loons and climate change denialists. (Not his phrase.) Trouble is, how soon before we're being upbraided for any and every opinion we hold?Wisconsin uses Microsoft settlement funds to buy iPads for schools &gt;&gt; Apple InsiderFrom the couldn't-make-it-up department:The capital of Wisconsin is buying 600 iPads this spring and plans to buy another 800 this fall, all paid for using funds from the state's settlement with Microsoft related to consumer lawsuits claiming the company overcharged customers for its software.That's got to sting a bit in Redmond. Planned use: in schools, to replace textbooks with digital apps and ebooks. So not only is it using Microsoft's money, it's using it to not reinforce the Windows/Office monopoly.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice; [feedly mini]
Tuesday, then. What are you up to?
Google has reportedly fired the head of its Kenyan operations following the discovery that people working for it had beenpulling data without permission from the Mocality databaseand misrepresenting themselves to local clients.The company is also understood to be tightening internal procedures about the use of contractors for projects involving contacts with outside businesses.While the search giant has posted no more than a bare-bones response after an internal investigation,Nairobitech reportedthat the Kenya country lead for Google, Olga Arara-Kimani, formerly of the telecoms company Safaricomm, had left the company. The site reported that a member of Google's technical team in Zurich has also left the company following the investigation, which was triggered when an elaborate sting operation by Mocality demonstrated that staff working for Google were accessing its database without permission.Nelson Mattos, vice-president for product and engineering in Europe and emerging markets, said in abrief statementthat "We've concluded our investigation into the serious allegations about our use of data from Mocality's website in Kenya. We're very sorry this happened. We've taken appropriate action with the people involved and made changes in our operations to ensure this doesn't occur again."However he did not elucidate on what action had been taken. Google declined to comment further on the matter. It apologised to Mocality after its initial investigation discovered that allegations by Stefan Magdalinski,first aired on the Mocality blog on 13 January, were correct.Asked by the Guardian whether he was satisfied with Google's actions, and whether Google had made any reparations, Magdalinski responded "We're still talking".In his initial blogpost, Magdalinski said that Google had a number of questions to answer, of which his top three were:• "If Google wanted to work with our data, why didn't they just ask?"• Who authorised this?• Who knew, and who SHOULD have known, even if they didn't know?Google declined to respond to the Guardian's request for more information beyond its statement.The Nairobitech blog hassuggestedthat by failing to explain what went wrong, Google's Kenya operation is failing both its clients and potential customers.
Rovio Mobile learned from the music industry's mistakes when deciding how to deal with piracy of its Angry Birds games and merchandise, chief executive Mikael Hed told the Midem conference in Cannes this morning."We have some issues with piracy, not only in apps, but also especially in the consumer products. There is tons and tons of merchandise out there, especially in Asia, which is not officially licensed products," said Hed."We could learn a lot from the music industry, and the rather terrible ways the music industry has tried to combat piracy."Hed explained that Rovio sees it as "futile" to pursue pirates through the courts, except in cases where it feels the products they are selling are harmful to the Angry Birds brand, or ripping off its fans.When that's not the case, Rovio sees it as a way to attract more fans, even if it is not making money from the products. "Piracy may not be a bad thing: it can get us more business at the end of the day."According to Hed, Rovio has taken some more positive lessons from the music industry, including how it sees its customers."We took something from the music industry, which was to stop treating the customers as users, and start treating them as fans. We do that today: we talk about how many fans we have," he said."If we lose that fanbase, our business is done, but if we can grow that fanbase, our business will grow."It seems there may be more partnerships between Angry Birds and music artists in the future, too. Hed explained that Rovio sees Angry Birds as a bona-fide "channel" now, with people spending so much time in the app, it is competing with the most popular TV shows in the US in terms of time spent."Already our apps are becoming channels, and we can use that channel to cross-promote – to sell further content," he said. "The content itself has transformed into the channel, and the traditional distribution channels are no longer the kingmakers."Rovio hasn't worked with music companies or artists yet, although that is happening elsewhere in the games industry. Social games company Zynga, for example, has run promotions with Lady Gaga and Michael Buble in its Facebook games."We have some discussions with labels about what we could do together to give access," Hed told the Midem audience."It is possible to promote music content through our apps as well... We are positively looking for new partnerships, and we have a rather big team working on partnerships, so it's just a case of getting in touch with us and we'll take it from there"
What better way to celebrate the impending launch of SoulCalibur V than with a huge piece of street art? Thinking very much along these lines, Namco has commissioned graffiti artist Jim Rockwell to create a 16m mural depicting characters from the game. The publisher has just released an interesting time-lapse video to show how it was created.Rockwell, from aerosol art group ENDoftheLINE, took three days to complete the piece, which will become part of the collective's Great Eastern Wall art project, which is spread out through... well, Shoreditch, of course. Familiar Soul Calibur veteran Nightmare is depicted alongside newcomer Patroklos and guest star Ezio Auditore from Assassin's Creed.Naturally, this is not the first time London has played host to artistic video game marketing ploys. Two years ago, Capcom set up a Monster Hunter drop-in house in the West End, which was covered in artwork depicting the cult RPG title; and to mark the launch of Halo Reach, design agency ConceptArtspainted a huge muralonto the side of the Westfield shopping centre.I'm not sure about the end result of the Soul Calibur V project, but the video gives an intriguing glimpse into the intricate techniques used by Rockwell and his collaborators.SoulCalibur V is hitting PS3 and Xbox 360 on 3 February.
Two online security companies are arguing over whether as many as 5m Android handsets are infected with malware produced by a publisher via its official app Market – or just part of an "aggressive" advertising network.Symantecsaidthat "multiple publisher IDs on the Android Market … are being used to push out Android.Counterclank", which is software that it says is "a bot-like threat" which can also steal information from devices.But Lookout Mobile Security, which specialises in mobile and the Android sector,disagrees: "We disagree with the assessment that this is malware, although we do believe that the Apperhand SDK [contained in the apps] is an aggressive form of ad network and should be taken seriously."The dispute indicates that the conflict about the difference between malware and "adware" – where software on the user's computer generates intrusive advertising – has shifted from the desktop, where the line has been blurred over the years, to the mobile platform, and particularly to Android, the mobile operating system which increasingly dominates world sales of smartphones.At the same time, it reinforces concerns that Android has become the target for malware writers who find its open market system, as well as the multiple unofficial Android app markets, an effective way to spread malicious software. Both Symantec and Lookout Mobile offer free apps to protect smartphones against malware – which is an increasing threat: another security company, McAfee, noted in areport in November(PDF) that in the third quarter of 2011 "Android became the exclusive target for all new mobile malware", noting that while Nokia's Symbian has the largest total – due to its broad installed base – the number of separate Android malware threats had grown from fewer than 20 new appearances in the third quarter of 2010 to nearly 100 in the same period in 2011. No report has been issued yet for the fourth quarter of the year.At issue in the dispute between Symantec and Lookout Mobile are apps apparently from three publishers – iApps7, Ogre Games and redmicapps, where Symantec has identified 13 apps that it thinks pose a threat. Symantec said the "Counterclank" malware contained in the games is a variant of "Tonclank", which itfirst identified on 10 June 2011and said "may open a back door and download files onto Android devices … [and] steals information from Android devices."Counterclankcould push "unwanted ads" to devices and steal browser history, bookmarklets, account details, settings, phone number and other information. It can send that information to apperhand.com – a site whose owner details are hidden and whose home page provides nothing except the phrase "Hello World!".None of the publishers appears to have its own site, though that is not required to publish to any app store. But the lack of a company supporting the apps could raise suspicions about how bona fide they are.Although a number of the iApps7 apps identified by Symantec are no longer available in the market, thefree app which is there for wallpaper animationincludes the note that"We want to keep this app completely free. In order to keep the app 100% free, you will receive the following –• Search shortcut icon on your home screen.• Search shortcut on your bookmarks.This will help us bring you more cool apps like this in the future."The developer page for iApps7 linked on the app's page is invalid.Another app that Symantec warns about, called"Deal or BE Millionaire" from Ogre Games, includes the note that it"Allows the application to access the phone features of the device. An application with this permission can determine the phone number and serial number of this phone, whether a call is active, the number that call is connected to and the like."It is not explained why an app that appears to use the format of the TV game show "Deal or No Deal" should need to know what number you may be calling.Speaking to Computerworld, Kevin Haley of Symantec said the three publishers "don't appear to be real publishers … These aren't rebundled apps, as we've seen so many times before." Rebundling often occurs when apps produced by reputable publishers are copied and then re-uploaded to the market by smaller publishers or by individuals as though they created them. Such copying is a persistent problem in the Android Market, where there is no pre-approval for apps, although Google can remove them from the official market if there is a complaint or security problem.Lookout Mobile said "the average Android user probably doesn't want applications that contain Apperhand on his or her phone" but adds that "we see no evidence of outright malicious behaviour". The company argues that "almost all of the capabilities attributed to these applications are also attributable to a class of more aggressive ad networks – this includes placing search icons on to the mobile desktop and pushing advertisements through the notifications bar".Android allows apps where the user has given authorisation to push apps into its system-wide notification bar. Such authorisation is given when the app is first installed, and will be part of the "permissions" statement that the app requests.But for Symantec, Haley suggests that few people check or query the permissions an app requests before granting it access to them. "If you were the suspicious type, you might wonder why they're asking for permission to modify the browser or transmit GPS coordinates," he told Computerworld. "But most people don't bother."Google is trying to make apps' requirements for permissions clearer in the latest version of Android, 4.0. But it is often difficult to know why an app might require access to elements such as USB storage, phone numbers or other details. Users cannot allow or deny apps permission on an element-by-element basis; they can only reject or accept the entire app."Adware" has been a persistent problem on desktop PCs, with a number of advertising networks using affiliate schemes in which intermediaries were paid per installation – leading to situations where the software would be installed either through malware on websites, or with installation permission bundled into licence agreements for other software with the details buried in small print. Sometimes the adware would change browser settings or put up intrusive adverts. In the US, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC)won a settlement worth $3m against adware company Zangoin 2006.
A quick burst of 5 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAntiphishing standard in the works from Google, Facebook, others &gt;&gt; CNET NewsGoogle, Facebook, Microsoft, Yahoo, PayPal and others are working together on a standard that can be used across the Internet for blocking phishing e-mails.Not before time.Steve Jobs told Google to stop poaching workers &gt;&gt; ReutersAnd the Google employee was supposedly terminated within the hour.Two Weeks In, Google Says "Search Plus Your World" Going Well, Critics Should Give It Time &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandGoogle search boss Amit Singhal says the blogosphere is just "judging the book by the cover" and users actually love Search Plus Your World.The user feedback we have been getting has been almost the other side of the reaction we've seen in the blogosphere. The users who have seen this in the wild are liking it, and our initial data analysis is showing the same.Someone Finally Makes "Shit Silicon Valley Says" &gt;&gt; TechCrunchWe like."He had his first exit when he was 9."Notes on MegaUpload arrests &gt;&gt; Richard StallmanThe government of New Zealand arrested the founders of Megaupload to send them to the US for trial. They are accused of commercial copyright infringement. And many of their personal goods were seized, for no obvious reason. Here is what the US says about them.I do not advocate in general legalizing commercial use of music without permission. (I think all works meant for practical uses must be free, but that does not apply to music, since music is meant for appreciation, not for practical use.) So if Megaupload intended to do that, I won't criticize stopping it.What a fascinating distinction: if it's "art", then it shouldn't be free.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Monday, here we come! How was your gaming weekend? I played Lego Indiana Jones, Burnout Paradise and Rayman Origins with my youngest son. And you?
David Karp, the founder of the blogging platformTumblr, was 17 when he decided to cut the apron strings and move to Tokyo. With a smattering of Japanese and a sharp eye for computer code, the impatient Manhattan teenager embarked on a period of self-discovery. "I was holed up in the middle of this world where it was just me on the internet," Karp recalls. Within weeks, he had fine-tuned his computer skills and cooled on the idea of building robots. He wanted to be an entrepreneur. But there was one small problem: his voice."I was so silly – I tried to be very formal and put on a deep voice to clients over the phone so I didn't have to meet them and give away how young I was," he says. "I lied about my age. I lied about the size of my team. I lied about my experience. I was so terribly embarassed about it for so long. I should have just owned up."Karp returned to the US with a fistful of contracts (drawn up by his father) and a list of executives' ears to bend. Keeping up appearances, he set up a consultancy company – dubbed Davidville – and managed to convince Viacom and others to hire him.Now 25, Karp is at the helm of one of the internet's fastest growing startups. He founded Tumblr in 2007, aged 21, from the bedroom of his mother's apartment in New York. Often described as Twitter meets YouTube and WordPress, Tumblr lets its users curate pictures, videos and text in one place online. The site gained 75,000 users in the first fortnight, and now hosts more than 42m blogs, ranging from politics to music and pictures of "Accidental Chinese hipsters".Wearing a red check shirt under a grey zip-up hoodie, the shaggy-haired Karp has all the attributes of a web wunderkind. And now his $800m-valued startup boasts investors including Virgin group chairman Sir Richard Branson. But the early days of Tumblr were not all plain sailing."I thought I could totally beat the system and have this cool product that I would never need to raise money for, I would never need to sell out, because [Tumblr] would bring all the attention to this [consultancy] business where people would ask us to build them a website," he says. And it worked – for a few months. Karp kept up his consultancy gig until Tumblr began doubling its number of users every few weeks. "Our clients eventually got more and more pissed off because I wasn't returning their calls and at that point I was just totally fucking it up. Clearly they could see Tumblr was my one and only and they were getting shafted."It was time for Karp and Tumblr to grow up. Investors were circling, but Karp's youthful defiance prevented the internet firm being shipped across to the startup factory of Silicon Valley. Karp did sell 25% of his one-year-old company as part of a $4.5m funding round from Union Square Ventures and Spark Capital in late 2008. But he repeatedly turned down offers to move the company to the "hyper-competitive" West Coast, where he says entrepreneurs spend their time worrying whether Apple, Google or Facebook are going to steal their most talented engineers. New York is a more supportive city for startups, Karp argues, even if it does not have the obvious allure of Silicon Valley.Tumblr is worth a fraction of Facebook's $100bn price tag, but Karp is relaxed about its growth. Only last year, he says, he could see the computer screen of every Tumblr employee in its New York office. Now the company operates on two floors and is nearing 100 staff. "The real threshold was last year," he says. "For a long time I did not want to be [employing] more than a dozen people."The key driver of Tumblr is its meritocratic network of bloggers. Big names such as Lady Gaga and Barack Obama give the site some celebrity lustre, but the creativity is found in its most dedicated users. Photographers, designers and musicians can be followed, liked and "reblogged" – and 85% of Tumblr users post more than 20 times a month on average.In conversation, Karp could evangelise on the force of creativity for hours. At times he will suddenly pause, before retracing his steps and continuing with animated zeal. Karp says he loves Twitter, is lukewarm on Google+ ("I don't see any tools for creativity in there") and is not the biggest fan of Facebook "as a product". And YouTube? "The only real tools for expression these days are YouTube, which turns my stomach," he says. "They take your creative works – your film that you poured hours and hours of energy into – and they put ads on top of it. They make it as gross an experience to watch your film as possible. I'm sure it will contribute to Google's bottom line; I'm not sure it will inspire any creators."No doubt Google would disagree, arguing that a significant chunk of the 60 hours of video uploaded to the site each minute – an increase of 30% in the last three months – contains or inspires some form of originality.But Karp is unconvinced.  YouTube, he says, "was the opportunity to tell every aspiring filmmaker that if they worked really hard and really went for quality they could create great stuff. The stuff YouTube is incentivising is: build a huge subscriber base, put out a lot of videos, do the math and get as big a cheque as possible."Google recently did the math and found that YouTube pulls in about 4bn views a day – and has nowboosted promotion of its "Partner" programme in a bid to increase the quality of videos. "YouTube offers the opportunity but they sacrifice the tools in such a major way now," Karp continues. "YouTube is one of the most amazing creative tools in the world and I think it's gotten a lot worse for creators." No doubt the point is that Tumblr can close the gap.Like many of the hottest internet firms, Tumblr has no proven business model. The company's "lack of revenue" prevented some major Silicon Valley venture capital firms from participating in its latest $85m funding round in September last year,according to the Wall Street Journal. John Maloney, the president of Tumblr, who is the business foil to Karp's user-led brain,indicated in a recent interviewthat the company needs to attract "hundreds of millions" more subscribers on its route to profitability.For his part, Karp describes technology journalism's obsession with funding as "turpitudal" and insists his company is not in a financial arms race with Facebook, Twitter or other internet sites.Nor is Tumblr about to be acquired by a multinational media firm, he says. In 2008, when Karp became $750,000 richer by virtue of selling a 25% stake in the firm, the fresh-faced founder laid his intentions bare. "We would really rather not be gobbled up by a big media company," he spat, in an interview with the New York Observer.Unlike most other hot internet companies, Tumblr has not been plagued by buyout rumours – but that does not mean there have been no offers. Four years on, is Karp still adamant? "We were constantly tested along the way," he admits. "Particularly in the first three years, there were a lot of [mergers and acquisitions] people who would pull you aside and you'd think 'Well, shit, I could be a pretty rich 23-year-old with very little effort'". But he held firm. "We stuck it out. I won't say I really knew why."Sat in the half-lit bar of a hotel in London's West End, Karp becomes introspective. "There are a lot of rich people in the world. There are very few people who have the privilege of getting to invent things that billions of people use," he says, adding: "The joke now is what's the first tech company that we acquire. I hear AOL's going pretty cheap."
Google intends to buy Motorola Mobility (MMI) for $12.5bn. Is it a good deal? Following the announcement ofMotorola's financial resultsfor the fourth quarter, we can take a view. From the purely financial viewpoint, the simple answer is: no.Judging by the numbers, owning MMI will be a significant drag on Google's profits - by about 10 percentage points, making its earnings per share around one third smaller. In profitability terms, the merged company won't actually make any more profit than before. It might even make less.Motorola Mobility (MMI) financial results since Q4 2009Nor will being owned by Google necessarily help Motorola's profitability - unless perhaps it rebrands its phones as "Google". But even that might not help. For example, after it introduced the Motorola Droid, the first big-name Android phone in the US, in October 2009, it make a whacking loss in the mobile division of nearly $200m in each of the next quarters.AndGoogle has repeatedly said that it will run Motorola at "arms' length", rather than trying to absorb it into the Googleplex.Sure, we know the arguments:Google is buying Motorola for its patent portfolio(which is considerable) as some sort of protection for Android from legal assaults by Apple and Microsoft, among others.In fact in October Andy Rubin, who heads the Android division,said"Part of [the Motorola purchase] is clearly about patents. I'm focused on delighting a lot of consumers, but there are other folks focused on putting me out of business."It's an intriguing claim, since only Apple and Microsoft could be said to be attacking Android in any focussed way.Microsoft, however, seems content to get handset makers to pay it per-handset licence fees, and that doesn't seem to have put any of them off making Android devices - unless there's a threat that it might come back and raise the fee.As for Apple, although it has pursued HTC, Samsung, and Motorola, and does seem intent on preventing them selling devices with Android as presently configured, it's only been successful in briefly preventing sales of the Samsung Galaxy Tab in Australia and some European countries. Despite the ITC finding against it, HTC is still selling phones in the US; the ITC will make a final decision later this year. Samsung is still selling Android phones - lots and lots of them. It might not even be that hard for them to reconfigure Android phones where the software is found to be infringing.So what use are the Motorola patents? One possibility is that Google might warn Apple off - in effect, quite literally sue for peace - by exerting patents owned by Motorola, which include the basic IEEE 802.11 standard (for Wi-Fi) and that for AVC/H.264, which is used for the overwhelming majority of video encoding. Including by Apple, of course. Read independent patent blogger Florian Müller formore on Motorola's ownership of those patents. Motorola, he notes, is aggressive - to the extent that it is being sued by, guess who, Apple and Motorola in the US claiming that it is breaching its obligations for Fair, Reasonable and Non-Discriminatory - FRAND - licensing of essential patents.Furthermore, buying Motorola for the patents might even give Google back some of thecontrol it has lost of Android. With Motorola's patents, Google might provide a blanket patent licence to future official Android licensees, which would give them at least initial protection against lawsuits. This is similar to what Microsoft does with Windows Phone (and before that Windows Mobile) licensees: it covers them against intellectual property lawsuits as part of the deal.At the same time, "unofficial" Android versions might not get the same licensing. It might be the same underlying code, but Google could only license the patents to "approved" handset makers, leaving others - Amazon? - in the lurch and on the hook.But what about just selling Android phones - which was meant to be the resurrection of Motorola? If we set aside the patent question, is MMI a good investment? It's hard to think so. The company made an operating and net loss in every quarter of 2011 (and has made an operating loss for six of the past nine quarters, and a net loss for seven of them) . The worst part of that was its mobile phone business (which makes both featurephones and smartphones), which lost $285m over the year.Google, by contrast, hasn't made a quarterly loss since the middle of 2001. In fact, if MMI had been part of Google during 2011, the search giant's net profit would have gonedown, and its overall profitability reduced from nearly 27% of revenues to below 20%. Still not bad, but that sort of fall is the sort of thing that Wall Street punishes.And Google has already seen its stock fall after its own fourth-quarter results fell short of expectations, despite having a $10bn quarter. Search advertising growth slowed, andmobile advertising doesn't seem to pay as wellas desktop.Google revenues and Motorola Mobility revenues, by division, Q4 2009- Q4 2011. Google plans to buy MMIOwning MMI will - if everything works out - see the combined company's revenues rise by just under a third, but the mobile phone and set-top box maker looks more like an anchor than a balloon. Even when you factor in the $3bn of cash MMI holds, that still means that MMI will cost Google $9bn. How is it going to make a return - even just break even - on that?If Google had owned MMI as an arms-length company since Q4 2009, its profits would mostly have been lower. Will MMI's patents boost it instead?Not from the phone business. MMI's smartphone business has grown consistently, from 2m shipped in Q4 2009 to 4.9m in Q4 2010 (far better than the market, which grew from 172m to 297m). But growth slipped. In 2010 it shipped 13.7m; in 2011 it shipped 18.6m (36% growth), most of them in North America. Its year-on-year smartphones sales growth has been slipping through the year (from 76% in the first quarter to 8% in fourth). The market is growing faster than MMI's smartphone business. And half of the phones it ships are still featurephones, a business which is being hollowed out by cheaper Chinese handset makers.The tablet business with the Xoom hasn't set the world on fire. Over the year it shipped just under 1m, including 200,000 in the fourth quarter, which - if you accept the estimate by Strategy Analytics of 10.5m Android tablets sold in the fourth quarter, of which about 6m were "Google-approved" - so in that quarter Motorola had about 3% of the "Google-approved" Android tablet market. Or 2% of the overall tablet market. Or 0.7% of the entire market.The really profitable bit of the business is the "Home" division, which makes set-top boxes, but has been bumping along at around $900m revenues for the past year. It actually makes money - only around $60m per quarter, but at least it's profit, compared to the consistent losses in the mobile business, which has only made a profit in two of the past nine quarters. Even so, it would take 75 years for the Home business's profit to make back the money Google paid for the business.In other words, in purely financial terms, MMI is a dog.Faced with all that, it looks increasingly likely that Google will instead use Motorola's patents aggressively - as Müller suggests in the provocatively-titledWill Google break or save the internet?He thinks that Google might use the heft of those essential patents to force companies which are forking Android - such as Amazon - to fall into line and use its "approved" service, (such as YouTube rather than the Amazon video service):"With standards-essential patents, Google could wield another big stick to force non-compliant device makers, such as Amazon, to take a commercial Android license from Google rather than use the Android code under open source licenses."That's a possibility. (One wonders whether all the Chinese companies building Android handsets but with different default services would also be subject to the same pursuit, or if it would just be the developed world companies.) Less likely is the suggestion from Farhad Manjoo thatGoogle should close Android and wallow in the profitby licensing it per-handset. That's really not going to happen, because Google's business model - everywhere - is to disrupt by driving the cost of services down to zero, and monetising them by selling ads against them. Even if it goes after all sorts of companies aggressively with those Motorola patents, I can't see it charging per-handset for Android.So what should we expect once Google owns Motorola? If the handset business is run at arm's length, it's going to keep sinking in the Android ocean. If its devices get Google branding, that might annoy other Android makers (such as HTC, which has its own struggles at present).Most likely is that it will start using its patent portfolio - perhaps aggressively, even very aggressively. If there's really $9bn of value out there in Android that needs to be protected, we might expect Google to start showing just how it is going to do that quite quickly.
Apple, the computer giant whose sleek products have become a mainstay of modern life, is dealing with a public relations disaster and the threat of calls for a boycott of its iPhones and iPads.The company's public image took a dive after revelations about working conditions in the factories of some of its network of Chinese suppliers. The allegations, reported at length in theNew York Times, build onprevious concerns about abuses at firms that Apple usesto make its bestselling computers and phones. Now the dreaded word "boycott" has started to appear in media coverage of its activities."Should consumers boycott Apple?" asked a column in theLos Angeles Timesas it recounted details of the bad PR fallout.The influentialDaily BeastandNewsweektechnology writer Dan Lyons wrote a scathing piece. "It's barbaric," he said, before saying to his readership: "Ultimately the blame lies not with Apple and other electronics companies – but with us, the consumers. And ultimately we are the ones who must demand change."Forbesmagazine columnist Peter Cohan also got in on the act. "If you add up all the workers who have died to build your iPhone or iPad, the number is shockingly high," he began an article that also toyed with the idea of a boycott in its headline.TheNew York Times'srevelations, which centred on the Foxconn plant in southern China that has repeatedly been the subject of accusations of worker mistreatment, have caused a major stir in the US. Although such allegations have been made before in numerous news outlets, and in a controversial one-man show by playwright Mike Daisey, this time they have struck a chord.The newspaper detailed allegations that workers at Foxconn suffered in conditions that resembled a modern version of bonded labour, working obscenely long shifts in unhealthy conditions with few of the labour rights that workers in the west would take for granted. It also mentioned disturbing events elsewhere in China among supplier firms, such as explosions at iPad factories that killed a total of four people and another incident in which 137 workers were injured after cleaning iPhone screens with a poisonous chemical.Apple has come out fighting, which is no surprise given the remarkable success that the company has seen in recent years.Through the iPod, iPhone and now the iPad tablet computer, Apple has revolutionised lifestyles across the world and built up a cult of worshippers. It has also generated billions of dollars in profits, in part due to the cheapness of Chinese labour.But much of the firm's success rests on its reputation for "cool" among hip urban professionals and a generally positive corporate image. Stories of worker abuse at Chinese firms are a direct threat to that winning combination.In a lengthy email sent to Apple staff, chief executive Tim Cook met the allegations head-on. "We care about every worker in our worldwide supply chain. Any accident is deeply troubling, and any issue with working conditions is cause for concern," Cook said. He went on to slam critics of the company. "Any suggestion that we don't care is patently false and offensive to us… accusations like these are contrary to our values."Earlier this month Apple took the unusual step of releasing a list of all the firms in its worldwide supply chain as part of its 2011 audit of human rights conditions at factories where it has partnerships.However, the company's own list made for grim reading. It revealed that a staggering 62% of the 229 facilities that it was involved with were not in compliance with Apple's 60-hour maximum working week policy. Almost a third had problem with hazardous waste.Cook insisted in his email that Apple did not turn a blind eye to conditions in its supplier network. But he did warn that the firm was likely to discover more problems. "We will continue to dig deeper, and we will undoubtedly find more issues," he said.
When Mike Lazaridis and Jim Balsillie stepped down as joint chief executives at BlackBerry maker Research in Motion (RIM) last week, it was a reminder that in a world where names like Myspace flash in and out of the limelight, completing decades of traditional company lifecycle in a few  years, today's technology giants can quickly become tomorrow's also-rans.Social media aside, nowhere has the pace of change accelerated so much as in mobile. In 2003, the Canadian company evolved its two-way pagers into the world's first successful smartphone. Email, texting and calling were now all possible on one gadget.Designed for businesspeople, the BlackBerry crossed over to become a consumer status symbol, sported by celebrities such as Victoria Beckham to Paris Hilton. By 2009, RIM was valued on the stock market at $80m (£50bn).BlackBerry had the market to itself for four years, and then along came the iPhone. In 2007, Apple put the internet into its customers' pockets, and opened computing's new frontier.Others rushed in. The first commercially available phone to run Google's Android operating system was released in October 2008. Two years later, Android was outselling Apple in the US. Handset maker Samsung launched its first Android phone in 2009. By the end of 2011, the South Korean company was the biggest seller of smartphones worldwide.Nokia was the first to suffer. Four years ago, the Finnish company controlled 62% of the smartphone market in western Europe. But its Symbian software was never on a par with Google's or Apple's. Nokia is now the fifth-largest player in Europe, with 9% by the third quarter of 2011, according to research firm IDC."The last three years have taught most of these companies that they cannot rely on their market share, because the market moves very fast, and from one day to the other they can lose everything," says analyst Francisco Jeronimo at IDC. "If they ignore the trends they can go from number one to zero."Nokia has set out a credible path to recovery, replacing Symbian with Microsoft's more agile Windows Phone software. Last week, chief executive Stephen Elop forecast a return to break-even by March, reversing a €954m loss in the fourth quarter of 2011.While Nokia has responded quickly, RIM's reaction has been the corporate equivalent of covering your ears and singing. Until quite recently, founder Lazaridis was of the view that touch-screen phones would never take off with business users. Eventually, RIM realised it was time to change operating systems. Its first touch-screen phones running on the new QNX software were due this quarter. They have now been postponed until the end of 2012. In the meantime there have been two profit warnings and a service outage that spread from the UK to the Middle East and the United States, leaving many without email for three days.Lazaridis and Balsillie conceded defeat. They stepped back from management roles last week, but remain on the board. Internal candidate Thorsten Heins replaced them – his opening message: "I don't think there is some drastic change needed." Investors disagreed, and knocked 7% off RIM's share price.Where now for RIM? A break-up or takeover is possible. One of the Asian mobile giants such as Samsung could take a pop. Amazon is understood to have considered a bid last summer.There is still plenty of value in the firm. Business users are not yet ready to give up their BlackBerrys. Typing on a touchscreen can be slow and many people still like a 3D keyboard.The reason service can occasionally be interrupted is that it runs on RIM's own network of servers around the world, which pick up its traffic at handover points from mobile networks. The firm rents private internet lines to link those servers, and the information they send between them is encrypted, all of which means BlackBerry messages are hard for government and corporate spies to tap. No other handset maker can offer its customers that level of security.Then there is BlackBerry Messenger: instant messages sent via the mobile network and internet. Google, Apple and myriad start-ups have tried to establish similar applications, but none has caught on like BBM.The service is free, unlimited, and accessible to anyone armed with a second-hand Blackberry and a £10 a month SIM-only contract.  Last summer's riots brought to light the extent to which BBM has put BlackBerrys into the hands of a youthful, non-suit-wearing demographic.Salvation for RIM could lie in licensing its popular services to other handset makers and software companies. "We see a licensing deal and other potential software monetisation strategies as a path to unlocking value," says Jefferies bank analyst Peter Misek, who suggests BBM be made available to Google and Apple phones as an app and that a similar deal be offered to enterprises for the secure email service. And he believes RIM should licence its new QNX-based operating system, when it is finally ready for market, to other handset makers.BlackBerry is looking like a low-hanging fruit for its predatory rivals, but in the fast-paced mobile industry, fortunes can change overnight.
Another week, another rumour about a Facebook IPO. Stories that the social network is about to go public have been circulating for over a year now. One day soon, they will be true.The excitement is palpable. Facebook is already the stuff of Hollywood movies. This would be the hottest tech flotation since Google and would create a listed company that could, by some estimates, be worth $100bn, more than Disney and five times the value of Yahoo, the company that once nearly bought founder Mark Zuckerberg out for $1bn.Last week, Facebook's law firm, Fenwick &amp; West,temporarily halted trading in Facebook's privately held shareson the secondary market, sparking fresh rumours that an announcement is imminent.So what would life look like for Facebook after an IPO – and why does it need to go public? "The company doesn't need to raise cash for its business: it's not like they are building factories," says one analyst close to the action, who wishes to remain anonymous for fear of appearing a party pooper. "This is about paying off investors."It's also about size. Facebook now has more than 500 private shareholders, a point at which it has to start reporting figures to the US Securities and Exchange Commission. So it is looking increasingly inevitable that it will join lesser social-media lights, such as LinkedIn, Groupon and Zynga, on the US stock market.None of this new wave of dotcom flotations has lived up to the initial hype but Facebook is a different beast. More than 800m people have Facebook accounts. More than half its active users log on in any given day and they all share information that advertisers find increasingly valuable.On top of this – unlike Myspace, the social network that boomed and busted – Facebook has established itself as its own universe for other businesses. Zynga, the social gaming firm behind online phenomena such as Words With Friends and FarmVille, relies on Facebook for most of its business. According to the company, on average, Facebook users install apps more than 20m times every day. The company has created its own ecosystem of linked companies, a world where some of the most talented tech-heads on the planet dedicate themselves to coming up with new ways to attract people to Facebook with their apps.The company even turns a profit – reportedly more than $1bn last year, double what it made in 2010. But that pace of growth, and what lies behind it, will come under unprecedented scrutiny if and when Facebook goes public. If the stock market values the firm at $100bn, "they are going to need to grow revenue at a healthy clip to justify that valuation," warns Colin Gillis, an analyst at BGC Partners.The big advantage to a flotation for Facebook is money, says Sam Hamadeh, chief executive of PrivCo, an analyst specialising in private companies. Facebook has tended to "acqui-hire" talent – that is, buying small companies to add to its talent pool. The IPO will give it cash to buy firms and compete with Google, which has $50bn on hand. "Zynga has bought four private companies in the three months since its IPO," points out Hamadeh.But the big negative is scrutiny. "You have to deliver every quarter," says Hamadeh. Other tech companies, including Google, have tried to shake off the tyranny of managing a business for the quarterly results, but ultimately if you go public, you end up playing the game, he warns. "For a little while it's cute, but not for long," he says. And it's not just institutional shareholders who lose patience: staff with shares do too.Zuckerberg has ambitious plans for Facebook. In the long term, he would like the eight-year-old firm to be seen as a giant like Apple, Intel or Microsoft, he told theWall Street Journalrecently.But in order to do that, Zuckerberg is going to have to live up to Facebook's admittedly big promise. A $100bn flotation would value Facebook's members at about $125 apiece. Alan Patrick, co-founder of the technology consultancy Broadsight, calculates that Google's customers are worth about 15&nbsp;times that – and that for Facebook to justify $100bn, it will have to prove it can approach those sort of numbers."Everything has to go right for Facebook for a very long time," says Patrick. It will prove to be the defining IPO of this tech cycle, he believes. "It's of an order of magnitude bigger than anything that has gone before."But for all the hype – which, if anything, is about to get even more intense – there will be a lot to prove. "It's a classic dotcom sales pitch: 'You could imagine if – dot dot dot'," says&nbsp;Patrick.Investors will be able to join their own dots once Facebook goes public. Then we will see how many friends it really has.
Apple's chief executive, Tim Cook, may be top of the league of America's best-paid company bosses,newly showered with $378m (£240m) in cash and stock options, but his consumption has never been conspicuous. There are no superyachts, no garages full of luxury cars. Even after selling more than $100m in stock, Cook continued to rent a modest home. In 2010, with the multimillion-dollar Californian real estate market at his mercy, he eventually bought a four-bedroom, ungated property in Palo Alto for a grand total of $1.9m.There may have been growing concerns about Apple's human rights record at the factories in China that manufacture some of its products; but there was little evidence inits recent record-breaking resultsof consumers voting with their wallets.Apple has now amassed an extraordinary $98bn cash pile. For the frugal Cook, it is an almost embarrassingly large sum. The hoard could easily reach $150bn by the end of this year – more than the US government's operating cash balance.Wall Street speculation about how Cook will choose to spend his reserves is now at fever pitch. Unconfirmed reports suggest the company is about to take one of the biggest gambles in its history: an internet-connected TV. If it works in the way the iPod and iPhone worked, the iTV will light a fire under Hollywood's mighty film and cable television conglomerates in the way its predecessors disrupted the giants of music and mobile telephony.An exciting prospect, but a frightening one for investors, who would prefer Apple to share some of its profits before gambling them on new ventures. The company's late founder, Steve Jobs, was not a fan of dividends, and between 1995 and his death last year, Apple steadfastly refused to pay one.Under Cook, the mood music has softened. "I would characterise our discussions today as active, about what makes the most sense to do with the cash balance," chief financial officer Peter Oppenheimer said during a conference call last week. "But we don't have anything to announce specifically today."After such hints, analysts now expect a payout this year. They may have an ally in Disney chief executive Bob Iger, who took Jobs's seat on the Apple board. After successful collaborations on hit filmsToy StoryandFinding Nemo, Iger made Jobs his largest shareholder in 2006, when Disney paid $7.4bn in shares for Jobs's computer animation studio Pixar (bought for a mere $5m in 1986).Disney is a fan of big dividends. After record sales and profits, it increased its own shareholder payouts in December by 50% to $0.60 a share. The irony was not lost on Apple investors, who watched Jobs's estate, the Steven P Jobs Trust, reap $82.8m from 138m Disney shares.Around two-thirds of Apple's hoard is held overseas, which limits the amount of cash that can be shared with investors because the US government allows businesses to defer paying tax on money earned abroad until it is repatriated.Apple and two other technology giants, Google and Cisco, are lobbying Congress for a tax holiday on more than $1 trillion in offshore profits, but even so, Tavis McCourt at broker Morgan Keegan reckons Apple could fund a dividend from its US-earned cashflow alone, without having to dip into the reserves. This would produce a payout of between $10 and $11 a share each year. Failing that, a share buyback would be welcome – or Apple could blow a few billion on a major acquisition."Investors get scared about large accumulations," warns McCourt. "The more cash stockpiles, the more fear builds they could make a big dumb acquisition."There are precedents for this among technology companies, as fading giants turn to retail therapy in search of a pick-me-up. Last year, Microsoft paid $8.5bn for loss-making internet telephony group Skype, while Hewlett-Packard, the world's largest PC maker, parted with an extraordinary £7bn for the British search software group Autonomy after being faced with a decline in its core products, as tablets and smartphones gain popularity.The often-cited possibility of Apple buying a mobile phone network would get a thumbs-down from Wall Street. Networks are expensive: America's smallest national operator, T-Mobile, would have cost AT&amp;T $39bn had the takeover deal been approved. Apple's cash could buy it masts in its home market and two or three others – not enough to compete with a Vodafone or a Telefónica, but a surefire way of angering its best customers, the mobile firms.There are two obvious big-ticket investments Apple might contemplate. The first would be to expand its army of 350 stores, particularly in the far east. As it branches out, Apple could accept lower retail margins in favour of better customer service.Last year Chad Ramey, one of Apple's "geniuses", as it calls its technology helpdesk staff, quit its Arrowhead store in Glendale, Arizona after three years and published an open letter complaining of a drop in standards. The retail experience had gone from "something truly spectacular" to Walmart-style "big-box retail", he warned. Employees were "forced to worry more about pushing business leads and reaching numbers, rather than truly focus[ing] on the customer's problems," wrote Ramey. A few more staff in a few more Apple stores could help customers feel more supported as they wrestle with all the new technology in their homes. The shops could have an important role to play if Apple forges ahead with its rumoured foray into television.The company's lips are sealed, but factory reports suggest a fully-fledged smart TV is planned for later this year. Unlike Apple's existing TV gadget, a small box that connects your existing set to the internet, the iTV will come with a screen as well as a brain – and a subscription to iTunes, according to professional Apple-watcher Carolina Milanesi at research firm Gartner.In the same way that iPhone buyers cut the upfront cost of the handset by signing a two-year calls contract with a network, customers could spread the cost of a TV by taking a subscription to rent films and drama series from the iTunes store.Milanesi is convinced that the new device "will definitely come with a service". "It will be what you have today on iTunes, with a subscription rather than just pay-per-view. What are they going to offer that Netflix doesn't? It comes down to content. It has to." To persuade customers to spend more, or even swap their Sky or Virgin premium channels in favour of an iTunes subscription, Apple will need an eye-catching array of content. But exclusive first-run pay-TV rights do not come cheaply.Does Apple want to be a media company? Arguably, it already is. Gross revenues from iTunes, which totalled $5bn (£3.2bn) in 2011, are greater than ITV's £2bn turnover and on a par with the BBC's annual budget of £3.5bn. They are equivalent to a third of Amazon's $15bn takings in 2010 for global media sales.Of course, Apple may prefer to let others do the work. Its spokespeople took the rare step of going on the record to deny a recent report that it was planning to bid against Sky for English Premier League football TV rights.In any case, online TV and film rental services such as Netflix and LoveFilm have financial firepower and are already snapping up top-flight content. And, foreseeing the threat, incumbent pay-TV operators like America's cable companies or Sky in the UK will be manoeuvring to shore up their own position.What video-on-demand companies need in order to achieve lift-off is the kind of user-friendly, elegant interface that Apple excels at creating. But whether or not Cook decides the future lies in selling pay TV, he will find it increasingly hard to resist sharing the spoils with Apple's shareholders.
Here's an interesting coincidence. Last week, the European commissionannounced plansfor a "comprehensive review" of the EU's 1995 data protection rules "to strengthen online privacy rights" and "boost Europe's digital economy". The reforms include "a right to be forgotten", which will, the commission claims, "help people better manage data protection risks online" and enable them to "delete their data if there are no legitimate grounds for retaining it".In the same week, Facebook madethis announcementon its official blog: "Last year we introduced timeline, a new kind of profile that lets you highlight the photos, posts and life events that help you tell your story. Over the next few weeks, everyone will get timeline. When you get timeline, you'll have seven days to preview what's there now. This gives you a chance to add or hide whatever you want before anyone else sees it." Note the authoritarian tone: "Everyone will get timeline." Translation: you'll get it whether you like it or not. We will return to this later.Now you don't have to be a rocket scientist to see that there's a serious collision ahead between the European commission and a powerful US company that is planning an IPO. And guess what? Facebook got its retaliation in first. The day before the commission made its announcement, Facebook's chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, gave a speech to a technology conference in Munich. Her menacing subtext was neatlysummarised by theNew York Timesthus: "Concerned about privacy? Maybe you should be concerned about the economy instead." Translation: mess with us, Eurotrash, and we'll screw you.Sandberg's speech was revealing because it exposes the line of argument that Google, Facebook, et al will use to undermine public authorities that seek to control their freedom to exploit their users' identities and abuse their privacy. The argument is that internet companies create lots of jobs and are good for the economy and European governments shouldn't stand in their&nbsp;way.In laying down this line, Sandberg made claims about the economic benefits of privacy abuse that defy parody. For example, she unveiled a report that Facebook had commissioned from Deloitte, a consultancy firm, which estimated that Facebook – an outfit with a global workforce of about 3,000 – indirectly helped create 232,000 jobs in Europe in 2011 and enabled more than $32bn in revenues.Inspection ofthe "report"confirms one's suspicion that you couldn't make this stuff up. Or, rather, only an international consulting firm could make it up. Interestingly, Deloitte itself appears to be ambivalent about it. "The information contained in the report", it cautions, "has been obtained from Facebook Inc and third party sources that are clearly referenced in the appropriate sections of the report. Deloitte hasneither sought to corroborate this information nor to review its overall reasonableness. Further, any results from the analysis contained in the report are reliant on the information available at the time of writing the report and should not be relied upon in subsequent periods." (Emphasis added.)Accordingly, continues Deloitte, "no representation or warranty, express or implied, is given and no responsibility or liability is or will be accepted by or on behalf of Deloitte or by any of its partners, employees or agents or any other person as to the accuracy, completeness or correctness of the information contained in this document or any oral information made available and any such liability is expressly disclaimed".Quite so. The sole purpose of "reports" such as this is to impress or intimidate politicians and regulators, many of whom still seem unaware of the extent to which international consulting firms are used by corporations to lend an aura of empirical respectability to hogwash.The truth is that companies such as Facebook are basically the corporate world's equivalent of sociopaths, that is to say individuals who are completely lacking in conscience and respect for others. In her bookThe Sociopath Next Door, Martha Stout of Harvard medical school tries to convey what goes on in the mind of such an individual. "Imagine," she writes, "not having a conscience, none at all, no feelings of guilt or remorse no matter what you do, no limiting sense of concern of the wellbeing of strangers, friends, or even family members. Imagine no struggles with shame, not a single one in your whole life, no matter what kind of selfish, lazy, harmful, or immoral action you had taken. And pretend that the concept of responsibility is unknown to you, except as a burden others seem to accept without question, like&nbsp;gullible&nbsp;fools."Welcome to the Facebook mindset.
While games developers that make big-budget titles often struggle with balancing creative daring and profitability, browser games remain a haven for originality. They mark the point on the medium's creative frontier where the accessible and the unusual intersect, the perfect place to expand the gaming experience beyond the norm.Soul Brother, for example, at first glance looks like a fairly conventional platform game. However, it soon unveils a consciousness-hopping mechanic where killing oneself – rather than the usual self-preservation encouraged in most games – allows a player to take possession of the soul of a different creature with abilities more suited to each new challenge. A great deal less morbid than it sounds, it's also filled with cheery personality and elegant design flourishes.Meanwhile,Traal, which likeSoul Brotheradopts the pixel-art aesthetic of games from the past, offers up a strange and sometimes unnerving survival horror game, taking gamers on a bleak journey through 2D dungeons. Made in just 48 hours, it is a beautifully simple piece of interactive design.And then there's the remarkably slickInternational Racing Squirrels, commissioned by Channel 4 Education to raise teenagers' awareness of financial literacy. Essentially a sports management game themed around its titular tree-dwelling rodents, it deftly balances the serious message with a playful spirit and sharp wit, and is something with the potential to entertain way beyond its target audience.
Comprising spruced-up versions of three "tactical espionage" classics, this collection is nothing if not a value proposition. Things kick off with 2001'sMGS2, less a sequel than a postmodern meta-commentary on the game that preceded it (which, strangely, isn't included here). It's showing its age, but remains entertainingly audacious. The brilliantMGS3pits the player against a cadre of psychologically damaged mercenaries and contains some of the most absorbing, ingenious and emotionally draining boss encounters ever designed. Then there'sPeace Walker. Originally a hand-held game, it doles the action out in bus-ride-sized chunks and adds a surprisingly rewarding layer of RPG-style personnel management, plus a neat multiplayer mode.All three shine in HD, with the higher resolution serving to foreground all those little touches – from cartoon frogs to pregnant commandos' underarm hair – that make the series special. In short, a pretty stellar package.
If the purpose of every new release in a popular gaming franchise is to widen the IP's audience, what are we to make of Final Fantasy XIII-2? Here is a JRPG – never the most inviting of genres – that is also the sequel to a game whose story will take players the better part of 25 hours to get through.You have to ask, is it the best entry point into the Final Fantasy series for newcomers? Not only that, but will it attract series veterans – particularly those who decried its predecessor as, at best, an unnecessarily simplified iteration and, at worst, the moment the FF series jumped the proverbial shark Final Fantasy XIII may have sold a couple of million units but it was also loudly criticised by fans as being too linear in structure for the most part.Players were eventually allowed to explore its open-world of Pulse in the latter stages of the game, but first, they had to slog through 24 hours worth of battles and cut-scenes, during which their progression was confined to a series of admittedly beautiful corridors. It was a shock to series veterans, who complained that XIII lacked the mini-games, side-quests and other peripheral activities that made other FF entries so engaging.It's hard not to see a couple of Final Fantasy XIII-2's features as an answer to these criticisms. The linearity of XIII has been replaced with a set of levels housed by an open-ended structure that offers players a far greater degree of freedom in how they approach things. Furthermore, the breaks XIII put on how players chose to level up their characters is now a thing of the past; players can now level up the game's protagonists and their allies however they see fit.The game also contains quite a few NPCs offering side-quests, items for sale and mini-games. There's even a casino-style level where players can kick back and earn credits betting on slots or Chocobo races.Final Fantasy XIII-2 feels like a more traditional JRPG than its predecessor in terms of its size and structure, and FF fans that felt XIII was at odds with the spirit of the series will find much to attract them here. The only major barrier standing in the way of prospective players is the game's convoluted plot, which to some degree, demands that they know what transpired in Final Fantasy XIII. There's an attempt to bring newcomers up to speed in the form of a Beginner's Primer in the game's start menu, but really, they're likely to remain in the dark as the opening cinematic commences.FF XIII-2 kicks off with an on-rails battle between Lightning (one of XIII's main protagonist) and Caius (a brand new villain wielding a ridiculously oversized sword) over the city of Valhalla. As their battle demolishes the metropolis around them, Lighting and Caius are interrupted by the arrival of Noel Kreiss, a traveller from 700 years in the future, where mankind is all but extinct.In short order, Lightning sends Noel back through time with a Moogle – a cuddly-looking imp who transforms into a bow – to find her sister, Serah. Once Noel and Serah (and the Moogle) join forces, they explore different ages of Pulse and Cocoon across the space/time continuum in search of Lightning. Along the way, the pair learns that someone or something has altered space and time, and that Noel's bleak future isn't necessarily how the fate of mankind should play out.While this may all sound intriguing, the story is arguably one of FF XIII-2's weakest elements. As Noel and Serah travel from age to age, the plot's narrative arch seems to recede further and further into the background. It also doesn't help much that the dialogue in the game is frequently quite bad and the protagonists become harder and harder to care about. There are a handful of moments in the game's plot that initially sound promising, but this potential is left largely unfulfilled.That said, it's a testament to how many other strong aspects Final Fantasy XIII-2 boasts that players who enjoy this series or genre of game should still take a punt on it.The game's less rigid structure is the first notable improvement; Serah and Noel can move forward and backward in time visiting various ages through the use of time gates called the Historia Crux. These gates are unlocked with Artefacts the pair collect throughout their adventures and their time-travelling power can be accessed at any time (along with the game's save feature) by hitting the start button. This means players can jump through time and space whenever they choose, although they'll enter any world they re-visit at the precise point they left it. The Historia Crux goes a long way towards making FF XIII-2 feel more open-ended than its predecessor.Furthermore, the worlds it allows the players to visit contain a wealth of content in the form of NPCs, side-quests, shops and story missions. Not only that, their design is always vibrant and imaginative – and in some instances, jaw-droppingly beautiful.Each new level – whether it's a world in permanent eclipse, a futuristic, rain-swept, neon-encrusted metropolis, or an open plane where the inhabitants use a machine to change the weather – is a unique and inviting vision. The protagonists and monsters look visually stunning and their in-game models are meticulously detailed. There's an odd instance where an NPC or creature looks badly rendered, but these are exceptions rather than the rule.The game's ATB (Active-Time-Battle) combat system has been slightly tweaked for the better. Unlike XIII, paradigm shifts don't cause a break in the action, battles don't end if the team leader dies and players can switch leaders mid-battle.In boss battles, players are called upon to complete Cinematic Actions. These are essentially ramped up Quick Time Events, which only serve to make the battles look and feel quite cool. Players can also recruit defeated monsters into their battle posses, and level them up with components they come across. Monsters have set roles in combat, but players can stack three creatures in their paradigm decks and have the option of switching them out on the fly in battle.Final Fantasy XIII 2 is by no means perfect; while the ATB system looks and feels easy to begin with, players will encounter difficulty spikes later on that will seem unfair. Specialising in the early stages helps, as does kitting out the protagonists with decent accessories and weapons – and the game doesn't signpost this very much. Instead, players will find themselves required to do quite a bit of reading in the game's exhaustive menus.But then, JRPG purists and FF fans will point out that this sort of thing is part and parcel with the territory. Final Fantasy XIII-2 isn't straight-forward by any stretch of the imagination. It's a piece of entertainment that demands the player gives themselves to it completely before it offers any sort of reward.Players who are attracted to this sort of game know who they are and in all likelihood have already pre-ordered a copy. Series veterans will be pleased to learn that FF XIII-2 is a definite improvement on its predecessor.If you're a newcomer, answer this question as honestly as possible; are you likely to be put off a game by the idea that one of the protagonist's most powerful weapons transforms into an adorably cute imp that says "Kupo!" at the end of every second sentence? If the answer is no, then FF XIII-2 is well worth exploring. If the answer is yes, then move on – there's nothing for you here.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Sometimes, you just want to turn back the clock and try again. Square Enix clearly did with the spectacular but overly linearFinal Fantasy XIIIbecauseFinal Fantasy XIII-2is all about jumping back and forth in time.We find ourselves once more on Gran Pulse, three years after the end ofFF XIII. Lightning, the main character of that game, has vanished and only her sister, Serah, thinks this is odd. Thus begins a visually stunning and refreshingly open-world adventure, as Serah teams up with Noel, newly arrived from the future, to go and find her sister. Using mysterious portals, they start to leap all over space and time, largely in the order the player desires. This creates a fluid, organic and repeatable adventure, which will play havoc with your sense of time.Not everything is new; the excellent&nbsp;Paradigm Shift battle system&nbsp;remains. This deceptively complex interface is ridiculously easy,&nbsp;joyous even, to use. However, it can be fine-tuned endlessly, particularly now that tamed monsters&nbsp;can join the party. These can be levelled up, and "infused" for mightier powers, as well as adorned&nbsp;with cute if functionless accessories. Cuter still is the Moogle, a winged cat that helps out by transforming into a bow, being hurled&nbsp;at otherwise unreachable treasure and by carrying around a clock used to time your every battle. And this being aFinal Fantasygame, every battle is a lot of battles.FF XIII-2is a very successful time machine. Not only does it encourage the player constantly to move forward (even if that means going backwards in time), it takes the whole franchise back to the days when it was fun to play. And, like all the bestFinal Fantasygames, it devours the hours you spend with it.
Scarygirl, PS3, Xbox 360If Tim Burton were to make a side-scrolling, mock-3D platform game about an abandoned girl rescued by a super-intelligent Octopus named Blister, this is what it would be like. Registering high on the quirky scale it has both an art style and slightly dark humour that wouldn't seem out of place in A Nightmare Before Christmas. The game itself is rather more prosaic, with Scarygirl's jump and hover familiar from countless other platform games, although killing enemies is done with a bit of flair.Square Enix, download viaPSNandXBLABoom Street, WiiBoom StreetBoom Street is Wii Monopoly in all but name, so it's a game of buying and upgrading properties that charge other players rent in a colourful cartoon world free of bank crises and austerity budgets. Making money is good, bankruptcy means you lose and, like Monopoly, a four-player game will last at least an hour and a half. The interface takes care of die rolls, banking and all the fiddly elements that previously would have got lost behind the sofa, leaving you to concentrate on being a top property developer. On your own you'll spend much of the game watching AI opponents take their turns, which is just as dull as it sounds. With fellow humans, it's better, though hampered by a curious inability to save mid-game.Nintendo, £39.99NeverDead, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360NeverDeadIn NeverDead you're Bryce Boltzmann, demon hunter, who along with prim sidekick, Arcadia, must slaughter an endless legion of beasts. For most of us the dismemberments he suffers during these battles would wrap things up, but for Bryce they're barely a setback, and he simply rolls on severed limbs to reattach them. Similarly, decapitations are frequent and often helpful; you can even rip your own head off, freeing it to roll through gaps too small for the rest of Bryce. Accompanied by pounding thrash metal, the resulting chaos isn't so much intense as interminable, with wave after yawn-inducing wave running at you until something mercifully manages to eat Boltzmann's head.Konami, £49.99Games newsResident Evil 6Even though it was presaged by an unnerving Japanese Blair Witch-style viral, theResident Evil 6trailer  suggests there will be more action than scares in store for series stalwarts Chris and Leon when the game arrives on 20 November ...The long-awaitedMax Payne 3will be slightly longer awaited, due now on 18 May ...In advance of next week's release of the new console instalment ofSoul Caliburthere's an iPhone and iPad version out now ...Microsoft has said that emails sent to a number of players inviting them to join a beta test ofHalo 4are not from them, but are in fact part of a phishing scam trying to harvest Xbox Live passwords ...Meanwhile, Nintendo has declined to patch a flaw in the Wuhu Mountain Loop track onMario Kart 7, in which cunning players can take a hefty and unintended shortcut, citing the unfair advantage it would give players choosing to play the un-patched version.
The first thing you notice when you turn the key in the ignition of the Peugeot 3008 Allure is a little see-through Perspex screen that rises on top of the dashboard, in front of the steering wheel. Whoa! What the hell is that? "0mph" it says, in orange, until I&nbsp;start off down the road, when the numbers increase.Ah, I see, there's a small projector, projecting my speed on to the screen. So I don't need to take my eyes from the road to see how fast I'm going. It's like having my speed written on the road ahead, a&nbsp;constant reminder. You can get other information up there, too  – for&nbsp;instance, how many seconds you&nbsp;are behind the vehicle in front, to stop you getting too close – but&nbsp;you could argue that that information is already there. Nothing really beats simply looking. You can get too reliant on gizmos and gadgets. The speed thing is brilliant, though, especially for someone with six points on their licence. If all the cars I tested had them, my career as a famous motoring journalist might last a&nbsp;little longer.Not that this is a car I'm going to&nbsp;be going very fast in, albeit the 150bhp two-litre diesel model does&nbsp;plenty of low-end grunt. It's&nbsp;one of those crossovers that is becoming increasingly popular. A little bit SUV, but less socially unacceptable and murderous on the old planet; a&nbsp;little bit people carrier, but less like a bus&nbsp;to drive; a little bit estate car, but fatter and therefore roomier... It's a&nbsp;little bit anything you want it to be, really.Apart from lovable, perhaps. My&nbsp;nine-year-old nephew certainly wasn't much taken. "It's like a turd," he said (apologies for the language – he's been very badly brought up). Oh yes, why's that, Oliver? "Because it's big and brown and it looks like a&nbsp;turd." (He's not colour-blind – the one in the photo is not the one I had. That one was brown, or metallic "hickory", to be precise.) Nothing like anything I've ever passed, mind (my nephew's diet is as bad as his upbringing, it seems). But he does kind of have a point. Certainly it's not beautiful. It does get much better inside – it's spacious and pleasant and light, if you've got a&nbsp;posh one with a panoramic roof.I was a crossover sceptic, thought they were neither one thing nor the other, but I'm coming round to them, beginning to see the point. Certainly for a winter weekend in Wales, with lots of stuff and muddy boots, the Peugeot 3008 was great. And I didn't once creep above the speed limit by mistake, not even by one mile an hour. Ha, the column, and the famous career, live on.Peugeot 3008 Allure HDi150Price£22,795Top speed121mphAcceleration0-62mph in 9.7 secondsCombined mpg51.3CO2 emissions145g/kmEco rating6/10Cool rating4/10
When Twitter announced it was giving itself the ability to censor particular tweets or users in certain countries, the immediate reaction among users of the network in the Middle East – as elsewhere – was: #sh*t.Without overplaying its importance, Twitter has proved to be an invaluable tool for activists, enabling them to find up-to-date, accurate information and news, to publicise and to communicate among themselves, particularly in times of crisis. The hashtag #egypt was the most widely used on the social network in 2011, and a Dubai School of Government survey estimates Egypt had the largest number of active Twitter users in any Arab spring country.Such is the fear of governments from social networks, particularly Twitter, the service has repeatedly been blocked in Egypt, Saudi Arabia and elsewhere.But Twitter has proved to be among the most activist-friendly of social networks. From delaying a scheduled maintenance during the 2009 protests in Iran to quietly fighting a US court order to disclose private information on a number of its activist users, it is hard to accuse the microblogging platform of being a client of Middle Eastern governments. Fears that the$300m stake Saudi businessman Prince Alwaleed bin Talal took in Twitterwould affect its freedom were rapidly cast aside by logic: the stake, at only 3% of the company – hardly qualifies anyone to make extensive policy changes.Nevertheless, talk of using alternative sites spread on the network after the news broke on Friday. The site identi.ca was mentioned, as was open-source social network Diaspora, with users comparing their merits and disadvantages. The spirit of Jordan-based microblogging platform Watwet, which closed in June 2011, was also briefly touched on before being laid to rest: if censorship is the concern, a website under dictatorial jurisdiction may not be the best idea.Workarounds that would neutralise the risk of censorship began to circulate rapidly, the simplest being to change, in the user's profile, the country of location to one where tweets would not be blocked. Many users, particularly in the Middle East, do not list their country of origin to protect their identities – a discrepancy noted by social media experts. It explains why estimates of user numbers in Arab spring countries vary wildly.Others questioned how well Twitter's censorship could work. Social media expert and University of North Carolina sociology professor Zeynep Tufekci cited the impossibility of dictatorial regimes fighting Twitter "tweet-by-tweet". The usefulness of Twitter, after all, lies largely in multiple sources and routes of information than individual tweets. Tufekci is supportive of the transparency Twitter's move introduces, by effectively informing users of what has been cancelled rather than the content disappearing with no trace.It is doubtful that users, in the Middle East or beyond, will leave Twitter. The strength and breadth of its network makes it near impossible to replace or replicate on the short or medium term. Furthermore, it doesn't appear users would be willing to let go of their favourite platform: discussions about a one-day blackout of the network in protest appear lukewarm at best.Most importantly, though, it doesn't appear it will be necessary, given the softness of Twitter's censorship and its easy circumvention.As Twitter appears to be willing to fight for its users' freedom of speech, by pledging to report tweets censored or, as it has done before, to challenge court orders, users feel relatively comforted that the network won't sell them out. That trust, particularly for activists, is hard to replace.Mohamed El Dahshan is an Egyptian activist and blogger• This article was amended on 31 January 2012. The original referred to Zeynep Tufekci as socialogy professor at the University of Maryland. This has been corrected.
"The Tweets must flow", Twitter declared a year ago, and quickly became an instrument of fast-moving revolution across the Arab world, coordinating mass protests in Egypt and sidestepping the state censorship in Syria. But, the microblogging site conceded that the tweets would not flow evenly in every country.The company was accused of censorship by many users and threatened with a one-day boycott  on Saturday afterannouncingthat it could remove tweets in certain countries which have "different ideas about the contours of freedom of expression".Twitter insisted that it would not use the gagging system in a blanket fashion, but would apply it on a case-by-case basis, as it happens when governments or organisations complain about individual tweets. But the reassurances were not enough to prevent a torrent of outrage from twitter users and freedom of speech campaigners.Jeff Jarvis, the media commentator, said the move set the microblogging site onto the "slippery slope of censorship". "I understand why Twitter is doing this – they want to be able to enter more countries and deal with the local laws," he said. "But, as Google learned in China, when you become the agent of the censor, there are problems there."Ai Weiwei, the Chinese artist and dissident, put it more simply, posting: "If Twitter starts censoring, I'll stop tweeting".In a blog on its website, Twitter argued that the change marked an improvement as previously "the only way we could take account of those countries' limits was to remove content globally"."Starting today, we give ourselves the ability to reactively withhold content from users in a specific country – while keeping it available in the rest of the world," the blogpost said, citing the prohibition of pro-Nazi content in France and Germany. The company also said that any user whose tweets were withheld would be notified, and stressed that Twitter's transparency would be maintained by flagging any withheld tweets on an independent website,Chillings Effects, maintained by the Electronic Frontier Foundation and a group of universities.The announcement came a day after the first anniversary of the Tahrir Square protests in Egypt, in which Twitter played a prominent role drawing particular criticism from Middle Eastern users. More than half the posts marked with the hashtag #TwitterCensored were in Arabic.One tweeter from a Gulf Arab state, @abatmeem, parodied the Twitter logo by showing a dead blue bird on its back with feet in the air. "Twitter punctured the silence with its beak, and now it has provoked the tyrants to take revenge," @abatmeem tweeted. "Sorry Twitter bird, you are no longer that bird that could sing all tunes. You have become a parrot that repeats only what is required of it."Other critical tweets showed the blue bird with a red cross or black strip over its beak. Another Arabic tweeter, @alanoud45 demanded: "How much did they pay you, Twitter?"Twitter insists that the system will only formalise a method it already uses, where tweets are blocked or deleted after full judicial process. Being able to limit tweets to particular countries, rather than blocking them altogether, expands its ability to "let tweets flow".In theory the system could have been used last year in the UK to block tweets exposing details hidden by superinjunctions about celebrities, or in 2010 when Trafigura used a superinjunction to block the Guardian and BBC from revealing details about a report on activities in Africa. A number of superinjunctions have been abandoned after details leaked on Twitter, to the displeasure of some judges.Google, Yahoo, eBay and Facebook use similar systems to control what content is shown in which countries.In China, Google indicates when a search result has been censored. In the same way, blocked tweets will say: "This tweet from [username] is withheld." The blocking can work at the individual tweet or account level.The US civil liberties website, Demand Progress, opened a petition declaring: "Twitter's importance as an open platform has been demonstrated time and again this year. We need you to keep fighting for and enabling freedom of expression – not rationalize away totalitarianism as a legitimate 'different idea'."Some bloggers speculated the announcement could have been linked to a $300m (£191m) )investment in Twitter made in December by Saudi prince, Alwaleed Bin Talal, but thatwas denied by Twitter's counsel, Alex Macgillivray.Jillian York, of the Electronic Frontier Foundation,argued thatthe change was inevitable, given Twitter's global presence. "This is censorship. There's no way around that. But alas, Twitter is not above the law," she wrote."Just about every company hosting user-generated content has, at one point or another, gotten an order or government request to take down content," York argued. "Google lays out its orders in its transparency report. Other companies are less forthright.  In any case, Twitter has two options in the event of a request: Fail to comply, and risk being blocked by the government in question, or comply [read: censor] And if they have 'boots on the ground', so to speak, in the country in question? No choice."More from Twitter itself:It will give users the option to define their country as "worldwide", and that "will show all public tweets" (which would include banned ones).Twitter spokesperson Jodi Olson said: "We want to reach every person on the planet, and to make Twitter available to people everywhere. The distinction is there are countries which Twitter will not operate in as a business."Twitter's funding model is to sell adverts against users' tweets, and also to let businesses buy "sponsored" tweets and "trends". By setting up businesses in specific countries, it can sell adverts in those countries for local users. But the service still operates in countries where it does not have its own local operation.Off messageTwitter is not the first internet giant to control the transmission of content in certain countries.YahooWas sued in 2000 by French civil liberties groups over the sale of Nazi memorabilia via its auction facility. Yahoo had blocked the sale but argued that as it is based in California, Yahoo.com was governed by American law. But US courts ruled they had no jurisdiction in France; the French courts could enforce decisions about Yahoo in their territory.TwitterUntil this week, the entire service could be blocked (as happens in China) or tweets and accounts had to be deleted wholesale, across the world. Now the microblogging service Has a system where tweets and accounts can be blocked in particular countries. It will post them on the Chilling Effects website (which records takedown requests). But observers note that it is giving users clues about who and what has been banned – which could make the original discoverable.GoogleIs able to ban content by country: in China it would note when a set of search results had been censored (at the government's order). In Germany and France, searches are filtered.FacebookCan restrict access to content based on who is viewing it: if it's legal in one country but not in another, Facebook can prevent its viewing in the latter.eBayIn 2000 the auction site changed its policy after public pressure so that Nazi goods and memorabilia cannot not be traded.
Status update: Facebook will file for an IPO next week, perhaps as early as Wednesday, in a deal that could value the company between $75bn and $100bn,reports the Wall Street Journal.But Facebook company spokesman Jonathan Thaw told the Guardian that the social network is "not going to participate in IPO-related speculation".Facebook, based in Menlo Park, California, is said to be close to choosing Morgan Stanley to underwrite the deal for a 10% stake, which could amount to up to $10bn.Goldman Sachs was at one time anticipated to be the lead underwriter on the deal after it was brought on to lead a $1.5bn private offering of the social network's shares early last year, attracting a flood of media attention and client interest in the deal. However, in an embarrassing turn of eventsthe investment bank was forced to curtail the offering to clients outside of America.Goldman is still expected to rake in huge fees as an active manager on the Facebook IPO, although it will play second fiddle to Morgan Stanley. Goldman Sachs declined to comment.Morgan Stanley did not immediately respond to a request for comment either.
Facebook could fire the starting gun on the biggest-ever technology company flotation by filing papers for an initial public offering as early as next week.Morgan Stanley is close to being picked as the lead underwriter for the social networking firm's stock market listing, according to aWall Street Journal report. The company is understood to be looking at a valuation of between $75bn and $100bn (£63bn).Facebook is expected to offer a 10% stake, raising up to $10bn in an exercise which could also make millions in fees for banks and other advisers. The appointment of Morgan Stanley as lead book-runner would be a blow to Goldman Sachs, which was seen as the frontrunner after arranging a $1.5bn private offering of Facebook shares in January last year.The float would dwarf Google's 2004 listing, which is still the largest American internet stock market float. The search engine giant raised $1.9bn, based on a valuation for the entire company of $23bn.Expectations of an imminent filing with the US securities and exchange commission, the precursor to any public offering, have been high since Wednesday, when Facebook suspended trading of its shares on the private secondary market.The California company's law firm, Fenwick &amp; West, said it would not approve transactions until Friday, the end of the week, according to US reports. Suspensions are normal practice before public offerings, to limit insider dealing until all the information about the company is made public.
Almost certainly,Apple will soon hit $500bn in market capitalization– half a trillion dollars. So, based on its current growth, it's fair to wonder if it will become the world's first trillion-dollar company. (I'm far from the first to do so, by the way; seethis piece, for example.)The first question to ask is, who cares? After all, $1,000,000,000,000 is just a number, albeit a very, very, very big number. Yet, if achieved, it would represent more than just a triumph of one company's plan. It would speak to the way global economics and commerce have shifted – in both useful and worrisome ways.At the beginning of the millennium, people were asking this about another technology company, the digital networking giant Cisco. Then came the popping of the 1990s bubble, of which Cisco had been a major beneficiary, and the company has never come close to its top valuation.Apple is different. I can't think of another company that's been more innovative and – this is key – efficient and brutal, not just in its visible part of the marketplace, but also in the rear echelons of business that end users rarely notice. It is this combination that has brought Apple to where it is today, and the company's momentum appears only to be growing. (Incidentally, Apple is not the only possible trillion-dollar outfit; Facebook, which increasingly takes on the hue of an unregulated public utility, is another.)Let me tell you how Apple could reach the trillion-dollar mark – and why I doubt it will.No company has been more relentlessly innovative in its field in recent years, period. Apple's particular genius has been to expand that field, to be first or early in categories it defined, and then, when competitors caught up, pushed further. Its attention to customers borders on fanatical, not always in good ways. Still, Apple's arrogant paternalism, which has pushed me away, is nonetheless felt by many customers to be preferable to the slapdash and customer-unfriendly ways of most Windows PC makers and the other smartphone sellers. And Apple's dominance in the tablet market shows few signs of any plausible near-term challenge.Apple's quality control is best-of-breed, even if its devices are far from perfect. Coupled with the unquestioned best customer service, buyers pay much more for Apple devices than ones from challengers. Among Apple's main customers are mobile phone carriers, which resell to consumers, and Apple commands a huge premium in that market.Growth potential remains extraordinary, in part because the mobile device business – Apple's real cash cow – is evolving so quickly. Customers are surprisingly willing to buy expensive new devices every year or two, and Apple's customers are more willing than most to open their wallets. Moreover, the company's much-rumored move into television, which is becoming just one more kind of video, could be yet another major revenue stream.The supply side of Apple's power is known mostly inside the tech industry. Just as Walmart revolutionized the supply chain in its own category – and then brutalized its suppliers to create cheaper and cheaper goods – Apple has made its own supply chain into the most efficient machine of its kind. This means, among other things, that Apple can sell hardware at extremely competitive prices, and given its huge margins, the company is much better-positioned than its competitors to wage price wars. Tim Cook, who formally took over the CEO job just before Steve Jobs' death last fall, led the team that created this leviathan, and he's clearly pushing the boundaries.Apple is also increasingly global, moving away from its former focus on the American market. In years past, I rarely saw its products when traveling overseas; now, I see iPads, iPhones and Macseverywhere.Finally, consider that Apple has done all this in a difficult economic climate. Imagine what it might do if a robust global recovery occurs.Those factors, and many others, suggest that Apple has enormous possibilities for growth. For every dollar its share price rises, the company gains about a billion dollars in added market capitalization. Could it double again? Betting against Apple in any respect has become a high-risk undertaking.Yet, while I have no doubt that Apple will continue to grow and thrive, at least for the next few years, doubling its current value is a much more challenging task than it would seem on the surface.It's unwise, first, to assume that Apple's currently hapless competitors won't get their act together, at some point. Moreover, while Apple may make best-of-category gear, sometimes, "good enough" is, in fact, good enough – if the price is right.Second, Apple's increasingly predatory business practices could eventually attract more serious attention from competition authorities. Perhaps US antitrust officials will hide their eyes, but even Microsoft – the Apple of its day, in terms of market power – eventually found itself under scrutiny. Among other issues, Apple's scorched-earth patent war against Android hardware makers (though, curiously, not Google itself) and lockdown tactics with the iOS that powers iPhones and iPads are, I believe, blatantly anticompetitive. Microsoft's jousting with competition authorities created a valuable brake on that company's historic tactics; the rise of Google and others didn't occur because of that braking effect, but Microsoft knew it couldn't even try to repeat its earlier abuses.Third, speaking of abuses, at some point, Apple will be obliged to face a reality that and almost all other US tech companies try to ignore. As they achieve more efficiency, they are doing so at the cost of jobs in their own country and doing too little aboutharsh labor conditions imposed by their suppliers. Apple pays lip service to this issue, at least; someday, it may have to pay real money to persuade its customers that they're doing business with an honorable outfit.Fourth, it's difficult by definition to maintain margins once a company gets past a certain level of sales and profitability. Initiatives that moved the needle earlier barely register when you get to the kind of domination Apple is achieving.Fifth, macroeconomic factors do matter. Ask Cisco, among others.Finally, and most important in the long run, innovation does emerge to challenge our assumptions. Ultimately, monopolists and the most powerful enterprises find themselves on the outside looking in to new territories and markets, as they try to defend old ones. Apple is more focused and relentless than most, but it, too, will reach a point where it is brought down – or at least challenged – by a new reality it either didn't see coming or couldn't master.
@guardianworldIt's an affront on a free society &amp; could be a PR disaster for Twitter after it's much praised role in the#Arabspring&mdash; Tyson B. (@globalvybe)January 27, 2012Dear @Twitter, I've decided to join#TwitterBlackoutProtest of new#TwitterCensoredpolicy. I will NOT tweet on Sat, Jan 28.&mdash; luis prieto (@luisprieto)January 27, 2012Why boycott it just for 1 day If you really think it's wrong, talk about a week or a month &amp; I shall take you seriously#TwitterCensorship&mdash; Hani Arif (@haniarif)January 27, 2012Twitter's new policy on tweet censorship will make it increasingly difficult to not be seen as a tool of US-foreign policy during unrest.&mdash; Chanders (@Chanders)January 27, 2012Surprised there's not more outrage about#twittercensorship- although maybe there is and the tweets are being blocked.&mdash; Rory Wilson (@alnya)January 27, 2012Twitter, why don't you ban porn spammers instead of free thinkers?#TwitterCensorship&mdash; Noemi Shams (@NoemiShams)January 27, 2012#TwitterCensorship. Dear Twitter, I face so much censorship in Sudan as a journalist, you were my free and safe space. I'm grieving now.&mdash; ريم ايس كريم (@ReemShawkat)January 27, 2012#twittercensorshipAt least they have stated that a removed tweet will be prominently displayed as removed (as opposed to simply vanishing).&mdash; Matt Giuca (@mgiuca)January 27, 2012I wonder how much energy will be expended today debating#TwitterCensoredthat would otherwise be spent discussing#Syria.&mdash; Andy Carvin (@acarvin)January 27, 2012Share your reaction with@guardianworld
With the PlayStation Vita's 22 February launch rapidly approaching, and review machines running many of the launch games already in the hands of journalists, Sony's next-generation handheld is now very much a known quantity – and first impressions are very good indeed.But we were lucky enough to get an unprecedented insight into how the PS Vita came into being, what shaped it and what Sony expects from it when we attended its Japanese launch in late December 2011.Among the key personnel we spoke to in Tokyo were Takashi Sogabe, the PS Vita's designer, and Shuhei Yoshida who, as worldwide studios president at Sony Computer Entertainment, is in ultimate charge of Sony's in-house game development.PS Vita design secretsSogabe proved to be a fascinating character. A 27-year veteran  at Sony, it turns out he was the man who designed an object that was the most iconic gadget of its time: the Walkman."Originally, I was given a piece of wood, and asked to create the Walkman at that size," he said. More recently, he has worked on Vaio laptops and the PSP 3000. He candidly admitted that, as with any gadget, design compromises had to be made with the PS Vita."Speaking not only about the PS Vita, we always have a battle between engineers and designers," Sogabe said. "The original design of the PS Vita, for example, was very much thinner than the current retail product. From a designer's point of view, thinner is better-looking, but the engineers wanted to put all the features in. Maybe it will become thinner in the future, but the engineers would have to come up with a means to do that."Surprisingly, he singled out the seemingly prosaic dual analogue sticks as the biggest challenge when designing the PS Vita."We had been developing the idea of dual analogue sticks for a long time – the PSP used slide pads," he said. "Making analogue sticks this small required very much effort on the engineering side, so we are very proud of this technology – it was very difficult to design."Regarding the Vita's similarity in appearance to the PSP, he said: "We like that you think it looks similar, because we wanted to keep the identity of the PSP, but to evolve the design and brush it up. We came up with various patterns, including a clamshell one. Then we discussed it with a lot of publishers and settled on this shape."Finally, Sogabe raised the tantalising prospect that one of the PS Vita's most highly praised aspects, its 5in AMOLED touch-screen, could have been even bigger."The PSP had a 4.3in screen, but we knew the PS Vita would have a higher resolution," he said. "So a 4.3in screen would have less impact than if the screen was bigger. There was a lot of discussion, and we came up with five inches as being best. We also had an idea to make a 5.5in screen, but we had to think about operability, as it is a portable device."Yoshida: keeping the Vita games flowingShuhei Yoshida is Sony Computer Entertainment's man in charge when it comes to first-party games the company publishes on all platforms.He is refreshingly willing to admit past mistakes and detail attempts not to repeat them, rather than retreating under the comfort blanket of the party line.He admitted, for instance, that the PSP suffered through launching just a year before the PS3."The jump from the PS2 to the PS3 was a huge challenge, so we had to increase the resources of all the teams moving from PS2 to PS3. There was a lot of staffing going on for the PS3, and unfortunately, that happened just after the launch of the PSP."But that's not happening this time around. PS3 is selling very well, so we have a stable platform there, and now we are adding the PS Vita, we are, of course, shifting some resources around from PSP development. So compared to the rampup challenge that we had working with the PSP and PS3, we are in much better shape. And of course, we have increased the overall resources from five or six years ago."He was heartened that third-party publishers seem to have embraced the PS Vita, professing surprise that there will be as many as 33 games available at the UK launch: "I had no idea there were so many games targeted by third parties. Up until a couple of days before the Tokyo Games Show, I was working on the draft of my presentation, and talking about six or seven PS Vita titles."Then I looked and said: 'What? Are you sure that's for the launch, rather than the launch window?' As far as first-party games are concerned, we have many in the pipeline. So we are strategically spreading them out so that there will be a constant supply, because we don't have control over when third-party titles are released – sometimes we have to fill in the gaps with our titles."AR comes of ageYoshida also hinted that, in some respects, Sony is keeping the PS Vita's powder dry. He showed a demo of so-called Markerless Augmented Reality in which, by merely pointing the PS Vita at the packaging of Everybody's Golf, one of the game's cartoon-style characters magically appeared.He reckons the PS Vita will be the first machine to bring some credibility to AR: "We've been doing AR with PSP, with things like Invizimals, which uses one card," he said. "That was very cute and nice, especially for kids, but when you actually play it, it's very easy to lose sight of the card, then the character disappears. But using multiple cards, it's very difficult to lose all the cards."If the PS Vita only sees two or three out of six, for example, it remembers where the other cards are in relation to those ones. So you get a very consistent, robust games experience. As far as we are concerned, the AR in PSP was a good start but the AR in the PS Vita has way, way more potential. We have some very cool ideas about how to get our AR cards in the hands of consumers."Cross-play rivals the Wii UPlayStation Vita ... Sony has an impressive lineup of launch titlesPlus, Yoshida said, there are other technological aspects of the PS Vita that Sony has so far been keeping a lid on, or at least not showing in their full glory, such as cross-play, the ability to link up for online gaming with the PS3."There are many different styles of connectivity," he said. "With Wipeout 2048, for example, you have real-time network play: that's one example of cross-play. With LittleBigPlanet, there is a slightly more involved style of connectivity. It hasn't necessarily been publicised, but what we are talking about is that any character or item that you have on PS3, you can download and use on the PS Vita version."There's more in development, but you'll have to wait a bit before we show it. One of the tech-demos that we showed at TGS was using PS Vita as a controller for PS3, and we used LittleBigPlanet as an example. So that kind of thing is very exciting."And it also sounds very similar to what Nintendo is doing with the Wii U: "When Nintendo announced Wii U, we were kind of surprised, because we've been doing that sort of similar tech using PS3 and PSP. We can render PS3 images through a network to PSP. I understand that Wii U works similarly – the console renders images to the portable."So it was very natural for us to extend it and enhance it for PS Vita, because PS Vita has a much better screen, is more powerful and the connectivity speed is much better than PSP. This is something we'd like to maintain for the future. There are so many things that PS Vita can do, but let's not try to cram everything into the launch period."Changing practicesFinally, Yoshida went into some detail about how Sony has worked hard to get the all-important third-party developer community onside to a much greater extent than it was in the early days of the PS and PS3."The company has changed. When Kaz Hirai took over, he demanded that the hardware team integrate with our studio teams, specifically for the process of developing the hardware," he said."Actually, we have many of our tech groups in our studio working on the software SDK for the PS Vita. And some of the SDKs were developed by our internal studio teams, because they know games better. We talked about how difficult it was to get hold of PS3 devkits early – part of the problem was that they were gigantic machines, very intimidating, noisy and hot."But because we were involved with designing the hardware for Vita, our teams managed to make the devkit very small, like the actual Vita. That was a challenge for the hardware team, and they did a great job. Vita has many unique UIs and, if you remember the PSP devkit had a very thick cable."So, is that new philosophy one that Sony is carrying forwards for the PlayStation 4? "I don't know what you are talking about. We are still very excited by the PlayStation 3."
The bad news is, next month's Gamesblog Indie Social event is now sold out; the good news is, there are plenty more interesting gaming soirees happening over the next month or so.Here's a selection to note down in your diaries, from the indie gaming fun of Wild Rumpus to the more serious Platform 2012...Wild RumpusWhen: 2 February, 18.30-11.00Where: 93 Feet East, Brick Lane, LondonThis regular indie event mixes drinks, music and gaming into one unmissable night. You'll get to play the excellent competitive pole-'em-up (that sounds wrong)PoleRidersas well as physical gaming sensationJohann Sebastian Joust. Music will be provided by, among other, Ste Curran ofOne Life Left, who'll no doubt be attacking your ears with chiptunes.A Bit of AlrightWhen: 3 February, 10.00-17.00Where: Battersea, LondonAn intriguing event, which is looking to galvanise and celebrate the British indie scene. "I want the UK indie community to become even stronger," says organiser, David Hayward. "There's a massive indie development scene here now, particularly in London. It all used to be heavily weighted toward the Bay area in the U.S., and a lot of UK developers only vaguely knew each other. Getting people in the same room as each other can really build a community up, and I'd like to spread that around a lot. This is a start"The day will see a range of talks from some of the key names in UK indie development – and fellow Gamesblog writer, Simon Parkin. "There will be about thirty-five different sessions," says Hayward. "Ricky Haggett from Honeyslug will be asking game designers surprise questions about their work, and Holly Gramazio is doing a talk titled Deadly Serious Games. There's a fair bit covering subjects you might expect, but also sessions on stand up comedy, games heritage and playground games. There will be a few design workshops involving pen and paper prototyping, and some live games that may involve running, dancing, spying, etc. "Bafta Transmedia meet-upWhen: 9 FebruaryWhere: Bafta, PiccadillyThis event is billed as a chance for London-based designers, academics and enthusiasts to get together and discuss cross-platform projects and ideas. Speakers will include Patrick O'Luanaigh of innovative PlayStation Home developernDreamsand Joseph Lidster who worked on the transmedia tie-in with the BBC's Sherlock and Dr Who series'.Bafta Games Question TimeWhen: 20 February, 18.45Where: Bafta, PiccadillyA chance to get your gaming questions to a panel of industry veterans including Elite co-creator David Braben; Mark Gerhard, CEO of Jagex; Rebellion founder Jason Kingsley; and UKIE's new CEO Jo twist.Platform 2012When: 17-18 MarchWhere: University of HullAimed at gamers, prospective developers and gaming start-ups, this is an extremely promising weekend event, featuring guest speakers from around the industry (including the always unmissable Charles Cecil) as well as a LAN gaming event and more. "It is a full weekend where delegates can meet people who are at the cutting edge of this massive global industry, as well as taking part in a full programme of fun, games-themed activity," says organiser, Lindsay West.
Dance Central 2 ...Xbox Kinect; £39.99; cert 12+; MicrosoftDance Central 2 is a genuinely fun game once you manage to shed your inhibitions enough to properly get into the groove. There's an impressive array of songs to dance along to – including songs from the first game if you decide to port them over – and flash cards help you imitate the moves on screen and work out what's coming next. It's easy and fun to get into the rhythm of it, though the free style sections in which the Kinect mercilessly photographs you flailing around made me feel more than a little selfconscious. The choreography is fairly accessible and ramps up with a pleasantly challenging difficulty curve, and the training mode is excellent, letting you break down songs by  individual moves to practise properly. The story mode is gloriously silly, and two-player battles are genuinely good fun, though the game is missing an online multiplayer mode. Overall Dance Central 2 is a good  laugh, and well worth picking up if you have the space and the  unselfconscious friends to play it at parties.Mary HamiltonCooking Mama World: Outdoor Adventures ...Nintendo DS; £29.99; cert 3+; 505 GamesCooking Mama World: Outdoor Adventures is another minigame compilation in the same vein as, well, everything else Cooking Mama-related. A top-down Explore option lets you run around a holiday island, avoiding monkeys, snakes and other wildlife while finding and unlocking games to play. This mode ties the game together well, but the mazes can be a little tricky for youngsters. A Challenges mode lets you replay the games you've found, and there are item collection and decoration elements too. Good for younger casual players, but overall it's a fairly shallow experience somewhat lacking the charm of the main Cooking Mama series.MHCooking Mama 4 ...Nintendo 3DS; £39.99; cert 3+; 505 GamesCooking Mama 4: Kitchen Magic is yet another instalment in the dizzying array of Cooking Mama titles that have colonised shelves since 2006. Like the original, it's a fairly engrossing minigame compilation in which you follow Mama's instructions to prepare a range of meals, each one unlocking the possibility of making more. Sadly, the new game holds very little that's new or groundbreaking, and fails to do anything exciting with the capabilities of the 3DS. Controls, gameplay and game world remain much the same as they have since the first instalment of the series. Cooking Mama 4: Kitchen Magic isn't a bad game, but it feels like a wasted opportunity.MHJames Noir's Hollywood Crimes 3D...Nintendo 3DS; £29.99; cert 12+; UbisoftJames Noir's Hollywood Crimes 3D is either an engrossing, enjoyable puzzle game, or a series of extremely annoying repetitive loading screens. The puzzles themselves are well made: a wide mix of different minigames on a nicely challenging difficulty curve, with plenty to engage players of all abilities and a system of adjustable difficulties and hints to ensure you don't get stuck or bored. But the unskippable, slow, repetitive dialogue between puzzles is unforgivably irritating, the recap screens are unnecessary, and the ill-judged and poorly delivered story only manages to make matters worse. The addition of a "skip" button would make this a great little game.MH
The social network Twitter is facing a storm of criticism from users, after revealing that it has implemented a system that would let it withhold particular tweets from specific countries.The company has insisted that it will not use the gagging system in a blanket fashion, but would apply it on a case-by-case basis, as already happens when governments or organisations complain about individual tweets.The new system, which can filter tweets on a country-by-country basis and has already been incorporated into the site's output, will not change Twitter's approach to freedom of expression, sources there indicated.In theory it could have been used last year in the UK to block tweets exposing details hidden by superinjunctions about celebrities, or in 2010 when Trafigura used a superinjunction to block the Guardian and BBC from revealing details about a report on activities in Africa.A number of superinjunctions have been abandoned after details leaked on Twitter, to the displeasure of some judges.However, activists in countries such as Syria or China might be concerned that they would be unable to see information they need to know.Twitter insists that the system will only formalise a system it already uses, where tweets are blocked or deleted following full judicial process. Being able to limit tweets to particular countries, rather than blocking them altogether, expands its ability to "let tweets flow".In a blogpost, it points out that France and Germany restrict pro-Nazi content; under the US's First Amendment, tweets with such view would be legal in the US while illegal in those countries.Google, Yahoo, eBay and Facebook already use similar systems to control what content is shown in which countries.In China, Google indicates when a search result has been censored. In the same way, blocked tweets will say: "This tweet from [username] is withheld." The blocking can work at the individual tweet or account level.But some users have been critical of the move, which has already seen an update to Twitter's API, the means through which programs access and show tweets.Every tweet includes fields such as the user's name, time of the tweet and the tweet's content. But nowit will also include a "withheld_in_countries" field.Terence Eden, a London-based mobile developer,complained on Twitter: "I don't want to develop on an API which contains a 'withheld_in_countries' field. What's next, a 'for_your_own_good' field?"He added: "I helped develop a Twitter client that Chinese pro-democracy activists used. Guess that's dead now. Thanks, Twitter."Eden, who describes the move as censorship, said it would be difficult to work around because Twitter will identify which country a user is in by their internet address. "You can spot the censorship, but it's hard to route around it," he said.Twitter says it will continue to post requests for the blocking or censoring of tweets tothe Chilling Effects sitewhere it has recorded requests to remove tweets from its service.
