According tothis speech(which basically says that climate change and other rubbish problems can be put at the door - or at least squeezed through the letterbox - of designers), 60% of all the Porsche cars built are still on the road.Does that mean that they're the most environmentally sustainable cars? Even if they burn up a ton of fuel, if they remain in use for a very long time then that must mean that the total carbon footprint (which has to take in mining, smelting, manufacturing, plus of course driving) is less than if you buy a car, scrap or sell it and then buy another.(This meme is also taken up atAutoblog Green, which notes thatIf you peruse any listings of sports cars for sale you will find plenty of Porsches from the '50s, '60s and '70s available. While this may well be true for classic 356s and 911s, in the future the picture may well change as it seems unlikely that enthusiasts will have much demand for 30-40 year old Cayennes.Or indeed 926s. Or is it 924s? Whichever the ugly one was. (928?) Anyway, the UK Car site hasmore information about Porschesthan you're ever likely to want to know, but does suggest (on a speed reading which still took some minutes) that the company makes about 40,000 cars every year. That's a lot of cars - if this 60% figure is at all correct.We might assign this to "unproven but possible". Still, the idea of something you buy once and use forever is a good one, ecologically speaking. Is that true of anything else you own? Your computer, say?(Via David Tebbutt'sTeblog; added link for UK Car site.)
Okay, this isn'tstrictlyrelevant, but it's clearly the hottest technology story of the week: artificial intelligence researcher David Levy hastold Live Sciencethat humans will be having sex with robots within 45 years. And it won't just be about sex - from the news piece:My forecast is that around 2050, the state of Massachusetts will be the first jurisdiction to legalize marriages with robots.Levy and other AI experts draw our attention to current robot companions such as Aibo, as well as lifesize realistic sex-dolls positing that these two factors will one day merge in the form of authentic humanoid simulcrums, both amiable and shaggable.It made me wonder what thegamesof 2050 will be like (there, I sort of made it relevant in the end). I mean, in a world where you're able to form intimate relationships with a presumably programmable entity, it is utterly unlikely you'll be using a physical peripheral to control an interactive experience on a 2D screen.My money's on biomechanical interfacing (a la Existenz or Strange Days). Or nanobot-manipulated reality. Any ideas?
One for finance fans - Nintendo's market value has hit 10 trillion yen, thanks to rampant demand for the Wii and DS.From CNET:Nintendo shares have soared more than fivefold over the past two years, driven by blistering demand for the DS handheld player and the Wii game console. Shares in the video game maker rose 4.6 percent to 70,800 yen ($603) early Monday on expectations that the DS and Wii will lead rival game gear in the coming year-end shopping season.The videogame giant is now one of the country's three most valuable companies alongside Toyota and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group.Accordingto GameDaily.Biz, although Sony makes eight times more in terms of revenue, Nintendo's market capitalization is almost double that of its PS3-toting rival.Value has no doubt been boosted by confirmation that Wii Fit, the spiritual successor to Wii Sports, will be released in Japan on December 1, complete with its intriguing Balance Board peripheral - the dance mat of 2007. Or for UK gamers, the dancemat of late 2009, subject to Nintendo indifference.
OK, so nothing will fill the aching void left by Ze Frank's The Show, but Shaun Moriarty of Reboiled has provideda great animationfor his latest songette,A Social Network for Two. Sure you have the time....
After an epic three months, theWikigamershave finally completed the design ofChapter 1. Yes, all of thelocationson the Chapter One page have finally been filled in, and now we wait in anxious anticipation for the Coders to continue with their hard work. I'm sure they're more than pleased that their list of things to do has finally stopped growing.For now.Indeed, forward-thinking wikigame designers have already started working on the storyline, puzzles andplot for Chapter 2, in which our fearless (and clueless) hero/heroine Alex escapes to the next series of maddening misadventures. Already, eagle-eyed observers can spot the plot thickening; after the first scene-setting Chapter, things are about to get a little more creepy. The designers may wish to take a look at this gem of an article frombit-tech, describing the process of designing an adventure game.We'll post the link to the playable demo as it becomes a more finished article.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Today'sNetbytescolumn looks ateBay, because it has been in the news with the launch of Neighborhoods (social networking) and offline software (San Dimas).Now I'm going to give away the ending ;-)It seems to me that eBay spends quite a lot of time doing trendy things such as Neighborhoods, Blogs, Groups, Reviews, Answers, chat rooms, a Wiki, MyWorld and MatchUps. But as an eBay user, I'd much rather it spent the time and money improving its core service. To quote myself, things it could doinclude better search, more detailed categorisation and tagging, more space for feedback (160 instead of 80 characters), quicker action against scammers, lower PayPal fees and a real help service. In comparison, adding Neighborhoods is trivial.What do you think? What needs fixing first? What did I miss?
Like Google,eBayhas become a verb, and users say things like: "I ebayed a dozen books last week."This reflects the fact that it has been around for a long time - since 1995 - and is hugely popular. It now has 233 million users in 37 markets, including the US and the UK.Along the way, eBay has acquired a lot of rival sites and a few complementary ones, such as PayPal, Skype and the social bookmarking site, StumbleUpon. eBay also owns Gumtree, a popular small ads network, and 25% of Craigslist.And although the basic service has not changed much over the past decade, eBay does try to innovate.Last week, for example, it introduced Neighborhoods, a new social networking service. It's also beta testing a desktop program codenamed San Dimas, which allows users to do things while offline.This is pioneering software developed for AIR, the Adobe Integrated Runtime, which enables users to run Flash-based programs outside the confines of a web browser.eBay recently introduced a Facebook widget that enables users to putlistings on their Facebook page, and another dozen enhancements are inthe works. In particular, it's experimenting with a new search systemcalled Finding 2.0. This is being used in"the Playground", which is "a separate eBay site that lets you experiment with new features we've come up with, before we consider introducing them on the regular eBay site". Note that all the auction items and bids are real: it's not somewhere to play around.Finding 2.0 is a much-needed attempt to make search smarter. It wouldbe nice if it was more reliable at finding things, too.Social networking is obviously trendy, following the huge success of MySpace and Facebook. It also makes a lot of sense on eBay: it should help users with particular interests (eg Quad hi-fi not Quad Bikes) find one another and share information, and increase the level of confidence you feel when bidding. From eBay's point of view, it could also encourage people to hang around on the site, and thus to sell or spend more.However, eBay has a tendency to add whatever's trendy without the new features ever making a significant difference. For example, how many people know that eBay already offers userstheir own blog, and how many people actually use them? eBay also hasMyWorld, Groups, Reviews, Answers, chat rooms, aWikiand the ludicrousMatchUps.Maybe it's just me, but all this stuff looks utterly pointless, and I won't be surprised if Neighborhoods turns out to be a waste of time. The only things that make a real difference are the built-in mail and the discussion forums.There are plenty of things eBay could do to improve its core service. These include better search, more detailed categorisation and tagging, more space for feedback (160 instead of 80 characters), quicker action against scammers, lower PayPal fees and a real help service. In comparison, adding Neighborhoods is trivial.
Mitsubishi OutlanderPrice:&pound;18,450Miles per gallon:42.8Seats:7Good for:Soft vergesBad for:Hard sellsAdam is a nice bloke - he's witty, reassuringly overweight and has a feeble second serve that begs to be smashed to the back of the court. But he has one crucial failing - he is a successful estate agent. Over the years, I've learnt to live with this, but now I find fresh grounds to question our friendship. Research by Churchill finds estate agents have the worst accident record of any profession, narrowly edging ahead of restaurateurs and nurses. At the other end of the spectrum, it seems farmers, gardeners and aircraft fitters, of all people, are the safest on the road.Despite knowing this, I feel unable to refuse Adam when he asks for a shot behind the wheel of the Mitsubishi Outlander I'm testing this week. Still, I think, as I fatalistically assume the crash position, the other guy just might be an aircraft fitter...Mitsubishi has been making phenomenally rugged off-road vehicles since its mighty Shogun burst on to the scene in 1982, closely followed by the Warrior and the Space Star (most Mitsubishis sound like samurai-wielding heroes in martial arts movies). But though the Outlander shares many of the Shogun's swamp-wading and rock-climbing traits, it is a much friendlier beast.It's shorter than the average family saloon, though the raised ground clearance and large wheels do give it the command position so beloved by drivers of SUVs. It's also economical to run - the perky diesel knocks out more than 40 miles to the gallon and yet will whizz you from 0-60mph in as long as it takes Asafa Powell to run 100m. It'll also cruise happily at 100mph (if you happen to be on an autobahn). It achieves these figures by having a smart device which lets you choose between 2WD and 4WD as and when you think you need it. Powering two wheels rather than four clearly uses less juice. And as with all 4x4s, it's the potential rather than the actuality which attracts owners. They flirt with danger, but rarely commit to it: 'I could ford that river and then climb out the slippery bank on the other side while towing my mobile chip van, but, today, I think I'll just take the bridge...'The Outlander has plenty of presence, but isn't overly aggressive. Its flared wheel arches, chrome details and dimpled rear end, combined with its diminutive proportions, allow it to win over fellow road users rather than menace them. This ingratiating quality continues inside. Turn the key and the word 'Welcome' flashes at you; turn it off and it says 'Goodbye'. Adam, a master of the obsequious sales technique, applauds.Inside, Adam awards plus points for the split tailgate and the 'flexible nature of the living space' - the second row of seats 'fold and tumble' at the press of a button, while the third row features Mitsubishi's innovative 'Hide&Seat;' folding system, which takes you from two seats to seven and back again as quickly as your children can change their minds as to where they want to sit.Defying the insurance statistics, we manage to arrive safely, leaving Adam to mutter: 'If only Mitsubishi made houses...'martin.love@observer.co.uk
One of the world's first successful prosecutions against internet 'spammers' has seen two men sentenced to five years in jail in Arizona.The two, who sent millions of unsolicited pornographic emails and netted millions of dollars, were the subjects of the first US prosecution under new federal anti-spam laws, US Department of Justice officials said.Jeffrey A Kilbride, of Venice, California, and James R Schaffer, of Paradise Valley, Arizona, bought lists of email addresses and sent the owners links to pornographic websites, prosecutors said. They were convicted of charges including conspiracy, money laundering, fraud and transportation of obscene materials after a three-week trial and were sentenced by a federal judge in Phoenix.Prosecutors said Kilbride and Schaffer, both 41, had started their spamming business four years ago and earned more than $2m (&pound;1m) in commissions.Over nine months in 2004, Kilbride, Schaffer and an associate transmitted more than 600,000 spam messages, according to court documents. They were paid commissions based on the number of people who accessed the websites via the spam.Kilbride and Schaffer tried to make it seem as if they were sending messages from abroad by logging in to servers in Amsterdam. But those messages originated from Phoenix, prosecutors said. They were also ordered to forfeit $1.3m.Spam is used around the world to sell and market products, promote pornography and con people into buying worthless shares. According to AOL, which blocks 1.5 billion unwanted email messages a day, the most common junk subject line in 2006 was 'Donald Trump wants you, please respond'. Other top headings included 'Body wrap: lose 6-20 inches in one hour' and 'It's Lisa: I must have sent you to the wrong site'.In the UK ministers introduced regulations in 2003 to outlaw spam, but to date there have been no prosecutions.  Nigel Roberts, a computer expert in the Channel Islands, recently successfully sued a Scottish company that was sending him spam.
A third of Online Americans would like a flat-screen HDTV for Christmas, according to a survey (PDF) by Solutions Research Group (SRG) for Digital Life America -- Holiday 2007 Edition. The HDTV was followed by a new Windows laptop (20%), a digital camera (17%) and a new Windows desktop PC (14%).The top four items were the same for both men and women. However, the blokes had a greater preference for a Sony PS3 (10%), Xbox 360 or Nintendo Wii (8% each). The girlies, by contrast, wanted a Wii (9%) or an Apple laptop (7%).As you can see, a Blu-ray or HD DVD player sneaks into the overall Top 10 (6%) without being in either the men's or women's published lists.Notable absentees? There are no MP3 players in either Top 10, and SRG's commentary also notes that "Apple's iPhone was ranked #15 overall".Also, as it failed to mention, not enough people want aDukla Prague away kit.
Universal Music's Doug Morris and Sony BMG Music are talking to Warner Music Group about trying to put together a new service, Total Music, that would compete with Apple's proprietary iTunes Store, according toBusiness Week.While the details are in flux, insiders say Morris &amp; Co have an intriguing business model: get hardware makers or cell carriers to absorb the cost of a roughly $5-per-month subscription fee so consumers get a device with all-you-can-eat music that's essentially free. Music companies would collect the subscription fee, while hardware makers theoretically would move many more players. "Doug is doing the right thing taking on Steve Jobs," says ex-MCA Records Chairman Irving Azoff, whose Azoff Music Management Group represents the Eagles, Journey, Christina Aguilera, and others. "The artists are behind him."I suppose it could work with mobile phone networks, because they are still able to gouge users on price. But in terms of portable MP3 players, this is fruitcake economics. You can't possibly hide a $90 subsidy (for the 18 month lifespan of an MP3 player) in the price of a Flash-based machine that costs $45. (Prices of 1GB Flash players now start at around $10, and you can get a Samsung or SanDisk for $50-$100.) You can't even hide it on a $250 disk-based player, and the prices of those will have fallen further by the time Total Music hits the web.Actually, there is a cheap device where you just pay for the hardware and then you get an infinite supply of music for no extra charge. Billions of people already own one, and (at least) tens of millions of people have small portable versions. It's called an FM radio. In fact, most decent MP3 players (except iPods) already include one free.
There are obvious problems operating a touch-sensitive device from the front, so why not try doing it from the back?Daniel Wigdor(of Mitsubishi Electric Research Labs and the University of Toronto, Canada),Patrick Baudischfrom Microsoft Research and others have mocked up a device based on pseudo-translucency, via a camera, and the video shows how the LucidTouch interface could work. How long it would take to develop something practical and affordable is another matter, but I wouldn't expect anything to reach the mass market for at least a decade.New Scientisthas featured the idea, and talked to Wigdor, who said:We could use LEDs to record the movement, because they are both emitters and sensors," says Wigdor."You would have the back of the device covered with them, half turned on and half turned off. Then the light from the LEDs that are on would be reflected from the hands and back onto the LEDs that are off." That would generate a charge that could show where the hands are, Wigdor says.Patrick Baudisch has a47MB avi fileand is promising a PDF of the paper that will appear in the Proceedings of theUIST 2007conference held at Newport, Rhode Island, October 7-10, 2007. Baudisch also has somescreen mock-upsthat show how it would work in an ideal world.
The government has ordered a wide-ranging investigation into wireless computer networks amid concerns over the potential health risks they pose for millions of schoolchildren and office workers.The Health Protection Agency (HPA) will spend two years conducting lab tests and monitoring exposure levels to the wireless signals in classrooms, homes and offices, before compiling a health risk report on the technology.Fears over the potential risks of wireless networks have led some school governors to order their withdrawal from classrooms.Last month, Philip Parkin, the general secretary of the Professional Association of Teachers, said usage of the networks should be suspended in schools until a full inquiry into the health effects had been conducted. Health agency officials said there was no scientific evidence to suggest the networks pose a danger to health, and expected the studies to record exposure levels "thousands of times below guideline safety limits".Pat Troop, chief executive of the HPA, said that while there was no health reason for schools and others to discontinue use of wireless networks, "there has not been extensive research into what people's exposures are to this new technology, and that is why we are initiating this new programme of research and analysis".The  investigation will begin with computer models and laboratory simulations to measure the strength of the signals emitted by computers and their wireless base stations. Dummies fitted with microwave radiation monitors will be used to record exposures at the head level and in other parts of the body.The investigation will then shift to homes, offices and schools. Officials are particularly keen to measure exposure levels in classrooms, where tens of computers may be hooked up to a wireless network at the same time.Safety guidelines drawn up by the International Commission on Non-Ionising Radiation set an exposure limit of two watts a kilo for the head. Previous measurements of the signals suggest power levels are typically 20 times weaker than that at 0.1 watts a kilo.Michael Clark, science spokesman for the HPA, said: "Like mobile phone usage, Wi-Fi has undergone a rapid expansion and we feel there should be a proper scientific database on what the actual exposure levels are, so we can have a proper debate about it."Mr Parkin welcomed the investigation but said the HPA must also look into so-called "non-thermal effects" of the wireless signals. Safety guidelines are set to ensure signals are too weak to heat up body tissues, but some researchers fear the waves may cause damage to cells in other ways."If they don't do a thorough investigation, people will see it as a whitewash," Mr Parkin said. "What we want is a thorough investigation that can either confirm there is something to worry about, or completely assuage any fears people might have about Wi-Fi."Lawrie Challis, chairman of the Mobile Telecommunications and Health Research Programme (MTHR), which is responsible for investigating the health effects of mobile phones, also welcomed the study. "All the evidence is that the exposures are going to be very small, but nevertheless there haven't been enough measurements made, particularly in places like schools, and it'll be reassuring to know that's the case."A recent report from the MTHR found hints that using a mobile phone regularly for a decade or more may increase the risk of two forms of brain tumour."If the exposure from Wi-Fi turns out to be less than that from mobiles, then you wouldn't expect any health effects to be worse. But first you need to look at what the exposures are, and then if there are surprises with Wi-Fi, you need to think what health studies need to be done."
Remember the Fiat Bravo? And its sister, the Brava? Nice enough types. We saw them a lot, back in the mid-90s, going about the place, doing their understated, hatchbacky thing - and doing it well, too. They won a lot of awards for it.The Bravo was the three-door, the Brava the five-door. That was how you told the difference. If you tried to open the door to get out of the back, but found you couldn't, and ended up hammering on the window to attract attention, then the odds were you were in a Bravo. It was quite simple when you knew.But then, gradually, a few years went by, the century turned and nobody wanted to know either of them any more - neither the Brava nor the Bravo. Other hatchbacks had come along, looking like the Ford Focus, with exciting bulges around their wheel arches and extraordinary headlight clusters. Suddenly, this prize-grabbing Fiat twinset looked about as zesty and arresting as an annual investment report in duplicate. Seen now, in unforgiving daylight, a Brava seems stylistically closer to an Austin Allegro than to a VW Golf.So Fiat scrapped the Bravo/Brava pairing and came out with the Stilo, a car greeted by the marketplace with the kind of enthusiasm normally reserved for particularly long hairs in bowls of soup. That, too, had to go, clearing the way for this whole new production - Bravo: the comeback.No Brava this time - and no room for three-door/five-door confusion. Your Bravo comes with five doors or it doesn't come at all. Just to ensure that buying one isn't entirely simple, though, Fiat has made sure there are 15 separate configurations of the car to choose from, across four different trim levels, each of which (and this, truly, is the masterstroke) is given a name meaning roughly the same thing as all the others.Thus we get to choose between Active, Active Sport, Dynamic and plain Sport. At least, I say "plain", but Sport is, in fact, the fanciest trim level of them all (cruise control, red brake callipers, bell, buzzer, whistle) and a leap on from Active Sport, meaning that, logically, it ought to be known as Active Sport Sport.Still, it's worth persevering if you are interested in owning an eager and uncommonly handsome hatchback whose body has been given the kind of forward-tilted crouch that you would normally turn to an Alfa Romeo to supply. The car is quick and agile, and its highly insulated interior is kitted out with some surprisingly luscious carbon-effect fittings (the kind of car-related carbon it's OK to like). Nice new badge, too (classic Italian lettering on a dark red disc), used for the first time on the new Bravo, but eventually to be pinned to everything in the Fiat range.You get "Dualdrive" as a matter of course, which, in "City" mode, makes the steering a little lighter to handle at low speeds, and the car is also available with a "Sky Dome", or, as we used to refer to it in the old days, sunroof. The Brava and Bravo were spinning in their graves when the Stilo came out. They can stop spinning now.Fiat Bravo 1.4 T-Jet 150Price: From &#163;12,895Top speed: 131mphAcceleration: 0-62 in 8.5 secondsConsumption: 39.8mpg (combined)CO² emissions: 167g/kmEco rating: 6/10At the wheel: Gabby LoganTop gadget: Bluetooth phone systemIn a word: Debonair
MondayBBFC: no to Manhunt 2Wikigame Week 11: ElaborationSola Rola: new favourite mobile gameTuesdayHalo 3's short-lived appealFishing with SegaPS3 in Japan: cheap and whiteWednesdayHaze and co-opPrincess bridge interactiveWii Ware excites developersThursdayDIY gamesHot weapons to cool catsFridayGoogle goes gamesGames Media Awards
AsNick Carr points out, promises at the dawn of nuclear-generated electricity that it would be too cheap to meter proved false (curse you, radioactive waste storage and decommissioning costs!) but in the IT world, where bandwidth and storage are considerably easier to handle, it's sometimes too much hassle for the big guys to charge the little guys.Such asthis heartening taleof backing up a PC to Amazon's S3 service, which offers "cloud" storage - you upload your data to an account that might be on one, two, or many, many computers somewhere; all you know is it's there.The charge? 1 cent. Amazon Web services though had run into a gotcha:Thank you for contacting AWS regarding the payment issue related to your August 1st bill. We have found that some credit card issuers decline charges of $0.01 (USD), especially when the amount is converted to another currency. AWS is working on a solution for this issue. In the meantime, please contact AWS directly at webservices@amazon.com if this issue should occur again.The only puzzle is how he managed this.Amazon's S3 pageshows its charges as:Storage: $0.15 per GB-Month of storage usedData Transfer$0.10 per GB - all data transfer in$0.18 per GB - first 10 TB / month data transfer out$0.16 per GB - next 40 TB / month data transfer out$0.13 per GB - data transfer out / month over 50 TBData transfer "in" and "out" refers to transfer into and out of Amazon S3. Data transferred between Amazon S3 and Amazon EC2 is free of chargeRequests$0.01 per 1,000 PUT or LIST requests$0.01 per 10,000 GET and all other requests** No charge for delete requestsWe can't do it. OnAmazon's S3 calculator page, any reasonable backup (say 100GB per month, 5GB in) we would be charge $15.50. Which ain't a lot, of course, but when you can get a 500GB external USB2 hard drive for &amp;80 (in Dixons, for example), the hard drive doesn't have to be around long to win on value terms. Of course, that assumes it doesn't get swallowed up in the fire that might one day engulf your house..
I can't imagine many legitimate users are running out of space on Gmail, but Google has just announced that it is making more space available. Theofficial blog says"we are speeding up our counter and giving out more free storage". According toGooglified: The new entries indicate that the storage will be:2912MB by October 11, 2007 midnight Google time 4.2GB by the 23rd this month 6GB by January 4th next year 42GB by the year of 2038Microsoft has also added to the storage pile andthe SkyDrive blogsays "we're doubling everyone's storage to 1 GB!"This is definitely underwhelming when you consider that Xdrive (bought by AOL) offers 5GB of free online disk storage. On the other hand, SkyDrive offers a lot more than Google's Gdrive, which must now be one of the world's best known products that doesn't actually exist. A quickGoogleshows:Results 1 - 10 of about 1,160,000 for gdrive. (0.10 seconds)
Better late than never dept:NeoSmarthas a brief rundown on SP3, which has started beta testing. It sounds like a third of a gig of goodness, including features backported from Vista.Windows XP SP3 now contains 1,073 patches/hotfixes, not including those in previous service packs. Of the 1,073 included updates, 114 are for security-related issues. The remainder are updates to performance &amp; reliability, bugfixes, improvements to kernel-mode driver modules, and many BSOD fixes.As with Service Pack 2, these include both previously publicly-available updates (whether through support.microsoft.com or via Windows Update) as well as any and all privately-redistributed updates for select customers or partners with specific problems/scenarios.And all free, of course.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Blue Goo? Eric Schmidt shows David Cameron the ropes. Photograph: Stefan Roussea/PATory leader David Cameron is in California at the moment, and yesterday he turned up at Google's annual Zeitgeist event to deliver a speech. TheBBC reportsthat it was a pretty standard sort of 'politics 2.0' number, full of praise for Google's approach to information and the potential impact on the future of politics."In the days before the information revolution, you could just about argue that you had to trust the state because it wasn't practical to share information, for people to make choices and take control."But, thanks to all of you, that isn't true any more. In commerce and in our culture you are helping to make the top-down model history."You have shown us the future - and it's bottom-up."There's more atConservative Homeif you're interested.The benefits for Cameron and the Tories are obvious - not only does he get a bit of 21st century glamour (cf his YouTube-style video diaryWebCameron), but he can also drop by to visit Arnold Schwarzenegger to boost both his green credentials and his celebrity sparkle.But what's in it for Google? Why bother associating yourself with the opposition leader of the UK?Well, it's pretty simple. As my colleague Richard Wray reported this time last year,Google is desperate to boost its political influence on both sides of the Atlantic.As Google gets ever bigger and more powerful, it has discovered that sometimes it needs friends in high office to help it get its message heard - and getting access to Cameron would be a snip for Google, which has very close links to the Tories.Why? The head of PR for Google in the UK, Rachel Whetstone, is a former political aide to ex-Tory leader Michael Howard, and her husband is Steve Hilton, Cameron's chief strategist. For a bonus point, Whetstone is also godmother to WebCameron's first child.Given the hotline between Google's London HQ in Victoria and the Tory's central office in Millbank, I'm sure it wasn't that difficult to arrange the gig.
The games industryliggershacks descended upon the high class Soho Revue Bar last night for an evening of burlesque revelry and award punting at the Games Media Awards. While our own Greg was nominated, he sadly didn't take away the gong, which went to The Guardian's Steve Boxer instead. Keeping it in the family!There was much amusement had by all. If you'd like to see the carnage, pop over to thegamesblog's flickr sitefor a few faces which correspond to industry names.Keep reading for a list of all the winners:Specialist Games Media (Online)Games Website - News Winner: Eurogamer.net Finalists: Gamespot.co.uk, Joystiq.com, Kotaku.com, Spong.comGames Website - Reviews &amp; Features Winner: Eurogamer.net Finalists: GamesRadar.co.uk, ComputerAndVideoGames.com, IGN (UK), Spong.comGames Podcast Winner: Gamespot Finalists: Cheap Ass Gamer's CAGcast, Gamesweasel, One Life Left, PC GamerNon-Commercial Website or Blog Winner: UK: Resistance Finalists: Destructoid, Game Over, Yeah, Idle Thumbs, WonderlandWriter in Specialist Digital Media Winner: Tom Bramwell (Eurogamer.net) Finalists: Alex Sassoon Coby (Gamespot), Andy Robinson (cvg.com), Gary Cutlack (UK R), Ryan King (oxm.co.uk)Mainstream MediaGames Writer on a National Newspaper Winner: Steve Boxer (The Guardian) Finalists: Greg Howson (The Guardian), Jonathan Weinberg (The Sun), Nigel Kendall (The Times), Rebecca Armstrong (Independent)Games Writer on a Lifestyle Magazine Winner: Simon Munk (FHM) Finalists: Chris Burke (Loaded), Daniel Booth (Nuts), Rob Waugh (Live Magazine), Tony Horgan (Stuff)Games Writer on a Mainstream Website Winner: Darren Waters (BBC) Finalists: David Clack (FHM), David McComb (Empire Online), Mark Gilbert (News Of The World), Stephen Daultrey (Maxim)Regional Games Column Winner: Ewan Ross (Liverpool Echo) Finalists: David Crookes (Bolton Evening News), Steve Lawson (Daily Record), Steve Wollaston (Midland Weekly Media), Steven Fox (Metro)Best Broadcast on Mainstream TV or Radio Winnner: Johnny Minkley (Radio One) Finalists: Game On (BBC Five Live), Gamer.TV (Bravo), Matt Cuttle (Gamers), Re:Loaded (Channel M)Specialist (Print)PlayStation Magazine Winner: Official PlayStation Magazine (Future) Finalists: Play (Imagine), PSM3 (Future), PSU3 (Imagine), PSW (Future)Multi-Format Magazine Winner: Games™ Finalists: GamesMaster (Future), Edge (Future), Retro Gamer (Imagine)Xbox Magazine Winner: Official Xbox 360 Magazine (Future) Finalists: 360 (Imagine), 360 Gamer (Uncooked), X360 (Imagine), Xbox World 360 (Future)Nintendo Magazine Winner: Official Nintendo Magazine (Future) Finalists: NGamer (Future), nRevolution (Imagine)Best Writer on a Specialist Magazine Winner: Kieron Gillen (PC Gamer, Future) Finalists: Darren Jones (Retro Gamer, Imagine), Jon Blyth (PC Zone, Future), Martin Mathers (Official Nintendo Magazine, Future), Tony Mott (Edge, Future)Overall Games Magazine Winner: GamesTMGames Media Legend Sponsored by SYSTEM 3 Winner: Gary Penn
British researchers say they have developed a new technology that will allow police to track suspicious individuals over CCTV more efficiently.The system, which uses computer software to monitor and break down live television images, is able to track a moving face through a crowd.Engineers at British defence company BAE Systems, which is working on the technology, claim it is even able to automatically follow a target even if they change their appearance by changing their clothes or hiding beneath a hat."Today the effectiveness of CCTV surveillance relies on a small, highly-trained team to identify and track suspicious individuals," said Andrew Cooke, project manager at BAE Systems."Automating elements of the system - and employing techniques to prevent suspects from throwing a team off their scent – enables a single operative to track multiple targets with as much, or even greater, precision than before."The Integrated Surveillance of Crowded Areas for Public Security (Iscaps) project is part of a joint initiative with around Europe to develop security systems for potential deployment around the continent.The scheme, which is partially funded by the European Commission, started just months before the London bombings in July 2005, which claimed 56 lives. CCTV pictures were crucial in identifying the bombers after the attack had taken place, but proved little help in preventing the actions of the bombers.A Home Office study in 2005 found that CCTV was largely ineffective at preventing crime, but claimed much of the problems were due to lack of proper monitoring. Only half of surveillance control rooms were staffed for 24 hours a day.The development comes as law enforcement officials step up their attempts to keep tabs on those suspected of terrorist offences.The Guardian recently reported that intelligence agencies were using military aircraft to monitor targets and eavesdrop on their conversations. The Britten-Norman Islander aircraft, used by police to trace criminals targets from altitude, are now understood to being deployed in counter-terrorist operations under the command of RAF pilots.
As the irascible genius Gregory House, Hugh Laurie brings life to the character who we all imagine must exist: the doctor who is able to figure out - from all the conflicting possible diseases a patient might have - which one their symptoms actually indicate.In the TV series House, he and his team of doctors compete to pick the tests and provide the answer to the question "what's wrong with this person?".Here's an example episode: a teacher starts speaking rubbish, yet can still write sensibly; then she collapses, and gets worse and worse. Is it a brain tumour? No, that doesn't fit newer symptoms. In the end, the cause is a tapeworm.The mystery comes because the human body is so complicated: we are an emergent property of lots of interconnected systems, which all have their own way of reacting to change. One disease or disruption may present itself with many of the same symptoms as another, and in the end it all comes down to observation, knowledge and intuition.Well, right now I need House for my computer. Something truly weird is going on, and I've no idea what; though trying to diagnose it has focussed my mind on a particular problem that lies ahead, as our computers get more powerful.The patient here is almost three years old (so that's two generations, or 50 to 60 years old in human years). It's a laptop with 1GB of RAM (512 base, 512 added), and it's running the very latest version of Apple's OSX – which means that viruses can be ruled out. (This makes my problem a lot simpler than House's, who always has to consider virus-induced illnesses; and a lot simpler than if we were considering a Windows machine, when we'd need a tox screen at the very least.)The other day my computer suddenly couldn't find any net addresses, despite being on our network. No problem – this is a documented (doctors would say chronic) flaw in Apple's low-level program. It's an old injury that hurts in the rain. The cure? A restart.Later on, watching one of a series of videos transferred to disc, the video became messy, then a few minutes later started showing part of a completely different episode.I was spooked, went home and ran a disk check on the machine. No problems, said the check. But, of course, House's team are always coming back saying the MRI or the PET scan found nothing. But if the patient's still ill, that only means you haven't found the real cause.I tried to write a new blog post. The program said it had never heard of this "new" stuff I was talking about. Restarted machine: blog program worked. Later on, returned to find the machine had had a stroke – well, was showing a black screen - and could only be revived with the paddles (sorry, a forced restart). "Clear!"And then it started getting really weird. My browser wouldn't open a page. I tried to open Google, which is like pinching yourself to see if it hurts: nothing. Meanwhile, my email program began crashing if I tried to reply to a message.As I write, the symptoms are piling up with no sign of a diagnosis. Where's House when you need him?Whatever the problem is, it's a consequence of the complexity of all the programs running on my laptop. Something, somewhere has gotten corrupted. The RAM? (Unlikely – the problem is consistent.) Hard drive? (Then why does the program work for one user but not another?) Some key HTML library? (But why does email crash?)As our computer systems get more complex, there's an emergent problem: we need geometrically better diagnostic skills to fix them as the number of possible interactions between programs and libraries and everything else multiplies. The enduring popularity of ourAsk Jackcolumn proves that our skills haven't kept up with change.That's partly why more and more companies are getting into the "we'll fix it for you!" game, including PC World and the Geek Squad: they've recognised that what the world needs now is doctors who can sort out computers, and it'll be a long time before we see anything like a national health service for computers.Sure, I know what the advice from many people would be: wipe the damn thing and restore from a backup. But that's the computing equivalent of bringing in a clone who was hiding in the cupboard. It doesn't satisfy the House-style question: what was the problem?You have to treat the disease, not the symptoms; because if you don't know what was wrong, you don't really have a cure. And we're going to need cures more and more often in the future.
What's your favourite piece of technology?My Apple iBook G4 laptop.How has it improved your life?I use it to write, read, chat, think, goof off, listen to music, goof off, research, write ... all in the one spot at my desk. The first draft of Black Sheep was written, literally, on my lap in the kitchen of my old house. I research ideas on the internet, keep up with Hollywood gossip, check out actors and filmmakers on IMDb, I viewed and cut casting tapes on iMovie on it, I email constantly, I view and edit location pics, write shot lists every night while shooting, I created the first graphics for Black Sheep in Photoshop, I designed the logo for the film on it, book my travel, research places to eat local food in places the film is playing, my cowriter on my new project and I swap files and instant message discussions about story points ... and it all starts again. And I'm a bit addicted to online Scrabble.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Um, now. For this. [This interview was conducted by email between London and New Zealand.]What additional features would you add if you could?More memory, bigger screen, more software ...Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?This one will be, but I hope my new one's pretty good!What one tip would you give to non-iBook users?Get away — while you still can!Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I guess I lean to the nerdular, but not all the way. I've just ordered my new iMac,  but I don't have an iPhone. I have a widescreen TV, but it's neither flatscreen nor HD. I'm DVD not VHS, but not yet Blu-ray or HD DVD. And instead of a PDA, I prefer a Moleskine notebook and a pen.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably my first Mac laptop — it would have been the heaviest, too! As I said above, I've just ordered my new 2.8Ghz, 24in iMac with extra Ram and bigger hard drive. That's the most expensive thing I've bought for a while — but real in dollar terms, still probably less than what I paid for that first PowerBook.Mac or PC?I didn't know they still made PCs!What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?Gratitude Walks, by American Music ClubWill robots rule the world?Nah, the Daleks will never let them.What piece of technology would you most like to own?RED HD camera and MacPro with Avid Media Composer — bringing HD, near film quality pictures and post to the desktop. I think most filmmakers are like people who starved in war time: even if you believe you can get funding for your films in the future, you are always working toward the day you'll be self-sufficient. That's getting more and more possible as this technology gets better and cheaper, closing the gap between having the idea and shooting and cutting the pictures.Black Sheepopens across the UK today
Serial patent-filer Google has seven game-related patents,MCVreveals. The search giant, which has already suggested it has the technology to follow gamers' in-game activities to better position relevant advertising, has several innovations which relate to interactive entertainment. According to the article:With a clear bias towards in-game advertising, the search engine company has filed seven patents that relate to interactive entertainment, including a 'method and system for enhancing video games and video games systems'.We've already reported on the rumours surrounding social virtual worldGoogle Life, but these patents are apparently more game-oriented. The company has released a statement indicating that they may not act on the patents they have filed, choosing instead to sit on the technology until someone else wants to have a go.I can see world-wide-web treasure trawls in my future...
This week I bumped into a number of people who had no office to go back to. But there is no need to feel sorry for them. It was not that they were too poor or unemployed, they just did not need an office to work from. It started with a breakfast meeting with Emma Solomon of Digital Unite who, among other things, runs the Silver Surfer of the year awards, to be handed out next week. I had looked up her headquarters on the internet and chose a place a few roads away so it would be convenient for her. I needn't have bothered. It was just an accommodation address. She and her colleagues - there are five of them - work from home, using (free) space in the Royal Festival Hall when they need to have a meeting plus a central telephone service for taking calls.Two days later I went to the Future Of Web Applications (FOWA) conference, where you couldn't move for office-less people. Tony Conrad - whose trendy contextual search engine sphere.com has been adopted by premium clients such as Time, Reuters and the Wall Street Journal - has 10 employees scattered around the world, and until he brought them all together recently he says he had only ever met six of them. When they set up and monitor websites for their clients they don't need even to visit their offices as it is all done remotely.Standing a few yards from him was one of Web 2.0's great successes Matt Mullenweg, whose open source blogging company WordPress is currently 22nd in the Quantcast US site rankings with more than 21 million unique visitors a month (ahead of Craigslist and just behind Wal-Mart). It is run with 17 staff around the world from New York to Australia via Singapore, and with no office. His iPhone is his HQ. He doesn't have a problem with hiring people remotely, he says, because as a developer he knows them by their coding. Although he makes sure they all meet with each other twice a year, he reaps considerable savings through having practically no overheads and not having to relocate people to Silicon Valley and pay salary scales set by Google and Yahoo!.A few minutes later I spoke to Simon Deighton, who works for MySQL - the open source database which is the mother of virtual working. Some 80% of its 400 employees work from home, keeping in touch through an internal wiki which he describes as being like an intranet except that employees can edit it. They communicate using Skype, the free internet telephone service which, he says, is like having an internal switchboard because at any one moment you can see who is on. He admits that, but for virtual working, he couldn't operate from Leeds where he lives and would have to relocate to the M4 corridor or somewhere similar.Remote working hasn't happened as speedily as a lot of pundits predicted it would years ago, probably because it involves an act of trust and a culture transplant that most companies can't easily cope with. Employees like the idea of working from home, but they are still reluctant to give up the status of a desk in the office that is a home away from home.But not so with the latest generation of web-based companies, which have no cultural legacies to maintain. They can capitalise on the new high-speed broadband era, with its promise of free international telecommunications, and learn the lessons of the open source movement that enables people to cooperate on a global basis without the traditional corporate infrastructure.If virtual working catches on it would reduce the need for international travel, give people extra leisure time - since they wouldn't need to travel to work - and would eliminate the stress of working in a corporate hierarchy. It might even bring property prices down if companies came to realise that not only do they not need a prestigious headquarters in a capital city, but they may not need an office at all.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Oops! Didn't mean to do that ...Steve Jobs's presentations don't always go smoothly. "Whoops! All righty ... found a little bug ..." His fixed smile as he waits for Sony's president to please shut up is priceless. Bring your camera ...tinyurl.com/nkn9cA nuclear reactor in our garageAll you need is a vacuum pump, neutron dosimeter, and a defibrillator for Dad when he finds out. Though it's probably not really a fusion reactor - at least, not the sort you could power a city with.tinyurl.com/2ysag9You say that girl's really a robot?You've surely seen someone just like this at every trade fair you've ever beento. The blinking needs work, though.tinyurl.com/2uwx55
Though the film 300 does seem to have some fans, I'd never have expected that anyone thought this swords-and-Spartans tale was worth rendering in high definition - and not then issuing on high-definition DVDs. But never underestimate the optimism of Hollywood, nor the eagerness of its customers to buy anything that is thrust their way.What is interesting about 300 (the tale, if you'd forgotten, of the Spartan defence at Thermopylae in which a small group of about 300 held off a Persian attack for long enough to let reinforcements gather) is that it was released for sale in the UK in all three disc formats - plain old DVD, HD DVD and Blu-ray. And I got the sales figures.It turns out that on the first day in the UK the plain DVD sold 143,131 units (7% greater than forecast); the HD DVD version 1,875 units; the Blu-ray version, 4,689. The proportions are thus DVD 95.6%; HD DVD 1.2%; Blu-ray 3.1%. For the full first week the numbers were 438,000, 5,000 and 13,000 - giving ratios of 96%, 1.1% and 2.9%.If you were going to pick a winner for the high-definition formats out of that bunch, you'd give the edge very slightly to Blu-ray - though remember that lots of those sales are to owners of Sony's PlayStation 3, whose price was cut last week. But while they might leap on a film that most closely resembles a game anyway - as Keith Stuart pointed out in March (Movies that look like games? 300's just the start) - they're less likely to stump up the cash for softer titles that don't involve gore and bluescreen animation.The HD DVD group insists that what matters is the "standalone" player market, and that they have 70% of that. I'm unconvinced. The standalone player market is all the HD DVD group has. Sony is still pursuing its Trojan horse tactic with the PS3, aiming to get it into lots of homes. Whether that's actually succeeding is another matter: UK sales of the PS3 could best be described as slow, and there still aren't any compelling games for it (the principal reason for buying a games console, after all).With Christmas coming, there's still no reason to think that either format will get any traction this year. Households will feel the squeeze as mortgages rise in reaction to the global credit crunch; why splash out on a whole new format, when you probably got a high-definition TV last year and find that your DVDs look great on it? The situation is the same in the US: consumers don't have any reason to feel good about house prices or the wider economy.Meanwhile, I'm seeing indications that this game is getting dirty. It's nothing overt, but there's a fair bit of what could be called "black propaganda" around. I've seen unsourced emails implying there are production problems with Blu-ray, and seen the same topic raised in online forums where one person seems to "know" about "problems" but offers no proof. I don't believe it at all, but it's a hint of how much is at stake.Unfortunately for both camps, I think that they've launched themselves into the teeth of a financial gale. While Blu-ray looks like the early winner, a race in where you struggle to be a distant second isn't much of a success. It's going to be a long haul for the high definition model - if it manages to survive.In this scenario, it's the standard DVD which is playing the part of the Spartans, holding the pass until internet bandwidth becomes big enough to handle all our video needs. The Persians, played by HD formats, aren't having much luck. And bandwidth is becoming more plentiful all the time.
For Vali, a partially sighted pensioner, trying to use a mobile phone is a challenge. The 65-year-old gets by using an ordinary mobile, but he only knows how to use it by touch alone."My wife has entered all the necessary numbers and I've memorised where they are on the speed dial," he says. "I can feel the number five button, as it has a dot on it, and I can feel the other numbers from there. For blind and partially sighted people, the next best sense is touch, so I know where the other buttons are by feeling from the top of the phone."The problem of mobile exclusion is widespread. A study at Cambridge University found that 40 million adults in Europe (around 9% of the adult population) experience problems using mobiles, and the number of people who encounter difficulty increased with age. This has a massive social effect. While teenagers may feel left out without a phone, adults who could benefit greatly from mobile services can really suffer.Special handsetsWith the technology we have today, buying or upgrading a mobile phone that can cope with such needs ought to be simple. Yet for people with a disability that affects dexterity, vision or hearing - or who are simply getting old, with its associated toll on those skills - it can be a big problem.For mobile users with hearing or sight problems, there are a couple of specially made handsets that are much easier to use, such as the Emporia Life phone. With large text and a high contrast screen that can be read even in bright light conditions, and with large well-spaced buttons, it is good for partially sighted people who want to use their phone for text messaging.The Easy5 mobile is a much more basic handset that has five main buttons for pre-programmed numbers only, with no screen for texting or other features. For people with hearing problems, there are many accessories that can aid mobile usage, such as induction loops or hooks which can increase the volume and block out any noise interference.Even some ordinary handsets have features that make them easier to use for people who may have sight or hearing difficulties, such as a voice that tells you where you are in the menu or phonebook, or which numbers you have dialled.The mobile operator Orange is planning a service where the stores will offer third-party software for customers who need it. "We'll hopefully be able to work with the Royal National Institute for the Blind (RNIB) in adding software which will help users with sight problems, and our staff are being trained in dealing with such customers to help their needs," says Chris Smith, diversity advisor at Orange.The network has a disabled user panel which tests handsets, rates them on a range of factors and forwards its conclusions onto mobile manufacturers. They can also give each phone a score based on how easy it is to use, to help people with limited dexterity choose the right handset.Nokia phones use the Symbian operating system. Its open nature means programs can be added to increase the ringing volume to highs that ordinarily would be deafening, and make the screen and keypad lights flash to aid hearing-impaired users. A program that reads phone numbers aloud can also be installed to help those with sight problems.However, if you don't have great dexterity, the best advice is still to try before you buy. It is all a matter of personal preference: what works for one person may not necessarily work for another, and while pictures of phones at online shops may seem fine, you can never judge exactly how easy they will be to use: buttons may be flat and hard, joysticks may be fiddly and stiff, and the flip design may snap shut harder than you think.Changing designsUnfortunately, as the features of mobiles are changing to meet the demands of a younger, tech-savvy market, the designs have changed too. In 2005, Vodafone launched an easy-to-use phone called Simply, which was the standard candybar shape and had large buttons. It was discontinued due to poor sales. No other mobile phone manufacturer has made a similar device. Instead they have ploughed on,  apparently bent on making mobile phones for Batman or James Bond.The only other option seems to be to try older handsets, which usually have bigger, easier buttons and are less fiddly and slippery than the latest models. But this can be a bit disappointing if you want to keep up with the latest technology.The surest way to avoid the problem of exclusion would be to make phones accessible in as many ways as possible, so they could be used by lots of people with a wide range of abilities. The number of people using mobiles is only going to increase, and as the current adult users get older they will be left out as they cannot keep up with the constantly changing technology that meets the demands of younger customers. Because handsets are advancing, it doesn't mean the design of the phones should be complicated to meet with these changes too.While it seems there may never be a phone especially made for such a small target group of customers as the disabled, phone manufacturers will just continue to do ranges that fit into certain criteria, such as ultra, business, sport, music, photographic, or the girly range which basically means phones with a hot pink fascia and a horoscope application.The only solution is to shop around, and try whatever is best for you from the huge range of phones available and any accessories you may require.Recommended phonesSamsung E590One of the few candybar handsets in the Samsung range, it has a simple design and defined, easy-to-feel buttons. Available on Orange.Nokia 1112A simple to use phone, with raised easy-to-feel keys and a high contrast monochrome screen. Available on Virgin.Nokia 2633Has two speakers, and is one of the loudest phones on the market; a hearing induction loop is available. Available on O2.Motorola RAZR2 V8May not be suitable for everyone, but has a built-in voice which can read out where you are in the menu, and text messages. Available now.
Don't be monsteredIn last week's story about ransomware victims, Michael Pollitt said: "But even though he had used antivirus and firewall programs, bank account and credit card information had been silently stolen from his web browser sessions." How can we protect ourselves from this attack?Andrew SheltonJS:This was an example of "spear phishing" where a deceptive email is targeted at a relatively small number of people. The victims were all users of one job site, Monster. They were sent an email telling them to install a new "Monster Job Seeker Tool" (a browser toolbar). If they did, they deliberately breached all their own defences. The victims therefore made at least two mistakes: they believed the phishing email came from Monster, and they believed they were downloading a toolbar from Monster.The first problem is hard to avoid, but could be minimised by requiring all email to be digitally signed and, ideally, encrypted by the sender. Barring that, just assume all emails are trying to con you. You won't often be wrong. The second problem is easy to avoid: don't click links in emails. Links in phishing emails don't take you where you think (eg, Monster). You can minimise the risk by inspecting a link (eg, paste it into a text editor such as Notepad) to see where it really leads, but obfuscated links can be hard to read. In this case, one user said Norton warned him the download site was not recognised, and he checked with Monster. Recent browsers like Internet Explorer 7, Firefox 2.0, and Opera 9.1 also have anti-phishing features.Even if you are phished, don't make the mistake of downloading and installing software without checking that it is a recognised tool from a reputable site. For example, Monster could have launched a toolbar with no beta testing, no press releases, no announcement on its site, and no discussions that would have been picked up by search engines, but it's very unlikely. How many people checked?In the end, the only protection is: don't be gullible. You might still not be 100% safe online, but you're not 100% safe offline, either.Get rid of itI have an old laptop which has stopped working and is not worth repairing. It has sensitive information on the hard drive. How can I dispose of it?Frank DwyerJS:If it isn't working, you should take it apart and remove the hard drive. Assuming it's a 2.5in model, mount it in an external housing such as the Dynamode Hard Disk Caddy (&pound;15), or similar. You can use it with another computer as a USB drive. If the hard drive isn't working, wrap it tight in a tea towel and smash it with a large hammer.If the laptop is not too old, you could sell it on eBay: you won't get much, but some people buy dead equipment for spares. If it's beyond that, search Google for [computer recycling] plus the name of your nearest town. There are lots of locations where you can leave a PC to be crushed and the materials recovered, including UK IT Recycling Ltd (tinyurl.com/2ahbts).Remind me again?I'm looking for an easy-to-use calendar with good reminder and recurrence features. I've tried Outlook 2000, as well as the Google and Yahoo calendars, and they do not offer reminders weeks or months before the event (for things like passport renewals) and multiple reminders.Toby PriceJS:There are dozens of reminder programs, online reminder services and calendars, but it may be hard to find one that has the features you want. The popular reminder services include Memo To Me (memotome.com) and Online Reminders (onlinereminders.net).For desktop software, you could try Multi-Reminders (tinyurl.com/yrdrm7), which is free, or look at Remind-Me (tinyurl.com/2yg8nf), Secure Reminder (securereminder.com) or Star Reminder (tinyurl.com/2zpa82), which seem reasonably priced as shareware. I have not tried them myself. The online calendars look primitive compared to Outlook 2007, which I do use, but you could synchronise Outlook with Airset or (via IntelliSync) the Yahoo! Calendar, and do the extra reminders a different way.Too much JavaWhen I open Add/Remove Programs there are a number of Java installs listed, usually over 100MB each.Andy WhitehouseJS:A reader recently got hit by a trojan that could have exploited a bug in an old version of Java that he didn't think mattered. This makes me want to uninstall every Java in sight and download the latest version from Sun (tinyurl.com/fwrh). It's better to do this after a restart, before running any large applications. However, Java is typically around 7MB. You must have something like the J2SE Runtime Environment, which runs Java applications on the desktop. It probably came pre-installed, and you probably don't need it. If you had to download 100MB files, wouldn't you notice?Backchat&#183; I suggested Angela Carter get her own domain name to avoid having to keep changing her ISP-given email address. Several readers suggested using an online service such as Gmail. But if you do, you're still locked to one service, and anything could go wrong, as people locked out of Gmail have already found. Kenneth Davies and his wife use "personal email addresses provided free by the university of which we are alumni". That has the same flaw: it's not flexible.&#183; Donald Hawthorn wanted to print to a Windows USB printer from a DOS program that wanted to print to an LPT printer port. Many readers suggested printing to a file first. Brian says: "The easiest solution was to use the PRN2FILE.COM utility." Peter pointed to a page at that offers several ways to print to any Windows printer from Word Perfect for DOS (tinyurl.com/28j94n).&#183; All the answers to your questions atblogs.guardian.co.uk/askjack. Get your queries answered by emailing Jack Schofield our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
An iPhone love affairThe reason there isn't a "Maytag users group" (iPhone could mark the end of the geek affair with Apple, October 4) is probably because Maytag don't spend their time cultivating a cult status for their appliances, upgrading them every year so you feel obliged to buy a new one with all the latest widgets and funky new colours, and their owners don't obsess about how much cooler their machines are than their boring white-box rivals.Derrick CameronStoke-on-TrentThe iPhone may well be a turkey, but the only geeks around are all the poor sods who are endlessly Ask(ing) Jack how to keep their PCs upright.Mark PringleLondonYes, but what is a computer? A PSP has a web browser built in, so is that a computer? Many phones use operating systems of one type or another. Of course you can look inside and say that it has the potential to do this or that - but at your own risk.ordinarygweilo.comSome crazy columnist for the Guardian says that because we've locked down iPhone, the product "could mark the beginning of the end of the geek love affair with Apple". Just look at him in that picture, with his pipe dangled at a jaunty angle. Likes himself a little too much, don't you think?How much you want to bet this same guy is first in line begging for a free "review unit"?fakesteve.blogspot.comPapers pleaseMichael Cross refers to UK ID card "eligibility", and how we will have to be 16 to "qualify" as though we are going to be given a choice (Belgium launches multipurpose ID cards, October 4). How can these terms apply to something that will be mandatory? I might qualify for a credit card, or be eligible for a bus pass, but I won't be fined &pound;2,500 for not applying, sorry, enrolling.Andrew CalvertRuislipTime and tides wait ...If you thought Mr Barrett's letter was plausible enough to be worth printing (Letters and blogs, October 4), I have this design for a perpetual motion machine that you might like to buy ...Peter WrightPolegateA knowledge of basic physics is enough to show that the Earth has enough rotational energy to power the Severn Barrage for four trillion years, or around 300 times the age of the universe. Meanwhile, the moon is already slowing down the Earth's rotation through tidal effects.  And the speed of the Earth's rotation has no connection at all to its orbit around the sun, which has remained stable for the past 4.5bn years, and will be much the same in another 5bn years, when the sun becomes a red giant and expands to engulf the Earth. Now THAT is global warming!Dr David HarperCambridgeRisky businessIf asked about the biggest threats to Documentum, I would say Microsoft Office Sharepoint Server and open source. However, for some reason open source seems to be getting left behind in the UK and I feel great sympathy for the likes of Alfresco (Alfresco takes the open road to success, October 4). The public sector market in the UK has been very good for IT consultancy firms in the past five years ... [but] is risk averse.ecmobservations.wordpress.comGive Apple a restDo we have to have a letter almost every week telling us how safe Macs are from viruses? So is my Commodore 64, but that's for pretty much the same reason: hardly anybody uses them. If Macs suddenly gained 95% of the market, do you think the majority of viruses and trojans would still target Windows? And can we limit letters on Apple computers to maybe 2-3% of the letters page, roughly equivalent to their market share?Daniel O'TooleGalway, IrelandRead all this week's letters and blogs atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
Matt Mullenweg, the 23-year-old who is the founding developer of the open source blogging software WordPress, woke up in March to find that disaster had struck. "A cracker gained user-level access to one of the servers that powers WordPress.org," he later explained on his blog. "They modified two files to include code that would allow for remote PHP execution."What was alarming was that thousands of people were downloading the code, believing it to be the latest - and so the most secure - when in fact it was making their sites vulnerable to attack.But instead of downplaying the incident, Mullenweg told the world. "It was painful to publicise, but we got a huge amount of coverage and got the word out that there was a dangerous version of WordPress. Even though there were probably only 10,000 or 15,000 people affected, we ended up getting half a million downloads [of the update]. So everyone was updating. Which was good, actually."WordPress began in January 2003 when Mullenweg began a project to create new weblog software by adapting what he was currently using, an open source product called b2/cafelog.A question of conscienceIn 2004, Mullenweg - who was born on Houston, Texas - left his college course to work for the tech media company CNET in San Francisco, where he now lives. A year later he left CNET to found his own company, Automattic, which runs hosted blogging services on WordPress.com and a spam detection service called Akismet. Basic accounts are free, with money made from premium services and advertising.WordPress now lies behind a fair chunk of the world's 100m-odd blogs. In September 2006, WordPress.com hosted 350,000 blogs; today it has 1.5m, and is among the top 20 busiest sites in the US. "The only other site that's as big as this and on an open source basis is Wikipedia. Everyone else runs proprietary code," Mullenweg says.The open source aspect is important. "For me, open source is a moral thing. Software should be free; it's our philosophy as a company," he says. There is one exception: Akismet, his spam detection service, does not reveal its code. It addresses the problem of automated posting of comments with advertising links on blogs. "With Akismet there was an interesting dilemma," Mullenweg says. "Is it for the good of the world Akismet being secret and being more effective against spammers, versus it being open and less effective? It seemed more people would be helped by blocking spam. "But Mullenweg has not had an easy ride. As sites depend increasingly on Google for traffic, site owners are scrambling for higher rankings in search results. One consequence is the phenomenon of paid links. "A paid link is in the HTML of a page, so Google thinks it is an actual link or endorsement and uses it to calculate page rank. All search engines do this. Advertising is inserted dynamically through JavaScript, so it doesn't show up in search engines," Mullenweg says.He considers paid links deceptive - and feels strongly about it because of his own experience. "A few years ago an advertiser approached me and said, 'I want to put these articles on your site,' and I agreed. It was WordPress.org. That lasted about a month, and became a huge controversy in the blogosphere. I took it out the next day."It helped me think. Before, I thought spam came in my inbox. I never thought about it in terms of the broader web, that people buying these links with the intention of changing the search engine results are spamming the world. That was part of the inspiration for Akismet - my Catholic guilt for making such a screw-up."Dangerous liaisonsLink vendors have also targeted WordPress "themes" - add-ons users can download to customise their site. "People would hire a bunch of people in India, crank out 10 or 20 themes, and put links in them that they would sell. Then people would download them. The theme would come sometimes with good links, sometimes with bad links, sometimes with actual malware. The theme directory at the time had just under 5,000 themes. We ended up deleting 3,000 of those."The purpose of paid links may not be obvious to a blogger, but Mullenweg advises caution. "I think it's dangerous. Much of the lifeblood of blogs is search engines - more than half the traffic for most blogs. If that dries up, people will realise that the $100 a month they were getting from this mortgage advertiser wasn't worth losing half their visitors."Problems also exist beyond paid-for "speech" - specifically, over free speech. As a blog platform, WordPress enables people to speak their mind. Turkey blocked the entire site on a judge's orders, though Mullenweg expects sense to prevail."We had a bigger problem in China. It set the moral compass for the company. About a quarter of our traffic was coming from China. Overnight it disappeared. For a young company, that's a big deal - it was a million pages a day. We found out if we were willing to forbid certain words,  track people and give up their information if asked, we could be turned back on."It was tough. We decided that being there under those circumstances isn't worth it - we'd rather not be there." Does that mean WordPress is still blocked in China? "Yes, still blocked two years later."Open source software is nothing new, but Mullenweg sees a change taking place. "In the past open source has been focused on developers. Within the last few years we've had a rise to prominence of consumer open source applications. That's a new set of challenges. If you're building something for a server, there's usually a defined output which is right or wrong. In consumer applications there are different ways, which aren't necessarily better or worse, so people have strong opinions."The consequence for WordPress is an avalanche of feature requests. Mullenweg advocates a minimalist approach to software quality, and believes that many software products have too many options included to satisfy divergent opinions."Lots of software, especially open source software, goes the option route because it makes everyone happy. But it creates terrible software. I think WordPress as it is now has too many options. So in making decisions, I piss people off. Sometimes they take it personally, and that's a difficult thing. But if we continue to be a successful product and to grow, I feel we're making the right decisions."There are two main methodologies of open source development. There's the Apache model, which is design by committee - great for things like web servers. Then you have the benevolent dictator model. That's what Ubuntu is doing, with Mark Shuttleworth. Ubuntu is doing amazing things, and I think it's going to change the face of the desktop. That's also WordPress, and ultimately that's what's going to work for consumer applications."
With postal services in the news, it seems like a good time to download a list of all the post offices in Britain. Except we can't. While the otherwise useful portalpostoffice.co.ukwill list your nearest 10, complete with map and directions, there's no file showing the location of all 14,000.Demographer Keith Dugmore has been trying for the past couple of years to get hold of such a list. He runs the Demographics User Group, made up of people who use information such as census returns to make business decisions. A list of post office locations would be of great interest to other retailers, he says. It might also be of use to people publishing online guides, or to campaigners against the current programme to cut the network by 2,500 branches.As a state-owned company (a subsidiary of Royal Mail), Post Office Ltd is in theory subject to the Freedom of Information Act. "I made a freedom of information request to the Post Office asking if they would be able to supply a single file of all post office addresses in the UK," Mr Dugmore said.The answer was no: first because it might have value to competitors; secondly because such a file would have commercial value in itself. He is now considering his next move. He could either appeal to the information commissioner or create his own list by "scraping" data from the Post Office website.There's now a third way. Last month, the Office of Public Sector Information (opsi.gov.uk), responsible for managing access to the government's information crown jewels, opened a web channel to handle requests to re-use information created by government. The forum was set up as part of the government's response to the Power of Information report, which called for government to cooperate more enthusiastically with the "web 2.0" phenomenon.So far, the new requests forum has collected only a handful of posts, but they suggest a level of pent-up frustration at official reluctance to release humdrum facts and figures.One request, from a school governor, is for access to the government's schools database atedubase.gov.uk. As with the Post Office, the site limits the number of records released per request. The idea behind the request is to create an online community for school governors. "We wanted to offer governors the opportunity to register online and express views and share ideas, documents and best practice. It would also be nice to have all the schools available, say, in Google Earth or perhaps in Wikipedia," the poster says.Another posting at the forum suggests that all holders of public sector information offer RSS (really simple syndication) feed alerts for all new documents.&#183; Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
You could call it divine intervention: last week the church requested Bafta remove a violent game from its nominations for the forthcoming videogame awards. Surprisingly, bishops' cockles weren't rankled because of its violent content per se; church leaders appear more peeved because publisher Sony neglected to gain permission from Manchester cathedral before it purportedly used the consecrated building as a backdrop for some of Resistance: Fall of Man's gruesome action. Several terse demands and apologies earlier in the year seemingly resolved the issue, but now the brimstone has been reignited.Games developers are generally good about gaining permission from property owners, following the lead of TV and film. But unlike the more established entertainment industries, things get fuzzier when the gameplay is set in public. Games companies can often avoid paying city bills - for example, Bizarre Creations has chosen only to recreate the urban landscapes in its racing franchise, Project Gotham, that don't require permission. So while you can drive around accurate representations of London, Edinburgh and Tokyo, don't expect to see Paris any time soon.Like other fictional works, games can also claim "inspiration" for their digital settings. In the case of Resistance: Fall of Man, Sony argued that the digitised church interiors were merely a representation of a generic old church. That it looked like Manchester cathedral was merely a coincidence.This kerfuffle demonstrates a potential landmine for a new generation of player-creators and the interactive platforms that are their canvases. Modders of the past have recreated all kinds of locations, from school hallways to The Maze Prison's H-Block. It seems unlikely that anyone bothered to get in touch with the authorities before setting them in digital stone. Lessons in offline brand ownership and content control within user-generated worlds such as There.com and Second Life should inform the forthcoming networking apps Home and Little Big Planet for the PlayStation 3, but I anticipate player contributions will shepherd in copyright issues on the home console that would make Manchester's vestments twitch.I doubt the church would have let violence be associated with its cathedral had it been aware of its eventual (alleged) complicity, but I don't think this should translate into expulsion from the awards. Ownership in entertainment is becoming more and more mutable, and in future brand integrity and reputation will be determined by how well the owners cope with this lack of control. Blessed are the adaptable, for they shall inherit the Earth.&#183; Get all the latest videogames news and gossip straight from our trio of bloggersblogs.guardian.co.uk/games
The people who set the site up and run it, of course. Which didn't stop one contributor at the news aggregation site Newsvine, sold this week for an undisclosed amount to MSNBC, from complaining: "What, pray tell, is going to happen to OUR huge sums of ad revenue? I mean you guys are making mad loot out of this deal, what about our money?"To which the founders - Calvin Tang, Mike Davidson, Lance Anderson and Mike Budos - might justifiably reply: what 'your money'? The deal is only for the shareholders in Newsvine, because there's no specific way to reward people who simply submit links. Why, the process is meant to be the reward. Which is why our columnist Nick Carr has taken to calling the process "sharecropping": getting other people to do the heavy lifting while you, the site owner, reap the benefits. Although it pretty much died off, in the agricultural sense, in 1933 in the US following legal reforms, it's alive and well in web 2.0.Yet Newsvine is different from most of the news aggregation (and, for that matter, social networking) sites in that it does reward some of the 1.2 million users who visit it each month: those who have their own "column" on the site keep 90% of any advertising revenue from that page, and retain rights to the content.But the sale of Newsvine still indicates how effectively the web 2.0 bubble is splitting the idea of the "brand" and the brand's implementation. Newsvine is a brand, buoyed by its community of users; without the users it would be nothing, but without the brand, the users would just be people milling around on the web, looking for a forum in which to post their thoughts and be heard. The question isn't who is actually contributing the greater value to the brand, but who is able to control it. And in the case of a website, that has to be the people who have the passwords to the servers.However, being bought isn't necessarily the end for a thriving site. YouTube is still a vital source for all sorts of trivia as well as essential information, as demonstrated earlier this month when the Formula 1 driver Lewis Hamilton faced accusations that he had caused a crash in the Tokyo grand prix: the evidence, which the judges took very seriously, has been posted on YouTube (tinyurl.com/2ehqbr).And remember how people reacted when the sale of YouTube to Google was announced? But since May, YouTube has been paying some of its star "content creators". Last.fm is still a good place to find out about music, even not it's owned by CBS. Facebook remains vibrant even though Microsoft is sniffing around it and has an advertising contract that will run until 2012. It seems like money helps make the world go round - you just don't own it any more, is all.
At the moment, it looks increasingly like "not much", because the only two paid programmers on this open source project have just quit.As the email companion to the Firefox browser, Thunderbird should have flown to success, if only on joint promotion. Instead, Mozilla seems to have neglected it and another companion program, the Sunbird calendar. The latter has been discontinued.Why? The Mozilla Foundation is not-for-profit, but its definitely for-profit Mozilla Corporation is rumoured to rake in around $70m (&pound;35m) a year. Although Mozilla is still working on calendaring and communications, the plan for a "Mozilla Application Suite" of Firefox, Thunderbird and Sunbird is now a dodo.Since Google sustains Firefox - promotes it, distributes it and contributes most of the money to it - one reason suggests itself. Google has different plans for its Gmail and Google Calendar programs. As a multinational megacorporation worth around $200bn, why should Google foster competition?What happens next? I wish I knew. I recommended Thunderbird during the years when Microsoft's Outlook Express was dangerous, and competition from the likes of Eudora was faltering. That was the time to get established, like Firefox, but it's over.Microsoft is scrapping Outlook Express and now has the slick and powerful Windows Live Mail in beta test - and it picks up your Hotmail, too. Qualcomm has made Eudora open source and given it away ... to the Mozilla Foundation. Since Mozilla can't cope with one email client, how is it going to handle two?Maybe it's time for the open source community to show it can develop Thunderbird into a great application without the backing of Google, IBM or Sun.
Facebook, the rapidly growing social network, this year began letting programmers write software applications that can run inside the members' home pages. More than 5,000 applications have been created, and they're being used millions of times a day.The excitable pundits of Silicon Valley see a goldmine in Facebook's new "apps". Arguing that people could come to do most of their personal and even business computing within the site, they claim Facebook may be worth as much as $10bn (&pound;5bn). There are rumours that Microsoft or Google may make a huge bid for the company.So far, though, the most popular Facebook applications are the frivolous ones. X Me lets members "hug" and "tickle" each other virtually, Likeness lets them figure out which celebrities they resemble, and Booze Mail lets them reward one another with free "drinks". The more serious programs tend to be shunned by the students who make up the site's core audience.My own favourite among the applications is something called Dramatic Whitespace. Written by Adam Bildersee, a college student, the program does, well, pretty much nothing. It simply drops a blank white square onto your page, which you can then expand to any size you want.The application mystifies some Facebookers. "I don't get it," writes one student. But many love it. One member says that the block of whiteness is "like having an empty room in your cluttered house to relax in". Another calls Bildersee and his creation "the answer to all of our prayers". The Silicon Valley gossip site Valleywag last week declared Dramatic Whitespace "the best app ever". Dramatic Whitespace is more than just a bit of silliness (though it's certainly that). It's a sly comment on the net's reigning design ethic: the cramming of as much stuff as possible into every bit of available space. The thought that a pixel might go to waste seems to fill site owners with dread.The worst examples of data overload can be found inside the social networks themselves. At Facebook's main rival, MySpace, people seem to compete to create the densest, ugliest pages imaginable. Photographs, videos, music snippets, wacky fonts and assorted  digital bling are thrown together into eye- and ear-assaulting jumbles.But professional media sites are little better. Head to any online magazine or newspaper, and you'll almost certainly be confronted with a page full of dense-packed info-fragments. On a recent visit to the home page of this newspaper, the well-named Guardian Unlimited, I counted 204 links and 30 photographs. The New York Times home page had 316 links, 18 photos, and a dozen banner ads. The pages of technology publications are the worst. Even Google, which rose to fame with its blissfully austere search page, is giving in to the overload ethic. If you join its iGoogle service, the familiar white space is suddenly overwritten with ranks of headlines and other links.There's more than a hint of desperation in all these chockablock sites. "Please don't go away," they seem to shout at us. "Look at all our wonderful data-baubles. There must be something here to hold your attention."But the shouting's usually in vain.  We may start out looking for some particular piece of information, but as often as not we end up miles away, our neurons frazzled, our original purpose forgotten.Who's to blame here? Is it the cluttered sites that are driving us to distraction? Or are the site designers just catering to our scatter-brained capriciousness? That's hard to say. My guess is that we're caught in a vicious cycle that speeds up with every mouse click.One thing's clear, though. In this age of endlessly abundant information, what's becoming most scarce is scarcity itself - the absence of data. That's why Dramatic Whitespace seems so compelling. It speaks to what we're most in need of today: a small, quiet clearing amid the digital brambles, a place where, to quote the poet Derek Mahon, "a thought might grow".&#183; Nicholas Carr's new book, The Big Switch, will be published in January. He blogs atroughtype.com
The first game from film director John Woo, this third-person shooter is no vanity project - it's a high-budget effort that manages to come across like an interactive version of a Woo film. So it doesn't exactly sport any intellectual pretensions, but it's shamefully good fun to play. You take the role of Inspector Tequila - an impressively reconstructed Chow-Yun Fat, as seen in the film Hard Boiled. Constantly beset by hundreds of low-lifes, it's just as well that Tequila has plenty of outrageous moves - pulling the left trigger allows him to slide down banisters and swing from chandeliers, while time briefly slows down and he can take out multiple enemies. It's not the longest game ever, but it is one of the most over-the-top and is deeply satisfying, both to play and even to watch someone else playing.
Bunnies take ManhattanPlay-Doh is the third in a series of Fallon-created adverts for Sony Bravia TV sets, and follows Balls and Paint.tinyurl.com/22noxeMore secure IEMicrosoft has released a new version of Internet Explorer 7 that works with pirate versions of Windows, making them more secure.tinyurl.com/3242raSainsbury reviewsThe Treasury has published Lord Sainsbury's review of the role of science and innovation in the UK economy.tinyurl.com/yso327O2 broadbandOn October 15, O2 will launch a "superfast" (up to 20Mbps) broadband service with unlimited downloads at prices "from only &pound;7.50 a month".broadband.o2.co.ukHi-def printingEpson will target photographers with a groundbreaking 8-colour Epson Stylus Photo R1900 printer (&pound;400), featuring new UltraChrome Hi-Gloss2 inks.epson.co.ukWireless cansPhilips Consumer Electronics is claiming a new level of sound performance for its SHD9100 Hi-Fi wireless digital headphones (&pound;170).consumer.philips.comThis way JoseSports Interactive's Football Manager 2008 will be released on October 19. There's also now an online version, Football Manager Live.footballmanager.net"&gt;footballmanager.netPhone for a tennerThe slimline Sagem my150x mobile phone is now being sold by Asda and Orange for &pound;10.
It can be an ordeal upgrading your computer, transferring files or switching from a PC to a Mac. But what if you've got valuable data stored on an archaic machine that went out of production sometime in the Jurassic period? How do you retrieve vital information stored on a stack of mouldy punch cards? What if you weren't even born when those now-obsolete files were created?For self-confessed computer nerd Sellam Ismail, it's all in a day's work. The Silicon Valley-based expert collects old machines, and has more than 3,000 of them. He's also the brains behind Vintage Tech, a data retrieval service promising to get back that crucial information no matter how outmoded the software.Ismail, 38, did actually sell a computer once. It was 1983, and his mother made him get rid of his Mattel Aquarius when he upgraded to an Apple II Plus. He was devastated."I really regret selling it now - I had such an attachment to it," he says. "After that I vowed that I would never get rid of an old computer when I upgraded, because I felt so bad about it. That's when I became an accumulator."By the time he was 17 he had at least eight machines, and to keep his mother happy he told her he would start a museum one day. "I was mostly joking, but then the idea of being an archivist started forming," he says. "I collected software and very meticulously maintained it. I would collect applications I would never use, but there was something about it that compelled me to hold on."I got one computer from an old boss, and then another time I was at a car boot sale in 1993 or 1994 where there were loads of computers from the 80s for sale. I was so excited that I walked away at first, because I didn't want to tip the guy off that I wanted them all. I filled my car boot with 22 computers - all the ones I would lust after when I was a kid."In the late 1990s, Ismail hooked up with fellow vintage collectors online. He was working as a software engineer when money was being thrown around Silicon Valley and he spent all his spare cash on the retro machines."It really has a lot to do with the dotcom explosion," he said. "All of a sudden you had people like me, these computer nerds who were going back with new-found wealth and looking for the computers that first inspired them."It went from 25 computers to 500 in a few years," he says. "Now I just say I have around 3,000, it's that many."Tracking the paper trailBut Ismail was also collecting manuals, brochures, posters, printers - anything associated with computers in the early days. That's what makes his massive collection so special - and so useful."People started contacting me because they had heard about all this stuff I had, and they started approaching me to ask if I could help them," he says."One of the first was a patent lawyer who needed to compare old computers - it was all about the patent on a little cover latch, and who came up with it first. I found out then it was a lucrative industry."A lot of Vintage Tech's business involves lengthy patent battles, but Ismail also loans his materials out for films and documentaries. One of his Teletype machines featured in Richard Gere's 2006 film The Hoax, while some of his older Apple computers were used in a documentary on the early days of the tech revolution, with Ismail even standing in as the typing hands of Steve Wozniak.He stores everything in a huge warehouse on the aptly named Research Drive, on the eastern edge of Silicon Valley. The shelving goes from floor to ceiling in a soaring 18-foot high space."Keep in mind that a computer can be anything from a refrigerator-sized beast to a handheld device," he says. "I have a 45,000 square foot warehouse and it is wall-to-wall shelving."He also has stacks of manuals spilling out from his library, and thousands of books stacked in boxes towering up to 10ft high. Ismail needs these to recreate some of the more obscure software required to retrieve hard-to-get-at data."I always end up doing really interesting work with the data conversion," he says. He spent almost five years working with treasure hunters on his own salvage mission, trying to access photos of tens of thousands of Spanish coins retrieved from a wreck off the coast of Florida."There were 65,000 of these doubloons that were pulled up, and the archaeologists took digital photos of the front and back of each individual coin because they were all unique," he says. "It was very early digital technology back in the mid-80s, and they had all these tapes and discs that they couldn't access. All this was before jpegs and gifs and today's standard formats."On another job Ismail had to go back in time to resurrect the dead from a huge graveyard in California. The cemetery records stretched back to the 1950s and 60s on 50,000 punch cards, and staff no longer knew who was buried where and what plots were already taken."None of the data was printed on the top of these cards, so you could not have had a human doing the job," Ismail says. Instead, he hooked up his technological time machine and came up with a system that could read up to 200 cards a minute.Resurrecting classicsIsmail's talents stretch to his own computer workshop, where he has built replicas of some of the earliest machines from scratch. "The one that's in demand is Digital Equipment Corporation's PDP 1 from 1961," he says.  "It stands for program data processor and it cost $120,000 (&pound;60,000) new, but it wasn't called a computer. Budgets were scrutinised and if it had said 'computer' on the request it would've been turned down."The PDP 1 featured the first ever video game, Spacewar!, before there was such a thing as a gaming industry. Ismail has made a replica for a Japanese display on the history of computers and gaming, and he is working on another one for a touring exhibition of videogames.He's also something of a second-hand salesman, brokering deals on rare and collectable computers. He's been involved in the sales of six Apple I computers, but admits the $20,000 tag puts it out of his price range. He hasn't given up hope though, and believes somehow fate will one day bring them together.In the meantime, he refuses to pick a favourite model. "I have so many and they are all interesting to me," he says. "But there are ones that will always be a bit of a favourite." Such as? "The Mattel Aquarius I eventually found!"
Delete or keep? That's the decision I regularly face when backing up my multi-megabyte email archive. In fact, it's now firmly in gigabyte territory thanks to HTML-rich email and those increasingly voluminous attachments of recent years. Planning to send me another Microsoft PowerPoint presentation? No thanks.The trouble is, keeping every email I send or receive has long seemed useful. When I first used a fax card before email, I carefully archived all my sent faxes. That archive proved pretty helpful when successfully facing down a plagiarist, underlining the need for good record-keeping when I later switched to email.I'm still squirrelling away all my communications years later, having moved my emails from Pegasus Mail, to Outlook Express, and finally to Mozilla Thunderbird with Google's Gmail now thrown in for good measure. Every email is accounted for and, thanks to some nifty conversion work, the whole lot is readily available in Thunderbird for Windows or Linux alike.Despite filing emails by month and year, locating individual messages from the past is tricky. If you know a name, then Thunderbird delivers up the relevant emails in seconds. But searching the text of thousands of emails isn't an instant exercise. It's really annoying when I know a message is in there but cannot quite find it. And just browsing through sometimes turns up stuff I'd rather forget.Of course, what emails to keep and how long to keep them is my decision. Some companies restrict employee email storage, automatically deleting messages after a month or so. That just makes my archive even more useful to some people: "You know the email I sent you last year? You wouldn't mind sending me a copy?" No problem.Perhaps retaining old emails is like those cardboard boxes in the loft containing stuff you've never got around to throwing out. I've transferred my emails from PC to PC with successively more powerful machines swallowing my burgeoning archive with ease. And unlike the well-stuffed loft, increasing disk capacities just encourage my hard-to-kick archiving habit.Why not be brutal and delete everything after a year? Or perhaps I'll make that two? Financial records are usually kept for six years, so maybe that's the right figure. Yet disk capacity isn't really an issue these days, and capacious DVD rewritables take care of the backups too. If I were to delete stuff, what real purpose would it serve other than releasing disk space?I'm the first to admit that archiving is an easy copout to those occasional thoughts about obliterating huge batches of ancient emails. It would take no more than a mouse click to consign whole years to an electronic oblivion. Perhaps that time is now approaching.As my mammoth email archive grows month-on-month, finding the right message is like looking for a needle in a haystack.
Is this the ultimate geek fantasy career move? Jerry O'Flaherty art director on Gears of War and Unreal Tournament 3 has just taken on a new job: directing Warner Brothers' CG-animated Thundercats movie. From blockbusting hardcore shooters to cult retro cartoon flicks? That's not a job swap, that's a slightly inebriated three am gamer conversation.Recognising the growing creative synergy between games and films, O'Flahertytold Variety, "It feels like a natural thing for me to step into. Games have come so far now. The last four years of my life have been about bringing the energy of filmmaking into the videogame experience."He's not the only videogame veteran to go in this direction. Let us not forget Chris Roberts of Origin Systems who went from creating the Wing Commander series of successful space shooter games to directing the staggeringlyunsuccessful Wing Commander movie. More recently, Deus Ex designer Warren Spector has teamed up with John Woo for the simultaneous movie/game project, Ninja Gold (morehere).Anyway, for Thundercats fans who've had their interest piqued by this news, Variety says that the movie is partly an 'origins of...' deal which, "expands on the major heroes and villains from the animated series, with the plot focusing on Lion-O coming of age as the leader of the Thundercats".Do you rememeber the Thundercats game on the ZX Spectrum? You just walked along in a straight line bludgeoning people with a club.
Nintendo president Saturo Iwata claims that the company has received 100 videogame proposals for its forthcoming Wii Ware download service. "We've made a platform for developing software at low cost, and would like to offer a new business chance based around a battle of ideas," heexplained to IGN.As with Microsoft'sXNA programand the availability of Linux on PS3 we're being told that this platform will be used to encourage the development of offbeat titles by new studios. Disappointing then that the titles mentioned so far include Pokemon Ranch, Bomberman, Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles and Dr. Mario - hardly a perky selection of bright young things.Okay so a couple of fresh-sounding gameshaveemerged includingPLATTCHEN - twist 'n' paintfrom small Viennese studio, Bplus andGravitronixfrom indie outfit, Medaverse Studios, but these don't seem to be the edgy, snack-sized experiments we've been promised. At GDC, Reggies Fils-Aime wastalking aboutswarms of indie titles escaping into the wild, totally unvetted by Nintendo. Dr Mario doesn't squeeze into that category. I want to see games that really stretch the motion controller to the max - and I don't mean a poker title where you can throw in your hand with a quick flick of your wrist.Xbox Live Arcade is still dominated by retro arcade titles and casual cross-overs with Boom Boom Rocket and Space Giraffe manning an understaffed fort of newbie battlers. It's PlayStation Store that offers the most promising selection of total newcomers so far, the likes of flOw and Echochrome (a working title apparently) of particular interest. Pity its lively roster of downloadable titles is getting rather overlooked amid all these confusing re-pricing and re-packaging dramas. While the Wii Ware experience remains shrouded in hype and uncertainty, perhaps Sony should be drawing a bit more attention to this one (albeit modest) unqualified PS3 success story.
Over on theGamesblogthey run something called "Chatterbox" each day, which is a sort of open-ended space for people to use the blog as a chatroom.Given that we aren't always inundated with comments here, we haven't seen fit to do something similar. But I wondered what would happen if we handed the reins over to you lot...So here's an open thread: talk about what you want, ask each other - or us - whatever questions you fancy. Vent your spleen about something that's been bugging you. It may stay empty, it may work - who knows. But why not let us know what you're thinking about?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
According to a report byJosh Quittner, high-ranking engineer Benjamin Ling is leaving the Googleplex and making the not-so-long trip to join Facebook. He follows in the footsteps ofYouTube's Gideon Yu, also a departure for Facebook, and others.AsValleywag says: "Google's stunning $600-plus stock price has backfired on the company, making it profitable for top staff to bail out".It's an issue I highlighted before in a piece aboutGoogle's attempts to hang onto thousands of staff members who were now millionaires thanks to their shares in the company.It is for this reason that many Google employees are showered with perks - skiing trips, childcare benefits and the famous "20% time" which allows them to step out of normal routine to pursue their own projects. In particular, the engineers who develop and maintain technologies are treated with kid gloves."I think especially in engineering they have a lot of effort to keep it feeling small ... Google's engineers want a university-like atmosphere," says Mr [Aydin] Senkut. "That's basically what's been keeping them at bay. Their lives haven't necessarily changed with the money, because they joined to take on some of the biggest challenges, and that's not really too different today."It's not quite the chickens coming home to roost, but perhaps a number of Google employees now see Facebook as a place to "take on some of the biggest challenges".
The head of Ofcom's independent consumer panel sent letters yesterday to the bosses of the UK's top six broadband providers asking why customers often fail to get the connection speeds they are promised.The decision of Colette Bowe, chairman of the Ofcom Consumer Panel, to contact internet service providers including BT, Tiscali and TalkTalk directly "follows increasing consumer concern about broadband speeds", the panel said yesterday.Broadband providers often say they offer speeds "up to" a headline-grabbing figure such as 8, 16 or even 24 megabits per second. Research from price comparison website Moneysupermarket.com, however, shows that only 21% of broadband customers actually get the speed for which they signed up.In a survey of over 43,000 broadband users, Moneysupermarket found that 44% were only getting half the speed they expected. Even on the most basic package of "up to" 2 megabits per second, only about half the customers were getting the right speed."We believe that broadband customers are not at the moment getting enough information," Ms Bowe wrote in her letter. "We are of course aware of the technical reasons for the 'up to' terminology that you use. I would however like to have your views about how these technical issues might be better addressed in terms of giving clearer information to potential customers."She suggests the ISPs provide better advice to customers about their likely connection speed and extend the cooling off period, which customers are given after signing a contract, so they can test their connection.Customers should be allowed to break their contracts if they experience speeds and quality well below those advertised, if their problem cannot be fixed.When it launches its broadband service next week, O2 will try and tackle the increasing frustration of customers at being promised high speeds only to find that they are too far from an exchange or their line is of poor quality to get them.The company - which is offering speeds of 8, 16 and 20 megabits per second - will test a customer's line before they sign up to estimate the likely speed and place them on that package. It will then test the line again a month later.
In just a few years, mobile phones have gone from being the preserve of a privileged few to a technology that is impossible to escape. But now researchers say they have finally uncovered the full extent of Britain's obsession with its handsets.A study into phone use across Europe has discovered that a quarter of young Britons say they are "addicted" to their phones, and that the UK sends more text messages than any other EU nation.The survey – which was compiled by the London School of Economics and mobile retailer Carphone Warehouse - also found that Britain was one of the most advanced European nations in terms of how people used their handsets, with hi-tech uses more commonplace in Britain than on the continent.A quarter of British respondents under 25 said they were addicted to their phones, and 20% of those aged between 25 and 35 concurred. Dependence dropped off rapidly among the over 35s, however, with just one in 20 agreeing that they could not live without their mobile. This is drastically different from the picture in Germany, where just 8% of youngsters said they were addicted."We asked people to what extent the mobile phone was their most important possession, to what extent they would feel unwanted if they were not contacted via their mobile for a whole day, and to what extent they feel addicted to their mobile phone," said Carsten Sorenson, one of the authors of the study.But despite the UK's love affair with the mobile, the infatuation may actually be more restrained than among some continental neighbours. The UK actually had the lowest penetration of mobiles among the countries surveyed, with an average of 1.25 handsets per person.Although it is still more than one per person, it is in sharp contrast to Spain, which registered 1.45 mobile phones per capita – indicating that a third of Spaniards have two mobile phones on the go at any given time.The figures also show that British mobile users are among the most technologically savvy, with more of them having bought items using their mobile, watched video on their handset or having sent pictures or video straight to the internet from their phone.One of the researchers said that the study proved that Europe was a vibrant and exciting place for mobile communications."Mobile phone fever grips the continent of Europe just as it grips Britain, but it does so in a variety of ways," said Philip Gould, the former Labour Party advisor and visiting professor at LSE. "For those who see Europe as a great homogenous steamroller, ironing out quirks and kinks of national character, this research proves them wrong."
