Hey, Twitter! Keep your meddling hands off my timeline! If I catch you coming round here with sneaky Facebook-style algorithmic curation to mess about with the purity of my reverse-chronological tweetfeed, I’ll ditch you forApp.netMenshnElloer... something else.For most veterans of Twitter, threats to quit are usually empty, but the unrest at the thought of the social network messing about with its core feature – the unfiltered, reverse-chronological timeline – is very real.Whenever the company experiments with some form of curation, or hints at plans to do so, we get shouty – most recently whenTwitter started inserting tweets favourited by friends into your timeline, and thenother “recommended tweets, accounts and topics”.Related:Twitter video-sharing app Vine launches a standalone version for kidsNow there’s talk of a new experiment, but experienced Twitter users can rest at ease: it’s not going to mess with our timelines, but it could make Twitter a much more accessible service for people signing up for the first time.It’s called Instant Timeline, and it has just started a period of public testingaccording to the New York Times, which explained how it works for people who have just registered for Twitter:“Twitter analyzes your contacts and uses information like who they are and who they follow on Twitter to guess which accounts and topics might interest you. It then shows you those tweets in your feed.So if your friends are foodies, you will see items about recipes and food trends. If they are football lovers or fans of Ellen DeGeneres, you will see National Football League video highlights and tweets from comic actors. The result is a timeline of (hopefully) compelling tweets without your needing to follow a single account.”For now, a smattering of new users signing up from Android smartphones will get Instant Timeline, which is also designed to remind them to follow accounts that it thinks will be relevant, but also to gradually reduce the amount of tweets it inserts into the timeline as those users build their own network.If you’ve ever sat down with a friend who wants to sign up to Twitter but has no idea who to follow, and helped them by recommending a selection of comedians, or footballers, or journalists, activists, musicians, biophysicists, authors, or... Well, anyone, then you’ll see the appeal of automating this process.When I think about my family and friends outside the technology industry, they’re all on Facebook, but only a handful are on Twitter. I’m pretty sure that if I had 20 minutes with any of those that aren’t, I could get them up and running following 30 or so accounts that they’d be interested in.I’d be happy to hand that challenge over to an algorithm, if it could do the job. Figuring that out, of course, is the task of the public tests of the Instant Timeline feature.Related:Stephen Fry: 'It's staggering how people expect online services to be utterly free'Twitter had 284 million active usersthe last time it published figures, but the company has been facing questions from analysts and journalists for some time about whether it’s doing a good enough job at retaining new users with its “onboarding” process after they’ve signed up.With Instant Timeline, the company looks to be keeping its balance on the tightrope-walk between making its service more accessible for newcomers, and not destroying its value for its existing users – especially those of us whose hackles rise at the thought of our timelines being curated by anyone other than ourselves.Every internet service faces this kind of tension between early adopters and newer, mainstream users. Twitter is at a sensitive moment in terms of proving it can attract more of the latter without alienating the former.This, at the same time ascontinuing to build its advertising businessandintroducing new video features, both of which have implications for the level of clutter in people’s timelines – albeit without any hint yet that it will remove any tweets to make room.Early adopters can be relied upon to kick up a fuss if that changes. But for now, Instant Timeline could help to bring the service that we (mostly) love to an even wider audience.
Parrot has made the second generation of its advanced wireless headphones lighter and given them better sound and battery life.Slimmer, lighter, more comfortableReleased in 2012, the originalPhilippe Starck-designedZik headphones were feature-packed but heavy, uncomfortable to wear for any length of time and had mediocre battery life.For version two, Parrot has shaved off 55g, slimmed down the ear cups and made the band more comfortable. The Zik 2.0s weigh 270g – still heavy for a generic set of headphones but similar to wireless competitors including theBeats Studio Wirelessat 260g and lighter than the excellentPlantronics BackBeat Pro(340g).Brushed metal arms and orange accents.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe new design is comfortable to wear, feels light on the head with a padded band and they stay put on the move. The ear cups completely encase the ears and double as effective earmuffs in cold snaps.Compared to many garish headphones, the Zik are streamlined and elegant, covered in leather and with brushed aluminium arms and small orange accents. Beyond the single power button, they forgo buttons for an intuitive touch control scheme.The right-hand ear cup is touch sensitive. A tap pauses and plays. Swipes up and down adjust volume and left and right skip tracks. It works very well - although not through gloves.The headphones also have a sensor that pauses the music when you remove them from your head and plays again when put back on, which again, works very well.They sit comfortably around the neck.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianApp-controlledEverything else is controlled by a free app on an iPhone or Android smartphone, including turning on, off or adjusting the level of noise cancelling, adjusting the equaliser and soundscape, and monitoring battery level. The app requires a user account, but periodically signs the user out, which can get annoying.The soundscape can be adjusted to recreate the acoustics of a silent room, a living room, jazz club or concert hall, while the angle of attack of the sound can be adjusted from 180 to 30 degrees, making the music sound like it is coming from above.Manual tuning of the equaliser using a circular visualiser is easy, but a collection of presets are also available, created by artists and DJs including Eurovision winner Conchita Wurst and DJ Jazzy Jeff from Fresh Prince of Bell Air fame, and for genres across electronic, hip hop, rock, pop and jazz.The app controls everything but power and play controls.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianA “producer mode” is also available that allows the user to tune the sound for each song and have the app remember the settings to switch back to when the song is next played.Most of the features can be safely ignored and the equaliser left alone for decent sound, but it is there should the user fancy getting more involved with their music.Overall, the sound quality from the Zik 2.0s when powered on is excellent, with a well rounded, energetic sound, solid definition in the highs and punchy bass. Of course all that can be adjusted to taste, making the Zik 2.0s some of the most flexible and configurable headphones available.WirefreeThe headphones are wireless streaming over Bluetooth from any modern smartphone, tablet or computer, with solid signal and without interruptions. They also have NFC for one-touch pairing with an NFC smartphone or tablet.A cable is provided in the box and they can be used with anything with a headphones port, either powered on or turned off, and will continue to work when the battery runs out.The removable battery should extend the headphones’ usable life as it can be replaced when it recharging capabilities start to decline.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe headphones last about six hours per charge with everything going and can cut out without warning, as there’s no battery indicator apart from inside the app.Turning off noise cancelling adds another couple of hours, while they last around 10 hours with everything but Bluetooth turned off. A flight mode, which has noise cancelling but everything else including Bluetooth turned off, will give about 16 hours of use in my testing.The battery is removable and spares are available, but they take 2.5 hours to charge and that can only be done in the headphones.Noise cancellingThe headphones work well with calls, with clear audio at both ends of the call.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Zik 2.0s also include adjustable noise cancelling from a maximum of 30 decibel reduction through to “street mode”, which pipes the sounds of the outside world in through the headphones negating any passive noise isolation the ear cups might provide. The effect is surreal, especially in an office where the tap of keyboards is dramatically enhanced making it sound like it is raining indoors.The headphones block out noise very well and the noise cancelling is some of the best I have experienced - similar to some of thebest noise cancelling headphoneson the market.PriceThe Parrot Zik 2.0 cost £299 and are available in black, blue, brown, orange, white and yellow.VerdictThe Parrot Zik 2.0 are some of the best wireless headphones available. They are more configurable for personal audio taste using a simple app than any other headphones available in Britain.They sound great, the noise cancelling is also top notch, and the touch controls are the best available on any wireless headphones. The battery life could be better, but a second battery helps.Pros:solid bluetooth connectivity; excellent noise cancelling; great, customisable sound; useful appCons:app logs users out periodically; battery life could be longer; no on-headphone noise cancelling control or battery indicator.Other reviews•Philips M1BT: Bluetooth headphones that sound good but have fiddly controls•Beats Studio Wireless review: expensive headphones with lacklustre sound•Six of the best noise-cancelling headphones to silence the commute
Transferring the long-running Battlefield series from military combat to law enforcement was always going to be a challenge for former Dead Space developer, Visceral Games. Set in Miami amid a major drugs war, Hardline does away with the aircraft, heavy weapons and infantry soldiers of previous titles in favour of a super-charged cops vs robbers narrative.Already there is controversy surrounding the game’s themes and setting – the glamorisation of militarised police forces in the wake of Ferguson is amajortalkingpoint– and one we’ll be coming back to.But in pure gameplay terms, the big question for the multiplayer component was always going to be balance. This is now an asymmetrical urban warzone, with police and criminals sporting different equipment and skills. Can it provide the same sharp, seamless online experience as its predecessors?Pro-gamer Ben Perkin recently got time with a range of the game’s seven multiplayer modes. Here are the five most interesting features he picked out.Cops and robbersIn the Heist mode, there are a variety of entry points to the bank building. Criminals can bust in through the front or detonate their way in through the roofPhotograph: EAHardline is essentially like playing cops and robbers when you were a kid – just with more of a tactical edge. And bigger explosions. At the start of each game you’re assigned to one of the two groups, each with different objectives. In “Crosshair”, for example, the cops have to get a VIP to the extraction zone without the criminals assassinating him en route, while in “Heist”, the crims need to break into a bank vault, steal the packages and take them to an extraction point. It’s up to the cops to stop this from happening.It’s likely that Heist will be the star of the multiplayer beta, kicking off later in the month. For the thieves, it’s all about using close-quarter weapons like the P90 submachine gun and sawn off shotguns to deal with close engagements within the bank. New gadgets like the grapple hook allow access to the rooftop – which is one route into the vault. Once the safe is open, criminals chuck smoke grenades for cover, grab the packages and rush for the extraction point located on the top floor of a car park opposite the bank. In our game, we placed snipers on rooftops to provide cover, and I was able to use my zip line gadget to abseil straight up to the car park, handily avoiding the entire firefight and reaching the extraction point to the win the game.For the police, it’s all about preventing the criminals from gaining access to that vault. Here, assault rifles such as the M16A3 come into play as cops take control of the surrounding rooftops, providing a clear line of sight on all the bank entances. Within the building, we found it was best to equip with shotguns such as the 870P Marine Magnum which give good control within the short corridors near vault. The conditions can quickly change though: in one bout, we were holding the building interior when the criminals breached from the rooftop, causing the ceiling to collapse in on us; the enemy rushing in through the smoke and debris. Exciting stuff.Tactical warfareThe zip line and grapple hooks can provide quick and easy routies in or out of objective pointsPhotograph: EABattlefield has always been about effective teamwork, but in Hardline that won’t involve rolling a convoy of tanks into the enemy base. This is not necessarily a bad thing as it encourages more gun on gun action, which creates a far more intense and close up experience compared to other titles in the series.As a professional gamer, I’m always looking at how to get the upper hand on my opposition, whether that’s in terms of positioning or equipment. In one game of Conquest (the classic Battlefield mode which involves capturing and holding a series of bases) on the Dust Bowl map, I was playing as an “Operator”, effectively the team medic. Using the grappling hook as my choice of gadget, I was able to get onto the rooftop of a building, which would not usually be accessible, instantly gaving me an aerial advantage over any opponents trying to take control of the objective. I was also able to assist the rest of my team by calling out and marking enemies I could see from my elevated position.As with previous Battlefield titles, there’s a huge amount of weapon customisation available, with a variety of optics, barrels and attachments for different tactical uses. I reconfigure a lot. In one game of Heist, for example, I was using the M16A3 playing as the police controlling the outside of the bank from a rooftop. I started with an ACOG scope for increased range, but as the game progressed and firefights were breaking out, I swapped to a red dot sight, which is more effective at closer ranges allowing me to gain control of the engagements.The mandatory car chase sceneThe Hotwire mode is essentially an interactive car chase sequencePhotograph: EAThe Hotwire mode is Hardline’s answer to epic Hollywood car chases - it’s fast, intuitive and once again requires extreme teamwork in order to ensure victory.The criminals are out to steal a selection of marked cars, while the cops have to repossess them. Points are earned by driving at high speed, which in turn leads to ridiculous car chases where opponents are trying to take each other out with rocket-propelled grenades while smashing into each other’s vehicles.It’s going to be a really exciting mode for competitive play because there are so many different tactics available to criminals when they’ve captured the numerous marked cars. They could run as a convey making it easier to cover each other during high-speed chases, but they could use other vehicles to block key roads after the marked cars have past by, allowing them to evade the police and build higher scores. Once again, teamwork is crucial for success.Everything falls apartEnvironmental destruction is set to feature highly again, with the return of Battlefield 4’s Levolution system which creates set-piece moments of scenic carnagePhotograph: EABattlefield 4’s dynamic environment system – Levolution – returns in Hardline, providing a series of massive set-piece events. On the Downtown map, you can take out three of the four supporting legs on a construction crane to bring it crashing down to Earth, sending debris flying everywhere. This happened for me for the first time during a game of Hotwire, and truly creates one of those Hollywood action flick moments. On the Dustbowl map, a huge sandstorm kicks in mid-game, severely reducing visibility and requiring you to get up close and personal with your enemies. It’s fun, but it also forces you to constantly evolve your gameplay.The way of the gunMastering the range of guns and add-ons is once again a key Battlefield requirementPhotograph: EAOne of the most impressive features of Battlefield: Hardline is the weapon feel. Compared to previous titles in the series, where guns are a little bit clunky at times compared to Call of Duty, they’re smooth and fun to use. Staples like the M16A1 and UMP-45 are well implemented, complete with a red dot sight, stubby grip and extended magazines, while there are interesting newcomers such as the R0933 carbine, which is awesome up close and has a impressive 800rpm fire rate, and the R700LTR sniper rifle, which has a higher fire rate than most traditional bolt action snipers, though a lower bullet velocity which makes it harder to hit enemies at long range.Using the taser is a lot of fun, too - it has a short range, but it allows you to interrogate your target revealing all enemy positions on the map to you and your team.Choosing the right equipment for each mode is one of the most important elements of professional gaming. Battlefield: Hardline offers hundreds of customisation options, including several different optics to suit different map ranges and various grips and barrels to prepare for contrasting engagement styles. In comparison, Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare has far less customisation available. Like its predcessors, Hardline is shaping up to be a far more strategic alternative to the standard “arcade” FPS where fast and flexible equipment choices will allow you to excel as a team player, whether you’re on the side of the law or against it.
Last year was an annus horribilis for bitcoin. Its price, once up above $1,200, sunk below $250. The second-largest bitcoin exchange had to temporarily suspend operations after a large-scale hack. And there have been two high-profile criminal prosecutions of bitcoin entrepreneurs. It was enough for some commentators to dub 2015 amake-or-break yearfor the currency, with experts saying it needs to find a purpose or face extinction. But that’s only one side of the story. There’s also been a flood of venture capital and bitcoin startups, as well as interest from legitimate bodies such as the New York stock exchange, all of which suggests bitcoin is here to stay.Typically described as a cryptocurrency, bitcoin is really a peer-to-peer system that allows you to move value around the world, in decentralized fashion, without the usual headaches and fees. Its backers argue it is faster and more secure than conventional currency. They cite its potential for sending remittances and for storing secure documents. It could revolutionize the banking system, they say.An artist’s impression of Ross Ulbricht as he stood trial in New York.Photograph: Elizabeth Williams/APThe bitcoin community hasn’t been helped by the high-profile actions of some of those associated with it. Ross Ulbricht is currently on trial for allegedly running theonline marketplace Silk Road, on which anonymous buyers used bitcoin to purchase illegal drugs. Charlie Shrem was sentenced in 2014 totwo years in prisonfor helping Silk Road customers transfer money illegally using his exchange BitInstant. Those prosecutions have added to the idea that bitcoin is a resource for criminals, but figures from the community argue that their stories have very little to do with the currency and its chances of lasting success. “The technology is technology, it’s neutral in character,” says Jerry Brito, executive director of the non-profit Coin Center. “Someone’s going to use it, if it’s good, which I think it is.”The negative headlines that come along with the Silk Road trial, or with other bad news like the breach of bitcoin exchange BitStamp early this year, fuel wariness and add to the notion that many in the public still have: bitcoin is an unstable investment, it’s unsafe, and it is used for crime.The developers engaged in building bitcoin don’t care much about those concerns. They feel the public does not need to understand bitcoin yet – maybe not ever – for it to succeed. The popular line these days is that bitcoin, in its current progression, is similar to the early days of the internet. No one was sure what the web would become, and even now that it’s so ingrained in our lives, most people don’t understand how it works. They simply know that it does.“At this point, venture capitalists are drooling over bitcoin and its possibilities,” says Roger Ver, a bitcoin investor and evangelist whose philanthropic donations earned him the nickname “Bitcoin Jesus”. “It will take time for the general public to catch up, because the general public doesn’t have any reason to catch up until some general-use case applications are built. But most people don’t understand how email or banking works, they just use it.”At the moment, 65% of the general public is “not at all familiar” with bitcoin, according to a new study by Coin Center. Of those who do have awareness of bitcoin, 84% have never used it.The currency’s wild volatility in value hasn’t helped either. After peaking at just above $1,200 in 2013, the value of one bitcoin sits below $250 today. In December it was christened the worst investment of 2014, since its price fell more than 50% over the course of the year. Its defenders are quick to point out that from the end of 2012 to end of 2014, the price was up more than 1,000%. But the more fervent argument is that the price doesn’t matter anyway.The volatility is a big problem. The instability damages the idea of bitcoin as a serious investment; many potential financiers such as hedge fund managers and banks won’t go near it. “If the price goes up, a lot of prominent people who have been buying it are going to talk about it publicly,” says Barry Silbert, who made his fame by creating SecondMarket in 2005 (which allows for the trading of illiquid assets, like shares in Facebook before it went public) and has now invested in 45 bitcoin companies. “When the price is way down, you’re not going to go on CNBC and talk about it.”The system also relies on the participation of bitcoin miners, who use expensive software to record bitcoin transactions for a small fee. There is a price floor at which, like a written-off car, it will no longer be profitable for miners. Tyler Winklevoss, who has thrown more than $10m into bitcoin with his brother Cameron (the duo are known for theirlegal battle with Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg, from which they got $65m in a settlement), says: “I don’t look at the price day to day, but I do think it matters. The price going lower and lower is dangerous to the security. It becomes prohibitively expensive for the miners. As long as the miners are incentivised to keep mining, I’m not worried.”Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss: bitcoin believers.Photograph: Michael Loccisano/Getty Images for Mercedes-Benz FAnother criticism of bitcoin has been security: in January, the Slovenian exchange Bitstamp was hacked to the tune of $5m and followed the $400m hack of Tokyo bitcoin exchange Mt Gox in 2011. But help is on the way: the announcement this month of an insured bitcoin exchange from Coinbase (which raised $75m last month, the largest investment round yet in a bitcoin company), has been hailed as a major step for the space. It’s a sign of good faith, says Jerry Brito, to see investments, “not only from crazy futurists like Marc Andreessen, but from the NYSE and USAA, places that are super conservative. Now we’ll start to see institutional investors, and hedge funds.”Last summer, the NYDFS announced BitLicense, a dedicated set of regulations for bitcoin companies. This, too, was hailed as a big step, despite the irony, of course, that bitcoin lovers decry regulation. The Winklevoss brothers are also planning an exchange, called Gemini, that they hope will be, “the Nasdaq for bitcoin”.Many bitcoin startups are focusing on security. The storage wallet BitGo uses multi-signature authentication, while the company Authy works with bigger companies like Coinbase to provide two-factor authentication rather than standard passwords. “Bitcoin is going to be more secure than paper money,” says the Authy founder Daniel Palacio. “We’re getting there. We will see better security. The user experience is not quite there for everyone. For someone who does not understand, it would be challenging to start using bitcoin right away.”To be sure, unsavoury events like the price drop, two high-profile prosecutions, and the hack of a large exchange are bad for business. But there were many more positive indicators in 2014: more money was invested in bitcoin startups than ever before (around $300m, in companies like Circle, Xapo, and Kraken); more bitcoin startups launched than in any year prior (more than 500, compared with around 200 in 2013,according to data from AngelList); and acceptance by major companies continued to spread. (Microsoft, Dell and Overstock.com all accept bitcoin now; publisher Time Inc accepts it for magazine subscriptions.)Mark Karpeles, president of Mt Gox bitcoin exchange, bows his head during a press conference in Tokyo after a $400m hack.Photograph: Jiji Press/AFP/Getty ImagesMany in the bitcoin world believe that what the technology needs next, in order to prove itself, is a “killer app”, one useful tool that would be accessible and exciting to the mainstream population. For Roger Ver, that app is Purse.io, which sources unused Amazon credits or gift cards from around the world and matches you with someone looking to get rid of theirs; that person orders the items you want, you send them bitcoin, and you get a discount on your order. “I don’t know anyone who wouldn’t be excited about 25% off at Amazon,” says Ver.Others, including Winklevoss and Brito, point to ChangeTip, which allows people to send a tip with a quick tweet. Aiming to serve as a “love button”, the app has potential for media outlets – imagine if, instead of a paywall, you could instantly pay a few bitcoins to read without subscribing.The problem is that, for now, the existing applications mostly cater to those already entrenched in bitcoin. Onename, for example, allows you to turn your private key (a series of digits) into a simple username, and has big plans to be the primary connector that verifies identity across the web. (“Bitcoin is saying that you don’t need banks for transferring money, and so, we’re saying that you don’t need companies like Facebook and LinkedIn for verifying your identity,” says cofounder Muneeb Ali.) But for now, Onename’s main use is for bitcoin enthusiasts to send bitcoin to other bitcoin enthusiasts. Similarly, people are mostly using ChangeTip to “thank” bitcoin bloggers. There is hype around how the blockchain could lead to a decentralised Uber, or a decentralised Dropbox, but such ambitions will take years to materialise.The bitcoin-bullish speak in grand terms, describing 2.0-type applications when the technology is only barely in its 1.0 stage. Their eyes are set five years down the road, when most people aren’t convinced yet of its staying power. Indeed in January, Citi’s digital chief, Greg Baxter, questioned the “maturity” of bitcoin’s technology at a digital symposium; this month, Reddit abandoned plans for its own digital currency, Redditcoin.Some insist that there doesn’t need to be a killer app yet, when the entire system is still in its infancy. “There are a few companies that are mass-consumer-focused, that, if the stars align, could potentially be that killer app,” says Silbert. “But I tend to think that in these early years, this will be a slow awareness and adoption curve. And then we’ll hit a point and it will accelerate just like the internet did.”The “killer app”, for now, is seemingly bitcoin itself. That may not change in 2015, but as the hype around it grows, so too must the industry. Even those convinced of the potential bitcoin holds do not deny that it has its work cut out. It will take major strides to change the minds of skeptics. To keep up its steam, the price must stabilise. Consumers must see continued buy-in from major institutions. Acceptance by a big bank would help. Additional hacks of exchanges will not. The overall infrastructure must strengthen.“I do think there’s a little bit of a sense of make-or-break this year, and it’s partly a result of the hype around the technology,” says Brito. “At the very least, the momentum has to stay. We can’t start backsliding. We can’t start to see less venture capital money, or fewer merchants coming into the space. We’ve got to see real maturation this year. And I think we will.”
Amazon is reportedly in discussions to buy hundreds of retail stores across the US to showcase its products, such as the Kindle tablet and Fire smartphone, and act as delivery points for online orders.The Seattle-based company, which last week reported annual sales of $89bn (£59bn), is in talks about acquiring some of collapsed electronics chain RadioShack’s 4,000 stores, Bloomberg reported. Amazon did not respond to requests for comment. RadioShack declined to comment.The proposed deal would be Amazon’s biggest push into traditional retailing and present a challenge to Apple, which has stores in cities across America and the rest of the world.While the Kindle has been a sales success, the Fire – which was billed as a rival to the iPhone – has flopped. Third-party sales figures published in 2014 suggested that Amazon had only sold 35,000 Fire phones. Amazon has repeatedly dropped the price of the phone, eventually bringing it to just 99 cents (on a two-year contract) down from $199. The failure to shift enough Fire smartphones contributed to a $170m writedown in the third quarter of last year.
Amazon has opened its first physical store - not in downtown Manhattan but on the campus of Purdue University in West Lafayette, Indiana.The e-tailer calls it a “customer order pickup and drop-off location”, which will allow Purdue students to collect orders of textbooks as well as other goods, and make returns.The “store” bears an uncanny resemblance to a room into which Amazon has put lockers where customers can collect orders using a code.However, it will be staffed by Amazon employees who work at one of the company’s five facilities in Indiana. Customers will also have the option of asking a staff member to open a locker for them.‘Adds convenience’Paul Ryder, vice-president of media and student programmes at Amazon, said it planned to open more such centres at other universities.Mitch Daniels, president of Purdue University, said the aim was to make books and other supplies more affordable for students. “The opening of the Amazon@Purdue location adds convenience to the mix,” he said.The move appears to be a way of promoting Amazon Student, which gives university students the benefits of its Prime membership scheme, such as free shipping and video and music streaming for $49 (£32) a year - half the usual price.A second location will open later this year on the Purdue campus.Amazon is invitingother educational institutions to work with it and open similar centres on their campuses.Reports late last year suggested that the company was set to open its first physical store on the ground floor of a building it has leased on 34th St, opposite the Empire State building in New York City, in time for the Christmas shopping rush. No store hasyet materialised.Related:Amazon reports $89bn in sales last year as shares jump 11% after hours
Twitter is no longer just a social network – it’s now a full-blown ad network.The company has just announced plans to let advertisers promote their tweets on to other websites and apps, in effect turning its ad platform into a full network for posting advertisements across the net.The company is launching the service with partnerships with Flipboard and Yahoo Japan. Advertisers with promoted tweets, which let a company pay the firm to put a tweet in other users’ timelines, will now be able to pay extra to push the content on to the other two websites entirely.Twitter’s Ameet Ranadiveexplains: “Let’s say Nissan is running a Promoted Tweet campaign on Twitter, but also trying to reach similar audience on a mobile application like Flipboard. Through this new partnership, Nissan could run a Promoted Tweet campaign on Twitter, with specific creative and targeting, and simultaneously run the campaign off Twitter, with the same targeting and creative in the Flipboard app.“Best of all, because Flipboard already integrates organic Tweets into the app, the Promoted Tweet will have the same look and feel that is native to the Flipboard experience.”While the move has the potential to expand the reach of Twitter’s promoted tweets, potentially making them far more valuable to advertisers, it also risks undermining the uniqueness of the company’s service. In its long-running war with the much-larger Facebook, Twitter’s real-time nature is its most valuable asset.The company has already put that to good use pairing up with TV companies to promote the (heavily twitter-identified) hashtag as the go-to way of targeting watchers on social media, to the extent that even when Facebook hosted political debates in Britain this week, the event was named #asktheleaders.A selection of Twitter adverts.Photograph: TwitterBut in promoting tweets on other websites, the company is asking advertisers to give up on real-time in favour of evergreen content. On the other hand, that’s not that different form how they use the site anyway – which could mean that Twitter has finally worked out how to increase the average revenue per user without simply increasing the number of adverts on the site.
If you own a DJI Phantom drone, you can’t buzz the White House any more – or, indeed, fly it anywhere in the Washington DC area – after afirmware update introduced after a drone crashed in the presidential grounds.Wait a minute. Do youreallyown a DJI Phantom drone? Digital rights group the Electronic Frontier Foundation has claimed that the firmware update should be a reminder that while you may have bought the device,its manufacturer still has ultimate control over how it works.“This announcement may have been an effort by the manufacturer DJI, whose Phantom model is one of the most popular consumer drone units, to avoid bad press and more regulation,” wrote EFF director of copyright activism Parker Higgins in a blog post.“But it also reinforced the notion that people who ‘own’ these drones don’t really own anything at all. The manufacturer can add or remove features without their agreement, or even their knowledge.”Related:Got a personal drone for Christmas? Use with cautionIf this sounds familiar, that’s exactly what the EFF is hoping for. It wants people who use other devices, from smartphones and games consoles to connected cars, to think again about who “owns” these devices.“Your ownership of the stuff you buy is overridden by the manufacturer’s ability to update or change it – a phenomenon that is proliferating to anything with a networked computer,” wrote Higgins, noting the ability of automotive firms to push firmware updates to improve their cars, or to disable them.For the EFF, the DJI Phantom firmware update is the latest peg to hang its campaign against anti-circumvention provisions in the US’ Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) legislation.Without those DRM laws, users could replace the firmware on their devices with new software that was trusted and auditable,” wrote Higgins.“But instead, the law casts a shadow of doubt on users that would modify that software, researchers that would examine it for security vulnerabilities, and companies that would create competitive alternatives.”
Italian startup 3DRacers is hoping a game that’s a cross between Scalextric, real-world Mario Kart and app-controlled toy Anki Drive – with a 3D-printing twist – will be a hit on crowdfunding website Indiegogo.The company isaiming to raise at least $25,000from backers of the game, which it expects to launch in the autumn.As a game, 3DRacers involves racing toy cars around a track on the floor, controlling them from a smartphone app. Straight races can include warm-up laps and pit stops, while a “battle mode” throws turbos and videogame-style power-ups into the mix.The emphasis is on customisation, though. Players will create their cars using an online tool, then either download the files to print their parts if they own a 3D printer, or get them printed locally by one of the more-than 10,000 members of the3DHubs3D printing network.They will then build the cars, fitting the parts together with a “Pilot electronic board” supplied by 3DRacers. Players with more technical skills will be able to hack the board and edit the interface of the smartphone app.Related:Quirkbot wants to help children build hackable robots – from drinking straws3DRacers is hoping the game will be used in schools by children learning programming skills. One of the rewards in its crowdfunding campaign is a $400 “classroom” edition aimed at schools and non-profit organisations, including an educational ebook.Anki Drive is the most obvious established rival. Unveiled in June 2013during the keynote presentation at Apple’s WWDC eventandlaunched in the UK a year later, it’s another app-controlled racing game.However, Anki Drive has more of a focus on artificial intelligence: owners can race against other cars that control themselves, and adapt to the player’s driving style.
Warner Bros; PC/PS4/Xbox One; £45; Pegi rating: 18The zombie myth has provided plenty of schlock-horror thrills over the past five decades, but there’s always been more to it than jump shocks and gore. Zombie fiction is also about finding ourselves isolated in a world that is both physically recognisable and utterly alien. In recent years, films and TV programmes like 28 Days Later and The Walking Dead have taken the undead apocalypse and used it to explore themes of contagion, paranoia and mass panic – things we see regurgitated every second of the day on 24 hour news channels.So far, however, most zombie video games have generally lagged behind this prevailing curve by sticking steadfastly to blood-splattered B-movie horror. That is not a criticism that could be levelled at Dying Light. Essentially, designed as a sort of zombified Far Cry, it marries open-world exploration with a decent storyline, involving a zombifying viral outbreak in a Middle-Eastern city locked down by quarantine, the survivors left to fend for themselves. For developer Techland, the game is effectively a remake of its 2011 title Dead Island – and for the most part it succeeds in realising the potential of that flawed release.During the day, the zombies are sluggish and relatively weak. You still don’t want to deal with too many at once thoughPhotograph: Warner BrosYou play Kyle Crane, a military operative working for an organisation called the Global Relief Effort (or GRE) which, despite the name, seems to have some faintly sinister agenda – even though it is still sending in supplies of Antizin, which slows the development of the virus. You’re parachuted into the fictional town of Harran, the centre of the outbreak now sealed off from the outside world. Your mission is to recover sensitive data about the disease, stolen by a local GRE man who has gone rogue. Things get off to a challenging start when you’re immediately bitten by a zombie, but then a bunch of bedraggled survivors rescue you and take you back to their safe house.Here, you’re taught parkour skills, allowing you to climb buildings and flow across rooftops, Assassin’s Creed-style, which of course proves vital – the one thing Harran’s zombies haven’t learned to do is climb. You’re told early on that firing a gun is dangerous, as the noise attracts hordes of monsters, so initially, you’re restricted to melee weapons, which can be upgraded for durability and zombie-splattering power. A crafting engine lets you make things like Molotov cocktails and zombie-attracting firecrackers, bringing abundant environmental traps into play.As you perform missions and explore, you discover other human factions. An endearingly odd smattering of locals have managed to carve out an existence in various enclaves, although they are routinely bullied and extorted by local warlord Rais and his gang of thugs, who have a monopoly on Harran’s stock of guns. Forced, as the storyline progresses, to carry out missions for Rais, and increasingly suspicious of the GRE’s motives, Crane undergoes plenty of soul-searching moments, although Dying Light isn’t a game crammed with moral choices which influence the storyline. However, the bloody and unpredictable encounters between zombies and human factions provides both ever-morphing gameplay and a Lord of the Flies-style examination of how a zombie outbreak would influence social mores.The night is full of terrorsAnother crucial game mechanic is the disparity between day and night. With the sun shining, you only have to contend with fairly low-grade zombies – although you do encounter giant, lumbering tanks which take (and deal) a lot of damage, as well as zombies that spit bile, and others that explode in a shower of intestines (and can be employed effectively as bombs if you’re clever). There are even zombies in hazmat suits which explode satisfyingly if you target their oxygen tanks, while the Screamers temporarily stun you with piercing shrieks and are near-invisible.Getting trapped on the roof of a car at night time is a bit of a survival no-no. The RAC can’t really helpPhotograph: Warner BrosAt night, though, things ramp up and out come the Volatiles, enormously mobile highly intelligent beasts with devastating attacks and the ability to track you. Then there are the Night Hunters, basically super zombies, who provide the game’s boss-battle element. To even things up, you are equipped with a UV torch, which stops zombies in their tracks for a while, and you can trigger traps that flood areas with UV light, but your best bet, invariably, is to run like the wind when you’ve been spotted.The main game supports drop-in, drop-out four-person co-op play, so you can draft in mates to help you. However, the most intriguing mode is an Evolve-style asymmetrical face-off, in which four co-op team-mates take on a player-controlled Night Hunter after dark; the humans must attempt to destroy Volatile nests which the Night Hunter is guarding. Playing as the monster is great fun thanks to his super-human abilities, but for the humans it’s all about acting in concert with your team-mates in order to survive. These missions provide some deeply chilling moments, when you can’t see anything beyond the light of your torch, yet know that fearsome beasts are tracking you.Related:Would you play a zombie dating sim?The environment design is exemplary, achieving a level of usable verticality that many developers have aspired to in the past but none has nailed – and Harran is utterly believable as a location. There are vast amounts of side-missions and challenges to pursue, which let you quickly add abilities and upgrade your attributes via three contrasting skill trees. Sensibly, you’re never given so many options that you’re left scratching your head in indecision.The zombies aren’t your only problem – there are also marauding street gangsPhotograph: Warner BrosThere are minor flaws. Occasionally you encounter buggy zombies that stand statically or twitch across the screen; some of the side-mission characters have been endowed with less than impressive animations, and you do encounter hoary old game clichés like radio towers that must be climbed.What you do get, though, is a zombie scenario which is entirely plausible and believable and that, in itself, takes Dying Light to a higher plane, reaching toward the role-playing depth of State of Decay and the sheer nastiness of DayZ. Factor in the giant sandbox of a huge city, and the end result is a scarily immersive experience.
Related:San Diego man charged with operating 'revenge porn' siteA jury in San Diego has found a man guilty of more than 12 felony counts for running a revenge-porn website.Kevin Bollaert ran Yougotposted.com, a site where pictures were posted of women without their consent, usually by jilted ex-boyfriends, along with women’s names and other personal details like phone numbers.He ran a separate site, changemyreputation.com, where women would have to pay money to have their photos and personal data removed.According to investigators, Bollaert – whose screen name was “Vindictive” – hosted more than 10,000 explicit sexual photographs on the site, which reportedly netted him thousands of dollars in profits.One victim of the site reportedly testified that having her picture on the site had “ruined [her] life”, and that her family threw her out of her home. “They think I brought shame on them.”Bollaert’s conviction is one of the first since California’s new anti-revenge-porn laws, signed by governor Jerry Brown in October 2013.However, since the new law targets only those who took the photos, Bollaert was not convicted under it. Instead, he was found guilty on felony charges of identity theft and extortion.Related:California man first to be convicted under state's revenge porn lawHis sentencing, at which he faces up to 20 years in prison, is set for 3 April.In court, Bollaert’s lawyer, Emily Rose-Weber, argued that the business may have been immoral but was not illegal.
Booming iPhone sales were the driving force behindApple’s record revenues in the final quarter of 2014, with its $18bn net profit the largest quarterly profit reported by any company.Even so, one part of Apple’s business wasn’t so positive: its iPad tablet. Apple sold 21.4m of them in the last three months of 2014 compared to 26m in the last quarter of 2013 – a 17.7% drop.The company wasn’t alone. Research firms IDC and Canalys have both claimed that global tablet shipments were down year-on-year that quarter – the first such decline since Apple reignited the tablet market in 2010.IDC reported a 3.2% drop in shipments to 76.1m units, whileCanalys suggested a 12% decline to 67m units. Why the difference? IDC counted “2-in-1” laptop/tablet hybrids in its figures.Both agreed on the general trend: manufacturers are shipping fewer tablets, and by extension, people are buying fewer of them. But why? Here are the main reasons.1. Tablet buyers are hanging on to them for longerIn 2010, no one was sure how often people would want to upgrade their tablets. Would it be every 12-18 months like a smartphone, or would their upgrade cycle be longer, and more like that of computers? Five years on, it’s becoming clearer.“The upgrade cycle is longer,” said Apple chief executive Tim Cook,in his last earnings call. “It’s longer than an iPhone, probably between an iPhone and a PC. We haven’t been in the business long enough to say that with certainty, but that’s what we think.”“The lifetime of tablets is being extended – they are shared out among family members and software upgrades, especially for iOS devices, keep the tablets current,”said Gartner research director Ranjit Atwalrecently.If you’re a mainstream tablet owner, chances are your device is mainly used for email, social networking, light web browsing and perhaps games and video streaming. Unless you’re into processor-stretching 3D games, none of those categories provide a huge incentive to upgrade once a year.2. Larger-screened smartphones are proving popularThe slowing growth and now decline in tablet shipments has come alongside the emergence of the “phablet” – larger-screened smartphones that first came to prominence from Android manufacturers, before Apple finally followed suit in the autumn of 2014.Think back to the mainstream tablet use cases listed earlier: a big smartphone can do a capable job at all of them. Especially as the boundaries between the two categories narrow.Canalys estimates that in the last quarter of 2014, seven-inch tablets accounted for half of all Android tablet shipments – and noted that these are exactly the devices most under threat from larger-screen smartphones.Meanwhile, even Apple’s keenest customers may have stopped and thought about a new iPad purchase in the final months of 2014, given the launch of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus. IDC’s senior research analyst, Jitesh Ubrani, saw the “excitement around the launch of the new iPhones” as a key factor in iPad’s tough quarter.3 . Laptops are also competingTech journalism traditions dictate that every new product category must “kill” another one. In the case of tablets, netbooks seemed the likeliest victim back in 2010. However, their larger laptop cousins have proved a tougher rival in the years since.If fewer techy potential tablet owners are finding that a phablet can cater to their needs, so the more techy ones may be finding the lure of a laptop hard to resist. Given that these people are also likely to have large-screened smartphones, a tablet may seem like more of a luxury device.“There is probably some level of cannibalisation that’s going on with the Mac on one side and the Phone on the other,” said Cook after the quarter during which iPad sales dipped, but sales of Mac laptops saw “double-digit” growth. “I’m sure that some people looked at the Mac and iPad and decided on a Mac,”Cook told analystsin the company’s last-but-one earnings call. “And I am fine with that by the way.”Cheaper Chromebooks and an aggressive push for “Windows with Bing” laptops were also factors as 2014 drew to a close – the latter in particular, according to Canalys.“The new price points it enabled stimulated notebook demand in established markets in Western Europe and the US. This will have hurt tablet sales in these markets in the fourth quarter as consumers opted to replace ageing consumer notebooks,” said research analyst Jason Low.4. Samsung and Amazon have been strugglingApple wasn’t the only tablet maker to ship fewer devices in the final quarter of 2014 than the same period the year before. IDC estimated that Samsung’s shipments fell 18.4% to 11m units, with Ubrani suggesting its struggles proved that “mid to high-priced Android tablets simply aren’t cut out for today’s tablet market”.On the face of it, Amazon had an exceptionally bad final three months of the year too: IDC claimed that its shipments fell from 5.8m to 1.7m units year-on-year – a 4.1m drop in a quarter when the company estimated that the overall market was down by just 2.5m units.Amazon dragging everyone else down? Not so much: IDC didn’t count shipments of the company’s new six-inch Fire HD tablet, because the screen size didn’t match its definition of a “tablet”. Canalys claimed that Amazon shipped 4m tablets during the quarter, by contrast.Related:Apple: what do you do after becoming the world’s most profitable company?Both companies faced the challenges listed earlier though, with Amazon particularly focused on the kind of mainstream tablet users who would be most likely to balk at replacing the tablet they bought a year before so soon.5. Has there been a lack of innovation?The final theory doing the rounds about why tablet shipments are falling is the suggestion that 2014’s crop of new models lacked genuinely exciting and innovative new features to persuade people to get their wallets out.Gartner’s Atwal described this as “the lack of innovation in hardware which refrains consumers from upgrading” in a year when new devices from Apple, Samsung, Amazon and their rivals were mostly iterative in their improvements over previous models.There is no firm opinion on what improvement would be capable of kicking some life back into tablet sales, though. Twelve-inch displays? Haptic feedback? More niche tablets aimed at specific groups like children, gamers or designers?Perhaps software will be the key: smarter Siri-style virtual agents to anticipate our needs, or tools to make tablets the heart of our increasingly-connected homes. Or perhaps the next big uplift in tablet sales will be about marketing: selling more to schools and businesses.•Experts predict more than 1bn tablet users in 2015
Taxi app Uber is taking its biggest steps yet towards a driver-free world, launching the Uber Advanced Technologies Center in Pittsburgh “to do research and development, primarily in the areas of mapping and vehicle safety and autonomy technology”.It’s a massive investment in the future from a company still primarily associated with the development of its app and associated back-end technology, but it’s one that Uber has been hinting at for a long time. The company is keenly aware that the majority of the cost of a journey comes from the driver’s salary, and has been eyeing up driverless cars as a potential saviour.In May 2014, Uber’s chief executive, Travis Kalanick,told Code conferencethat “the reason Uber could be expensive is because you’re not just paying for the car — you’re paying for the other dude in the car.“When there’s no other dude in the car, the cost of taking an Uber anywhere becomes cheaper than owning a vehicle. So the magic there is, you basically bring the cost below the cost of ownership for everybody, and then car ownership goes away.”Uber is likely not the only transportation provider looking at the prospect of firing its staff and replacing them with robots, but it is one of the few prepared to articulate that desire.London’s 2050 transport plan.Photograph: Mayor of LondonIn July 2014, when Transport for London released its 2050 Transport Plan, the organisation predicted that autonomous vehicles could provide “large cost savings for buses while delivering a faster, more efficient service” and added that it would become possible to provide what it called “taxi like” services “at reduced costs”. But a day later,a spokesman talked down the document, saying that it was only supposed to talk about automation on the tube, a topic already sparking regular strikes.Of course, Uber already has an advantage when it comes to dealing with workforce disputes: as the exemplar of the modern-day “sharing economy”, it has few direct employees, instead hiring its drivers as independent contractors who are free to come and go as they wish. Right now, the company is aggressively hiring drivers –even going so far as to poach them from rival Lyft– but it can turn that tap off as quickly as it turned it on, leaving the drivers without work.While a full move to driverless cars would be Uber’s dream scenario, letting it cut the cost of a ride to little more than fuel plus wear and tear, it could very well be a nightmare for car manufacturers. Self-driving cars could prove the death-knell for private car ownership, with services like Uber offering a cheap substitution while avoiding the wastefulness of leaving an asset worth thousands of pounds sit unused on the side of the road. A self-driving car can carry someone from home to work, head off to a different office and pick up someone going to the airport, even take a package in the boot to be delivered to a client – all while a conventional car would be sitting in its owner’s car park.Perhaps because of that, the focus from the conventional auto industry has been less on driverless cars, and more on using self-driving technology as a safety feature to augment traditional driving. For instance, a number of cars already on the market are able to maintain a steady cruising speed, stay in lane, stay a safe distance away from cars in front, and even park themselves, all without human intervention. In a patchwork fashion, those cars could eventually build up to almost full automation – but the signals coming from the industry indicate that the final step might be something they are loathe to take.Against that background, it makes sense that Uber feels the need to push its own research into the topic – as well as to improve its mapping technology, which has been responsible fora fewembarrassing news storiesin its own right.But Uber may have a rude awakening ahead of it. Fully autonomous vehicles – of the sort the company would need to be able to get rid of its drivers and slash costs –could be further away than boosters suggest. The best technology currently available, Google’s, uses excruciatingly highly detailed maps to provide a car with spacial awareness which it can’t generate on the fly. But those maps are expensive and time-consuming to produce, and perhaps impossible to ever create for an entire country (and even harder to keep up-to-date).Related:Uber: the smartphone app that is driving London cabbies to distractionEven if the company solves that problem, there’s a far bigger hurdle to leap: legislation. No matter how much automation a car currently has, it still needs a driver with a full license behind the wheel to drive on public roads. And while the robot cars may ultimately become safer than human drivers, that still does not guarantee that they will become legal.As a consortium of AI researchers put it in January, “if self-driving cars cut the roughly 40,000 annual US traffic fatalities in half, the car makers might get not 20,000 thank-you notes, but 20,000 lawsuits”.Of course, if there’s anyone able to handle 20,000 lawsuits,it’s Uber.
Ransomware – hacking and locking a computer and demanding money to let users back in – has moved to the web following a spate of attacks that cripple websites by changing the encryption keys needed to keep a website running.The new attacks, called “RansomWeb”, asdocumentedby security company High-Tech Bridge, see hackers break into a website, take control of a site’s encryption system used for securing or backing up data, and change the keys.The attackers are analogous to burglars who break into a house, change all the locks and make it impossible for the owner to get back in.Once the encryption key is changed the website or a web app, is rendered inoperable by stopping it from accessing essential information or code.‘The era of web blackmailing, racket and chantage is about to start’Ilia Kolochenko, chief executive of High-Tech Bridge said: “We are probably facing a new emerging threat for websites that may outshine defacements and DDoS attacks. RansomWeb attacks may cause unrepairable damage, they are very easy to cause and pretty difficult to prevent.”Related:Sony Pictures hack: how much damage can North Korea's cyber army do?In December a company was reportedly held to ransom after a critical web app was taken offline through the attack. The hackers had broken into the servers that ran the web app six months prior, but waited until some critical data had been encrypted and the security key stored on a protected remote server.They then removed the key from the web server, breaking the app, and sending a ransom demand to the company to decrypt the crucial data and restore service.“The days when hackers were attacking websites for glory or fun are over, now financial profit drives them. The era of web blackmailing, racket and chantage is about to start,” said Kolochenko.‘A great opportunity to make money exploiting negligent website administrators’The attacks are difficult to prevent, due to the complexity of most web apps and their constant changing state. Kolochenko explained that the only way to detect such attempts would be to constantly monitor for file changes within the web app code and databases.Marsel Nizamutdinov, High-Tech Bridge chief research officer said: “There are tens of millions of vulnerable web applications with critical data. Hackers will definitely not miss such a great opportunity to make money exploiting negligent website administrators.”Related:Cryptolocker: what you need to knowRansomware attacks are nothing new. Cybercriminals have been targeting people and businesses for years, often using emails as a way to carry out the attack. The National Crime Agency (NCA)put out an alertin 2013 when a series of emails claiming to come from banks and financial institutions contained malware that would encrypt a user’s hard drive and hold it for a ransom of around £540.Cryptolocker then hit the headlines in June 2014, where the managed to take control of a cybercriminal gang’s control system giving people hit with the ransomware a two-week window to clean the malware from their systems.The move from ransomware to ransom attacks on the web is not unexpected by security analysts, who believed it was only a matter of time as more and more crucial corporate data is stored off site in the cloud.
Minecraft developer Mojang has announced that the annual Minecon convention is coming to the ExCel centre in London on 4 and 5 July.The event, which hosts panel discussions and parties all themed around the hugely successful building sim, usually sells out in hours. The 10,000 tickets are due to go on sale in February.Minecon began as a spontaneous gathering of Minecraft fans in Bellevue, Washington in 2010. The game’s creator, Markus “Notch” Persson, in the city at the time, had expressed an interest in meeting some players anda thread quickly formedon the official forum. About 100 fans turned up. The following year, 5,000 people attended the first official Minecon, held at the Mandalay Bay hotel in Las Vegas.“This summer we are heading to London, UK to hang out with 10,000 of our closest friends (hint: that’s you!),” wrote Mojang COOon the company’s website. “As usual there will be panels, contests, tournaments, events and a soon-to-be-announced show-of-some-sort for our Saturday night bash.”It’s been a transitional time for Mojang. In September, Microsoft announced that it would bebuying the Swedish studio for $2.5bn, leading to mixed reactions from the community, many of whom were concerned that the nature of the game, and its creators, would be altered.Community events are becoming a popular method for developers to connect with fans who often support game projects from very early in development. CCP, the creator of the massively multiplayer space game Eve Online, holds its chaotic Fanfest every year in Reykjavík, inviting dedicated players on what is effectively a three-day party. The annual Blizzcon event attracts over 25,000 fans of developer Blizzard, creator of the World of Warcraft, Starcraft and Hearthstone titles.The Minecraft 2015 line-up has yet to be announced, but it’s likely many of the game’s star YouTube players will be in attendance. Players such as Stampy Cat and Diamond Minecart have earned audiences of millions through their daily Minecraft videos.
It’s Tuesday everyone!
It’s almostGroundhog Day. You can tell, because the same bad internet ideas keep resurfacing, as though everything we fought for has been wiped off the slate overnight and we’ve woken up back at square one. Like the Snooper’s Charter – which four Lords tried to ram into an undebated amendment to the security bill last week, despite the fact that it was effectively identical to several different earlier incarnations, each of which was dismissed as a dumb, ineffective, overreaching load of Orwellian nightmare-fuel.The fact that some deranged killers murdered some free speech advocates doesn’t make mass surveillance (as opposed to, you know, keeping track of jihadis who are known to be planning acts of terror, which the French spooks failed to do, possibly because they were too busy rolling around in their own mass-surveillance haystacks) any less stupid and unworkable.At last week’s LSE debateAfter Snowden one of the panelists pointed out that the plan to carry out mass surveillance has been proposed – and debated at the LSE – for decades, and always found to be unsupported in evidence. It’s expensive and it distracts cops from looking at people who have done things that are genuinely suspicious (such as the Tsarnaev brothers, whom the US spy agencies stopped paying attention to because they were too preoccupied with their Big Data terrorism-detection machine to actually follow people who had announced their intention to commit terrorist acts).Indeed, there have been attempts to create centralised mass-surveillance databases for as long as ordinary people have been interacting with computers in the course of their daily lives. In 1980, Yes Minister aired its “Big Brother” episode, in which Jim Hacker had to defend his ministry’s plan to put all Britons’ information into a database that could be used by the civil service, police and spies (there’s a wonderful line in that episode, where a current affairs programme host asks Hacker why he wants to put all that data into a database unless he plans to take it out again and look at it?).Why does this keep coming up, despite the evidence that it doesn’t work? I once asked this of Thomas Drake and Bill Binney, two of the pre-Snowden whistleblowers. They weren’t sure, but one of them said he thought it might be civil-service empire-building: spooks getting ever-larger budgets and more reports on the org chart, more power, and more access to lucrative, private-industry positions after they leave government.That last part, about private sector jobs, certainly rings true. After all, former NSA chief Keith Alexander left his government job and founded a consultancy that charges clients $1m a month for security advice. Spying is a business, after all: BT and Vodaphone collecthuge feesfor giving GCHQ illegal access to their fibre optic trunks. The NSA’s massive data-centre in Bluffdale, Utah cost $1.5bn, built by the private sector at public expense.Remember that Edward Snowden didn’t work for the NSA: he was a contractor for Booz Allen Hamilton, a company that turned over $5.48bn in 2014. Every new expansion of NSA mass surveillance means potential new contracts for Booz Allen Hamilton.In other words: spying on everyone may not catch terrorists, but it does make military contractors and telcos a lot of money. Mass surveillance is policy with a business model.We live in a post-evidence-based-policy world. As Ben Goldacre’slatest collectiondocuments, what governments say they want to do and what they actually do are bizarrely decoupled. Whether the strategic goal is catching terrorists, educating children, or improving health outcomes, the tactics that government deploys are only glancingly related to what the evidence suggests it should be doing.Instead, in every domain, over and over, the policies that prevail are those with business-models. Policies that create a large pool of wealth for a small number of players, enough money in few enough hands that there’s some left over to lobby for the continuation of that policy.It’s a bit like going to the grocery store: actual food, like fresh fruit, meat, vegetables, eggs, and so on, is just food. There’s not much to say about it. You can’t make attractive health claims about carrots – you need to extract the betacarotene from them and market it as a kind of magic carrot essence that is especially good for you (even though the stuff turns out to be carcinogenic once you take it out of the carrots). It’s why Michael Pollen advises that you only eat foods that no one makes health claims about. But most of the stuff your grocery store stocks and advertises is stuff that Michael Pollen says we shouldn’t eat: stuff with juicy margins that generate enough profit that there’s a surplus with which to market it.“Not being spied on all the time” doesn’t have a business model. The benefits of such a policy are diffused. They’re the fact that you’re not added to a no-fly list by an unaccountable algorithm, that you’re not stopped for an illegal turn and then targeted by a Big Data oracle that says your patterns are unusual, making you a person of interest. They’re the freedom to discuss private things with people of your choosing; the knowledge that your government is closing holes in your computer, rather than trying to weaponise them in case they ever need to turn your PC into a traitor, a spy in your midst. In aggregate, these benefits are worth more to all of us than BT’s blood-money is worth to its shareholders, but our benefits are diffuse and long-term, and BT’s benefits are concentrated and short-term.So we get the Snooper’s Charter, over and over again. Because there is money to pay for lobbyists to push for it, to big up the idea in the press every time it’s floated. There’s money in crassly exploiting the deaths of free-speech advocates to call for more surveillance.At last autumn’s ORGCon, I saw a speaker fromReprievetalk about her work trying to count and put names to the dead in US drone strikes in countries like Pakistan and Yemen. These strikes are directed by the CIA using metadata (as former CIA director Michael Hayden said: “We kill people based on metadata”), like the unique identifiers transmitted by your phone’s radio-chip. When the metadata patterns convince CIA analysts that they’ve found a terrorist, a drone homes in on that phone and kills anyone in its vicinity – but even the CIA often doesn’t know who they’ve targeted and who else was killed.The Reprieve speaker, Jennifer Gibson, explained that this was due to a shift in the CIA’s operational model. Historically, the CIA was a Humint (“human intelligence”) agency, which conducted its work by sending spies in fancy dress to go and talk to people in the field. Now, it’s basically become another NSA, a Sigint (“signals intelligence”) agency, hoovering up data and trying to make sense of it. Why does the US now have two Sigint agencies and a greatly diminished Humint capacity? After all, it would be tactically useful for the US to know who it has killed.I think it’s because Sigint has a business model. There are procurements for Sigint. And where there are procurements, there are lunches at well-funded thinktanks and lobbyists’ offices for Senate Intelligence Committee staffers to talk about how those procurements are the most sensible thing for government. Procurements attract junkets. Procurements produce private-sector jobs. Procurements are laundered back into lawmaking through campaign contributions.There’s not a lot of pork in Humint. Apart from the odd airplane ticket and putty chin, Humint is basically about hiring people to go and nose around. It may involve bribing officials and other informants, but that’s not the sort of government spending that generates a lot of lobbyist activities on the Hill or in Westminster.I think that we’ve tacitly acknowledged this in policy circles for years – if you have something you think would be good for society, you need to figure out how it will make a small group of people rich, so they will fight to keep it going. It’s how we got carbon trading! And carbon trading is a great cautionary tale for activists thinking of harnessing policy business models to attain their objectives: the people you make rich will fight for a version of your policy that makes them as rich as possible, even if it means subverting the underlying social good that your policy is supposed to attain.
Samsung’s Gear S claims to be unique among smartwatches. More than simply a second screen for a smartphone, it is a full mobile phone strapped to the wrist – no need for a separate handset for an internet connection.It is capable of emailing, sending text messages and making phone calls but can a 2in screen on the arm really replace a smartphone? To find out I wore a Gear S for a week and attempted to leave the smartphone at home.The Gear S pulls notifications from a smartphone, either directly via Bluetooth or remotely over Wi-Fi or 3G.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSo how did it go? Well, it didn’t start well … the first thing you notice when breaking the Gear S out of the box is that you can’t actually use it without a smartphone. Despite having its own access to the internet, you need an Android smartphone – a Samsung one to boot – to actually set it up.The Gear manager app configures email accounts, installs apps and customises the look and feel of the watch. It’s disappointing to have to resort to a smartphone to do this basic stuff.Many of the apps once installed, including the News Briefing app and the Nike+, demand that you need to “agree to its legal notices” or similar set up procedures on a smartphone.Initial app setup can possibly be forgiven, but disappointingly it turns out the Gear S can only send and receive email if connected to a smartphone, be that directly via Bluetooth or remotely over Wi-Fi or 3G. If the Samsung smartphone isn’t on or doesn’t have an internet connection you can’t read or compose new email, begging the question: what is the point?Email fail.It’s clear that despite technically being able to operate independently from a smartphone, Samsung doesn’t want the Gear S to do so, despite costing over £300.SpecificationsScreen:2in curved Super AMOLEDOperating System:TizenProcessor:1GHz dual-coreStorage:4GBConnectivity:3G, Bluetooth 4.1, GPS, Wi-FiDimensions:39.9 x 58.1 x 12.5mmWeight:67g (black), 84g (white)‘What’s the weather like in Wimbledon tomorrow?’Viewing contacts, calendar, setting timers, navigating via Here Maps and viewing the weather work fine on the watch. As does Samsung’s S Voice for dictating text, asking questions about the weather and setting timers, alarms and other built-in features.Although shouting at the watch works just fine, is not practical in public and … still makes you feel like a burke.Samsung’s voice assistant S Voice works very well on the Gear S even over a relatively poor 3G connection.Text messaging works without a smartphone. Sending and receiving texts is quite easy from the wrist. Dictating text is the fastest route, but only for 10 to 15 second bursts after which it will cut out.Typing out short texts on the virtual keyboard is fine, but you only see two lines of text as the screen is mostly covered by the keyboard, making anything long impractical. The keyboard supports gesture typing too, which proved pretty accurate, but typing for any extended period makes your wrist ache. In the end I resorted to taking it off an holding it like a small phone, which rather defeats its purpose.Texting works just fine for short messages. Text longer than two lines is obscured by the keyboard.Using the Gear S as a phone however is great. You can use it Dick Tracey style, shouting at it with the loud speaker. It works fine with the wrist around chest height, although starts to get drowned out when down by your side.It’s better using a Bluetooth headset or pair of earphones, that’s when having the phone on your wrist really comes into its own. The one downside is that the Gear S has its own phone number to confuse the issue, but when connected to a smartphone via Bluetooth it will forward calls to the smartphone.The Gear S works well as a phone on loudspeaker, but works better when using a Bluetooth headset or earphones.Opera Mini to the rescue?The Gear S doesn’t come with a web browser out of the box, but Opera Mini is available from the Samsung app store via a smartphone.Browsing the web is tedious on the small screen, but for quickly checking something it does the job. It can’t seem to play gifs, however.Opera Mini is available for the Gear S and makes browsing possible. The screen is a bit small, but it will do in a pinch.A calculator app is also available, which makes the Gear S look like the calculator watches from the 1980s.Samsung’s suite of S Health apps work fine, although the built-in heart rate monitor struggled to keep a consistent lock on my heart rate requiring the smartwatch to be moved further up my arm than I would normally wear a watch.The optical heart rate monitor works fine as long as the watch is high enough up your arm and not next to the wrist bone.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOn the wrist the Gear S is chunky, and struggles to fit under a shirt cuff. It is curved, which fits to the wrist well and has a size adjustable clasp, which makes wearing it comfortable despite its size.The screen is sharp, colourful and bright, and is readable, if washed out, in direct sunlight. It has a series of customisable watch faces, with more available from Samsung’s app store, which display more than the time.The face lights when the wrist is turned to save battery. The Gear S lasts for a full day’s usage running on its 3G connection making phone calls, sending texts and emails, or closer to two days when paired to a smartphone over Bluetooth.It also comes with a snap-on charger, which takes microUSB but also has a battery integrated into it that can do a complete charge on the go. You can’t wear the watch while it’s charging, however.The watch separates from the strap, but third-party straps are not available.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPriceThe Samsung Gear S costs £329, but will also require a separate mobile phone contract to use its 3G connectivity. The Gear S is available with no upfront cost from mobile operators including O2 from around £31 a month for 24 months.VerdictThe Samsung Gear S has a lot of potential. Its Tizen operating system is easy to navigate, the battery lasts a solid day and the built-in phone and 3G internet connection could be great.But as it stands Samsung has hobbled the Gear S’s independence. Beyond phone calls, texts and browsing the web, everything else more or less needs a smartphone to act as a relay, which defeats the point of having a phone on your wrist.The Gear S is an average smartwatch when paired with a Samsung phone and a missed opportunity for something much more. This is not the smartwatch to replace the smartphone.Pros:built-in phone, sends texts, Opera Mini, maps without a smartphoneCons:needs a Samsung smartphone to work properly, needs a separate phone contract to make the most of it, bulkyOther reviews•Click tock: which is the best smartwatch right now?•Sony Smartwatch 3 review: great design, good screen and decent battery•Smartwatch review: LG’s G Watch R is chunky, masculine, and fast•Motorola Moto 360 review: beautiful smartwatch spoiled by poor battery life•Google smartwatches review: LG G Watch, Samsung Gear Live and Android Wear•Samsung Gear 2 and Gear Fit review: smartwatches on the up
The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) is planning tough new rules for regulating the internet that will treat high-speed internet as a public utility, like electricity or water.Related:Net neutrality battle pitches activists and FCC against Big Cable and GOPThe Wall Street Journal reported on Monday that the FCC’s long-awaited proposed new rules for internet regulation will be released to the agency’s five commissioners on Thursday.In November, President Barack Obama called forthe “strongest possible” rulesto protect net neutrality – the concept that all traffic should be treated equally online. According to the Journal, the FCC has heeded his call.Among other proposals, the FCC rules will: move to regulate broadband under Title II of the Communications Act, giving it greater powers over internet service providers; change the way both mobile and fixed broadband firms are regulated; and ban broadband providers from prioritising websites in exchange for payment or slowing traffic from other sites.The move, while expected, will meet strong resistance from cable companies and Republicans, who argue that the internet has benefited from light regulation and that greater control will stifle innovation.However, internet activists and top tech companies including Amazon, Google, Netflix, Mozilla and Reddit have called for the FCC to shore up net neutrality, arguing cable firms will create a tiered internet and kill off competition if they are allowed to prioritise some companies over others in return for payments.Related:John Oliver's cheeky net neutrality plea crashes FCC websiteThe FCC was forced to go back to the rulebook in January, after a court victory by Verizon effectively undercut its ability to regulate internet service providers. Cable companies have since lobbied for light-touch regulation. Republicans are also drawing up a bill to address net neutrality that would ban fast lanes but defang the FCC.Last May, the FCC chairman, Tom Wheeler,put forward rulesthat would have allowed fast lanes, known as “paid prioritisation”. The decision provoked a massive backlash online and the regulator was flooded with more than 4m comments from the public, the majority against his proposals.The FCC has five commissioners, three Democrats and two Republicans. Wheeler’s proposals will be voted on at the agency’s next meeting, on 27 February. The wording of his orders – as the rules are known – will now become the subject of intense lobbying.
Social news site Reddit has quietly abandoned its plans to build its own version of the bitcoin cryptocurrency, letting go of its lead developer and shutting the project down.The move comes after the departure of Reddit chief executive, Yishan Wong, the main cheerleader internally of the cryptocurrency effort, quickly dubbed “Redditcoin” (though laterofficially named“Reddit Notes”).Announced in September 2014 as part of a fundraising round that raised $50m from VC firms including Andreessen Horowitz and Sequoia Capital, Redditcoin was a key part of an audacious plan by Wong to give part of the company’s equity back to users.Wong wrote in a blogpost: “The investors in this round have proposed to give 10% of their shares back to the community, in recognition of the central role the community plays in Reddit’s ongoing success.”At the time, the company had already advertised for a cryptocurrency engineer, and eventually hireddeveloper Ryan X Charlesfrom San Franciscan bitcoin company BitPay. Theinitial goal of Redditcoinwas to create a new cryptocurrency, backed by shares in Reddit and distributed to users of the site.Ryan Charles began developing an implementation of the bitcoin software that aimed to run in-browser and let users of the website trade any cryptocurrency, including bitcoin as well as popular forks such as dogecoin and litecoin, using just the website.Just two months later, Wong resigned from Reddit after “a disagreement with the board about a new office,”according to Reddit investor Sam Altman, who briefly acted as CEO after Wong’s departure.With Wong gone, Charles was left leaderless at Reddit. “While Yishan was CEO, I reported directly to him, as the lead engineer of the sadly never-to-be cryptocurrency engineering wing of Reddit,”he reported after his departure. “When Yishan left, I reported to no one. I had no formal meetings with anyone, and the only communication I had with other people at the company was informal.”“I figured the worst thing that could happen at Reddit was that we could launch something and it would fail,” Charles wrote. “What actually happened was that we launched nothing and I got fired. In only four months. This was worse than the worst outcome I thought was possible.”After being sacked, Charles said on Twitter that “cryptocurrency is not a part of Reddit’s near-term plans. This is unfortunate, but understandable.”“I’m fairly confident cryptocurrency will return to Reddit in the coming years… but it will have to wait a while for things to calm down,”he said in a separate Reddit post.And Reddit’s cofounder Alexis Ohanian says that the currency will return at some point. “We will be issuing redditnotes,”he wrote. “Our research leads us to want to wait until the law and technology around cryptocurrency are further along before deciding exactly how. We want to make sure we can give the community the full value of the equity when they receive it in the future, and today we haven’t been able to find a way to do that within existing regulations.”
Using a smartphone or iPad to pacify a toddler may impede their ability to learn self-regulation, according to researchers.In a commentary for the journalPediatrics, researchers at Boston University School of Medicine reviewed available types of interactive media and raised “important questions regarding their use as educational tools”, according toa news release.The researchers said that though the adverse effects of television and video on very small children was well understood, society’s understanding of the impact of mobile devices on the pre-school brain has been outpaced by how much children are already using them.The researchers warned that using a tablet or smartphone to divert a child’s attention could be detrimental to “their social-emotional development”.“If these devices become the predominant method to calm and distract young children, will they be able to develop their own internal mechanisms of self-regulation?” the scientists asked.Use of interactive screen time below three years of age could also impair a child’s development of the skills needed for maths and science, they found, although they also said some studies suggested benefits to toddlers’ use of mobile devices including in early literacy skills, or better academic engagement in students with autism.Jenny Radesky, clinical instructor in developmental-behavioural pediatrics at Boston University School of Medicine, published her team’s findings. She urged parents to increase “direct human to human interaction” with their offspring.Radesky encouraged more “unplugged” family interaction in general and suggested young children may benefit from “a designated family hour” of quality time spent with relatives – without any television and mobile devices being involved.The researchers pointed out that while there is plenty of expert evidence that children under 30 months cannot learn as well from television and videos as they can from human interaction, there has been insufficient investigation into whether interactive applications on mobile devices produce a similar result.Radesky questioned whether the use of smartphones and tablets could interfere with the ability to develop empathy and problem-solving skills and elements of social interaction that are typically learned during unstructured play and communication with peers.Playing with building blocks may help a toddler more with early maths skills than interactive electronic gadgets, she said.“These devices may replace the hands-on activities important for the development of sensorimotor and visual-motor skills, which are important for the learning and application of maths and science,” Radesky said.There is evidence that well-researched early-learning television programmes, such as Sesame Street, and electronic books and learn-to-read applications on mobile devices can help vocabulary and reading comprehension, the team found, but only once children are much closer to school age.Radesky recommended that parents try applications before considering allowing a child to use them.“At this time there are more questions than answers when it comes to mobile media,” she said.This article was amended on Monday 2 February 2015, to correctly identify the source cited. The headline and text were extensively rewritten to better reflect the nature of the article. We originally said the article was based on scientific research; in fact it was based ona news release, dated 30 January 2015, about a commentary on previous research and possible new areas of study. Links in the article have been changed to correctly identify sources.
So it looks like zombies games are here to stay. The past three years has seen a shuffling horde of undead adventures, from open-world indie role-player State of Decay to Popcap’s light-hearted blast-’em-up Plants vs Zombies: Garden Warfare. These senescent monsters just refuse to lay down and die.Of course, as cinema has taught us, zombies can be endlessly re-invented for new generations. In the 1970s and 1980s, they were used to explore everything from Cold War paranoia to rampant consumerism, through the films of Lucio Fulci and George A Romero. In the 1990s and 2000s, Danny Boyle and Marc Forster have used them to consider the lurking horror of global pandemics, with the zombie apocalypse becoming a handy symbol for bird flu and ebola. Zombies also suit today’s epic sensibilities: they attack in massive swarms which looks cool on the big screen, and they are relentless and therefore easy to franchise. Just look at the ever-transmogrifying Resident Evil series.This week sees the release of sandbox zombie chiller Dying Light and later in the year we’ll get Dead Island 2, newer builds of DayZ and an Xbox One edition of State of Decay. So if we accept that zombies are here to stay, what’s next for the monster who can give us everything except beauty tips?Zombie strategyWe’re already seeing zombie games that give you control over undead characters: in Dying Light you’re able to troll other players by taking over one of the game’s more terrifying night beasts. But how about a title that lets you play as an undead commander, strategically deploying a mass of zombies against an army of human survivors? Imagine Zombie Pikmin, where players group their monsters into squads then point them toward their prey. Or Zombie Dynasty Warriors, where you’re commanding from the front line as your degenerating squadron battles human victims. And there’s always Zombie: Total War. Creative Assemblymusthave considered it – if only at the pub of a Friday. Sure, there have been a few indie games that have toyed with these themes, but a big, sweeping Triple A tactical zombie blockbuster would certainly have legs. Until they rotted off, of course.Zombie sportsI mean, why does Fifa have no zombie mode? It’s crazy. Imagine having to make a substitution after 10 minutes because a rocketing volley has taken your right-back’s arm off. Imagine your Uruguayan striker being shown the red card for devouring the entrails of an opposing defender. You’d probably need larger team sizes to cope with the carnage, with players employing a traditional 400-400-200 formation. (Actually, there is an indie title named Death Penalty: Zombie Football if you want to see this sort of thing in action). Also Zombie PGA Golf! You’d have to carefully measure how hard you wanted to hit the ball against the possibility that your hands would be wrenched off in the process.Zombie fighting gamesImmortal Kombat! Undead or Alive! Hang on, I’m still thinking.The Sims: Zombie editionDress your rapidly decomposing sim in a selection of putrescent rags, customise their necrotising skin conditions, then guide them through a nightmarish never-ending semi-existence. Perhaps your unloveable creation will want to hangout at the shopping mall, like in Dawn of the Dead, hammering on the locked doors for a few days; or maybe they’ll lurk in the loos at a petrol station, hoping for a human survivor who forgets to check behind the stall door.Experential zombie art gamesPicture this: Resident Evil meets Gone Home. A group of spec-ops soldiers finds itself in a mansion filled with undead monsters – but then utilises this seemingly confrontational scenario as an opportunity for quiet reflection and emotional nourishment. While exploring, players discover notes and recordings that hint at repressed romantic relationships within the Umbrella Corporation. Eventually we come to understand that the T-virus is in fact a symbol for the permanence of human warmth against a backdrop of stultifying societal norms in which notions of death and life are rigorously defined and enforced.Zombie dating simSomething about your boyfriend quite literally falling apart.Where else could zombie games go? Let us know in the comments section.
In January, Brooklyn teenagerOsiris Aristy was arrested for “making a terroristic threat”. If convicted, this would carry a sentence of up to seven years in prison. In part, the case turns on the use of emojis in some of the 17-year-old’s Facebook status updates. Among other posts, expressing typically teenage concerns, three now-deleted updates appeared to convey his disdain for the police using emojis of a police officer and a revolver.This case is especially noteworthy as the basis for Aristy’s alleged “terrorist threat” – which falls under the New York legal statutes on terrorism (introduced after 9/11) – does not include a written or verbal threat. Aristy’s arrest was primarily based on his use of emojis.Emojis originated in Japan. They literally mean “picture”(e)-”character” (moji). As you might expect, emojis are particularly popular among teenagers, where they can be used as a shorthand symbol to express an often fairly complex idea or emotion in a visually evocative and appealing way. But can emojis be construed as a language; one that can potentially fall foul of increasingly stringent anti-terrorist laws around the globe?Emojis constitute a class of what linguists refer to as icons. Like the recycle bin or trash can on your computer desktop, an icon is a sign that, in some way, resembles the thing it evokes. The recycle bin icon on my computer is the place where I delete files. But in most cases, natural languages such as English or Japanese eschew icons in favour of signs known as symbols, which are quite different from icons. The symbols (or words) that make up a spoken language are meaningful, not because of any inherent resemblance relationship with the ideas that they point to, but rather, their meaning derives from an unspoken agreement between speakers of a linguistic community: the symbol will point to a specific entity or idea, agreed upon by all. This is known as a “linguistic convention”. For instance, the same idea conveyed by the English word “cat” is represented in different ways, across languages: “chat” in French, “billi” in Hindi, and “ikati” in Zulu, for instance.So, from this perspective, emojis – icons – function in quite a different way from the symbols used in English. Nevertheless, spoken languages do make use of some iconic signs. Many English words for animal sounds, ranging from “buzz” to “moo”, are iconic: they resemble the sound produced by the animal they relate to, the bee and the cow respectively. And English is not unusual in this.But language is not restricted to a specific medium for its expression. Since the 1960s, it has been recognised that sign languages, which make use of the manual-gestural medium, are fully functional languages, with the same levels of lexical and grammatical complexity as spoken languages. And as findings on signing have amassed, today we know that sign languages make extensive use of iconic reference, arguably far greater than in spoken languages. This is a consequence of the medium of expression: hand shapes and gestures can more readily depict an idea or entity, in iconic fashion, than is possible in the spoken medium. This shows that the once-heralded hallmark of human language – that it predominantly makes use of symbolic reference – may not be a hard-and-fast requirement for a communicative system. As emojis amount to iconic signs, ideally suited to the visual medium of expression, they are not automatically disqualified from being language-like.Perhaps a better way of characterising a language, then, is in terms of the functions it fulfils. There are two very important ones: first, a language is used to convey ideas, and, second, to influence others. In short, an important function of language is to enable us perform actions, sometimes referred to as “speech acts”, that can even change aspects of the world. These might range from the significant, when a member of the clergy pronounces a couple husband and wife, to the more banal, as when I ask a passerby in the street to give me the time. And from this perspective, the use of emojis, potentially at least, can be used to fulfil both functions: they can convey ideas, and be used to influence the mental states, emotions, and even behaviours of others.In the case of Osiris Aristy, the issue will turn on whether a reasonable person would interpret his teenage disdain as a terrorist threat; or perhaps, whether his use of emojis was intended as a threat. And that is a slightly different issue. But, as emojis, and the way they are increasingly being used, share some of the attributes common to language, then, in principle at least, they could be used to make terrorist threats, and can be interpreted as such.•The Language Myth: Why language is not an instinct by Vyvyan Evansis published by Cambridge University Press. Vyv Evans is Professor of Linguistics at Bangor University.
David Cameron’s proposals to limit the use of end-to-end encryption technology in the UK are “absurd” according to Phil Zimmermann, creator of the email encryption software, PGP, and now president of secure communications firm Silent Circle.Zimmermann also says intelligence agencies have “never had it so good” and are living in “a golden age of surveillance” in comments highly critical of the prime minister’s call for more powers.Related:PGP creator Phil Zimmermann: 'Intelligence agencies have never had it so good'In a January speech, Cameron announced plans for new anti-terror laws, including plans to crack down on anti-surveillance techniques: “Are we going to allow a means of communications where it simply is not possible to do that? My answer to that question is: no, we must not,” he said.In an interview with the Guardian, Zimmermann suggested that any such proposals would be unworkable, given the reliance on encryption by a range of online businesses in 2015.“It’s absurd. We fought the crypto wars in the 1990s, and that matter has been settled. End-to-end encryption is everywhere now: in browsers, online banking. If you have strong encryption between your web browser and your bank, you can’t have a man-in-the-middle from the government wiretapping that,” he said.Zimmermann noted a shift in cultural beliefs since the 1990s, when people using strong encryption technology would often have to defend themselves from accusations of being terrorists or drug dealers.“Now, if youaren’tusing strong encryption, you have to justify it,” he said. “You’re a doctor? Whaddya mean you’re not encrypting your patient records? Or you left your company laptop in a taxi with 2,000 customer names on it? You better hope that data is encrypted, or you’re in trouble.”Zimmermann added that the UK’s stricter laws around online security breaches have made encryption essential for many companies – “David Cameron can’t reverse that” – while giving short shrift to the arguments of politicians and security agencies that strong encryption is a boon for modern terrorists.“The intelligence agencies are living in a golden age of surveillance. They’ve never had it so good! Their life is so cushy now compared to a couple of decades ago. They now have total information,” he said.“They can see everything: they’ve got face recognition algorithms looking through cameras on the streets, optical recognition cameras at bridges, tunnels and traffic lights. They can track movements, transactions, who’s having lunch with who, who’s sleeping with who. They can see everything!”Zimmermann adds: “To complain that end-to-end encryption is crippling them? It’s like having a couple of missing pixels in a large display. They have the rest of the display! They’ve never had it so good. They didn’t have this stuff 20 years ago.”The full interview can be readhere.
The recenthack against Sony Picturesis likely to have made companies of all sizes consider upping their cybersecurity measures. Perhaps, though, it’s also a different kind of wake-up call: a reason to think less about security, and more about privacy.That’s the belief of Phil Zimmermann – the creator of email encryption software Pretty Good Privacy (PGP), and now president and co-founder of secure communications company Silent Circle –initially expressed in a blog post, and expanded on in an interview with the Guardian.“Sony had all kinds of things: intrusion detection, firewalls, antivirus … But they got hacked anyway. The security measures that enterprises do frequently get breached. People break in anyway: they overcome them,” says Zimmermann.“A lot of this stuff could have been encrypted. If those emails had been encrypted with PGP or GnuPG, the hackers wouldn’t have gotten very far. Those movie scripts that they stole? They could have been encrypted too.”Related:Tech pioneer Phil Zimmerman calls Cameron's anti-encryption plans 'absurd'Zimmermann hopes that companies will look at what happened to Sony, and use it as a spur to explore encryption as a way to protect their employees’ privacy, rather than ramping up their spending on security measures to protect their data.“People don’t think of privacy much when they think about enterprises, but enterprise privacy is a real thing: it’s the collective privacy of everybody in the company, and the privacy of the company assets as well,” he says.“In Sony’s case, there were emails about Hollywood actresses that got breached. That’s connected with personal privacy. I think companies retain too much information.”If more businesses shift their thinking from security to privacy, it’ll be good news for Silent Circle, which offers technology for encrypted voice calls, video chat and messaging, as well as being a key part of the privacy-focusedBlackphonesmartphone.According to Zimmermann, this kind of technology still often makes its way into a business through individual employees and spreads through word of mouth, rather than being a strategic decision by the company to deploy it.“Lately, we’ve been trying to do things that are lightweight, and don’t involve such a heavy commitment from the IT department. It’s not an infrastructure thing, it’s an agile personal initiative,” he says.The Blackphone often makes its way into companies through individual employees.Photograph: Manuel Blondeau/Manuel Blondeau/CorbisZimmermann adds that press coverage of the mass-surveillance revelationsprompted by NSA whistleblower Edward Snowdenhas had an impact on the number of companies exploring strong encryption technology.“Everybody’s heard of this. Your newspaper’s published a lot of stuff on this. It contributes to a herd immunity,” he says. “The press is kind of like a vaccination program: it helps build herd immunity with its coverage of these things.”He may have created PGP, which is still the best-known software for email encryption, but Zimmermann says the favourite technology that he has worked on is secure Voice-over-IP (VoIP) for encrypted voice calls.“It’s more fun than secure emails. It’s more human, more organic. You talk to someone! It’s what we evolved to do, for thousands of years: we talk with our voices, and we can get the nuance of people’s meaning,” he says.“To be able to protect that and have end-to-end, secure communication is something I’ve been working on for a decade now.”Zimmermann is a firm defender of strong encryption technology, suggesting that it’s one of the relatively few bona-fide success stories in the online security world.“If you look at all the things that have been developed – firewalls, intrusion detection systems, all these things put in place to protect computers? They haven’t really hit a home run: they keep getting breached,” he says.“But if you look at the Snowden material, the one thing that does seem to do well is strong encryption. Of all the things you see getting broken into, it’s conspicuously absent from that list.”(As the Guardian interviewed Zimmermann, news emerged ofa vulnerability in the Silent Text messaging appbundled with the Blackphone. Silent Circle patched it and expressed its “respect and gratitude” to the researcher that uncovered it.)Not everyone is joyful about the growth in use of strong encryption, though: from GCHQ boss Robert Hannigan suggesting thatfreely available encryption technology has been a boon for modern terrorist groupslike Islamic State, to comments by prime minister David Cameronmooting legislation to not “allow” such technology to be used in the UK.The latter has sparked aheated debate about the wisdom of such legislation, not to mention whether it is even possible to ban the use of end-to-end encryption in messages. Unsurprisingly, Zimmermann is unimpressed with the notion too.“It’s absurd. We fought the crypto wars in the 1990s, and that matter has been settled. End-to-end encryption is everywhere now: in browsers, online banking. If you have strong encryption between your web browser and your bank, you can’t have a man in the middle from the government wiretapping that,” he says.Recent comments by David Cameron were interpreted as a desire to ban end-to-end encryption’s use for messaging.Photograph: Christopher Thomond for The Guardian./Christopher Thomond“In the 90s, if you were using strong encryption, you’d have to defend yourself and justify what you were doing: ‘What, are you a terrorist or a drug dealer?’ Now, if you aren’t using strong encryption, you have to justify it.“You’re a doctor? Whaddya mean you’re not encrypting your patient records? Or you left your company laptop in a taxi with 2,000 customer names on it? You better hope that data is encrypted, or you’re in trouble.”Zimmermann claims that in the UK, the laws around disclosing security breaches are more stringent than in the US, meaning that if a company loses data as the result of an intrusion, not only does it face “the public humiliation of telling everyone”, but there are civil and criminal liabilities too.“Encryption is your way of avoiding that: the legislative environment requires it. David Cameron can’t reverse that. And it’s also too entrenched in the world economy,” he says.Zimmermann also gives short shrift to the arguments put forward by surveillance agencies that strong encryption technology is making their terrorism-fighting jobs much more difficult.“The intelligence agencies are living in a golden age of surveillance. They’ve never had it so good! Their life is so cushy now compared to a couple of decades ago. They now have total information,” he says.“They can see everything: they’ve got face recognition algorithms looking through cameras on the streets, optical recognition cameras at bridges, tunnels and traffic lights. They can track movements, transactions, who’s having lunch with who, who’s sleeping with who. They can see everything!“To complain that end-to-end encryption is crippling them? It’s like having a couple of missing pixels in a large display. They have the rest of the display! They’ve never had it so good. They didn’t have this stuff 20 years ago.”Zimmermann suggests that if the underlying problem that governments and national security agencies are trying to solve is religious extremism, “there are other ways to get what they want” – hinting that tough talk on encryption is distracting attention from the real issues.He remembers hearing politicians worrying about encryption before, about 10 years ago, when he travelled to Bogota in Colombia to speak at a conference, and to address MPs about proposed legislation to allow banks to use strong encryption online for the first time.“They weren’t allowed to use strong encryption. Not even banks! And the banks were getting robbed by hackers – bank accounts were getting cleaned out – because people like David Cameron who don’t like encryption said nobody could use it,” he says. “The bank robbers loved this!”What happened next? “I don’t know. I assume they must have come to their senses,” says Zimmermann. He’s hoping for a similar shift in attitudes on digital privacy from other governments and companies alike in 2015.•Secret US cybersecurity report: encryption vital to protect private data•Lavabit founder condemns Cameron’s ‘insane’ plan to ban encryption
For more than three decades Kevin Zeese has been a burly, vociferous presence on the front lines of protest movements. The 59-year-old Baltimore native has organised protests against the Iraq war, run for the Senate on the Green Party ticket, and campaigned for drug law reform since the 1970s. Now he’s fighting to save the idea of an open internet. Never has he seen the arguments over such a hot-topic issue shift so quickly in his direction.Last May,Zeese was thrown outof an Federal Communications Commission (FCC) meeting, as the regulator looked set to pass new rules that among other things would have allowed cable companies to create and charge extra for “fast lanes” and end net neutrality – the principle that all traffic should be treated equally online.Related:The 'big dogs' will sue over net neutrality regardless, says FCC headThis week, FCC commissioners will start discussing a new set of rules for regulating the web that could ban fast lanes. That ban would be part of a set of rules that, if passed, will regulate the internet in the similar way to utilities like water or electricity – a move net activists have been dreaming of for decades, believing it will allow the regulator to better protect net neutrality. The change in tone has been swift and dramatic and it even caught Zeese by surprise.Cable companies have long challenged the FCC’s authority to regulate them. The latest attempt to rewrite the FCC’s rules came last January, after Verizon successfully challenged its authority to regulate the broadband industry. Rich, powerful and well connected, cable companies are used to getting what they want. A couple of years ago at a fundraiser at the home of David Cohen, Comcast’s chief lobbyist, President Barack Obama quipped: “I’ve been here so much, the only thing I haven’t done in this house is have seder dinner.”Even the FCC – or perhaps that should be especially the FCC – appears to be in cable’s pocket. Chairman Tom Wheeler used to be president of the National Cable &amp; Telecommunications Association (NCTA), Big Cable’s lobbying group. The current chairman of the NCTA is Michael Powell … formerly head of the FCC.Against such powerful opponents Zeese, co-director of pressure group Popular Resistance, looked underpowered. He used old-school methods to make his point, camping outside the Washington office of the FCC, badgering Wheeler at his home, blocking his drive and forcing him to take the subway to work, organising protests outside the White House.But while the physical protests were mainly small affairs, behind him was an army of online activists so massive that after comedianJohn Oliver called on protesters to email the FCCin support of net neutrality, they crashed the regulator’s servers.Related:John Oliver's cheeky net neutrality plea crashes FCC websiteSpurred on by online activists includingFight for the Future, a six-person team that has managed to coordinate protests with people and companies including Reddit, Netflix, Mozilla and PornHub, people have now submitted more than four million comments on the FCC proposals. A topic many had dismissed as boring and wonky has provedmore controversial than Janet Jackson’s nipple– the singer’s accidental exposure during the Super Bowl in 2004 triggered a then record 1.4m comments to the FCC.“Often these campaigns are generational. Look at gay marriage or marijuana. This was different, it’s been so fast,” said Zeese. “Having an open internet has made a huge difference. That’s why we fought so hard.Verizon’s victory was a dark day for open-internet activists. Big Cable appeared to be on the brink of ending net neutrality. The court victory meant the FCC no longer had the authority to stop internet service providers (ISPs) blocking or “unreasonably” discriminating against services.After the decision, Netflix emerged as the poster child of blocking. The company had its service slowed by ISPs as they negotiated fees – a move Oliver described as having“all the ingredients of a Mob shakedown”. Perhaps unsurprisingly, Netflix founder Reed Hastings has become the tech industry’s loudest proponent of net neutrality. That spinning wheel many customers have dreaded while waiting for House of Cards or other Netflix shows to load has become a powerful avatar of what activists say is at stake in the debate.The rules now likely to be brought before the FCC would give the regulator the power to oversee broadband under Title II of the communications act of 1996, giving it far greater authority over the industry and the power to ban “throttling” – deliberately slowing internet traffic.There is still a long way to go. The five FCC commissioners will vote of the proposal on 26 February and ahead of the meeting, lobbying for changes will be intense. In the meantime, in Congress, Republicans are working on a bill that would undermine the FCC’s plans.But even there the debate has shifted. Last year Fred Upton, Republican chairman of the House committee on energy and commerce, called net neutrality “a solution in search of a problem”. The more cantankerous Senator Ted Cruz called it “Obamacare for the internet”. Now the Republicans too support net neutrality. The bill under discussion would also ban blocking or “throttling” of web traffic and prohibit the creation of paid “fast lanes” – even if it would also defang the FCC.“How is it that such a powerful corporate lobby, one that invests tens of millions of dollars in lobbying, is losing this debate so quickly?” asks Tim Karr, senior director of strategy for Free Press, a New Jersey-based public advocacy group. “I think the answer is that it has taken a decade.”‘The strongest possible rules’Barack Obama supports net neutrality.Photograph: Carolyn Kaster/APInternet activists have coalesced around net neutrality after a series of skirmishes. Activists began worrying about net neutrality in 2005, when the US supreme court ruled against a move to force cable companies to share their infrastructure with ISPs such as Brand X and EarthLink. The FCC, then overseen by Powell, joined with the cable companies in opposing the challenge.An alphabet soup of acts then came before Congress, from the Communications Opportunity, Promotion and Enhancement (Cope) Act of 2006 to theStop Online Piracy Act (Sopa)of 2014. An unlikely band of activists came together to protest what they saw as attempts to push through legislation which would restrict their freedom of expression online. The Christian Coalition of America and Gun Owners of America opposed Cope, for example, alongside the liberal nonprofit Common Cause.By the time the latest spat came before the FCC, Karr argues, net activists had sharpened their tactics and raised their game.“They had been successful at killing bills but not very successful at creating new rules,” he said.With net neutrality, that appears to have changed. Activists haven’t just lobbied to kill a bill – they have specifically pushed for Title II. It has worked. In November Obama, who has always been a champion of net neutrality but had never thrown his weight behind specific legislation to protect it, also came out for Title II, calling on the FCC to enact the “strongest possible rules” to protect an open internet.Related:Obama calls on FCC to make 'strongest possible rules' to protect net neutralityThe president’s speech caused outrage in the cable community. The National Cable and Telecommunications Association (NCTA), which represents cable companies including Comcast and Time Warner, said it wasstunnedby the president’s proposals.The industry remains deeply unhappy at the way the debate has shifted. Speaking off the record, one broadband executive said the industry had widely been supportive of net neutrality and the debate had been mischaracterised.“We have been on the record for years supporting no blocking, no throttling. The net activists have made this a debate about Title II,” he said.Everything changed after the Obama’s midterm election defeat, he said. “Obama wanted to reset his liberal credentials,” the executive said. “It became clear to everyone as soon as Obama weighed in that Wheeler had no choice.”But Title II will not get activists what they want, the executive said. If and when the FCC brings in its new powers, they will inevitably end in court.‘This is about big-picture stuff’Senator John Thune, seen here behind majority leader Mitch McConnell, is working on legislation to trump FCC moves on net neutrality.Photograph: Win McNamee/Getty ImagesProfessor Christopher Yoo ofUniversity of Pennsylvania Law School, a well known net neutrality skeptic, said politics had played a large part in the cable companies inability to take on their opponents. Obama had chosen to enter the fray “less to promote a serious discussion and more to send a political signal,” he said.But he argued that other factors are at play – not least the controversial proposed merger of cable’s two largest players, Comcast and Time Warner, which is now under review by the FCC. Taking on the FCC during that review might not work in their favor.“Their primary goal is get that merger done,” Yoo said. “One of the most seditious aspects of the FCC merger review is its chilling action on the participants in the [net neutrality] debate.“People in the industry are generally quite weary of the net neutrality debate. It’s been going on for a decade. A substantial part of the industry would like to get this resolved and move on.”But Title II is unlikely to do that, he argues. The telecommunications act was last overhauled almost 20 years ago. The FCC has suggested it will “forebear” parts of the act, in order to allow ISPs greater freedom, but tighter regulation will inevitably hamper innovation, he argues.“Everyone loves the internet for its permissionless innovation. The government is slow – for good reasons. By its very nature government does not work on internet time,” he said.Yoo said he hopes Congress will step in and legislate before this “mess” is passed.Congress may well step in. Republican senator John Thune is currently working on legislation that would trump the FCC’s moves. Obama would no doubt block it but he will not be in office forever.When and if the GOP’s net neutrality rules come to the floor, the net activists will be ready. From her home office in Boston, Evan Greer, campaign director for Fight for the Future, said she was under no illusion that the war was won and that she expected some backlash from the successes they had scored in this battle.“I wouldn’t be surprised if there was a move to try and limit the tactics we’ve used to organise online,” she said. “Whenever a tactic of protest becomes effective, there are often attempts to limit it.”But she is confident the internet will be behind her when the next skirmish starts.“This is about big-picture stuff,” she said. “It’s about freedom of expression, freedom of ideas. People will fight for that.”
A new more powerful Raspberry Pi 2 that is six times faster than the original from 2012, has been launched by the Cambridge-based startup costing £23.30.The new Raspberry Pi 2 is the same size and price as the original Model B+, which the wasthird versionof the pocket hobbyist computer. Over the last three years the Raspberry Pi has sold over 4.5m units, despite requiring more knowledge of computer systems to operate than a standard computer.The new board has twice the amount of memory at 1GB and a faster, 900MHz quad-core processor, allowing more demanding applications and providing faster performance in operating systems, coding programs and multimedia functions.The Raspberry Pi 2 running off the production line. Video: RS ComponentsThe Raspberry Pi 2 is still powered by a standard USB connection, and requires a microSD card, screen, keyboard and mouse to use as a computer.Eben Upton, chief executive and founder of the Raspberry Pi Foundation, said: “There comes a point when there’s no substitute for more memory and CPU performance.“Fortunately for us, Broadcom were willing to step up with a new SoC, BCM2836. This retains all the features of BCM2835, but replaces the single 700MHz ARM11 with a 900MHz quad-core ARM Cortex-A7 complex: everything else remains the same, so there is no painful transition or reduction in stability.”Upton added: “For the last six months we’ve been working closely with Microsoft to bring the forthcoming Windows 10 to Raspberry Pi 2. The Raspberry Pi 2-compatible version of Windows 10 will be available free of charge to makers.”The new board will support all the software and applications built for the previous generations of the Raspberry Pi, but will also support more modern implementations of Linux and gain greater performance when developers update their software.The new board will enable new applications and make using it as a computer considerably faster.Photograph: RS ComponentsThe original credit-card sized computer has been widely adopted by hobbyists for projects from automated smart homes to media streaming devices. But its uptake in education and byprojects aiming to teach children to codehas propelled the exposed board into the public consciousness.The original Raspberry Pi boards will continue to be made and sold to support existing applications in industry and elsewhere, while over 100,000 units of the Raspberry Pi 2 will be available from element14 and RS Components starting today.•A day at the Raspberry Jamboree: microcomputing and hardware hacking
Bookmarking app Instapaper has apologised to users after a recommendation algorithm went awry, delivering a profanity-filled story to the inbox of subscribers to the site’s email newsletter.Instapaper Weekly, introduced in January 2014, algorithmically picks the most popular stories saved to the the app over the previous week, and emails them out to users. Every new user since December 2013 has been automatically signed up to the mailing list, which goes out every Monday.In late January, however, the site’s users collectively demonstrated a bit of a potty-mouth, pushing an article by author Mark Manson to the top of the email. The title? “The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck”.Mark Manson’s article…Photograph: InstapaperThe following week’s email led with an apology. “The top highlight in last week’s email contained some … colourful language, and we’re sorry if you were offended,” the Instapaper team wrote. “The Weekly is an algorithmically generated newsletter based on the most popular articles and highlights saved by Instapaper users, and unfortunately we didn’t build the algorithm to filter profanity in any way.“We’ve added in some filters on our end to ensure that future content remains as interesting as ever, while avoiding any potentially offensive language. Again, we are sincerely sorry if you were offended, we’re still getting the taste of soap out of our mouths!”Badly filtered recommendations have led to trouble in other domains. Weeks after Twitter’s first video-sharing service, Vine, launched,the company had to hurriedly turn off an “editor’s picks” featureafter it pushed hardcore pornography to the top of every user’s feed.But before we celebrate the failure of robots too soon, Vine’s mistake turned out to have been human error. Between potty-mouthed robots and dirty-minded humans, your recommendations may never be fully safe.
Like a phoenix rising from the ashes, or a particularly irritating flare up of herpes (depending on how you view it), veteran file-sharing site The Pirate Bay is back again.Almost two months after its servers were raided by the Swedish authorities, the BiTorrent site is back online, relaunching a day ahead of its teased 1 February deadline.The website isn’t quite fully functioning: it lacks RSS feeds, the ability for new users to register accounts, or a working “contact us” link. But the core service is back to exactly where it was on 9 December, when the raid occurred.In 2012, the Pirate Bay attempted to protect itself against takedown attempts by moving to the cloud, giving up its physical servers and buying storage space from third-party hosts. While that didn’t fully work, it’s clear that much of the infrastructure was indeed stored off-site, allowing the organisation to recover so quickly.But not every member of the Pirate Bay is happy with the relaunch. Behind the scenes, there appears to be a split of sorts, withformer volunteer moderators locked out of the new site. Some are discussing making a new, “real” version of The Pirate Bay, as well as relaunching the site’s forums.
If one of your Facebook friends shares a pornographic video clip and it appears in your news feed, think twice about clicking on it. But if you do, and it asks you to install an update for your Flash software, back away fast.Why? It’s malware – and according to security researcher Mohammad Faghani, this pretend-porn trojan managed to infect 110,000 Facebook users in just two days after it first appeared.“The trojan tags the infected user’s friends in an enticing post. Upon opening the post, the user will get a preview of a porn video which eventually stops and asks for downloading a (fake) flash player to continue the preview,” explained Faghani in apost to the Full Disclosure mailing list.“The fake flash player is the downloader of the actual malware. We have been monitoring this malware for the last two days where it could infect more than 110K users only in two days and it is still on the rise.”According to Faghani, the key to this trojan is that once it infects someone’s account, it re-shares the clip while tagging up to 20 of their friends – a tactic that helps it spread faster than previous Facebook-targeted malware that relied on one-to-one messaging on Facebook.He dubbed this technique “Magnet” and warned that the trojan can hijack victims’ keyboard and mouse movements.It’s far from the first time spicy video clips have been used as bait for malware scams attempting to spread via Facebook. In July 2014, for example, security firm BitDefenderissued a warning about a scamdesigned to look like a YouTube video of someone stripping in front of their webcam.In astatement issued to the Threatpost blog, a Facebook spokesperson said the company was aware of the latest scam, and was working to stop it spreading further across its social network.“We use a number of automated systems to identify potentially harmful links and stop them from spreading. In this case, we’re aware of these malware varieties, which are typically hosted as browser extensions and distributed using links on social media sites,” said the spokesperson.“We are blocking links to these scams, offering cleanup options, and pursuing additional measures to ensure that people continue to have a safe experience on Facebook.”•‘It’s been a great year!’ Thanks to these Facebook scams...•How you could become a victim of cybercrime in 2015
Sega’s celebrated arcade game finds an unlikely home on Nintendo’s handheld thanks to flawlessly retrofitted stereoscopic visuals. Along with its stablemates,OutRunandSpace Harrier,After Burnerdefined 3D gaming in the pre-polygon era. Epitomising 80sTop Guncool,After Burnersees you pilot your F-14D Tomcat through 23 levels of intense shooting action. No easy task, since keeping that picturesque horizon clear with the vulcan shot and lock-on missiles demands sharp reflexes and tight throttle control.Emulation maestros M2 have handled the port with typical perfection, recording the original arcade cabinet hum to add environmental authenticity. The package is rounded off with an exclusive new special mode that borrows from the brilliant 2006Climaxsequel, designed byIkarugamastermind Hiroshi Iuchi. If only all classic sprite remasters were treated with such respect.
Twitter has launched a new version of its Vine video-sharing app aimed at children, promising to filter out inappropriate content.Vine Kidshas launched initially for Apple’s iPhone, and will offer a feed of “hand-selected” six-second looping videos from Vine’s community.That means no swearing, twerking or other forms of adult content, and the addition of a group of animated characters to host the app.“We’ve seen for ourselves – and heard from parents, siblings and others – that kids love Vine,”wrote Vine’s Carolyn Penner in a blog postannouncing the new app, which was developed by two staff during the company’s “Hack Week”, when employees work on sideline projects.“The idea came about during an office conversation in early January. One of my colleagues was talking about how much his two-year-old daughter loves Vine – he said he wished there was a separate app she could use to more easily watch posts that are appropriate for kids,” explained Penner.At the time of writing, the clips chosen for the app are heavy on the cats and dogs, with singing eggs, Elmo from Sesame Street, animated aliens and a piano-playing hedgehog also making an appearance.The app’s launch follows a year of growth for the main Vine app, whichTwitter launched in January 2013shortly after buying its developer, a startup also called Vine.In August 2014, Vine said that its videos werewatched by more than 100 million people a monthacross its app and the web, while those videosracked up 347.2bn “loops”– individual plays – in the last nine months of 2014 alone.Vine Kids’ launch comes at a time of growing debate about children’s use of smartphones and tablets, however.Anew study by researchers at Boston University School of Medicinehas raised new questions about whether very young children’s screen habits could harm their social-emotional development, as well as other skills.•10 children’s app trends for 2015
Saints Row IV, first released in 2013, pushed the tongue-in-cheek sandbox series to new, absurdist heights.Re-Electedis that game, basically unchanged. Be the president. Get abducted by aliens. Get superpowers. Save Santa. Only now it’s on next-gen at 1080p and all the DLCs included.ButGat Out of Hell, the expansion that comes with it, really stands out. The president gets kidnapped by the devil – yes, really – putting the spotlight on hacker Kinzie and genocidal gangster Johnny Gat. The plan is simple: buddy up with villains from history and previous games, shoot Satan in the face, save the president.It’s mindless, deliberately immature fun blasting through hordes of the damned or flying around the hellish cityscape on Lucifer’s wings, cracking dirty jokes. Come for the demon-slaying, stay for the musical numbers, infernal frat brothers and killer armchairs.
Nintendo’s launch of a “Creators Program” to share YouTube advertising revenues from videos featuring its games has been criticised by the platform’s biggest star, PewDiePie.The schemerequires YouTube creators to register with Nintendo, agree to it collecting the ad revenues from their entire channels or from specific videos, and include a disclosure message within each video.In return, they’ll be paid 60% of the advertising revenues, or 70% if they have registered their entire channel under the program. It replaces Nintendo’s previous policy, which was to keep 100% of the ad revenues from any video featuring one of its games.PewDiePie – aka Felix Kjellberg – isn’t impressed. In apost on his Tumblr blog, he claimed that Nintendo’s new policy is still misguided:“First off all, they have every right to do this and any other developer / publisher have as well. There’d be no ‘let’s play’ without the game to play. And we (YouTubers) are humble to this fact.But what they are missing out on completely is the free exposure and publicity that they get from YouTube / YouTubers. What better way to sell / market a game, than from watching someone else (that you like) playing it and enjoying themselves?”He went on to describe the Creators Program as “a slap in the face” to the community of YouTube channel that focus entirely on Nintendo games, and suggested that in other cases, the gamer is more important than the game when it comes to YouTube popularity.“If I played a Nintendo game on my channel. Most likely most of the views / ad revenue would come from the fact that my viewers are subscribed to me,” he wrote. “Not necessarily because they want to watch a Nintendo game in particular.”Kjellberg makes a comparison between Nintendo and another games firm – Minecraft developer Mojang – in his blog post, claiming that Mojang’s hands-off policy on YouTube has been one of the main factors behind Minecraft’s success.Mojang’s chief operating officer Vu Buiexplained that policy in an interview with the Guardianin October 2014, praising the community of Minecraft YouTubers that includes some of YouTube’s most popular channels overall:“That doesn’t take anything away from us, and I would say it actually adds value to Minecraft, to have people who are extremely talented and creative doing things. We’ve essentially outsourced YouTube videos to a community of millions of people, and what they come up with is more creative than anything we could make ourselves.”“There’s no damage to us from YouTube. We might have some people who make content we might not agree with, but this is how the democratisation of media works. You put it out there and let the community decide. If someone’s putting out rubbish, the community is not going to watch it, and it won’t rise to the top.”PewDiePie’s criticism of Nintendo carries weight: withnearly 4.1bn views of his videos in 2014, and more than 33m subscribers, he owns the most popular YouTube channel in any category, not just games.That said, Nintendo’s move from claiming all the revenues for YouTube videos featuring its games to sharing up to 70% with their creators is clearly an improvement.Some elements remain unclear: for example, whether Nintendo is setting boundaries for the content of videos: for example, those that criticise its games negatively, or any using its characters for satirical purposes.•Top 100 YouTube gamers were watched 4.4bn times in September•YouTube: PewDiePie, DC Toys Collector and Katy Perry top in 2014•PewDiePie switches off YouTube comments: ‘It’s mainly spam’
It’s the Monday after the Chatterbox awards! What happened?!
Playworld Superheroescombines touch-screen crafting and combat in an anglicised superhero adventure. Set in a Liverpudlian treehouse, the game allows you to cut and colour a cardboard superhero outfit by simply touching the screen, transporting our young hero into a city full of enemies.Tapping, swiping and dragging navigates the world and targets the stylised aliens, but the simple control system belies the substantial challenge of juggling offensive and defensive manoeuvres. Difficulty spikes now and again for what is a suggested nine- to-11-year-old audience, but management of tasks remains intuitive throughout.Equally pleasingly, while tablet games withPlayworld’s grand orchestral score and high-end visuals are usually accompanied by in-app purchases,Superheroesshuns the “free to play” approach with a single upfront cost of £2.99. Unsurprisingly, then, it is a game that will be as popular with young players as it is with parents.
Whenever regulators gather to discuss market failures, the cliche “level playing field” eventually surfaces. When regulators finally get around to thinking about what happens in the online world, especially in the area of personal data, then they will have to come to terms with the fact that the playing field is not just tilted in favour of the online giants, but is as vertical as that rockface inYosemitethat two Americans have finally managed to free climb.The mechanism for rotating the playing field is our old friend, the terms and conditions agreement, usually called the “end user licence agreement” (EULA) in cyberspace. This invariably consists of three coats of prime legal verbiage distributed over 32 pages, which basically comes down to this: “If you want to do business with us, then you will do it entirely on our terms; click here to agree, otherwise go screw yourself. Oh, and by the way, all of your personal data revealed in your interactions with us belongs to us.”The strange thing is that this formula applies regardless of whether you are actually trying to purchase something from the author of the EULA or merely trying to avail yourself of its “free” services.When the history of this period comes to be written, our great-grandchildren will marvel at the fact that billions of apparently sane individuals passively accepted this grotesquely asymmetrical deal. (They may also wonder why our governments have shown so little interest in the matter.) And future historians, diligently hunting through digital archives, will discover that there were only a few voices crying in the wilderness at the time.Of these prophets, the most prominent areJaron Lanier, a computer scientist who was one of the pioneers of virtual reality, andDoc Searls, one of the elder statesman of the old internet who is now at theBerkman Centreat Harvard. In his bookWho Owns the Future?, Lanier argued that by convincing users to give away valuable information about themselves in exchange for “free” services, firms such as Google and Facebook have accumulated colossal amounts of data (and corresponding amounts of wealth) at virtually no cost. His proposed solution is to make online transactions bidirectional, to ensure that the economic value of personal data can be realised by individuals, who at the moment just give it away.Related:Who Owns the Future? by Jaron Lanier; Big Data by Victor Mayer-Schönberger and Kenneth Cukier – reviewDoc Searls has much the same argument in his bookThe Intention Economy: When Customers Take Chargebut proposes a different kind of software solution – “vendor relationship management”. Thebasic ideais that “many market problems (including the widespread belief that customer lock-in is a ‘best practice’) can only be solved from the customer side: by making the customer a fully empowered actor in the market place, rather than one whose power in many cases is dependent on exclusive relationships with vendors, by coerced agreement provided entirely by those vendors”. In that sense, just as most big companies now use “customer relationship management” systems to manage their interactions with users, Searls thinks that customers need systems that can manage their interactions with companies, but on customers’ terms.The underlying philosophy underpinning all attempts to level the online playing field is a belief that an individual’s data belongs to him or herself and that no one should have access to it except on terms that are controlled by the data owner. The hunt is on, therefore, for technologies (software and/or hardware) that would make this both possible and be easy to use. An interesting idea of how to do that surfaced last week in apaper by computer scientistsfrom Queen Mary University of London and Cambridge University.The basic concept is aDatabox,a piece of software that collects personal data and then manages how that information is made available to third parties. In essence, it’s “a networked service that collates personal information from all of your devices and can also make that data available to organisations that the owner allows”.And although the Databox is conceived of as a virtual platform, in that it involves multiple devices and services, at least one instance of it will exist in a physical form, for example as a small box that also functions as a home hub.Getting from here to a service that is usable by normal human beings will, no doubt, be a long and winding road. Among the problems to be solved are thorny issues of trust, security and user-friendliness. But, like Lanier and Searls, the Databox project researchers are on the right track. As the Chinese say, a journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step. This is it.
Price £32,395MPG 46.3Top speed 117mphAs you’d expect, the first car to roll off a production line always has some special fate in store: a deserving charity; a spoilt celebrity; a minted collector. Land Rover’s number oneDiscovery Sport, however, is on its way from Merseyside to… New Mexico. Not to some drug cartel (though the car’s agility and strength would come in handy), but to Richard Branson and hisdesert-based Virgin Galactic team. It makes perfect sense of Land Rover’s over-reaching tagline: “Above and Beyond”.The Discovery Sport I drove only went to Somerset, not very Above or Beyond, but the journey was for a party to celebrate my son’s 18th and the fact that my sweet, curly-headed boy is now a grown-up man did seem slightly out of this world.Anyone familiar with Land Rover’s Discovery knows it’s called a Disco: a laughable nickname as there is very little that’s funky about a Disco. Yes, it’s a superbly engineered slab of technical excellence that’s more able and more resilient than any of us will ever… discover (that was unexpected), but groovy? Uh, no. This new Disco, however, moves in a very different way. I’d better explain.Inside story: the wonderfully calm and luxurious interior.The Land Rover family extends from the rugged, no-nonsense Defender to the super-svelte Range Rover. In the middle hovers the self-consciously trendy Evoque, the original boxy Discovery and the rather dated Freelander. It’s this last model that the new Discovery Sport is replacing on the team. This Disco is actually nothing to do with that Disco… Would it have killed them to think of a new name? No. There’s Jive? Boogie? Salsa? Break? Lap? Or maybe not.The Disco Sport, which went on sale last week, is a seven-seat SUV – the back two berths are tricky to access but once you are in they are surprisingly roomy – even if you are a gangling 18-year-old. At launch it features the reliable 2.2 diesel used in the Evoque, but a super-efficient turbo diesel will also be available later in the year. Both engines are light, quiet, smooth and efficient. There’s the choice of a six-speed manual or a slick nine-speed automatic – my father still remembers fondly the days when cars had three gears. This Disco is also the first to debut a whole bunch of clever Land Rover innovations – including its advanced pedestrian airbag technology, which has just wonWhatCar?’s safety award of 2015.Inside, it’s every inch the premium product you’d expect. In terms of usability, the pick of the new features is the touchscreen infotainment system. This interface has been one of Land Rover’s weak points. The old system was fiddly, slow and confusing. This one isn’t. The only question is why did it take them so long?And the drive? Relaxed, responsive, powerful… a genuine joy. You sit high, commanding the road. The steering is silky; that diesel is tenacious and unfaltering. It’s the sort of car that makes you wish your destination was further away.Heading to the party in Somerset, I parked my mundane cares, relaxed my shoulders and let the Disco go to work. We skimmed along winding roads past winter fields. The low sun dazzled and made the wet surface shine like mercury. It was mesmerising. And with the kids singing in the back, my wife dozing next to me and the dog slathering over the back window, I felt, well… Above and Beyond.A bright ideaI’m going that way: the jacket with built-in indicatorsGetting cyclists to use lights is one thing, getting them to indicate is another. But not Halfords has managed to kill two birds with one stone by launching a jacket that will do both. At first the innovative Visijax commuter jacket appears to be a regular waterproof, but using motion-sensor technology, it activates a flashing LED signal to show other road users when the cyclists is making a turn. It’s a patented Intelligent Motion-Activated Signalling System (iMASS), which triggers an amber turning signal when cyclists raise their arm. It lights up for five seconds before self-cancelling. This is complemented by powerful white LED lights on the chest and red lights on the back. On top of that the jacket has sweeping vents to circulate cool air while its Teflon coating repels mud and water. It comes in black and neon yellow and costs £99.99. Have a look at theHalfords’ website.Chitty Chitty rides againJohn Burningham with his 1934 Austin Seven, before its first MOT, which he wasn’t hopeful it would pass.Photograph: John BurninghamIt may surprise you that the author best known as the creator of James Bond, also wrote the much loved children’s bookChitty-Chitty-Bang-Bang. Just like Ian Fleming’s novels aimed at grown ups, this adventure story features heroes, villains and gadgets but here the main protagonist is a magical car. Ian Fleming wrote the novel for his son Caspar but did not live to see it published before he died in August 1964. Illustrated by award-winning children’s book illustrator John Burningham, it was originally issued in three volumes by Jonathan Cape and has been fascinating young boys and girls for 50 years. To celebrate the 50th anniversary of the publication of the final volume, Queen Anne Press is launching a facsimile of the original – the standard edition of three volumes in a slipcase will be available for £125, while 50 special editions, bound in cloth with gold blocking and accompanied by a portfolio containing two prints signed and numbered by John Burningham, will cost £600 each. Whether you decide to splash out or not, both the book and the brilliant film are well worth another viewing. For more details, go toqueenannepress.comA sprinkling of stardust at the Caravan, Camping &amp; Motorhome ShowThe open road: get inspired by this year’s show.Half-term week (February 17-22) sees this year’s Caravan, Camping &amp; Motorhome Show roll into Birmingham’s NEC. Helen Skelton, Sally Gunnell, Kate Lawler and Melodie King will all be attending, while Ben Fogle and Matt Baker will officially open the show. It’s the UK’s largest start-of-season holiday showcase, and you’ll find everything to do with getting outdoors under one roof. With more than 350 exhibitors, the show is a great family day out for both newcomers and enthusiasts alike. Advance show tickets cost from just £7 (kids 15 years and under go free). For more information and to book tickets go tocaravancampingmotorhomeshow.co.ukor call 0844 581 1250.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
When Applebecame the most profitable company in history last week, analysts could hardly contain their excitement.“Stunning”, “outstanding”, “a monster” were some of the analysts’ reactions to numbers showing the Silicon Valley firm had made $18bn (£12bn) in just three months – by selling 34,000 iPhones an hour around the clock from October to December. It now has $178bn cash in the bank.But after all the commotion, the questions began. For a company that has come back from the brink of bankruptcy less than 20 years ago, how long can the good news continue? Here are the six big questions facing the world’s biggest corporate success.Financially, is this the peak?Apple was 90 days away from bankruptcy when Steve Jobs rejoined it in 1997– as he later revealed – but Apple now tends to downplay its financial success ahead of quarterly profit announcements in order to surprise investors and analysts.This quarter’s profits were on another scale, though. Sales in the three months to the end of December were up 30% to $74.6bn. Those profits of $18bn were up 37%.It was the fastest quarterly growth since March 2012, but then Apple was half the size it is now. As Apple’s chief financial officer, Luca Maestri, said: “For a company of our size that is not a small feat.”Katy Huberty, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said it was a “quarter for the record books” and increased her share price target from $126 to $133, indicating she believes there is more growth to come. The shares, which jumped 5% in after-hours trading following Apple’s results, closed at $117 on Friday.The big challenge now, says Geoff Blaber, vice-president of research for CCS Insight, is to find the next growth opportunity. “Western Europe and north America are becoming saturated: to have room for growth Apple has to rely on taking growth from [Google’s] Android operating system based devices,” he says. “The big, big, focus is on China and to a lesser extent India.”Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expect Apple’s revenue in the year to September to grow 22%, but growth to slow to 4% in the following year.Are there many more people left who want an iPhone?Apple sold a record 74.5m mobiles in the quarter, 46% more than in the same period a year earlier. “Demand for iPhone has been staggering, shattering our high expectations,” chief executive Tim Cook said. “This volume is hard to comprehend.”The phones accounted for two-thirds of Apple’s revenue, and were worth more than Microsoft and Google’s latest quarterly sales combined.“Seems like the whole world wants an iPhone,” Steven Milunovich, an analyst at UBS, wrote in a note to investors, pointing out that consumers had demanded even more phones but Apple couldn’t produce them fast enough until recently.However, Toni Sacconaghi, an analyst at Bernstein Research, cautions that Apple’s growth may be too reliant on the seven-year-old product line. “A bet on Apple is increasingly a bet on the iPhone,” Sacconaghi says. “The good news is, iPhones are great. The bad news is, right now that’s driving over 100% of the revenue growth of the company.”A Chinese customer buys two new iPhone 6s.Photograph: Johannes Eisele/AFP/Getty ImagesHow important is China?Very: iPhone sales are exploding in the country. Apple overtook local producer Xiaomi to become China’s biggest smartphone seller in the last quarter. Chinese sales, which had been weak for Apple until it released the latest bigger-screen phones, came in at $16.1bn, up 70% on last year – when it also did not have a deal giving it access to China Mobile’s estimated 760 million subscribers.Revenues in China are quickly catching up with the amount it collects in the whole of Europe, where sales were $17.2bn, up 20%.“I was there [in China] right after the launch in October, and the excitement around the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus [was] absolutely phenomenal,” Cook said during his call with analysts. “You can tell that we’re a big believer in China.”Apple plans to double the number of its stores in greater China to 40 by mid-2016. “It’s an incredible market,” he said. “People love Apple products. And we are going to do our best to serve the market.”Only a year earlier, in October 2013, Apple was the No 6 smartphone maker in China, trailing Xiaomi, Huawei, Lenovo, Samsung and Yulong, according to research firm Canalys.“This is an amazing result, given that the average selling price of Apple’s handsets is nearly double those of its nearest competitors,” Canalys says. “While Chinese smartphone vendors are quickly gaining ground internationally, Apple has turned the tables on them in their home market.”Can it afford for the Apple Watch to fail?It has been five years since Apple launched its latest truly new product – the iPad – in 2010. To live up to its name for innovation, and diversify revenues away from reliance on the iPhone, Apple needs the Apple Watch to be an unqualified success.Cook announced that the watch would go on sale in April, giving the company a boost in its third quarter when it will not benefit from Christmas or the Chinese new year, which will have helped the previous two quarters. “We’re making great progress in the development of it,” he said.Apple describes the new product – often referred to as the iWatch, although it has not been officially named – as the “most personal device ever” and it is thought it will be able to monitor its wearer’s health as well as connect to an iPhone to provide several other functions. Cook said app developers had already impressed him with “some incredible innovation”.Carolina Milanesi at Kantar Worldpanel ComTech says the watch will help Apple extend its sales into a much wider market. “They have been very smart in pushing it as jewellery and design rather than how technologically smart it is,” she says. “They are concentrating more on impressing the design and fashion world than the tech bloggers.“I think this will be a much more irrational buy than with an iPad. With an iPad you wanted an iPad: this is going to be more of a fashion statement.”She said the launch would benefit from the fashion and marketing skills of Angela Ahrendts, the former Burberry boss Apple hired last year on a $73m pay package as its head of retail.Apple poached a string of big names from fashion and design to join its watch team, including Patrick Pruniaux, former vice-president of sales at Tag Heuer and former Yves Saint Laurent boss Paul Deneve, who is now Apple’s “vice president of special projects”.Tim Cook unveils the Apple Watch in California last year.Photograph: Zuma/RexHas Tim Cook emerged from the shadow of Steve Jobs?Few chief executives were as intimately connected to their companies as Jobs was with Apple, and Cook faced a tough battle to win over investors who feared he lacked the co-founder’s vision and showmanship.Activist investors David Einhorn and Carl Icahn have tried to interfere with Cook’s management, but he has stood his ground. He’s also shown his steely side by axing Scott Forstall, the former head of its iOS mobile operating system, over the failed launch of the Apple Maps app, as well as replacing the head of the company’s stores, John Browett – the former Dixons boss – after less than a year in the job.Jobs and Cook are “such different personalities”, says Milanesi, who has followed Apple for more than a decade. “The reception under Cook has been very positive: he is very impressive in operations and managing the product chain.”Milanesi says Cook has also done a lot to make Apple feel like a more approachable brand. “With Jobs it was aspirational but somewhat untouchable and distant,” she says. “It seems much more open and accessible under Tim, and that’s important as they want to extend the product range to a wide section of consumers.“His big test will be the Apple Watch, as it’s the first product to be launched under his leadership.”Will Apple’s huge cash pile become a liability?Apple is making much more money than it can spend, to the extent that it has built up a $178bn cash pile. It added $23bn to the coffers in the last quarter and nearly all of it is banked overseas. Taking it back to the US to return it to shareholders would incur a big tax bill.To appease investors Apple has been buying back shares, but by borrowing against the cash rather than using the capital. It bought back $45bn of shares last year but hasn’t made much of a dent in the cash. It has $35bn of debt.Blaber says Apple needs to maintain a large surplus to give it “the muscle and flexibility to invest in new categories”. But its latest and biggest acquisition – Dr Dre’s headphones and streaming business Beats Electronics – cost it $3bn.The size of Apple’s cash holding has attracted the attention of politicians. Cook has told Congress the company will eventually bring it back onshore, but only when there is a “dramatic simplification of the corporate tax code” including a “reasonable tax on foreign earnings that allows the free flow of capital back to the US”.
Re-Elected is just Saints Row IV with a modest graphical update for PS4 and Xbox One, and won’t be of any interest if you’ve already played it. Gat Out Of Hell, meanwhile, is new and sees you taking on the devil in an underworld strongly reminiscent of the cities the game inhabits back on Earth, but with lava pits and cars that look like props from Mad Max. Picking a fight with Lucifer necessitates ratcheting up “Satan’s Wrath Meter” by destroying things – with most missions revolving around explosive comedy weapons. Its adolescent humour and singular focus on blowing things up are consistent with the messy, budget vision of hell you’re laying waste to, which looks low-res even on PS4. New special powers pump up the pyrotechnics, and your character’s angel wings make travelling less of a chore, but at heart this is the same ludicrous Grand Theft Auto-lite shtick that made the series famous.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKAssassin’s Creed: Unity - Dead Kings, PS4, Xbox One &amp; PCEmbarrassed by the unfinished state of Assassin’s Creed: Unity when it was released, Ubisoft is giving this downloadable content to owners of the game for free by way of apology. Set after the main game, it tells the story of Arno’s days in the Parisian backwater of Saint-Denis, which, along with a half-built cathedral, has a network of catacombs to explore. It’s a more compact and coherent story than the sprawling campaign, although minor annoyances persist: Arno’s habit of climbing on top of small pieces of furniture when you’re trying to get him to run at high speed; moments where he flatly refuses to keep climbing up a building; and the random, detached feeling of the game’s legion busywork.UbisoftShadowmatic, iOSShadowmatic gives you a random-looking pair of artefacts lit from behind by a powerful light. It’s your job to move and rotate them so that their silhouettes join together to form a familiar item. Using one finger to spin each lumpy object, you carefully check every angle for a shadow that might look like something else. You then search for more parts of that animal or household item by spinning the other shape, eventually assembling them to complete the level. The shadow-making soon gets tricky, with multiple objects to revolve and align, their shadows initially so abstract it’s hard to believe you’ll find anything there except madness. Its magic is in its slow pace and spirit of gentle experimentation, each puzzle encouraging you to spend time staring as the shadows shift, occasionally appearing to coalesce into something recognisable but requiring persistent testing to be sure.Triada Studio, £2.29
It’s taken four years of reviewing bicycles to bite the bullet and test a Brompton. I know what took me so long. I live in a suburb of Manchester with a vegan organic supermarket and a cafe which offers a “hummus of the day”. I spend my summers in Birkenstocks. I really like granola. If I were to ride a Brompton, I’d have to start voting Tory to prove I’m not a leftwing robot programmed to live the Guardian brand.I had only been to Salford and back before I realised the Brompton was the first bike I’ve tested that I would buy. It makes a mockery of every other folder I’ve ridden (yourDahons,Kansis,Terns) by compacting into the neatest, cleanest, most portable, stashable package on the market. It’s not an intuitive fold. You need to learn it, and not mess with the order. But once you’ve got the origami moves, it can be assembled in under 30 seconds: the litmus test for any bike-plus-train commuter. Mine had Brompton’s new, patent-protected Saddle Height Insert, which sets the desired height of the seat post when the bike is unfolded.I was doing a workshop at Thornhill Community Academy, as seen on Channel 4’sEducating Yorkshire, and thought it would be good to take the Brompton on the train to Dewsbury. I’d have been wary in rush hour: though Bromptons are allowed on as luggage, they take up more space than a carry-on suitcase and are never welcomed by a full carriage. But I didn’t need to be there until noon and Google Maps told me it was only three miles from the station. However, Google Maps didn’t warn me Thornhill is at the top of a laughably steep road. Unwilling to turn up drenched in sweat, I had to push, though the lowest of the three gears could have got me to the top if vanity wasn’t in play.As soon as the bell rang, we were off to the pub. I thought I’d ride and the teachers would walk, forgetting they can’t drink within a three-mile radius of their school unless they want to be served by alumni. So the headmaster, Mr Mitchell, slung the Brompton in his car boot and we went off to Wakefield for a few pints of Black Sheep. It’s perfect for such occasions, or those days when you need to take your car for its MOT and have errands to run while it’s done.The steering feels very feathery at first, and I wobbled on a right-hand arm signal. But given the wheels are so small, it’s remarkably fast: I was overtaken by at least one Brompton on the 120-mileDunwich Dynamo ride. Yes, they are twice as expensive as many competitors. But they barely depreciate and, crucially, they are better than the rest. Oh dear. I think I’m going to get one.Brompton M3R: in numbersPriceFrom £955Folded dimensions585mm x 545mm x 270mmWeight11.5kgFrameSteelWheels16in
AOL is to shut the glossy women’s site MyDaily and parenting site ParentDish as part of a restructures to focus on key global brands including HuffPost, TechCrunch and Engadget.AOL UK launched MyDaily in 2010 in a major push to target 35- to 44-year-old women. ParentDish was launched in 2009.The brands do not exist in international markets and AOL has decided to scrap local spin-offs to focus on its four core global brands.AOL said the new structure would mean increased investment in HuffPost UK, including the launch of parenting and style channels to replace MyDaily and ParentDish.HuffPost UK will double its lifestyle team to six members, and its politics team double to four members.In addition, the company is also hiring a video person and a social media writer.Stephen Hull, editor-in-chief of HuffPost UK, said: “This investment is testament to the great work we have done at turning HuffPost into an established news brand in the UK marketplace over the last three years.“By doubling our lifestyle and politics teams and building on our success in entertainment, social and video, we’re continuing to bring our valuable mix of hard news, thought-provoking journalism, entertainment and lifestyle content to our readers, while at the same time putting a renewed emphasis on coverage of positive stories.”
Apple has smashed into the record books by reportingthe largest quarterly profit in corporate history.The tech company – already the most valuable on the stock market – reported profits of $18bn (£11.9bn) for the third quarter of the fiscal year, surpassing the previous record quarters set by oil companies ExxonMobil and Gazprom.Apple chief executive Tim Cook called the company’s sales “phenomenal” and said the company had sold 34,000 iPhones an hour every day of the quarter. “This volume is hard to comprehend,” Cook said.A record 74.4m iPhones were sold in the three months to the end of 2014, the California-based company announced on Tuesday, comfortably beating analysts’ expectations as sales of its two newest models soared during the Christmas holidays and found new fans in China.The record $74.6bn in revenues for the all-important third quarter was well ahead of the $67.5bn expected by analysts. Apple, the world’s most valuable company, ended the quarter with $178bn in cash.Sales were led by China, up 70% on a year ago. Sales in the Americas and Europe were up 23% and 20% respectively.Related:The biggest corporate profits of all timeThe iPad’s popularity continued to wane, however. Apple sold 21.4m of the devices in the last quarter of 2014, less than analysts had expected, but iPhone sales cheered investors. Ahead of Apple’s announcement, analysts had predicted the company would report sales of iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus of between 66m and 70m over the quarter. Apple’s shares jumped 5% in after-hours trading on Tuesday.“We’d like to thank our customers for an incredible quarter, which saw demand for Apple products soar to an all-time high,” said Cook. “Our revenue grew 30% over last year to $74.6bn, and the execution by our teams to achieve these results was simply phenomenal.”Apple had a record-setting year in 2014, with its share price hitting new highs and taking its stock market valuation to $650bn. Last week, the company revealed thatCook’s pay packagemore than doubled last year, to $9.22m. Angela Ahrendts, Apple’s new head of retail, took home the biggest award in 2014 – $73.3m – boosted by a massive sign-on package.The performance beat Apple’s previous quarterly record for iPhone sales, 51m, set in the quarter ending 28 December 2013.Apple’s latest iPhones were introduced in September and have proved a hit with consumers. The company had eschewed making iPhones with larger screens until last year, and the decision to take on rival Samsung and others with a larger smartphone appears to have paid off.The introduction of the larger iPhone 6 Plus alongside the iPhone 6 and lower-priced iPhone 5S and 5C pushed Apple’s iPhone sales past 20m a month for the first time in November, according to recent research fromCounter Point. Japan, Korea and China have proven bright spots for Apple, with higher-than-expected demand for the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus models.Apple also managed to increase the amount of money it charges for iPhones over the quarter. The average selling price of the iPhone was $687 in the final quarter of 2014, compared with $637 for the same period a year ago. The iPhone 6 Plus costs $100 more than Apple’s previous high-end model.In the US, iPhone owners accounted for 42.3% of all smartphone users in 2014, according to eMarketer, up from 40% in 2013. By comparison, Android users accounted for 51.3% in 2014, up from 50.5% the previous year.According to eMarketer, there were 76.2m iPad users in the US in 2014, or 51.8% of all US tablet users. That market share was down from 54.5% of all US tablet users in 2013.In the UK, the number of iPad users reached 15.7m in 2014, up from 12.9m in 2013, eMarketer estimates, but Apple lost market share, falling to 53% of tablet owners from 57% in 2013.Apple is preparing to launch the Apple Watch, its first truly new product line under Cook, who took over following the death of co-founder Steve Jobs in 2011. The smartwatch is expected to go on sale in April. Cook said his expectations for the watch were “very high”.“I’m using it every day, love it, can’t live without it,” he said of the watch.The product launch comes as Apple is struggling to sell iPads in the face of cheaper alternatives, winding down sales of its iPod media players and increasingly concentrating on services like Apple Pay, its credit card-less payment system that can be used with iPhones and the new watch.Cook said that some 750 banks and credit unions have signed on for Apple Pay and that the service already comprises more than two-thirds of all contactless payments. He said Whole Foods had reported a 400% rise in contactless payments thanks to Apple Pay.
If you can’t beat them, join them. Angry Birds remains one of the most popular mobile game series in the world, but its financial success has been dwarfed by that of match-three puzzle games like Candy Crush Saga and Puzzle &amp; Dragons.Developer Rovio has clearly noticed: it has soft-launched two new Angry Birds games that ditch its familiar bird-slinging gameplay for... match-three puzzling.Angry Birds Stella Pop!has been released in Canada, whileAngry Birds Fight!is available in Thailand. Single-country debuts have become the standard way for mobile publishers to test and refine new games before giving them a global release.First reported on by fan-site Angry Birds Nest, the new games are both “freemium” titles: free to download, and making their money from in-app purchases of virtual items.Angry Birds Stella Pop! is a bubble-popping game in the same vein as console classic Bust-a-Move (also known as Puzzle Bobble), or perhaps more relevantly, the Bubble Witch Saga game that’s been a hit on mobile for Candy Crush publisher King.Angry Birds Fight! involves matching lines of three or more birds to battle enemies, taking its inspiration from Puzzle &amp; Dragons,which has been a lucrative successfor its publisher, Japanese firm GungHo Online.Angry Birds Stella Pop!Photograph: PRThe two games are the latest efforts by Rovio to build on the popularity of the Angry Birds games, which at its peak in late 2012had 263 million monthly active players.By September 2014,that had shrunk to 200 million– still one of the biggest mobile franchises – with Rovio announcing the following month that it waslaying off 16% of its staffafter making “assumptions of faster growth than have materialised”.In 2013,Rovio’s revenues increased slightly to €156m(£128.4m), but its annual profits halved to €26.9m as the company invested heavily in its ToonsTV animation network and the first Angry Birds film, which will not be released until 2016.By contrast,King reported revenues of $1.9bn for that yearon the back of Candy Crush’s success, and proceeded to go public in an IPO valuing the company at more than $7bn. Meanwhile, GungHo is estimated to havemade more than $1.4bn from Puzzle &amp; Dragons alonethat year.Rovio has already switched to a freemium model for newer Angry Birds games in new genres, including racing gameAngry Birds Go!, roleplaying gameAngry Birds Epic, and branded action titleAngry Birds Transformers.Those games have yet to deliver a Candy Crush-sized hit, but by emulating that game more closely, Rovio’s strategy of spreading Angry Birds’ eggs among multiple baskets will continue looking for a financial reward to match the popularity of its characters.•How Candy Crush gets you hooked - six addictive tricks•Angry Birds: Rovio talks freemium games, Stella and Toons disruption•Why Angry Birds are slightly miffed: mobile gaming in 2014
Google isn’t printing money quite as fast as it used to, missing revenue expectations, but the company revealed that people really like watching adverts, that Glass is taking a strategic “reset” and you can now send money via Gmail in the UK.Cast in the light of $4.76bn (£3.16bn) in fourth-quarter profits, up nearly 30% year-on-year, missing Wall Street expectations doesn’t seem so bad. Google blamed the strength of the dollar for a lot of it, saying revenues would have been $541m greater if the exchange rate had been more favourable.1. Google Glass is having a strategic ‘reset’Google Glass has ‘graduated’ from Google’s experimental X labs, but what that really means is the project’s been put on ‘reset’.Photograph: John Stillwell/PA“Our projects start with small dedicated teams that are given clear milestones to hit before they can get further investments. And in cases where we achieve success against our milestones, we expand our investments,” said Patrick Pichette Google’s chief financial officer, citing Google Fiber as one recent example of this.But Glass? Not so much. “In other cases, when the teams aren’t able to clear hurdles, but we think there are still a lot of promise, we might ask them to take a pause and take the time to reset their strategies, as we recently did in the case of Glass,” he said.Will it return as a viable consumer product? Only time will tell.2. We see Facebook’s 1bn views and raise you 1 billion viewersVideo views up, as YouTube users number in the billions.Photograph: Channel 4 News/YouTube/Russell B/PAFacebook was trumpeting its video growth and hitting the 1bn daily video views milestone. Is Facebook a threat to Google’s YouTube? Not yet…“Everyday people watch hundreds of millions of hours of video on YouTube, generating billions of views,” said Omid Kordestani Google’s interim chief business officer. “Watch time is up 50% year-over-year.”3. People are making money, probablyPewDiePie’s videos were watched 4.1bn times last year.Photograph: Suhaimi Abdullah/Getty ImagesGrowth and 1 billion monthly viewers is all very well, but are people making money from YouTubebeyond the PewDiePiesof this world?“We continue to invest in our YouTube Partners and Partner revenue has increased by more than 50% year-over-year. We are seeing great momentum in mobile advertising on YouTube. Mobile revenue on YouTube is up more than 100% year-over-year,” said Kordestani.YouTube’s success in the face of competition from Amazon’s Twitch and Facebook’s integrated video will lie with attracting and keeping the new breed of video stars.4. People really like watching advertsNot just ads, a preview of ads. Because ads are apparently the main event.The Super Bowl is coming. But it’s seemingly not about the sport, it’s all about the ads and even teasers of ads.Nearly 70 ads or “teasers” for the Super Bowl have been posted on YouTube – even technology sites like the Vergehas gotten in on the act. What’s more, Kordestani explained that they’ve been watched more than 44m times already, because people seemingly really like watching ads.5. Google claimed credit for The Interview’s successThe success of the Interview post Sony hack had nothing to do with the month-long hype, news reports and North Korea.Photograph: Allstar/Columbia Pictures/Sportsphoto Ltd./Allstar“In December, we partnered with Sony to digitally release the interview,” said Kordestani. “It has been publicly reported that the film generated over $15m in its first weekend, and that Google Play and YouTube drove the majority of those sales.”No mention ofNorth Korea, the hack or the amazing level of hype surrounding what critics havecalled “tasteless but amusing” film all about “butts”.6. ‘Mobile is now a behaviour, not a device’Google’s search on Android increasingly pulls information from apps as well as the web.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianTechnology companies seemed to have finally cottoned onto the fact that people use whichever device is most convenient. On the go that’s a smartphone, obviously, but in front a computer or TV it can still be a smartphone.“Mobile is now a behaviour, not a device,” said Kordestani. “People are using screens interchangeably and simultaneously throughout the day. And we really think about the user and the context rather than a particular form factor or device.”Search as a behaviour is well ingrained in the public consciousness, so why does data have to be siloed in apps? Searching for information doesn’t have to default to the web.“15% of signed-in users’ searches on Android now return deep links to apps,” said Kordestani. “We have opened up app indexing to all Android developers, so their apps can appear in searches, also linking directly to the right content in the apps.”7. People are buying more through their smartphonesMobile shopping is on the rise.Photograph: Justin Pickard/flickrGoogle Shopping traffic on mobile devices nearly doubled in the last quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013.“On payments, the goal is really to remove all the friction that one encounters now in the shopping experience,” said Kordestani. “What we’re really working on here is [to] move beyond just tap and pay and have a full functional payment system... we really are focused on building a rich offering here to make it easier to shop and pay and remove the friction.”Mobile payments and shopping is the new battle ground, with Amazon, Apple, PayPal and Google all fighting for their slice of a potentially lucrative market.8. Sending money via emailUK Gmail users can now send money via email.Photograph: GoogleAt the same time as pushing mobile shopping and payments, Google is now getting into the money transfer game in the UK.Gmail users in the UK can now send money via email, if they trust Google with their bank detailsthrough Google Wallet. All they need to do is attach money from Google Wallet to the email and fire it to anyone, even if they don’t have a Gmail account – a feature the company launched in the US in 2013.9. ChromecastOver 1bn casts have been sent to the Chromecast since launch.Photograph: TAKA@P.P.R.S/flickrGoogle didn’t give any updated sales figures for its Chromecast device beyond saying that last week “we saw our one billionth tap of the ‘Cast’ button”, and that “usage per device” has increased by 60% since it launched, thanks to new apps and features.With Google’s Nexus Player, Android TV coming built into Sony and other manufacturers’ televisions and video streaming services such as Wuaki bundling a Chromecast into their packages, the next billion casts will likely come a lot quicker.•Seven things we learned from Facebook’s latest financial results•Nine things we learned from Apple’s monster financial results
“It’s both possible, and even necessary, to simultaneously enjoy media while also being critical of its more problematic or pernicious aspects.”Almost every episode of the YouTube seriesTropes Vs Women in Video Gamesincludes a variation on these clear and unambiguous words. Spoken by the cultural critic Anita Sarkeesian, they provide a foreword to her discussions of the games industry and its treatment of female characters. The content of these videos shouldn’t really be that controversial; it is Sarkeesian talking to camera, providing a feminist reading of certain aspects of popular games – in the same way a feminist film critic may study popular cinema. And yet, Sarkeesian needs security guards whenever she makes public appearances – that’s if she’s not forced to pull out of speaking engagements due to bomb threats.Now, she and her media company Feminist Frequency are planning a new series of videos on the portrayal of masculine identities in games. It’s likely the threats will intensify once again.Within certain online communities, an overwhelming narrative of hate has developed around Sarkeesian, depicting her work as an attack on “gamers”, with an underlying censorship agenda. At the heart of the backlash is a resistance to, and lack of understanding about, critical analysis. When Sarkeesian critiques the sexualised violence in, say, Grand Theft Auto, some gamers think her “goal” is for it to be banned – and they think she has the power and contacts to do so.“There is definitely a tendency to massively overestimate the amount of influence that critics or academics have,” says video game theorist and researcher, Jesper Juul. “The mistake that some gamers make is, they falsely assume both that Sarkeesian wants to entirely change games ‘as we know them’ and that she has any kind of power for doing so.”Damsels and damnationMuch of the resistance comes from Sarkeesian’s central argument: that the “damsel in distress” trope, a recurring trend in narrative game design, can help “to normalise extremely toxic, patronising and paternalistic attitudes about women.” Within the cauldron of online forums like 8Chan and Reddit, this nuanced proposition is shared, spun and simplified until it becomes a threatening maxim: “games cause sexism”. For some, this then recalls the damaging media scares of the 1990s when games were serially linked with and implicated in violent crimes – mostly by the tabloid press. Sarkeesian is even routinely compared to the anti-games campaigner Jack Thompson who brought several unsuccessful class action lawsuits against the publishers of violent games in the 90s and 2000s.#GamerGate:&#10;&#10;&quot;Gamers have legitimate questions about games journalism.&quot; -@keefstuart~http://t.co/TQIkHuqAgn~pic.twitter.com/JlSdLnCZMK&mdash; Adam Baldwin (@AdamBaldwin)September 3, 2014But of course, Sarkeesian isn’t suggesting that games are somehow the root cause of sexist ideologies. Instead, she acknowledges that many forms of media share similar issues and brings in statistics regarding real world violence against women to extend the analysis. “[Feminist Frequency] was my way of pulling feminist theory out of academia into a more public space for a wider audience,” shetold Rolling Stone magazinelast October. “I used popular culture because I’m a big geek, and these are the things that interest me: TV, movies, comic books, video games. But also, it’s the common language that we speak.”“The reaction is like I’m trying to say that all games are bad, or all games should be taken away, or that these games shouldn’t exist, instead of ‘Hey, we are complex and intelligent creatures and we can hold multiple ideas in our heads at the same time.’ We can be critical of the things that we love. Thatispossible.”Sarkeesian isn’t blaming games for sexism, she’s simply highlighting the ways in which they contribute to pre-existing ideas of women as objects to be coveted, saved and discarded. In her first Damsel in Distress video she traces the trope back to ancient Greek mythology, and throughout the Tropes Vs Women series makes regular references to the wider media as impacting our cultural ideologies and enforcing gender paradigms.Part of the anger is also about some gamers feeling threatened that their culture is now being discussed beyond the communities they inhabit and control. “I don’t think Anita’s reaching out to people who are already part of gamer culture, but people who are outside of it,” say Anna Anthropy, a game designer, writer and historian. “That Anita – and other cultural critics – are talking to people who aren’t them is part of why gamers are so upset.”Writer and academic Thryn Henderson picks up on a similar theme. “The games industry [has been] insular for so long that there’s been a lot of gravitating towards the same goals and ideals,” she says. “The attempt to discuss or deconstruct that now is seen as censorship - because people infer from that new discussion that they aren’t allowed to like those things anymore.”The intense fear that Sarkeesian’s work is both a way to demonise gamers to ‘outsiders’ and a ploy to change games is epitomised within the false Thompson/Sarkeesian dichotomy. By likening these two completely disparate figures as “enemies of video games”, her work can be more efficiently reduced to a ridiculous strawmen argument: games cause sexism. The rhetoric often goes: well, the media has largely rejected concerns that video games somehow instigate deadly real world violence; so shouldn’t it now accept that sexism in games is a harmless convention?But even the concerns about game violence are more nuanced than gaming forums tend to allow. “It’s easy to dispute that playing violent video games transforms people into serial killers,” says Anthropy. “But no one’s saying that. People are saying, should we be worried about how games glorify American military violence and make us more permissive of our military’s tactics? Are depictions of violence against women in games just normalising the violence against women that already happens in our culture?”How hate prevents evaluationBut the portrayal of Sarkeesian and other feminist writers, designers and academics as pantomime villains, allows the gamer communities involved to avoid disucssion and analysis. It allows them to more easily rally against her. Frustratingly, this environment disallows discussion about what the Tropes vs Women videos are actually arguing. “There are clearly valid critiques to make of Sarkeesian’s work [...] we tend not to see those,” says Ian Bogost, game designer and academic. “Instead we see way out of line Internet abuse.” Anthropy agrees. “It’s tough, because how do you open a nuanced discussion of someone’s work when another group is loudly shouting for her head?”While some gamers may demonise and abuse Sarkeesian for her attempts to address a broad audience and to highlight the fact that games aren’t as inclusive as they could be, there are other gamers who want to critique her work for not going deep enough, for failing to be intersectional and for presenting a sex negative perspective. But this is all lost amid the white noise of online hate.This abuse isn’t new or unique and by the looks of things, it isn’t going away. Games are part of the cultural landscape now, but somehow investigating and discussing them, especially from a feminist perspective, is actually dangerous. Critique has become warfare, and while it’s a war that no one can win, it’s a war that games as a culture can definitely lose.“This is the Internet,” says Bogost. “And since the Internet is now where we live and work in large part, this is our lives. It is a horrifying thought.”Anita Sarkeesian launching new video series focused on masculinity in gamesFeminist games critic cancels talk after terror threat
Justin Welby, the Archbishop of Canterbury, has marked himself out as something of a moderniser in the Church of England.Ok, so hevoted againstthe Same-Sex Marriage Act (in accordance with the Church’s position) and thus has work to do, but he has since called gay marriage “great”.Hesupportedthe ordination of women bishops (congratulationsRev Libby Lane); and he also wonplauditsfor his stance against payday lender Wonga.Writing on hisblog, however, it seems there is one facet of modern life that Welby is still reluctant to embrace: social media.While acknowledging in theposttitled “On Tweeting and Touching” that social media is “valued enormously”, the Archbishop states:The subtleties we lose when we communicate electronically have to do with expression, with touch, with the face-to-face aspect of relationship.Social media does not show tears in the eye, a hand on the arm when saying something painful, body language that speaks of inner turmoil, deep distress – even gentle respect.To which I say: Justin, meet emoji; emoji meet Justin. The Japanese–inventedideograms- the successor toemoticonsandASCIIart - have raised the bar on communication, and negated the awkward pat on the back; the hug that lasts that little too long; the high five that swings impotently at thin air.Described as “the first trulyglobal language”, the emoji has become the universal tongue. It is possible that all the people of Babel were conversing viadancing girls with bunny ears.You might think it is difficult to fully express emotions through small pictures: but then you realise that the most succinct way to tell your best friend to ignore the haters is via the nail-painting emoji (studied indifference).The nail varnish emoji, which as come to represent indifference.Photograph: EmojiRather than bore your partner with the awful day you had at work, dragging you both into foul moods and reducing the chances of nookie that night to precisely nought, just get it all over with a “Today was…” text followed by the poo emoji.They might not tell you that at Relate, but I promise: it works.Welby continued:Love often says don’t tweet. Love often says don’t write. Love often says if you must rebuke, then do so in person and with touch – with an arm around the shoulder and tears in your eyes that can be seen by the person being rebuked.Of course the Archbishop does have a point. There is nothing more reassuring than a caring touch on the arm from a friend, or as great as a kiss in the rain. But, remember when Andrew Lincoln confessed his unrequited love to Keira Knightleyvia handwritten cardsin Love Actually? Sometimes things are just easier to convey without talking or touching.I’d even bet 40 characters of my 140 Twitter limit that someone somewhere has been dumped, proposed to, or has come out via emoji.The rise of the emojiTheUnicode Consortiumis responsible for all emoji: it’s a bit like the global mint of the emoji currency. And last summer, much excitementgreeted the newsthat the consortium had approved an additional 250 emoji. But then wenever got them, and we were all rather annoyed.Indeed, there is a brilliant Tumblr dedicated to all emoji suggested butrejectedby the consortium. Including a pictorial representation of the person whose name you don’t know but are too embarrassed to ask.The perfect emoji construction for that awkward moment.We have always used symbols to express meaning: imagery has always been a type of signifier. Anybody who has readBartheson the semiology of photography knows that, or anyone who has the most rudimentary knowledge of Egyptians and theirhieroglyphics. Logograms, pictograms – all an implicit part of language.There areguidesand quasi-dictionaries dedicated to unpacking the nuances of variousemoji.Emojitracker.comwill present to you a real-time monitoring of emoji on Twitter.The Guardiananalysedhow the public interact with our politicians using emoji, and the New York Times evenponderedwhether emoji evidence would be admissible in court.Works of literary genius (Beyoncé lyrics), andMoby Dickhave been translated wholly into emoji. Who knows? It might not be too long until we see an emoji translation of the Bible.Giles Fraser, parish priest at St Mary’s church and Guardian columnist has translated John 15:13 (“Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends”) into emoji for us:The brilliant@giles_frasertranslated a proverb from the Bible into emoji! Can you guess what it is?pic.twitter.com/At3qfHnWLq&mdash; HannahJane Parkinson (@ladyhaja)January 30, 2015Social media has just made it easier to communicate in this way. Sure, we need more emoji in ouremoji-only apps. And there are some emoji that may not bebrilliantat expressing one’s exact feeling (hairy heart, anybody?)But I would say to Welby: don’t underestimate the emotional power of the emoji on social media to convey emotion and understanding. A well-timed pig snout or crying cat can say so much.Or, to paraphraseProverbs 25:11: “An emoji fitly spoken is like apples of gold in a setting of silver.”
Flash is dead, long live Fl– actually, no, scratch that, Flash reallyisdead and it deserved to die. Flash is terrible.The killer blows to Adobe’s multimedia browser plugin were delivered this week in a one-two punch. Firstly, users of Flash were left open to not one but two “zero-day” vulnerabilities in the same week, affecting users of Chrome, Internet Explorer and Firefox. Almost immediately, hackers were able to abuse these flaws to dump malware on Windows PCs, which led Mozilla to disable the plugin entirely until users had updated to a secure version.Then on Tuesday, YouTube – the biggest provider of Flash video ever – announced that it would stop serving its videos using the plugin for anyone visiting the site in a modern browser.“There were limitations that held it back from becoming our preferred platform for video delivery,” wrotethe site’s engineering manager, Richard Leider, four years ago. “Most critically, HTML5 lacked support for Adaptive Bitrate (ABR) that lets us show you more videos with less buffering.“Over the last four years, we’ve worked with browser vendors and the broader community to close those gaps, and now, YouTube uses HTML5 by default in Chrome, IE 11, Safari 8 and in beta versions of Firefox.”The writing has been on the wall for Flash for almost a decade – ever since the iPhone launched in 2007 with no support for the plugin. At the time, Apple was lambasted for its absence; the company worked with Google to create a standalone YouTube app, but many other sites were only partly functional until they bowed to user pressure and built “mobile friendly”.Three years later, the pressure was such that Steve Jobswrote a rare missivepublicly addressing the company’s continued refusal to include the software. “Flash was created during the PC era – for PCs and mice,” he argued. “Flash is a successful business for Adobe, and we can understand why they want to push it beyond PCs. But the mobile era is about low-power devices, touch interfaces and open web standards – all areas where Flash falls short.”A year after Jobs’ letter, Adobe killed the mobile Flash player for Android devices, fully retreating from the post-PC world.With YouTube following suit, it doesn’t look like long until the player is a relic of an internet past. But before we all uninstall it, maybe it’s time to look back at the great hits of Flash gone by.The End of the World“Fire ze missiles”Photograph: End of the WorldTime was, Flash animations ruled the internet. The End of the World wasn’t the best of them, not the first, but it was one that perfectly exemplified the medium for a long time. Scratchy amateurish drawings with worse animation, bad caricatures of George Bush, and jokes which don’t really make sense, it was a surefire viral hit.Xiao XiaoXiao Xiao fights.Photograph: Newgrounds.comBut amateurish animation doesn’t necessarily mean inelegant. Xiao Xiao, a nine-part series which started in April 2001, began as just two stick figures fighting in a featureless room, and static pictures don’t do it justice: the beauty is in motion. Over the course of the series’ progression, the animation got better and better, but even from the first episode, what stood out was stylish choreography which could put Hollywood to shame. He breaks a stick and kicks it into a guy’s face! Eleven-year-old me thought this was great.Salad FingersCreated by the British cartoonist David Firth, Salad Fingers felt like one of the first flash animations that went fully viral, inhabiting normal pop culture as well as the weird internet one. That was mostly because it was relentlessly, inexplicably creepy. Salad Fingers is a green man with weird fingers and a weirder voice. He wants to stroke your rusty kettle. He likes spoons.The series is still, infrequently, being produced, with the most recent episode coming out in 2013.Weebl and BobAnother British creation Weebl and Bob are two wobbly eggs who like pie. That set-up took the animation through over 100 episodes, onto MTV in a series of licensed indents, and a made for DVD special. The creator, Jonti Picking, was also hired by Anchor Butter to make adverts for the product featuring cows rather than eggs.The noughties were weird.Homestar RunnerHomestar Runner and Marzipan walk in the snow.Photograph: HomestarRunner.comThe undoubted star of early Flash animations is Homestar Runner. Another comedy series, initially starring Homestar Runner himself, it soon sprawled into a whole host of linked series – and spawned an even bigger star than its lead in the form of Strong Bad, an angry Mexican wrestler who responds to readers emails and mocks typos. When a new episode was dropped without warning in October 2014, the internet freaked out – and with reason.Hedgehog LaunchA hedgehog is launched.Photograph: jmbt02While YouTube killed the Flash animation star, the plugin stuck around a bit longer, thanks to online games – at least until the game development platform Unity superseded it there too. Hedgehog Launch was the breakout hit of developer John Cooney, better known as jmtb02, and tasked players with launching a hedgehog into space. Addictive, intuitive, fun and cute, it was a sure-fire hit, and propelled Cooney into a career making increasingly smart games that never lost sight of the need for pure viral magic.The Helicopter GameThis simple flight sim, which requires you to deftly tap the mouse button to keep your chopper airborne, is one of the most played Flash games in the history of the platform. It’s also surely an influence on one of the biggest smartphone gaming hits of 2013: Flappy Bird. Be warned: if you start playing it, you probably won’t get anything else done today.
It’s the big day tomorrow: the Chatterbox Awards. While the world’s media descends on London’s ultra glamorous Loading Bar, nominees will be nervously picking out their outfits for the occasion, daring to hope, daring to dream.But on the day, all attendees will be winners, especially if they are already drunk by the time Limni takes to the stage and starts doing jokes.Sadly, I can’t be there this year, but I have sent a box full of incredible PR tat – I mean quality video game merchandise – to the venue. One of you could be going home with a wobbly head Superman toy, or a Call of Duty T-shirt, or perhaps the star prize (which is actually pretty cool): a Destiny-branded PlayStation 4 controller in a nice presentation box.So have fun, have frolics, but don’t get me banned from the pub.
Jay Z is set to become the next big digital music mogul after making a $56m bid for Aspiro, the Scandinavian company behind streaming services WiMP and Tidal.The bid made by Project Panther, which is indirectly owned by the rapper’s company S. Carter Enterprises, has been recommended to shareholders by Aspiro’s board.WiMP is a direct rival to Spotify in its native Scandinavia, with a higher-resolution version called WiMP HiFi that was rebranded as Tidal when itlaunched in the UK and US in October 2014.The deal will pitch Jay Z into direct competition with Beats Music, the streaming service co-founded by Dr Dre, which wasbought by Apple as part of a $3bn acquisitionof its parent company Beats Electronics in 2014.That deal helpedDre top Forbes’ annual Hip Hop Cash Kings listof rap’s richest figures for 2014, with estimated pre-tax profits of $620m, compared to Jay Z’s estimated $60m that year.Aspiro will sit alongside Jay Z’s other business ventures, which include the Rocaware clothing range, 9IX fragrances, Roc Nation sports agency, Armand de Brignac Champagne and a stake in NBA basketball team the Brooklyn Nets.InAspiro’s last public financial statements, it said that WiMP had 512,000 paying subscribers, with 20,000 paying for its more expensive HiFi version that offers higher-quality streams for twice the monthly cost.According to Aspiro, it began talks with Jay Z’s company in December – the same month that Project Panther was incorporated as a company in the UK. Aspiro’s board haspublished a press release welcoming the offer.“The independent bid committee is of the opinion that Panther, indirectly owned by SCE and controlled by Shawn Carter, possesses the proprietary relationships, industry knowledge, as well as economic strength and the necessary commitment in order to realise Aspiro’s strategic plan of expanding the company’s business and brand globally.”Scandinavian media group Schibsted, which owns 75% of the shares in Aspiro in a partnership with retailer Platekompaniet and investment firm Verdane Capital, hasalready accepted the offer.“Aspiro needs substantial expansion capital and a strong and dedicated owner to be able to grow and compete on the global music streaming market,” said its chief financial officer Trond Berger.“Panther... has adequate financial resources and a high level of competence in the music industry. Hence, I think they will be a better owner to lift Aspiro and its advanced music streaming service to a new level.”News of the potential acquisition vaults WiMP and Tidal into what is shaping up to be a deep-pocketed battle for dominance in the streaming music world in 2015.Apple is expected to relaunch Beats Musicunder its iTunes brand in the spring;Spotify is reportedly raising $500m of new fundingto fuel its growth; and Google will surely turn the throttle up on its twin Google Play All Access andYouTube Music Keyservices this year too.•Streaming: what next for Apple, YouTube, Spotify… and musicians?
