Among the things that lead normal, well-balanced people to conclude that the IT industry is crazy are the valuations at which internet companies are launched on the stock market and the prices these companies pay to acquire apparently minuscule start-ups. One thinks, for example,of the $104bn valuation of Facebook when it launched in May 2012. Or ofthe $19bn that Facebook then paid to acquire WhatsApplast February. And then there’s last Thursday’sflotation of the Chinese internet firm Alibaba in New York, which valued the company at $168bn. (The really big news here is the flotation’s confirmation of the shrewdness of the 2005 deal in which Yahoo acquired a 40% stake in Alibaba for $1bn; Yahoo still owns 22.4% of the company and is expected to sell off some of that after the IPO.)These are not just telephone-book numbers, but astronomical ones. And not surprisingly they are leading some people to wonder if we’re in the middle of another tech bubble like the one that spectacularly popped in 2000. These fears were given an extra boost bya report published last month by PricewaterhouseCoopersthat showed that venture capitalists in the US are pouring increasing amounts of money into tech companies. In the second quarter of this year, for example, venture capital investments in seed stage, early stage and expansion stage companies were up 55% over the corresponding quarter last year, which apparently is the largest quarter-over-quarter growth since the last quarter of 1999 – the last gasp of the first internet boom.This raises two questions. First, is history repeating itself? The answer is no, because history never really repeats itself. All booms have some generic features in common – outbreaks of irrational exuberance, for example, and availability of cheap money. But the specific circumstances of each boom are different. In the first internet bubble, for example, much of the money was blown on buying servers, renting offices and trying to buy market share in improbable or nonexistent markets (think of Pets.com andPetopia.com). In the current boom, instead of buying servers, startups rent computing time on Amazon’sElastic Compute cloud service; their “offices” are often virtual (at least at first) and they’re not spending fortunes on advertising. In fact, they’re not paying for advertising full stop. So even if things were to go belly-up there’s less at stake.A more interesting question is: does it matter if we’re in another bubble? For individual investors, obviously the answer is yes. But for society as a whole, perhaps not. As William Janeway pointed out in hissplendid book on innovation, the irrational exuberance that characterises bubbles may also be beneficial in that they generate technologies that will prove significant in the longer term.If one wanted to be critical, the most annoying thing about the current bubble is the way the visions and ambitions of startup founders seem to have narrowed. Many of them claim, of course, that what they want to build is a company that in the long term will transform the world or disrupt a particular market. But in actual fact their strategy is to create a product or a service that is sufficiently interesting or annoying to induce Google, Amazon, Facebook, Yahoo or Microsoft to buy the upstart venture. The poster child for this is WhatsApp, a fine company with a viable business model that did not depend on monitoring users and which was run by a chap who fervently declared his resolve to build a great, sustainable enterprise that treated its users well. And he doubtless believed that right up to the moment that Facebook offered him $19bn. And who can blame him: you only live once, after all.At the end of the day, though, what’s much more worrying than the spectacle of venture capitalists blowing investors’ money is the fact that everywhere state funding for the kind of long-term, fundamental research that is neededto produce the technologies of tomorrow has been shrinking. The current wave of innovation and economic development enabled by the internet has only come about because 60 years ago the US government funded the project that produced first the arpanet and then the internet.Private enterprise would undoubtedly have produced computer networks, but it would not have created thefree and open platform for “permissionless innovation”that we got as a result of public investment. And we would have all been poorer as a result.
WhileHyrule Warriorslooks and sounds like aZeldagame, appearances are most certainly deceptive. For starters, there are no puzzles to be found and no open world to explore. Instead, this is a “warriors” game, a hack-and-slash RPG that challenges players to cut down thousands of enemies.Each of the game’s multiple characters possesses individual weapons and abilities, making combat a hugely satisfying experience as you topple entire armies and giant bosses with well-timed combos. And although it’s not a traditionalZeldaadventure, there’s plenty here for theZeldaconnoisseur, from famous characters and villains to settings familiar from  the franchise’s history, as well as the wrongdoings of new villain Cia.Admittedly, most of the playing time is spent bashing two buttons, which can become repetitive. Yet with over a year until the next “normal”Zeldaarrives,Hyrule Warriorsis an entertaining way to see out the wait.
Don't be fooled by the scenes of people queueing at Apple stores around the country last Friday to bag the latest iPhones. The reality is that the phone business in this country is shrinking and Phones 4u, the nationwide retailer that collapsed into administration last Sunday night, is only the first casualty.The retail chain, which grew out of the company John Caudwell founded in 1987, was killed off because the mobile networks didn't want to give Phones 4u £100-£150 for every customer it signed up. They are having to fight for every customer and penny of revenue and profit right now, and they'd rather keep the money.Caudwell said the decision by Vodafone and EE to stop allowing Phones&nbsp;4u to sell phones that connect to their networks was "astonishingly ruthless". He blamed them, along with the chain's private equity owners, for Phones 4u's destruction. The entrepreneur's comments caused amusement in the industry, where he and the company he used to own (he sold it to private equity business BC Partners for £700m in 2011) had a reputation for tough dealmaking.Vodafonepounced on the stricken retailer on Friday, buying up 140 stores to bring its own chain up to 520 shops (and saving the jobs of 900 Phones 4u staff); more stores could be sold to EE, which is in talks with the administrator.Ruthlessness has become the network owners' watchword now, because the mobile phone boom they have ridden for nearly 20 years is over.They guard their cashflow increasingly jealously, and one particular sticking point that led to the collapse of Phones 4u is understood to have been the chain's insistence that if it signed a customer up to a network, it should get the entire commission upfront, rather than piecemeal over the life of a 24-month contract. (Carriers had a "clawback" clause in case customers abandoned the contract.)Back in the mid-1990s, when Phones 4u and Charles Dunstone's Carphone Warehouse aimed to cash in on the first mobile phone boom, carriers were scrambling to sign up customers as handsets from Nokia and Sony attracted the masses. The carriers were happy for retailers to sign up customers for them: the retailers got a cut of the contract over its lifetime, the customer got a phone, the carrier got a customer. While the phone business was good, everyone benefited.Then, just as the boom was petering out, smartphones arrived on the high street – first from Apple in 2007 and then from HTC and Samsung – kicking off a second surge. Now, though, that too is slowing. Data fromKantar ComTech's WorldPanelshows that the UK is fast approaching "smartphone saturation", with roughly 75% of people who own a handset already owning a smartphone.According to researchers CCS Insight, smartphone ownership will hit 90% by the end of next year; but handset sales will fall 11% this year, after having slipped 4% last year, because people are hanging on to them for longer.The logic of cutting out middlemen – at least, uncooperative ones – has become irresistible. Ofcom's data shows that average revenue per user for mobile networks fell from £16.13 in 2012 to £15.26 by March 2014, while the total number of subscribers (including businesses) fell very slightly from 83.4 million to 83.2 million.That fall in revenue per user translates to £75m of lost sales for the carriers, even as they try to upgrade their networks to 4G and cope with cuts to roaming prices and charges to connect to other networks forced on them by European and UK regulators.Phones 4u's collapse "reiterates the challenges of bricks-and-mortar trading following the collapse of electronics retailer Comet in 2013," says Ben Wood, CCS's head of research. "The loss of its fiercest competitor may appear to strengthen the position of  Dixons Carphone, but the company should not underestimate the consequence of greater efforts by UK network operators to invest in their own stores, or the trend towards online purchasing," he adds.EE is understood still to be negotiating with a "second tier" of 30 companies, including Argos, which provide a notable number of fresh customers via their high street outlets.For the operators, though, running their own outlets brings many advantages. They don't risk geographical overlap with an aggressive intermediary, and they control the standards and quality of service. "Let's just say that Phones 4u's interests weren't always aligned with the customers', or the networks'," one source commented last week.The other growing rivalry to the high street chains is the internet, where more and more people order not just phones, but also sim cards for handsets they have bought themselves. "Sim-only" contracts benefit the carriers, which don't then have the capital costs of buying handsets, but also are cause for concern, since people can switch away from them without warning.Apple, in fact, is one of the prime beneficiaries of this change, as it sells its iPhones directly from its stores – a move that Samsung, its biggest rival, has been seeking to emulate by opening another 15 UK outlets. Unfortunately, they were inside Phones 4u outlets.So is even Dixons Carphone, the £3.8bn merged company from the high street chains of Dixons and Carphone Warehouse, at risk from carriers seeking to claw back profit?There are two signs that it should be worried. First, the Three network stopped selling its handsets through Carphone Warehouse in 2013; it had done the same with Phones 4u in April 2012. Second, EE has not yet completed its negotiations on a new deal – exactly the problem that eventually led to the domino effect that killed Phones 4u.However, industry sources outside EE suggest Dixons Carphone is likely to survive. First, Dunstone holds huge sway, and is courted by handset makers around the world. "He will have been over there in Cupertino for Apple's launch last week," said one source outside the company. "He's a power in the industry."Second, Dixons Carphone also has the advantage that it doesn't rely solely on mobile sales; it sells computers, tablets and related accessories as well, giving it a cushion against any network withdrawing support.And while Dixons Carphone might not sell Three handsets, it does sell its data-only sims for tablets, and the two are said to be in talks about creating a mobile virtual network operator, just as Virgin uses EE's network.For the Apple customers who had preordered their new iPhones through Phones 4u before the administrators were called in, the news that they are just casualties of the broader phone market won't be much compensation.In the future their experience – and the sight of shuttered shops – are likely to be more common than the whooping crowds around Apple's stores.
Darwin Day12 FebruaryDarwin’s work continues to inspire scientists worldwide. And what’s not to celebrate about the man who worked out the wonders of evolution via natural selection? A day of celebrations since the 1990s held on Darwin’s birthday.Pi Day14 MarchMarked in honour of the infinitely interesting mathematical number pi (π): the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter. Since this is, when rounded, 3.14, the 14th day of the third month was chosen for festivities - a decision rubber-stamped in the US House of Representatives in 2009.Yuri’s Night12 AprilAn annual bash saluting Yuri Gagarin, who became the first man in space on 12 April, 1961. Also known as the World’s Space party, it was launched in 2000 and has the backing of numerous organisations including the US National Space Society. Today, enthusiasts throw parties in more than 70 locations worldwide.Tau Day28 JuneNot to be outdone by the festivities surrounding the mathematical constant pi, Tau Day is celebrated by those who think that tau, which can be defined as double pi, is the constant that should be used in calculations involving circles. The tau movement was instigated by theoretical physicist Dr Michael Hartl, who launched Tau Day to forward the cause.Space Exploration Day20 JulyGather your space-loving friends, bake some moon pies and watchApollo 13to celebrate this annual US commemoration of the day Neil Armstrong planted his space boots on lunar soil. Space enthusiasts have been celebrating this day for decades but have yet to succeed in their petition to turn the celebrations into a national holiday.Ada Lovelace Day14 October 2014Fighting the gender imbalance in science, engineering and tech, this day pays homage to Charles Babbage’s colleague – and arguably the first computer programmer – Ada Lovelace, by encouraging efforts to raise the profile of women across the sciences. Founded by Suw Charman-Anderson it has gained widespread support, including from prominent researchers.Mole Day23 OctoberNothing to do with mammals, international Mole Day was founded in 1991 by the National Mole Day Foundation in the US. The mole describes the quantity of a substance which contains Avogadro’s constant (6.02 x 1023) of particles (the number of atoms in exactly 12g of carbon-12). Party hats should be on from 6:02am to 6:02pm on the 23rd day of the 10th month.Newton Day (‘Grav-Mass Day’)25 DecemberChampioned by computer programmer Richard Stallman, Grav-Mass Day celebrates the work of Isaac Newton whose birthday falls on this festive date (in the old Julian calendar). Providing an alternative day of celebration for atheists, advocates recommend decorating trees with loosely hung apples, as a nod to the great man’s pomological inspiration.
My earliest childhood memory is pointing and crying at a kitchen cabinet that presumably contained apple sauce. In my next earliest memory, in the same apartment, my birth father is playing Mountain King on the Atari 2600.There were other games in our family library: Berzerk, Asteroids, Haunted House, Adventure. But Mountain King, released in 1983, was mystical. It is also often cited, 30 years on, as the toughest game for the Atari system.As the “Intrepid Explorer” my father would deftly manoeuvre up the mountainside, collecting gems and hunting the elusive Flame Spirit, which appears onscreen as a dancing shadow. (Once the Flame Spirit is captured, it encircles the Intrepid Explorer’s head like a flickering, ghostly wreath.)Then my father would venture down the treacherous peaks towards the Throne Room, which is guarded by the ominous Skull Spirit. He would kneel at the Skull, offer the Flame, be granted safe passage into the Throne Room where the crown rests. As soon as the crown was settled on my father’s head, the music – a violent but strangely energetic rendition of In the Hall of the Mountain King – would play. My father would clamber back up the mountain, in a ballet of arcing leaps. (There is also a gigantic green spider that trawls along the mountain’s base, which is ever so much more frightening to a child than grey bats are. Even with the Atari 2600’s limited sound capabilities, the spider made this awful skritching sound as he approached.)Sometimes my father made it to the top of the mountain but often he didn’t. This was when I’d usually hear him swear a little bit.In many ways, Mountain King was my first bedtime story. And like any child with a favourite bedtime story, I wanted my father to tell it to me again and again. Only, my father told it to me with quick, dexterous bends of the 2600’s joystick, with a cartridge and a television set. He was in his late 20s then.Anyway, I think this is how I fell in love with video games.Watching her father play Mountain King on the Atari 2600 made Jenn Frank fall in love with video games.A year after my father’s death, my adoptive parents gave me a computer, a Packard Bell 486-33. Of course, I never asked for a computer – I wanted a Super Nintendo or, God help me, some sort of Sega thing – but my elderly parents had decided that video games corrupt young minds and that computer games are so much more intellectual. (For whatever reason, Game Boys were fine.)I was thrilled nonetheless, and by Christmas 1993 I was online for the first time. My piano teacher – an older neighbour with a bright-red dye job and a penchant for floral muumuus – taught me how to navigate file directories in MS-DOS. Soon my piano lessons had turned into me, an obstinate 11-year old, demanding that my neighbour teach me ever-more intricate DOS commands.It never once struck me as odd that my piano teacher – a politically conservative retired nurse with cats – was also a computer whiz. I don’t think kids ever really notice that kind of thing.Or maybe kids do. When I was around 12, my adoptive mother encouraged me to tell a family friend what I wanted to be when I grew up. “I want to write computer games!” I told her triumphantly. “I’m going to be a designer!”“Well, then,” the woman warned, “you won’t be able to have children.”“I won’t,” I promised her in a serious voice. Right around the time I demanded my parents let me choose my own clothes – being dressedlike Patty McCormack from The Bad Seeddoes little good for your social standing – I began picking out my own games, too. I played a lot of adventure games during the next five years. These games were heavy on text and story-driven, and they took a long time to complete.And while I won’t defend it as a classic game, I rememberloving Myst when I first played it in 1993. Superficially, the game is about walking around, getting lost and clicking on things; at its heart, though, it is very much like Mountain King. Both are about a sort of video game gnosticism; about learning an esoteric mechanical vocabulary and, from there, intuiting how to actually play.My parents had a policy stipulating I wasn’t allowed to have a new computer game until I’d completed the last one. After months of being stuck in Myst, I finally lied. I remember it, because it was my first real lie. I hated Myst.By 1996, most of my female classmates had stopped playing video games. I think some of this had to do with societal pressures but the rest of it had to do with the Nintendo 64. Even now its controller is nonsense; in 1996 it was outright galling. Where had all these buttons come from? Why was it shaped like that? Why was there an analogue stick stuck in the middle of it?Meanwhile, beloved franchises such as Mario and Zelda had shifted from two dimensions to three, and not every girl wasreadily able to adapt to these new spatial challenges. For the first time, a lot of us started to think of console gaming as “boys’ toys”. I did, too, and I began to regard my own regular after-school computer gaming as my secret shame.I think 1998 marked one of video games’ hugest upheavals. The Sega Dreamcast – which would go on to become a commercial failure – offered interesting arcade experiences (Crazy Taxi) for players at home. Adventure games were also trying to adapt, and failing. Sierra’s King’s Quest franchise, for instance, chose that year to alienate its mostly female audience with 3D platforming and hack-and-slash combat (which was mechanically clever but ultimately did not work. That attempt, King’s Quest VIII, would be the last entry in the series). The equally maligned Gabriel Knight 3 hasgone down in history as incorporating the dumbest puzzle of all time.But that same year, Sierra published a first-person shooter called Half-Life, which instantly became the industry’s gold standard for quality. The marketplace had been flooded with innovative ideas, most of which failed, but Half-Life seemed to stick. And the marketplace, in turn, narrowed its focus and became more homogenised in its offerings. A lot of genres died that year.In 1998, my own tastes – which are thankfully flexible, thankfully – adapted to this climate shift. The two CD-ROMs I took to university were Half-Life and American McGee’s Alice. Every day after lunch, my subwoofer boomed in time with the subwoofers up on the third floor of our residential college, where the boys lived. Perhaps not coincidentally, my roommate transferred to another college.I loved multiplayer games. Playing video games had always been such a lonely endeavour; I’d finally found others. I stopped being shy about games, started evangelising about them.The concept of gamers as a unified community was new to me – to all of us. It felt like when someone suddenly turns up the lights in a darkened bar and you realise there are a lot of people in the same room, all jostling for space and they all look different to what you expected (and many of them, to my great relief, were women). I think that moment must be very jarring or frightening for certain people and perhaps makes them feel even more alone.But I never wanted to go back to the darkness. I never again wanted to feel like a 13-year-old girl, hopelessly alone and disconnected, cross-legged in front of a TV or sitting at a computer, hiding.In 2005, fresh out of college, I took on freelance work reviewing games for a magazine called Electronic Gaming Monthly. I welcomed this work specifically to annoy my mother. But I also took on the job because I supposed there would be 13-year-old girls like I had been, who might flip through the magazine and feel relief to see my byline.It wasn’t easy work. I remember thinking that EGM were probably giving me reviews because a salaried writer couldn’t finish them. I often received games only days before the reviews were due. Once, I fell asleep during a longwinded Suikoden cutscene (a sequence where the player has limited control). Each of those reviews paid about £37. And I am describing the industry when pay was at its best.In 2006, I started work as 1UP.com’s community manager, an editorial role that worked with fellow writers, PR, developers, the marketing department and “user retention” teams. I was not very good at that job and I had never purported to be. I never worked well in a team. I often wish I could have remembered that about myself on my way in.But the role opened my eyes to certain aspects of online gaming, such as harassment, abuse, threats and even stalking, and in many ways, it is an unhappy experience that I wish I could undo. After that job, I spent a year in therapy.Two weeks ago, I wrote a 500-word opinion piece in the Guardian, titled“How to attack a woman who works in video gaming”. I used my pulpit to condemn abuse, which is rampant in my industry. I have long witnessed online abuse firsthand, and I believe the mainstream games industry’s silence tacitly condones it. I don’t care who the targets are or what harassers may believe they have done. It is unacceptable. It is always unacceptable.But finally saying so was by no means my “dream article”. When I, aged 12, told that woman I dreamed of being a computer games designer, I was not dreaming of eventually writing an opinion piece denouncing abuse. But acknowledging that abuse exists is – unfortunately – enough to encourage it. Days after the publication,I retired from writing about games.Then an editor at the Guardian asked me if I would venture out of my two-week retirement and explain why I love video games. It’s easy to be coaxed out of retirement when you have loved video games for 30 years and written professionally about them for nine.And so I had to accept because I absolutely do love games. Oh my God, I cherish them, down to my fabric, down to the crude, fundamental Lego bricks that made me. I love what they are, and what they can be. And I wholeheartedly love everyone else who plays them, everyone who would call themselves a “gamer”.Being a gamer, though, means you fundamentally must believe in belonging: believe that people of all attitudes, from all walks of life, can peaceably coexist. And while I would never define myself entirely by just one pastime or characteristic – whether it’s reading comic books, collecting toys, playing video games or simply being female – I do believe that a few rare things in life, like loving video games, defy all boundaries.There were a lot of new games on the market in the late 1990s, but Half-Life seemed to stick.
After a multi-decade gestation process,Wasteland 2(PC) is the Kickstarter-funded sequel to a legendary 1988 role-playing game. Like the original, it’s set after a nuclear war and has you commanding a band of paramilitaries in tactical turn-based combat, set against the familiar scorched desert we know and love. Other games out this week includeMeridian: New World(PC), a real-time strategy game so fully featured it’s almost impossible to believe it was built by just one man;Train Simulator 2015(PC) provides you with near-future trains to drive on routes you’ll no doubt be relieved to discover include the classic London to Peterborough east coast mainline; andSlender: The Arrival(PS3, Xbox 360) lets console owners experience the terrifying but also frustratingly repetitious cult survival horror.
Framed in humourlessly portentous space opera, Halo’s illegitimate child, Destiny, has arrived. Your job is to restore Earth’s golden age of galactic colonisation by cleansing our solar system of the robotic and alien factions invading it. Naturally, this doesn’t involve diplomacy, so much as stalking vast tracts of landscape and gargantuan, cathedral-like underground mazes, where each new area is a fresh puzzle in crowd control with guns. Although much-touted, the presence of other players is fleeting unless you specifically get together in a fireteam or enter the Crucible, where you can finally shoot them. The upgrade system revolves around looting weapons and equipment from dead enemies, as well as completing special bounties. It looks, sounds and plays like Halo, with additional layers of character progression and a promise of new content to be released over the coming year. It’s not as ambitious as its PR puff claims, but it’s still a great shooter.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKFantasy Life, 2DS &amp; 3DSThe strange norm in adventure games is that they force you to choose your character’s specialism before you have any idea what the game’s about. It’s the equivalent of getting pre-schoolers to select a career and then never letting them change their minds, even if they’ve made a terrible mistake. Fantasy Life gets around this universally accepted idiocy by encouraging you to swap professions, improving skills in order to help the citizenry of Reveria. Through gradual exploration and unlocking abilities in the game’s dozen character classes – including miner, alchemist and tailor, alongside more conventional wizards and warriors – you can do favours for people with increasingly arcane problems. It’s a sprawling, resolutely old-school adventure.Nintendo, £27.99
'This car is like a house on wheels,"Bob Mortimersays as we climb into the new Mercedes E400. It&nbsp;does indeed appear more palatial than your average motor – a car so sprawling, I half expect to chance upon a billiards room and a scullery tucked away somewhere beyond the back seats. What it definitely does have is a hybrid engine that sounds so tasteful, so perfectly modulated, it seems more fitting to discuss it in terms of nose and palate.With its handsome, square-jawed exterior and luxurious interior, the Merc is too big to feel truly comfortable; it makes me feel like a&nbsp;child trying to walk in her mother's heels. There is plenty of technological zip to counter its air of stately deportment: sport-tuned suspension, designed for sharper handling, and acceleration that delivers an unexpected rush of speed. It handles elegantly, and out on the motorway feels quite majestic. But heading south in the sludgy traffic of rush-hour London, it feels a&nbsp;touch cumbersome – even in super-throttly sport mode.Mortimer drives a Mercedes himself. "I'm on probably my ninth S Class on the trot," he says. "It's my least favourite of all the ones I've had. It's only 15 miles to the gallon; the last one was a diesel, and you got about 34." At 37.7mpg, the E400's combined fuel consumption is vastly more impressive.Most mornings, Mortimer drives 50 or so miles to write with his comedy partnerVic Reeves(who drives a Jaguar), but today we are roving around rural Surrey, close to his production company offices. He tells me about the live tour he and Reeves are preparing, as well as a&nbsp;feature film and and a new show he has in development called OAP-PI, in which "we get old age pensioners to do private investigations work". We pass under a railway bridge. "It's such a thin line between doing what we do and it just beingRentaghost. And I hated Rentaghost."For Mortimer, the allure of the Mercedes is its space and comfort. "I've never found a better car for sleeping in. And I spend hours and hours asleep in cars." Had we taken this drive around his home town of Tunbridge Wells, he says, he'd have guided me to his three favourite sleeping spots. "Finding somewhere to sleep is really tricky these days, where it's reasonably quiet and you don't get moved on." He sleeps "more intensely" in a car: "You wake up and you get that real richness, like your blood's got thick."Later, he shows me his own Merc. "I've got a fridge," he says, opening a cubbyhole in the back seat that's big enough to hold two bottles of Lucozade. "And night vision," he adds, gesturing at the dashboard. "You flick that down and drive via that screen." What if a fox ran out in&nbsp;front of him? "That's exactly what it's for. It&nbsp;was designed by foxes." We regard the dashboard dubiously. "I'm sure it must be safe," he says, looking unconvinced. "And it's probably the future."The E400 may not offer a fridge or&nbsp;fox-endorsed night vision, but it's still a fine example of Mercedes design. There's all the space, comfort and attention to detail you'd want if you're spending long stretches in a&nbsp;car, whether driving great distances, or taking a nap in Tunbridge Wells.Mercedes E400 AMG Sport Plus CoupePrice£52,250Top speed155mphAcceleration0-62mph in 5.2 secondsCombined fuel consumption37.7mpgCO2emissions176g/kmEco rating6/10On Bob's steroAnything byBabybird• Follow Laura onTwitter.
Comic legendJoan Rivershas been dead for over a week now, but apparently that hasn’t stopped theFashion Showstar being chuffed to bits with her new iPhone 6-feet-under.In a warning to PR companies everywhere, sponsored scheduled posts appeared onRivers’ Facebookand Instagram accounts on Friday morning – before they were quickly taken down.Oops? The scheduled post on Facebook.Photograph: FacebookAt least the hashtags were on point: the iPhone 6 (and 6 Plus), which went on sale on Friday, have hadpositive reviews- some might say even a product to die for.In other Rivers-related news, her doctor hasdenied the rumourthat he took a selfie with the star while she was unconscious in hospital after undergoing throat surgery.Rivers was one of the most celebrated comedians of the last 40 years, and was Tony and Grammy nominated. She was still performing weeks before she died of acardiac arrestresulting from complications after her surgery.•Stephen Fry’s iPhone 6 verdict: the most exquisite mobile ever made
Smartphones are not only changing the way we watch films, but also the way we make them. When directorMalik Bendjelloulran out of money filming his documentary featureSearching for Sugar Man, he took a punt: he decided to shoot the remaining shots on his iPhone using an8mm Vintage Cameraapp. It paid off. The film won the 2013 Academy award for best documentary feature.You see, smartphone movie-making is Oscar-winning.And if it’s good enough for the Academy, it’s good enough for us – the home movie-makers, the enthusiasts, the vloggers, the seasoned pros. If you’re anything like me, your smartphone is brimming with video clips already: mementoes of holidays, birthdays, nights out, ice bucket challenges, and tiny, surprising, chance encounters. Rather than leaving these clips estranged on your camera roll, a broad range of smart, cutting-edge, video-editing apps can turn even the rawest of footage into something fantastic: stringing together the best clips, trimming off the parts where you mistakenly filmed your foot, and adding a variety of subtle – and not so subtle – special effects.1. HYPERLAPSE FROM INSTAGRAM(Free)Hyperlapse from Instagram.Photograph: ObserverCapable of shooting up to 45 minutes of footage, Instagram’s new time-lapse app is extraordinarily simple. When you openHyperlapse, you have one option: record. (If you’ve shaky hands, Hyperlapse’s in-house stabilisation is stunningly efficient.) You can preview your video in speeds ranging from 1x to 12x, then share to Instagram or Facebook.2. VINE(Free)The Vine app.Photograph: ObserverAndy Warhol overestimated the future. In 2014, everyone can be famous, but for six-and-a-half seconds, not 15 minutes.Vineis both a fun video-making app – it allows users to create six-and-a-half-second looping vignettes and share them online – and one of the coolest social media platforms. The world’s biggest Viner, 16-year-old Nash Grier, has a staggering 9.3 million followers.3. VIDEO EDITOR FOR FREE(Free)My favourite video-editing app:Video Editor For Free– well, mostly free – is less popular than the iMovie app, but I’d argue it’s faster and easier to use. It lets you trim, merge and share your videos, and some nifty additional features – transitions, adding music from your iTunes, recording voiceovers etc – cost 60p a pop.4. ACTION MOVIE FX(Free)Action Movie FX app.Photograph: ObserverTorpedo your granny! Blow up your cat!Action Movie FXis a shameless “guilty” pleasure. Created by Bad Robot, the US production company owned by JJ Abrams, it allows you to add action movie-style visuals to your videos – missile attacks, car smashes, avalanches, spider strikes – and its intuitive interface is easy to navigate. Above all, it’s brilliant fun.5. STOP MOTION STUDIO(Free)Stop Motion Studio app.Photograph: ObserverStop Motion Studiolets you take photos (or import ones from your camera roll) and string them together to create stop-motion masterpieces. A tripod (or a makeshift one) is pretty essential, and so is patience. The free app lets you add music and your own narration, while in-app purchases include green screen, paint tools and sound effects.6. SUN SEEKER(IOS £4.99)On location shoots,Sun Seekeris the app that I use most frequently. It’s killer. You can tell exactly where the sun is going to be throughout the day – invaluable when blocking a scene or planning a shooting schedule. Pair it with first-rate weather-forecasting appDark Sky, and you’re prepared for anything from rain to shine.7. CINE METER II(IOS £13.99)Cine Meter II app.Photograph: ObserverA good light meter can cost 400 quid, and most have horrible little screens that look like 90s calculators. ThisCine Meterapp turns your smartphone into a light meter – not quite pro-level, but a laudable alternative if you’ve a limited budget, or for recces when you might not have your actual meter with you. Think of this app as a “light meter lite”.8. ARTEMIS DIRECTOR’S VIEWFINDER(IOS £20.99)Artemis director app.Photograph: ObserverOn TV and movie sets worldwide, professional cinematographers and directors are usingArtemis Director’s Viewfinderto roughly frame shots before moving a heavy camera, for location scouting, and for storyboarding. It can be configured to match any camera system. The priciest app, it is worth every penny.9. RØDE REC(IOS £3.99)Like the Cine Meter II, theRØDE Rec appis a blessing for low-budget productions that can’t afford radio mics. It’s a broadcast-quality audio recorder for your phone, and it works great when paired with a lapel mic. It features a suite of editing tools, and an introductory version of the app, RØDE Rec LE, is available for free.10. DIGISLATE(Free)Digislate app.Photograph: ObserverMovieSlate®is probably the best clapperboard app, but it isn’t cheap. Save your pennies.DigiSlateis a class act. In bright sunlight, it can be hard to see it on a smartphone screen, but in lower light it has the edge over traditional clapperboards; you don’t have to shine a torch on it for the camera to see.
ForgetIpsos Mori,YouGovandICM; it turns out the most accurate predictor of theScottish referendum resultwasGrindr, the hook-up app for gay and bisexual men.By now it’s clear thatScotland has voted55% to 45% to remain as part of the United Kingdom, but Edinburgh’s gay men could have told us that yesterday.Tom Courtasked users of the app located in the Scottish capital how they were planning to vote in the referendum – which is certainly a better opening gambit than “a/s/l?”Court’s findings predicted a56% no vote, according to a sample of 655 men. This was a more accurate prediction than many of the final night polls. Ipsos Mori’s final poll gave the no campa 53% lead, as didSurvation; YouGovpredicted 52% to 48%.Court has broken down the figures into two groups: men whose avatars were of their faces, and those whose avatars consisted of, er, other parts of the anatomy. Or, as he calls it; “the headless torso demographic”.Interestingly, the “headless torso demographic” voted for independence, with51%of the vote going to yes.Some Grindr users – the app describes itself as “the largest and most popular all-male location-based social network out there”– seemed somewhat perplexed to be asked about their stance on politics.Photograph: machotrouts.tumblr.comMany, however, seemed more than happy to give an answer, or engage in debate:Photograph: machotrouts.tumblr.comPhotograph: machotrouts.tumblr.comPhotograph: machotrouts.tumblr.comPhotograph: machotrouts.tumblr.comGrindr wasn’t the only social networking platform which hinted at the outcome of the referendum. Facebook introduced the“I have voted” button, similar tothe 2008 US elections. Theofficial yes campaign pageracked up over 335,000 “likes”, opposed to223,000 for no.Twitter also tipped towards a yes result. TheTwitter government accountcollated hashtag dataand mentions. More than1.55mhashtags related to the yes campaign have been tweeted since 5 August, against500,000related to no. Below is a real-time graph of tweets relating to the referendum campaign:The prevalence of support for yes on social media isn’t too surprising, given social media’s popularity with the16-24 demographic– younger votes are overwhelmingly thought to have voted yes. This contrasts with traditional polling companies, who frequently quiz people via telephone. Older people, who areno voterson the whole, are more likely to have landlines.It’s clear that social media and mobile apps could play a huge part in future political polling – and should do. Waracle Ltd created theReferend-umapp to exactly this end; it’s just a shame it didn’t work as well as it should have done. Or work at all. It’s the prototype of polling though. That, and maybe Grindr.The Referend-um apps could point to the future of polling.
Nintendo’s inability to furnish the Wii U with a steady stream of compelling games has led to its current role as the forgotten console. Mario Kart 8 at least brought the die-hard Nintendo faithful back to the fold, and now here is Hyrule Warriors, which on paper, is a Frankenstein’s monster of a game – an unappealing-sounding transplantation of Tecmo Koei’s ancient hack-n-slash franchise Dynasty Warriors into Hyrule, the world of Zelda, complete with familiar protagonists, enemies and environments.Against all the odds, it somehow manages to make eminently good sense. It’s very much a Zelda game – Dynasty Warriors’ shogun and samurai are nowhere to be seen, and Tecmo Koei has clearly had fun indulging its Zelda fan-boy tendencies. Like Mario Kart 8, it shows that the Wii U has more graphical grunt than we initially thought, and a classic Zelda cut-scene establishes the story. Zelda, naturally, is spirited away, Hyrule is under threat from dark forces and, as Link, you must save the world.Except this time around, the way you go about that is by hacking and slashing your way through vast hordes of enemies – who, in true Zelda style, generally look rather cute. You have a sword, naturally, with normal and strong attacks (the latter able to take out tens of enemies at a time) which can be chained into even more devastating combos. Plus, you have two meters for building up magic which enhances all your attacks for a period, and launching a special attack that inflicts vast damage on a single enemy. As you progress, you acquire most of the reassuringly familiar items from Link’s inventory of yore, including bombs, a bow, a boomerang and so on.Those must be used in a semi-puzzle-solving capacity to access crucial parts of each map, and are invaluable against bosses. Hyrule Warriors’ story mode is split into giant battlefields with multiple objectives which, because they are set up sandbox style, you must approach with a considerable amount of tactical nous. You have an army (indeed, as the story progresses, several armies) at your disposal, and your troops follow your lead. You can raise morale by dominating areas, such as keeps, which you can win by clearing them out of enemies and taking down the keep bosses. At times, you must take executive decisions, such as breaking off from your current objective to help an ally in distress, and if your home base is taken over by the enemy, defeat ensues. Luckily, each battle is checkpointed, so you won’t go right back to square one.Swords and satisfactionThere’s something deeply satisfying about Hyrule Warriors’ core gameplay – the way you cut down enemies makes you feel wonderfully heroic. One criticism that has been levelled at the game is that it can get repetitive, and after the first few battles, such thoughts do occur for a period. But as you progress, you can play as characters other than Link, with wildly varying weapons and attacks, and the game’s tactical element really kicks in, which brings you back. Plus there are some magnificent boss-battles, whose weaknesses you must work hard to expose – in stark contrast, say, to Destiny with its depressingly formulaic end-of-level face-offs. And strangely, the most unprepossessing-looking bosses are the ones that prove hardest to take downThere’s plenty of replay value, thanks partly to a bizarre board game-style feature with faux-8-bit graphics, which encourages you to explore parts of the world you haven’t visited (and rewards you with extra health and objects), and random events such as Golden Skultulas which briefly spawn, generally while you have your hands full elsewhere on the battlefield. Hyrule Warriors is also a tinkerer’s delight – you can open up new combos, upgrade your character and boost your troops by forging badges, and craft potions from materials you collect. You can play co-operatively, on a single Wii U, too.Hyrule Warriors ought not to work – it smacks of Nintendo’s desperation to get any sort of game out for its overlooked machine – but it will certainly delight the faithful fans, and manages to remain utterly true to the world of Zelda while offering really fresh-feeling gameplay. It’s far from perfect, and won’t win any awards, but has the attributes required to gain cult status in the years to come. If you have a Wii U, it’s a must-buy.
One of the first people in the world to own an iPhone 6 rapidly became the first person to experience the heartstopping feeling of watching a half-grand chunk of electronics hit the floor with a crash, after he dropped his new phone live on air.Jack Cooksey was first through the doors of the Apple Store in Perth, Western Australia (eight hours ahead of GMT), and triumphantlyshowing off his new purchase to Channel 9 news, when a sharp tug on the lid led to the AU$869 (£476) device clattering to the floor – to the amusement of the surrounding crowd:Jack Cooksey drops his new iPhoneDon’t worry for James, though. The iPhone was unharmed by the incident.Elsewhere in Perth, new iPhone owners were dropping their phones on purpose. YouTuberPhoneBuffbought an iPhone 6 and 6 Plus and promptly began tossing them on the floor from increasing heights – all in the name of science, of course.The results? Dropping an iPhone from shoulder height on to a flagstone will probably crack the screen, especially if you end up dropping it face down. Don’t do that.In Britain, more than a thousand fans queued up outside Apple’s Covent Garden store to try and get one of the first phones in the country – despite the company also offering an online pre-order, as well as a reservation option in-store, to avoid first-come-first-served.First in the queue was 27-year-old Sam Sheikh, from Manor Park in north London, accompanied by his friend Jamal Ahmed, both of whom bought two phones.Many people in the queue bought more than one handset and it is likely many will end up being resold online, particularly to China which is still yet to officially approve the new phones for sale.Auctions on eBayhave already reached £870 for the 128GB gold model of the iPhone 6, which sells on Apple’s own site for £170 less.And, in what is rapidly becoming an annual tradition, the latest hoax attempt to make people destroy their iPhones is doing the rounds. Originating on 4Chan’s /g/ and /b/ boards, the image, seen below, attempts to convince iPhone owners to put their phone in the microwave:The Wave hoax.Photograph: 4chan.orgIn case it isn’t obvious: do not put your iPhone in the microwave, whether or not you’ve upgraded to iOS 8. Sadly, some already have…USE WAVE THEY SAID. IT&#39;LL CHARGE YOUR IPHONE IN THE MICROWAVE THEY SAID. 😪😡😡😡pic.twitter.com/DJspCShhJq&mdash; jadaa (@iPunchhBabiies)September 18, 2014Still, never mind. At least the iPhones 6 and 6 Plus are easy to fix. Hardware repare site iFixit has already bought and dismantled thetwodevices, and awarded 7/10 for repairability.•Apple releases iOS 8 software as developers update their apps
From the ranks of three-metre high vessels in Brewster’s brewery, Grantham, the sweet scent of malted barley spills outside. Pacing between them, consulting clipboards and adding notes, is Sara Barton, one of Britain’s foremost independent brewers and the only female winner of the annual Brewer of the Year award, which she lifted in 2012.In the 15 years since she set up Brewsters, Barton has witnessed the craft beer revolution and, with it, a resurgent interest in homebrewing, which last had its heyday in the 1970s. “When I first tried homebrewing, God, it was difficult. Back then you used to get a lot of the kit from Boots, and it was so limited. We were mackling up cooling coils from shower hoses, wrapping the beer in sleeping bags. It was laborious and unpredictable.”The basic process of homebrewing has become much easier lately, for two main reasons. Firstly, the global online brewing community is now deeply rooted, providing discussion, instruction and advice in videos and message boards, and confirming Barton’s assertion that brewing is a “very friendly” area. Secondly, technological advance has allowed many of the homebrew obstacles to be ironed out. As Barton puts it, “there’s so many gadgets and gizmos that you don’t need to rely so much on pot luck.”All-grain homebrewing is a delicate process, littered with jargon. First, partially-germinated (malted) barley must be mashed – soaked in warm water to activate enzymes and release sugars. The grain is then carefully “sparged”, which means rinsed and drained, and the resultant liquid, now called wort is transferred to a vessel known as a copper, where it is boiled with hops. The liquid is then cooled and transferred into a fermenting bucket, where yeast is added, or “pitched”, and fermentation begins. The beer’s temperature is regulated for a week or two before it can then be ”conditioned” and bottled.Barton, who studied biochemistry, feels that a basic scientific understanding of the process helps the brewer “to understand why something’s going wrong.” She also advises caution to new brewers. “If I were starting again as a homebrewer I would start out with malt and hop extract – see which flavours I liked. You have to graduate to all-grain, it’s like the nirvana of homebrewing.”Brewing at home successfully can result in good beer for as little as 20p per pint, but it is also, in Barton’s words “a really good hobby”. “I think it’s about the process as much as the product,” she says, drawing a cold glass of Helles lager from an enormous stainless steel tank, “and so all this extra gear is very appealing.”The Mini Keg.Photograph: Fabio De Paola/ObserverMini Keg (above)brewuk.co.uk, £85, andEasy Kegbrewuk.co.uk, (right) £5.99“The bigger of these two (pictured above) is a re-useable miniature keg. You can put your beer in, pressurise it, and then you’ve got nice carbonated beer to take to a party. Some people feel that ‘force carbonation’ is impure or somehow destructive to the beer, but we do it here with our lagers. The Easy Kegs are like little casks, and we use them ourselves – they sell very well at Christmas. They have a special seal on top, and a little tap tucked away inside. You can fill them with bright beer, which has been taken off the yeast, and then drink it within a day or so. Otherwise you can fill them with conditioned beer, where the yeast will continue to add carbon dioxide. If you do that and keep it sealed up you could keep it for a month. The only downside of these is you can’t re-use the Easy Kegs, which seems a shame. But even so, this can hold eight or nine pints. Bottles are expensive; cleaning, filling, labelling and capping them is a lengthy process; so you can save a lot of time and money with these.Blichmann Thru-mometer brewuk.co.uk, £21 This is a good idea. It’s an inline thermometer which you connect to the outlet from the copper and transfer it to the fermenter. At this point in the process, the temperature needs to cool from a hundred degrees to around twenty, and if you run it into the fermenter while it’s too warm you can’t really do anything about it. By monitoring the temperature as you go, you can tweak your chilling water up or down without having to dash back and forth with a stick thermometer. It’s very easy to read, it’s nice cleanable, sterile stainless steel, I like it. For the price, it’s a good little gadget.”The Speidel Braumeister.Photograph: Fabio De Paola/ObserverSpeidel Braumeisterbrewuk.co.uk, 20L model £1,275“An ordinary homebrew setup has three vessels, one for mashing, one for boiling and one for fermenting. This machine (left) mashes, sparges and boils the wort, so it cuts out at least one vessel and regulates the temperature with a digital control box. It’s obviously quite expensive but if you’re a really enthusiastic whole grain homebrewer, and you don’t have an outhouse or a utility room or something, it’s a very neat, compact way to do it.“The sparging and the mashing are the most impressive aspects, because there’s an inner cylinder that contains the grain and circulates the water — you don’t have to put it in a mash bag and go over it with a showerhead.“It’s very simple, but a homebrewer might find it too clever — it helps too much. It’s almost like a mini microbrewery in itself, and you wouldn’t want to spend that amount of money if you weren’t sure about what you were doing. Otherwise it’s fantastic. If you can teach it to drink it for you you’d be laughing.”The OPTi Brew SG Digital Refractometer.Photograph: Fabio De Paola/ObserverOPTi Brew SG Digital Refractometerrefractometershop.com, £295“A refractometer is a clever toy. There’s a glass prism inside which uses the light to measure the density of sugar in the fluid. This one (left) looks nice, it feels nice, it works instantly and, combined with a hydrometer, it can give you a very accurate ABV [alcohol by volume] reading.“That might be a very useful thing to have in the brewery, especially if it meant we didn’t have to send samples off to be distilled before submitting them to Revenue and Customs.But it seems a bit complicated for homebrew. As a homebrewer you don’t need to know ABV for legal purposes, you just need to know roughly what percentage it is so you know whether it’s safe to drive the kids to school… Serious hobbyists, however, might be interested in something as professional as this.”Polycarbonate heat panel.Photograph: Fabio De Paola/ObserverBetter Brew Polycarbonate Heat Panelthehomebrewboat.co.uk, £37.50“This (left) is for when you’ve got something like a demijohn or a bucket that you need to keep nice and warm while brewing in the spring and the winter during cold weather. I’ve measured it and it seems to heat up to about 29C. You want your whole brew to be at about 20C, so by the time you’ve sat your vessel on the panel it’s percolated throughout the liquid that temperature would probably be about right. It’s easy to wipe dry and it’s a nice solution to putting it in the airing cupboard and ruining all your clothes.You still need to think about how to cool the beer before and after fermenting, so I wonder if the same company makes something to help the beer cool. Some people use an electric coil, but then you’re putting something into the beer, which is always a worry with sterility.”Star San sanitiser for homebrew.Photograph: Fabio De Paola /ObserverStarSan no-rinse sanitiserbrewuk.co.uk, 8oz (227ml) bottle, £9.60“Hygiene is one of the biggest problems for brewers. In the early days of homebrewing we sterilised things with metabisulfite — Campden tablets — that you had to swill around in all your kit. They have to be rinsed out after, so if your water’s not perfect you risk further infection. In the brewery we use peracetic acid as a sanitiser but that isn’t very practical for homebrewers; it’s quite volatile, noxious stuff, and if you get it on your fingers they go all white.“This (below) is a last-step sanitiser made with phosphoric acid; you don’t have to rinse it off after using it. You dose it up into the little chamber, dilute it and use it; it’s quite nice. People make the mistake of thinking superficially clean is clean, but you have to make sure that nothing other than yeast will grow. A good amount of work goes into a brew and it’s painful when it goes rank and you have to pour it down the drain. It’s wise to have this.”
The average Android gamer spends 37 minutes a day playing on their smartphone or tablet, according to research from mobile analytics firm Flurry.Based ondata from 60,000 Android devices, the company claims that Android gamers in the US are the keenest in the world, averaging 51.8 minutes of daily gameplay.Germany (47.1 minutes) Russia (40.8) and Italy (38.5) all over-index in the company’s rankings, although British Android gamers average 32.4 minutes, according to Flurry’s data.The company’s research into which genres are most popular won’t come as a surprise: arcade and action titles top the list, followed by casual games.However, it teases out some national differences: German Android gamers average 66 monthly sessions in brain and puzzle games, while Indians average 68 monthly sessions in cards and casino titles.“Arcade &amp; Action and Casual are clearly the gaming categories with the broadest appeal. In almost all of the top gaming countries, at least half of gamers engage with these games,” wrote Flurry’s Jarah Euston in a blog post.Flurry’s research into average Android gaming habits.Photograph: PRThe figures are the latest data on the booming mobile games market. Earlier in the week, the UK’s Internet Advertising Bureaureleased a report on British gaming habits. It revealed that 54% of people surveyed cited smartphones as their favourite gaming platform – ahead of computers (51%), consoles (45%) and tablets (44%).Android specifically is an increasingly important platform for games. In June, Google said there weremore than 1bn active Android users globally, up from 530m the year before.A glance at theTop Grossing Apps chart on Android’s UK Google Play storereveals that 28 of the 30 most lucrative apps at the time of writing are games, with only WhatsApp Messenger and Sky Sports Mobile TV breaking up the games party.Historically, Android has been a lower priority than Apple’s iOS for many mobile games developers, with waits of weeks and sometimes months between games being released for iOS then ported to Android.However, the sheer scale of Android, and increased use of tools like Unity that reduce the headaches of cross-platform development, have been bringing those delays down, as well as spurring more simultaneous launches across both platforms.•40 best Android games of 2014 (so far)
Facebook: much better for ice-bucket videos, BuzzFeed quizzes and baby photos than it is for keeping abreast of breaking news. But the social network is hoping to change that.Facebook has announced its latest tweaks to the algorithm determining what people see in their news feeds, with topical news and timely posts the focus.Facebook engineers Erich Owens and David Vickreyannounced the changes in a blog post:“We’ve heard feedback that there are some instances where a post from a friend or a page you are connected to is only interesting at a specific moment, for example when you are both watching the same sports game, or talking about the season premiere of a popular TV show.There are also times when a post that is a day or two old may not be relevant to you anymore. Our latest update to news feed ranking looks at two new factors to determine if a story is more important in the moment than other types of updates.”One of those two factors is trending topics, with Facebook giving more priority to breaking news “so you can immediately know what your friends or favorite pages are saying about the stories of the day”.That’s a reaction, in part, to recent criticism of the way protests in US city Ferguson after the fatal shooting of Michael Brown by police were a massive trending topic on Twitter, but much less evident on Facebook.The second new factor affecting Facebook’s news feed algorithm is how people are liking and commenting on posts:“Currently one of the signals we look at is the total number of likes that a post has received when determining how high up to to show it in news feed. With this update, we are going to begin looking atwhenpeople are choosing to like, comment and share.If people are engaging with the post right after it is posted, and not as much a few hours later, this suggests that the post was most interesting at the time it was posted, but potentially less interesting at a later date. Based on this signal it is more likely to appear higher in news feed earlier on and lower at a later date.”These are the latest alterations to Facebook’s news feed, and the latest time the social network has published details of changes to explain what it’s doing.In August 2013, Facebook announced that when its average user logs in,there are 1,500 potential stories that they could see in its news feed, with its algorithm prioritising about 300 of them.“With so many stories, there is a good chance people would miss something they wanted to see if we displayed a continuous, unranked stream of information,” wrote Facebook’s Lars Backstrom at the time.“Our ranking isn’t perfect, but in our tests, when we stop ranking and instead show posts in chronological order, the number of stories people read and the likes and comments they make decrease.”Facebook’s filtering has sometimes sparked controversy: for example in June, when results of a study were published revealing thatFacebook had manipulated nearly 700,000 users’ news feedsto understand whether it could affect their emotions.Meanwhile, companies running Facebook pages have periodically complained that their posts are getting seen by less of the people who have liked their pages, withFacebook forced to defend itselfagainst accusations that it has deliberately been running down “organic reach” in order to make more page owners pay for ads.Facebook usually argues that its changes are made with users’ interests in mind, rather than its own commercial interests. For example, in August it revealed plans tolower the ranking of links to stories that may be “click-bait”, based on timing how long its users spend reading them.•How does Facebook decide what to show in my news feed?•Strictly algorithm: how news finds people on Facebook
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamLarry Ellison steps down as Oracle's CEO &gt;&gt; BusinessweekLarry Ellison has agreed to step down as chief executive officer at Oracle (ORCL), ending one of the most entertaining and profitable runs for a leader in business history.Oracle announced Ellison's departure via a press release delivered on Thursday afternoon after the close of U.S. financial markets. The company said that Ellison will remain chairman of Oracle's board and take on the role of chief technology officer. Mark Hurd and Safra Catz, both presidents at Oracle, will each inherit the CEO title. Catz will remain as chief financial officer as well.Era. Over.Would you buy Apple Watch? Most say no - MarketWatchWhile demand for the latest generation iPhone seems even bigger than expected, just a slice of those consumers looking to purchase the iPhone 6 plan to buy an Apple Watch next year, a new survey shows.RBC Capital Markets raised its fourth quarter and fiscal-year 2015 estimates on Apple  Wednesday after a survey of 6,000 individuals indicated strong demand for both the iPhone 6 and pricier iPhone 6 Plus."Post our survey, we think not just demand for iPhone 6 is robust, but the [average selling price] move could be significant," the analyst group led by RBC Capital Markets' Amit Daryanani said.RBC lifted its price target on Apple to $114 from $110 previously. Shares of the Cupertino tech giant were up 0.44% to $101.28 in recent trade.However, just 11% of those consumers said they plan to buy Apple's most innovative new product since the iPad when the Apple Watch hits store shelves in 2015, while just 16% said they intend on utilizing Apple Pay when it rolls out in October.Also:Roughly 27% of the respondents who indicated intent to purchase an iPhone are new to Apple's ecosystem, with a majority switching over from Google's Android.Toshiba to cut 900 jobs in PC restructuring &gt;&gt; Re/codeJapan's Toshiba said it would cut 900 jobs in a restructuring of its PC business that will include an exit from business-to-consumer operations in some regions.The Japanese electronics conglomerate expects the PC restructuring to cut operating profit by 45bn yen ($414m) but did not change its earnings forecast for the current year to March, as better-than-expected earnings in electricity and other operations offset the impact.Here's the press release. Wait for the other shoe to drop.Newest Androids will join iPhones in offering default encryption, blocking police &gt;&gt; The Washington PostThe next generation of Google's Android operating system, due for release next month, will encrypt data by default for the first time, the company said Thursday, raising yet another barrier to police gaining access to the troves of personal data typically kept on smartphones.Android has offered optional encryption on some devices since 2011, but security experts say few users have known how to turn on the feature. Now Google is designing the activation procedures for new Android devices so that encryption happens automatically, meaning only authorized users will be able to see the pictures, videos and communications stored on those smartphones.Good.iOS 8 adoption rate slower than iOS 7, 6, hits 7.3% nearly 24 hours after public release &gt;&gt; ChitikaThe more muted reception of iOS 8 in these early stages is likely due to several confounding factors. Perhaps most importantly, the pool of iPhones eligible to upgrade to iOS 8 is limited to iPhone 5S, 5C, 5, and 4S models, andmanyoutletshavesuggestedthat iPhone 4S users should not upgrade due to subsequent performance and functionality issues. If most 4S users decide to stick with their current OS, then the maximum potential adoption of iOS 8 shrinks to just over65% of the North American iPhone user basewho use iPhone 5-type models.It's also 1.2GB and needs 5GB for installation; iOS 7 was 665MB, needed 2.9GB.Apple's "warrant canary" disappears, suggesting new Patriot Act demands &gt;&gt; GigaomWhen Apple published its first Transparency Report on government activity in late 2013, the document contained an important footnote that stated:"Apple has never received an order under Section 215 of the USA Patriot Act. We would expect to challenge such an order if served on us."Writer and cyber-activist Cory Doctorow at the time recognized that language as a so-called "warrant canary," which Apple was using to thwart the secrecy imposed by the Patriot Act.Warrant canaries are a tool used by companies and publishers to signify to their users that, so far, they have not been subject to a given type of law enforcement request such as a secret subpoena. If the canary disappears, then it is likely the situation has changed — and the company has been subject to such request.Now, Apple's warrant canary has disappeared.BitIodine: extracting intelligence from the bitcoin network (PDF)Michele Spagnuolo, Federico Maggi, and Stefano Zanero:In this paper we present a modular framework, BitIodine, which parses the blockchain, clusters addresses that are likely to belong to a same user or group of users, classifies such users and labels them, and finally visualizes complex information extracted from the Bitcoin network. BitIodine labels users (semi-)automatically with information on their identity and actions which is automatically scraped from openly available information sources.BitIodine is a terrific resource if you're trying to investigate bitcoin dealings.When Apple says no ... before saying yes &gt;&gt; CNETRoss Rubin:Steve Jobs had said in the summer of 2010 that nobody would want to buy a big phone and compared jumbo smartphones to the now-defunct Hummer SUVs. Senior Apple exec Phil Schiller said last year that it wasn't clear that NFC (near field communications), seen by some as a promising technology for mobile payments, wasn't the solution to any problem.And now the company has embraced those former pariahs. These reversals were just the latest in a long line of reversals of direction for Apple, which also once shunned Intel processors and SD cards in Macs, and kept video off the iPod line for many years after it appeared on competitive devices.Was Apple wrong? Did it change its mind? Can we just not trust its stated intentions?Google's cheap phones mean more India trouble for Samsung &gt;&gt; BusinessweekThere are 886m active mobile subscriptions in India, giving the country a cellular penetration rate of 70%. However, relatively few Indians use those phones to go online: India has 243 million Internet users, a penetration rate of 19%, according to a July report by We Are Social.About three-quarters of those Internet users rely on their mobile phones to go online, and if Google is right, the gap between mobile subscriptions and web use should narrow quickly. The company [on Monday] unveiled new low-cost smartphones for the Indian market to take advantage of a shift to the mobile Internet. "We expect India to be the second-largest Internet market by 2017," Sundar Pichai, Google's senior vice president, said at the announcement in New Delhi, Bloomberg News reports. "And it's happening due to mobile."Google's Android One phones will likely create even more headaches for executives at Samsung Electronics. The Korean company is no longer India's top mobile phone brand, having fallen behind Micromax. Samsung now has 14.4% of the Indian market for all mobile phones (including old-fashioned feature phones), compared with Micromax's 16.6%, according to Counterpoint Research.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Dublin’s Google headquarters bears all the hallmarks of the modern tech workplace: an industrial chic aesthetic, endless free snacks, designer furniture in primary colours that looks like it’s been hijacked from a children’s playground, and, this week, the advanced forces of what may or may not be the Next Big Thing: not a new mobile phone, or a really super fancy watch, but something even more radically cutting-edge: “wisdom”.Because for three days this week, in an auditorium at the heart of the city’s hi-tech cluster, an unholy alliance of Googlers, Buddhist monks, techies, HR directors, MPs and recovering CEOs bandied around words like “compassion”, “empathy”, “communion” and “consciousness”.This was Wisdom2.0, a Californian conference that grew out of the west coast’s twin obsessions of technology and self-actualisation, and that came to Europe for the first time this week.It has already held events in Google’s Mountain View office and at Facebook and since its inception six years ago, it’s been enthusiastically taken up by the tech industry. More than 2,000 people attended Wisdom2.0’s main event in San Francisco this year, and it’s attracted high-profile supporters like Arianna Huffington and Jeff Weiner, CEO of LinkedIn, and now it’s looking to take the message to a global audience.‘Stroke the person next to you - feel the connection’It might be called a conference, but to the uninitiated it looked more like a revival meeting or religious gathering - just without the religion bit getting in the way. Prayer bells called the delegates back to session, regular “stillness” breaks were built into the agenda, and at one point participants were told to put their arm around the person next to them, softly stroke them “and feel the connection”.It’s technology that’s at the heart of this, or at least what technology is doing to our lives. And Wisdom2.0’s mission is to address this, “the great challenge of our age”: how to “live connected to one another through technology … in ways that are beneficial to our own well-being.”Another take on it is that the tech industry having captured our attention, our time and our bank accounts with their endlessly distracting devices, and created apps that measure our heartbeats and quantify our physical health, has taken the next logical step: it is now after our souls.Mindfulness: overtaking yoga as the must-do metropolitan activitySoren Gordhamer, Wisdom2.0’s founder, explained to the delegates who had paid up to €600 each, that at its heart it represented an attempt “to bring ancient wisdom into the modern age”. And at the vanguard of the movement is mindfulness, the secular version of meditation that is said to do everything from slowing ageing to improving your sex life.It’s currently vying to overtake yoga as the must-do metropolitan leisure activity but it’s also had proven clinical results – to reduce stress, aid sleep, and improve both physical and mental well-being – and Chris Ruane, the Labour MP for the Vale of Clwyd, told the audience about how, having introduced to the House of Commons, an all-party parliamentary group is now trying to roll it out into wider public life after the next general election.But that is just the beginning. Alfred Tolle, a senior sales manager at Google who was the host for the event, went even further. It was, he said, about trying to create “a collective consciousness” that would hopefully “make the world a better place”.“Ten years ago, if you’d said this sort of thing, people would have said ‘Put the hippy in the ground’,” he said later. “But today, people are starting to get it. Even in management meetings, I talk about connecting inner and outer worlds and people look at me suspiciously, but they sort of get it.”‘Our relationship with technology has become something even its creators can’t control’Tolle has been practising Zen meditation for 25 years and on top of his sales remit, he seems to have taken it upon himself to become Google’s unofficial chief soul officer. He said he wanted to hold the event because “we have to reconnect to our souls and ourselves in order to use technology wisely. I see it as my job to drive Google in that direction.”There is, said one of the participants, a Dublin-based technologist called Frazer McKimm who studies human and machine interaction, “an increasing sense of disquiet. There’s a sense that our relationship with technology has become something that even the creators of it can’t control. Even the dominators are being dominated. It’s infantilising us in a way.”The challenge, according to a Scottish app developer, Rohan Gunatillake, is to deal with it without “pathologising our relationship to technology”. He proposed that mindfulness should be built into all technology, and suggests solutions including a traffic system warning for websites and nutrition information-style labels that detail what they do to our mental health; he singled out newspaper comment sections, which should carrying a big red flag. “Technology is not the problem,” he told the conference. “Bad technology is the problem.”In fact, says Gordhamer, it’s no surprise that questions about meaning and purpose have been embraced so enthusiastically by the tech industry. “If you look at the tech founders they all found success so young that it’s only natural that they should now be asking, ‘What else is there?’”And, it’s that question - what else is there? - that had drawn participants from as far afield as Australia. Katrin Bauer, a 46-year-old consultant radiologist from Dundee, said that she’d discovered meditation as a means of coping with the stress of technology.“I work on a computer all day and they break, they go wrong, we don’t have the most up-to-date software. I didn’t tell my colleagues at first. These eastern practices are seen as a bit of a taboo in the NHS but so many of my colleagues are off sick - very capable, talented people who just burn out. And there is an absolute clinical benefit to mindfulness that goes far beyond just churning out more pills. There is so much more that could be done to improve people’s well-being.”Training staff to have compassionJust as mindfulness secularised an ancient spiritual practice that’s been used for thousands of years, so the new wisdom industry has taken other concepts, more usually associated with religious practice, and given them a fresh new spin, foremost among them “compassion”, the buzzword of Wisdom2.0.Tania Singer, a neuroscientist at the Max Planck Institute, who has led the biggest research study so far in to the effect of mindfulness on the brain, gave a talk in which she showed her research into neuroplasticity and “affective training”. Compassion, she claimed, is distinct from empathy. It can be taught. And it had the effect of making new areas of the brain light up: in effect, it made its subjects happier.Kelly Palmer, head of “talent transformation and inclusion” at LinkedIn made in her talk entitled “Fostering empathetic connection: lessons from compassion Efforts at LinkedIn” which included the information that “sometimes the most compassionate thing you can do is to let an employee go.”The cynical take on all this is that it’s big business trying to create a new generation of happy worker drones. The chief people officer – or what used to be called the head of HR - for Zynga had come to look for new ideas to take into the workplace and she explained that it was not enough to provide industrial chic furnishings and a free lunch any more: “Millennials want more than that. They want meaning.”There has been “a convergence of work and personal life,” she said. “People are never really off so we have to address the whole person. And if we can help people, it helps employee retention. Anything that helps people personally has benefits that apply to the whole company.”But for all the corporate talk, there was, at times, more than a touch of the Timothy Leary to the event.“What is money?” asked Google’s Alfred Tolle, at one point. “It’s just a bunch of zeros.” And a significant proportion of the audience had already tuned in, turned on and dropped out. Participants included the former CEO of a Norwegian TV station, a former barrister, Neil Seligman, who now teaches lawyers at big City firms how to be more “conscious”. Friedhelm Boschert, former CEO of major European bank, Volksbank International, said that he used to do weekly Zen meditation with his top managers and is now teaching it to other bankers as part of something he calls “New Banking” - top-down old banking apparently having got us into the current financial mess.Is it the start of the push back? Or simply corporate America’s latest initiative to bend the world to its will? “We don’t check people at the door,” said Soren Gordhamer.“My work is to show up and be present for people who care. The only moment we ever have is right now. Life is more fulfilling when we show up without an agenda.”•Thich Nhat Hanh: is mindfulness being corrupted by business and finance?•Startups and depression: the dark side of entrepreneurship•Jemima Kiss: how I kicked my digital habit
It's Friday.
Billionaire tech pioneer Larry Ellison stepped down as chief executive on Thursday, ending one of the most profitable runs for a leader in business history.Ellison has been Oracle’s only chief executive since he founded the company in 1977. Over 35 years Ellison, now 70, has built the company into one of the world’s largest database-software businesses and one of the biggest providers of business programs. On Thursday night it was valued at $182.7bn.Born inNew York Cityto an unwedJewishmother, Ellison contractedpneumoniaat the age of nine months and was given to an aunt and uncle for adoption. He did not meet his biological mother again until he was 48.Another famous college dropout, he spent one term at the University of Chicago, encountered computers and swiftly moved to California. Ellison is seen as one of Silicon Valley’s premier visionary leaders, alongside fellow educational failures Apple’s Steve Jobs and Microsoft’s Bill Gates.The company said that Safra Catz and Mark Hurd, currently co-presidents, would be named joint CEOs to replace Ellison. The two have shared the deputy role since Hurd joined Oracle in 2010, after his exit from Hewlett Packard under a cloud of scandal.Catz will boost her position as one of the most powerful, and best paid, women in Silicon Valley. She will remain chief financial officer and oversee legal and manufacturing operations. Hurd will run sales, marketing and strategy. Ellison will become chairman.This year Forbes annual poll of billionaires estimated Ellison’s fortune at $51.4bn, making him the third richest man in the US and the fifth richest in the world. Larger than life and a spender on a massive scale the fiercely competitive sailor has splurged hundreds of millions inbids to win the America’s Cupandowns 98% of Hawaii’s Lanai Island. Ellison remains Oracle’s largest shareholder, holding 1.1bn shares, or 25%, of the company.Catz, 52, had been seen as Ellison’s sole heir apparent before Hurd’s arrival. The Israeli-born executive joined Oracle in 1999 and became the president in 2004. She is reportedly one of the world’s highest paid women with a pay package worth $51.7m in 2011. She has been instrumental in many of the notoriously acquisitive company’s big deals including its $10.3bn takeover of PeopleSoft and the $7.4bn deal for Sun Microsystems. Low key, despite being one of the most senior women in tech, she also a lecturers in accounting at Stanford University’s graduate school of business.Hurd, 57, joined Oracle as president in 2010 after an unseemly exit from Hewlett-Packard, where he was CEO for four years. Hurd, married with two children, left after an internal investigation found that irregularities in his expenses claims were used to cover up a “close personal relationship”.HP’s shares had doubled in value during Hurd’s stewardship and Ellison lambasted the board in a letter to the New York Times accusing them of making “the worst personnel decision since the idiots on the Apple board fired Steve Jobs many years ago”.“Safra and Mark will now report to the Oracle Board rather than to me,” Ellison said in a news release. “All the other reporting relationships will remain unchanged. The three of us have been working well together for the last several years, and we plan to continue working together for the foreseeable future. Keeping this management team in place has always been a top priority of mine.”
I am writing to inquire whether anyone else has experienced what I believe is a previously undiscovered threat to human life from over-engineering in new technology. My 76-year-old mother recently bought a new mobile phone. She was sitting quietly and alone in her house at night, trying – but repeatedly failing – to send a text using the unfamiliar system. She finally gave up in exasperation and shouted: “Well fuck off then” at the phone. Whereupon a voice replied, with the eerie calm hitherto only mastered by HAL: “Have I done something wrong?” She did not know the phone was equipped with a speech app and is still in a state of physical and emotional collapse.Dr Emma WilsonBirmingham
Tiny Pets, Tiny Monsters and Mermaid Resort have been violating children’s privacy, the Federal Trade Commission ruled, before handing out a $300,000 in fines to the company that makes the mobile games.According to the regulator, TinyCo, the games’ developer, was in breach of the US Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, or Coppa. Coppa bans companies from collecting data from people under 13 years old without a parent’s consent.The FTC found that TinyCo’s games – which have been downloaded more than 34m times – were offering the exchange of virtual currency for details such as a child’s email address. It said the company ignored parents’ complaints and failed to notify parents of the information it collected from children.Alongside the fine, the company must delete all personal data pertaining to under-13s from its database.“As people – especially children – move more of their lives onto mobile devices, it’s important that they have the same consumer protections when they’re using an app that they have when they’re on a website,” said Jessica Rich, the director of the FTC’s bureau of consumer protection.“Companies should take steps as they build and test their apps to make sure that children’s information won’t be collected without a parent’s consent.”In a statement, TinyCo said all its games were now Coppa compliant. “TinyCo fully supports Coppa and the FTC’s effort to protect the privacy and data of children online. We apologize to anyone affected by this issue, and want to be unequivocal in stating that TinyCo is fully committed to protecting user privacy, particularly when children are involved,” it said.The FTC also fined Yelp, the social reviews company, for collecting information on children through its app without first notifying parents and obtaining their consent.According to the complaint, several thousand registrants provided a date of birth showing they were under 13 years old, and Yelp collected information from them including, for example, their name, email address, and location, as well as any information that they posted on Yelp.The company was fined $450,000 and must delete information it collected from consumers who stated they were 13 years of age or younger at the time they registered for the service.TinyCo has been backed by $38m of venture capital since its launch, including an $18m round in 2011 and $20m in 2013. Its backers include venture capital firms Andreessen Horowitz and Pinnacle Ventures.The appeal of TinyCo’s games to children has been subject to scrutiny before. In 2012, it featured prominentlyin a Wall Street Journal featureabout children and in-app purchases, including noting Tiny Zoo’s in-game encouragement for players to buy virtual coins in quantities worth up to $99.99 at a time.
My father, Shahid Ahmad Juned, who has died aged 72, had successful careers in engineering and computer-aided design on two continents, working on diverse projects from the construction of the Barbican to the design of car parts for Rover.He was born in Charsadda, Pakistan, to two schoolteachers who were passionate about the importance of education for all their children. His father was of Afghan descent and a Persian scholar, and his mother set up some of the first schools for girls in what was then the North-West Frontier.Educated at Edwardes College, Peshawar, he graduated as a mechanical engineer from the University of Peshawar in 1964 with a first-class degree. In 1965 he was sent to the UK for postgraduate training in sugar-mill engineering, based at Fletcher and Stewart in Derby. It was at Derby College that he met my mother, Susan, after a debate on politics, an interest they were both to share for the next 48 years. They married in Pakistan in 1968.The same year, Shahid went to China, then in the middle of the cultural revolution, for engineering training as part of a trade deal. He returned to his company in Pakistan, HMC Taxila, to join the sugar mill design team.At the age of 32, he was appointed as the chief engineer responsible for the construction of Khazana sugar mill near Peshawar. He later worked on the Karachi steel mill before taking the decision, in 1979, to move back to the UK with Susan and their three children.He was involved in the construction of the Barbican in London and worked for Lummus, an oil company, before a change of career took him into the use of computers for the design of car components.In 1984, he gained an MSc in computer-aided design and manufacturing, one of the first such courses in the UK, and started to work for Rover at its Longbridge plant as a senior manager. Then, at Warwick University, he managed EU projects – with automotive manufacturers including Rover, Fiat and TMW, IT companies such as Siemens and BT, and European universities – on the development of sophisticated software tools for the design and manufacturing industries.Shahid was fluent in Urdu, Pashto, English (his third language) and Farsi, and able to communicate in Chinese and Arabic. On retiring from Rover, he worked with the civil service, assisting with international communications.He had a love of English, Indian and Persian poetry, was passionate about cricket and was a keen bridge player who won a series of grand slams a few days before his death.Shahid is survived by Susan, his children, Aneela, Yazmin and me, and three grandchildren.
Now in its 18th year, theTokyo Game Showhas seen out many revolutions in the games industry. Once, this event was the centrepiece of the gaming year. In the mid-nineties, the industry was dominated by Japanese publishers like Namco, Sega, Nintendo, Capcom, Konami, Square, Enix and Taito. Arcade conversions made or broke a new home console, and the Tokyo Game Show was where we’d first glimpse them.But in the 2000s, global gaming tastes changed; new flavours like Grand Theft Auto and Call of Duty drew attention away from Japan’s idiosyncratic survival horror adventures and arcane brawlers. Staid and stately, the Japanese publishing giants failed to keep up; genres stagnated, studios and brands broke down. E3 took over as the key gaming convention.But now interest is returning. The organisers of TGS claim this is the biggest show for years – over 400 exhibitors from 32 countries and regions. The intriguing work of studios like Platinum, From Software and Grasshopper Manufacture is drawing worldwide interest again. While western publishers obsess over widening the appeal of games, mainstreaming design, ironing out the atavistic wrinkles, it seems many Japanese companies are doubling down on rich traditions and conventions.Beyond the major titles, the floor will be jammed with lesser-known Japanese role-playing games (JRPGs), mech brawlers and offbeat indie titles, both from Japan’s own dōjin scene of hobbyist coders and western developers. There is copious cos-play and a vast merchandising area where you can buy everything from Dragon Quest pillows to arcade joystick components.Here though are some of the games that are likely to do well on the vast, crowded floors of the Makuhari Messe exhibition centre in 2014.Warning: these trailers contain horror imagery and violenceDeep Down (Capcom, PS4)Set in both medieval Europe and a distant future New York, Capcom’s free-to-play PlayStation 4 title is a classic “dungeon crawler”. Players explore a series of dynamically generated subterranean lairs, battling giant monsters and looting treasure; there’s also emergent co-op play so combatants can whizz into each others worlds to help out in major skirmishes. It’s being co-produced by Yoshinori Ono, who looked after Street Fighter for many years, so expect gorgeous combat. It’s out sometime in 2015.Yakuza Zero (Sega, PS3/PS4)Sega’s Yakuza series of cinematic crime adventures has only ever gained cult fandom in the West, but it is huge in Japan, shifting almost 10m units. The latest instalment is a prequel, taking place in 1988, and judging by the trailer it’s a familiar mix of narrative intrigue, clubbing and ultraviolence. Its coming to PS3 and PS4, but there are no release details yet and no word on Western localisation, which has been missing for the last couple of titles.Silent Hills (Konami, PS4)The latest title in Konami’s psychological horror series drew huge amounts of attention at Gamescom, thanks to its terrifying “P.T” interactive teaser. Taking control are Metal Gear creator Hideo Kojima and Pan’s Labyrinth director Guillermo Del Toro, and they’re not messing about, as this hair-raising new trailer attests. There are few story details as yet, and we won’t see it (probably from behind the sofa) until 2016.Bloodborne (Sony, PS4)The new goth punk adventure from Hidetaka Miyazaki, the director of Demon’s Souls and Dark Souls, is set in a mythical city beset with plague – and giant terrifying monsters. Expect intense unforgiving combat and gore hitting the paving stones like torrential rain. Also, the protagonist looks like a cross between Red Dead Redemption’s John Marston and the Witchfinder General. It’s due out next February.Scalebound (Xbox One)The latest from Bayonetta and Vanquish developer Platinum Games has players slaying monsters on a forest world – with the help of a dragon. Apparently, the working relationship you form with this fire-breathing beast is the mechanic at the heart of the game. It all sounds... familiar, but director Hideki Kamiya says the studio hasnever made anything like it before. There’s no release date for this Xbox One exclusive just yet.Evil Within (Bethesda, PC/PS3/PS4/Xbox 360/Xbox One)An ornate yet terrifying building, a disillusioned cop, a whole host of hideous deadly creatures – it seems Resident Evil creator Shinji Mikami hasn’t strayed too far from the viscera-smeared track for this latest project. Eurogamer said it may turn out to be thebest survival horror title for a decade, taking the genre back to its roots – i.e. constantly sense of impending death, jump shocks and creatures with just way too many razor sharp murder tentacles.Final Fantasy XVWith its open-world setting, real-time combat and decidedly darker atmosphere, the long-awaited 15th title in the epic role-playing adventure series has a new trailer for TGS. Fans have sunk into skepticism thanks to the game’s nearlyeight-yeardevelopment cycle, but this may just lift the gloom. It’s due out... oh don’t even ask, literally no one knows – including legendary Final Fantasy (and Kingdom Hearts) director Tetsuya Nomura, who left the project earlier this year.E3 2014: Bloodborne preview – sombre Lovecraftian horror
The launch of Apple’s latest mobile operating system, iOS 8, caused spikes in internet usage across the UK in its first day, as users rushed to download the 2 gigabyte file shortly after it was released at 6pm on Wednesday evening.But the morning after, third-party monitoring firms suggest that uptake of the OS hasn’t been as rapid as the company’s previous release, iOS 7.According to figures from LONAP, the internet exchange point that provides the physical infrastructure for much of England’s internet service providers, downloads peaked at more than 70 gigabits a second at 8pm Wednesday – a 60% increase on the same time the day before.LONAP’s data on internet usage on Wednesday (red) and Thursday (blue).Photograph: LONAP/The GuardianThe size of the download, which peaked at 2GB for iPad users, also caused trouble for anyone using a device with a smaller capacity. In order for the update to actually install,users had to free up 5GB of space– which is equal around half the user-accessable storage on a 16GB device, and essentially the entirety of the storage on an 8GB phone like the iPhone 5C.With all music and apps deleted, the update would just about fit, although an easier way for many is to download the file to a PC or Mac, and update the iPhone by syncing with the computer.But despite the download spikes, uptake for iOS 8 appears slower than the previous version, iOS 7.Analytics firm Fiksureports that 13 hours after release, the proportion of iOS devices it sees using iOS 8 is the lowest of the last 4 releases. Just 6.6% are using the new operating system, compared to the 15.5% who were using iOS 7 the same period after launch. Even iOS 5, the last update which had to be installed using a computer, had a quicker uptake.Another analytics firm, Mixpanel, reports similar sluggishness compared to iOS 7, although it shows a higher overall percentage of devices, 12%, on iOS 8.Apple releases iOS 8 software as developers update their apps
Apple chief executive Tim Cook has fired a new salvo against Google and Facebook, emphasising in anopen letter to customersthat Apple doesn’t build profiles of its users from their email content or web browsing habits “to sell to advertisers”.While not mentioning either of its two main rivals, Cook’s letter marks a clear effort by Apple to play on rising concerns around privacy and the use made of peoples’ personal data.“Our business model is very straightforward: we sell great products,” Cook writes. “We don’t build a profile based on your email content or web browsing habits to sell to advertisers. We don’t ‘monetise’ the information you store on your iPhone or in iCloud. And we don’t read your email or your messages to get information to market to you.”He says Apple’s iAd system, used by some developers to monetise ads, and to provide adverts in the free US-based iTunes Radio service, “sticks to the same privacy policy that applies to every other Apple product. It doesn’t get data from Health and HomeKit, Maps, Siri, iMessage, your call history, or any iCloud service like Contacts or Mail, and you can always just opt out altogether.”Cook’s letter comes as Facebook has launched a low-key campaign toreassure users about privacy, followingcontroversyabout the access demanded to users’ phones by its Facebook Messenger app, which the social network’s users employ to send private messages.The social network has also had to fend off criticism after it revealed that it hadtweaked some users’ news feeds as part of an experimentto see if their emotions were affected.Google must match Apple for user privacy, says SoghoianGoogle meanwhile is still being investigated in Europe by privacy commissioners from a number of countries over the changes that it made in 2012 to its privacy policy, in which it unified information about how individuals used its different products, such as search, mail and the YouTube video service.Security experts meanwhile welcomed a statement from Apple in which it said that itwill no longer hold encryption keys for customers’ devicesrunning its new iOS 8 software, meaning that it will be unable to decrypt them for governments or law enforcement - even if demanded to.Chris Soghoian, principal technologist at the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU),commentedthat “The public has said they want companies to put their privacy first, and Apple has listened.” He called on Google to match Apple’s lead in end-to-end security for user messages in its built-in messaging product iMessage and FaceTime video calling service.“Google has 300+ people on their security team, some of the best in the industry. Google could make amazing, surveillance-resistant products,” hecommented. “Google should be called out for failing to deliver secure IM [instant messaging]. It isn’t that hard.”Responding to Heather Adkins, a Google security team member who replied that “I chat securely on Google’s [Android] platform every day”, Soghoian responded: “I carry two smartphones. My iPhone sends end-to-end encrypted IMs by default. My Android device doesn’t.”The Android platform, Soghoian said, has no device encryption by default, “rarely” gets security updates, and has no end-to-end encrypted IM or video chat facility.Are encrypted features delaying iPhone 6 approval in China?Apple’s declaration that it will be unable to help government agencies in any country decrypt devices applies only to those running iOS 8. There are an estimated 500m iOS devices in use worldwide, and iOS 8 is available as a free update for every device since the iPad 2, released in April 2011.Some analysts have wondered whether the delay in sales approval for the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus in China is due to this element of the operating system, which comes as part of the phones. Apple waspreviously required to move some servers to Chinato conform to government regulations there about the storage of nationals’ data - though Apple says it encrypts data on its servers and does not hold a key for them.The extra encryption protection measures on iOS 8 will also apply to iCloud backups - which are believed to have been the source of intimate pictures of celebrities that were spread online earlier this month from the 4chan and reddit discussion boards.Normally, Apple devices and iCloud backups are encrypted by default using a four-digit passcode on setup, though the user can subsequently change that for a longer one. Apple says that attempts at a brute-force cracking of the passcode are resisted by an “iteration count” to slow down repeated attempts.However even with those measures a four-digit passcode can becracked in less than seven minutes, according to one security researcher’s calculations. A six-character passcode with letters and numbers would take more than five years to crack through brute force methods, Apple says.Security advisers suggest changing from the four-digit passcode to a more complex one to guard against brute force attacks, and Apple says users should turn on “two-factor authentication”, which would provide notification when a backup was downloaded.Cook says that “I want to be absolutely clear that we have never worked with any government agency from any country to create a backdoor in any of our products or services. We have also never allowed access to our servers. And we never will.” That does not however preclude the possibility that Apple hands over specific account data under the US’s secret FISA court orders.Google has repeatedly and vehemently denied that any government has had access to its servers.iOS 8 review: customised, extended and deepened
I take a great deal of trouble to keep the PCs in my household safe and secure. However, we now use a number of Android devices for browsing and emails, with banking to come. I haven’t got a clue as to how secure they are, or how to protect them, their contents and the transactions we use them for. Could you give some guidance, please?PhilYou are not alone! I could give you some instant advice about keeping your devices up to date, running anti-malware software and always using password protection, but as a matter of fact, I don’t do necessarily do any of those. There are lots of stories about the amount of Android malware in circulation, but I’ve never come across any. Perhaps the Android market will need a wakeup call in the form of a rampant virus – like, for example, theSasser wormthat hit Microsoft Windows XP in 2004 – to make us take it seriously.It could happen because, like all software,Android has vulnerabilities. But it would need something worse than theflawfound recently inthe Google browser bundled with Android until version 4.4, and therefore still in widespread use. This makes it prudent for businesses to install Android antimalware software, if only to defend against accusations of negligence or incompetence.Unfortunately, the problem is that you probably don’t need a virus or hacking exploit to get private data, just “social engineering”. Users typically don’t read or don’t understand the permissions they are giving apps and websites, so just ask. Does a simple flashlight app need your location, and can it use your phone’s microphone and cameras? Sure, why not. Wait, how carefully did you check? Do you want to know what someone was saying about you on Facebook? Of course you do.Click here …Basic protectionUse a password to protect access to your mobile devices, especially if they are frequently carried outside the house. It’s also a good idea to have a tracking service that enables the device to be wiped remotely, because once the bad guys have the hardware, it’s very hard to keep them out.Obviously you should have backups of all the personal data on your devices, including photos and emails. Back up and delete anything you don’t really need on your tablet or smartphone.People tend to back everything up to online services (“the cloud”), sometimes without knowing it. However, you may be able to do it by plugging the device into a PC (where it should appear as an external hard drive), plugging an SD card into a PC, connecting the device to your home network, or using a program such asSand Studio’s AirDroid. Any data in the cloud is outside your direct control, and – unless it’s encrypted – vulnerable.Apps and permissionsKeep the number of apps as low as you can, and try to avoid giving them unnecessary permissions. Yes, I know this is impractical, but in a rational system, an app would never ask for a permission unless it needed it, and at that point, you are in the best position to decide if you want to grant it. If you’re going to let trivial apps access your location and your address book then you may as well give up.If you only download apps from Google Play, or the equivalent Apple or Microsoft store, then you will probably be pretty safe – though I’d avoid apps like Snapchat, Secret, Whisper etc. Otherwise, keep an eye open for dodgy-looking apps with names that are almost but not quite the ones you’re looking for. Also, be extra careful if you turn off this element of protection to install apps from alternative stores.As when using Windows PCs, you should never accept files from strangers, or click on links in unsolicited emails or SMS messages. Their almost irresistible offers are the bait through which many malware operators snare their prey.Beware of Wi-FiCellular data is a finite and expensive resource based on erecting tens of thousands of phone masts and (usually) charging users over £100 per year. It’s therefore very tempting to use free Wi-Fi whenever it’s available. This is fine when the Wi-Fi service is trustworthy – eg your own – but you can’t trust public hotspots. As for your workplace, it may have trustworthy Wi-Fi, but it may also be monitoring network traffic.As with laptops, one solution is to use a VPN (virtual private network) that encrypts all your data to protect it from Wi-Fi snoopers. Android has a VPN client built in: see “VPN settings” on the wireless and networks page. Otherwise, try to use secure web addresses – ones that start with https:// etc.Some phones may connect automatically to any handy Wi-Fi network, and if so, make sure this feature is turned off. Alas, even if you’re not connecting to random Wi-Fi networks, they may still be tracking you. This includes retailers who track your movements through their stores. Some people have even beentracked by London rubbish bins.If you can do without Wi-Fi and Bluetooth when away from home, turn them off. If you must do mobile banking from a phone without a VPN connection, use your cellular phone connection instead.Spread it aroundThe Android operating system has only one core function, which is to collect data about you and use it to deliver targeted advertisements. In order to use the Android name, phone suppliers are obliged to bundle it with Google software and services, including access to the Play store. The path of least resistance is to use all Google’s services, which is what it wants. For your further convenience, other companies may want to join in the fun, adding access to Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and other services to their apps. This creates the problem that if a single service is hacked, the bad guys may get access to a lot of your private data.So, don’t put all your eggs in one basket. You will help to protect your privacy and increase your security if you avoid the defaults and use alternative apps and/or services. This is true for Apple and Microsoft users, too.Many of these alternatives are well known. For example, you can have your photos automatically uploaded to Dropbox and downloaded to your PC, and you can use an alternative app (egK-9 Mail) or mail service (egOutlook.com) instead of Gmail. Instead of Google’s browser, you can useFirefoxorDolphinetc.WhatsAppis good for messaging as it uses your phone number as your user identity, encrypts messages, and does not store messages on a server. There are loads of articles about alternatives to Google apps and services, which you can find by searchingDuckDuckGo.Tell liesSecurity expert Bruce Schneier says “We have built systems that spy on people in exchange for services.Surveillance is the business model of the internet.” Since it’s now impossible to stop companies from spying on us, one alternative is to try to confuse them. For example, use several different names and birthdates, or search for and buy atypical things (presents for aged relatives, perhaps). Buy phones for cash, not on contracts. Use a VPN, or free anonymous proxy services.Today, it’s naive to think that knowing your mother’s maiden name and where you went to school etc provide any form a security – especially if you’re a famous actress with nude selfies on your mobile. It’s safer to tell a website that your first pet was called C2H6O or C12H22O11. These are easy to remember as alcohol or sugar, but hard to guess and impossible to research.In the days before ecommerce and the web, the internet was attractive because it allowed you to be anonymous, or to invent whole new online identities. Those ideas may well be coming round again.
Apple may have launched its iOS 8 software update for iOS devices, but one of its key features ran into last-minute problems forcing developers to pull their apps.HealthKitis Apple’s new platform for health and fitness apps to share people’s data between themselves, as well as with the new Health app that’s part of iOS 8.A number of apps were expected to launch HealthKit-compatible updates as iOS 8 rolled out, but they are now unlikely to go live until the end of September.“We discovered a bug that prevents us from making HealthKit apps available on iOS 8 today,”Apple spokesperson Trudy Muller told CNET, in a statement.“We’re working quickly to have the bug fixed in a software update and have HealthKit apps available by the end of the month.”Having its ambitious new fitness system derailed by a surprise bug is a setback for Apple, which has been working with a number of developers and medical institutions on its move into personal health.MyFitnessPal, WebMD and Carrot Fit are among the apps affected by the last-minute delay. Carrot Fit developer Brian Muellertold Cult of Macthat he was informed of the problems in a call from Apple.“The rep couldn’t clarify what was wrong, though users of the app who had already downloaded the update were able to use the HealthKit features without any issue.”Although apps using HealthKit were removed from Apple’s App Store, most are expected to revert to previous versions in the coming days, while Apple works on a fix for the bug.HealthKit, along with Apple’s soon-to-launch Apple Pay payment system, is under particular scrutiny since the recent mass-leak of celebrities’ private photos, many of which were stolen by“brute-force” attacks on their iCloud accounts.There is currently no indication that the HealthKit bug is related to security, but with Apple aiming to make iOS users feel comfortable tracking and storing their personal health data on its devices, launching HealthKit with any major bug could spark unease.HealthKit is also a key part of the upcoming Apple Watch product, but if the company meets its goal of fixing the problem by the end of September, the bug is unlikely to have an impact on the wearable device’s launch in early 2015.•iOS 8 launch day: as it happened•iOS 8 review: customised, extended and deepened
Disney; PC/PS3/PS4/PS Vita/Xbox 360/Xbox One/Wii U; £52; 7+Families with children who play video games are by now accustomed to being double-teamed by the addition of collectable toy lines. Eclipsing movies both in budget and playground profile, the likes of Skylanders, Nintendo Aiimbo and Hero Portal now come with associated toys that unlock characters on-screen when placed on a USB peripheral plugged into the console.Last year, Disney Infinity joined the “toys-to-life” arms race and immediately rose to dominance with its combination of franchise-themed adventure play sets (which let you play short missions with your chosen character) and free-form game creation toy-box mode. This provided players with a huge palette of Disney themed objects, characters and building blocks to create interactive dioramas and mini-games.A year later, the follow up comes in two flavours: the Marvel Super Heroes or Disney Originals starter packs. The latter, which includes Merida and Stitch figures, focuses on creative play in the toy box mode rather than the pre-build game experiences.For £52, purchasers of the Marvel option get the game, plus Black Widow, Thor and Iron Man figures to star in a five hour adventure; subsequent play-set adventures (The Avengers, Guardians of the Galaxy and Spider-Man)can be purchased individually for around £30. It’s not only a new set of Marvel figures that’s being added to the franchise, though – the game also answers a host of criticisms levelled at last year’s experience.Beating crime togetherMost important for families is the ability to play co-operatively in the main adventures straight out of the box. Last year additional toys needed to be purchased before this was possible. Co-op gameplay is reminiscent of the Lego series of video games that combine platforming, brawling and puzzle solving. There is also a more meaningful connection between virtual and physical characters through the expansive upgrade options that encourage players to customise their avatars in different directions – speed, ranged attacks, melee attacks or healing.These choices are all instantly saved to the toys sat on the Infinity Base plugged into the console. This simplified approach to recording progress works well for children and means they can use the toys to access their tailored characters when visiting friends – regardless of which console platform they are using.This is more important than it sounds not only for the thrill of physical objects recording virtual progress, but for the weight placed on the centrality of collecting these figures. Parents should note that signposted throughout the experience are reminders that purchasing more toys will grant access to more in-game characters.Somewhat less emphasised is the optional nature of these additional characters. The Starter Pack on its own provides many hours of gameplay in the play-set adventure and game creation toy-box modes.There are also Power Disc tokens to collect that cost £2.99 for two. These unlock abilities, powers, helper characters and Marvel costumes when placed on the Infinity Base under particular figurines. They extend the cost of the overall proposition but are a nice item for children to swap in the playground to complete their collection – something they will need to do as the discs are sold in foil “blind packs” that result in duplicates.Disney Infinity remains beautifully simple and highly compelling for young players. It’s also potentially more expensive and commercial than games without associated toys. Being able to say “no” at supermarket checkouts is going to be a key part of ensuring the costs involved with this series stay reasonable. Importantly though, the Marvel starter pack not only provides a complete Avengers play set adventure but also access to the toy box game creation mode, so you’re getting many hours of enjoyment. Players can build large play worlds from scratch or use the new templates which provide ready-made areas like obstacle courses, race tracks and arenas, which users can customise. Additionally, it comes with two pre-built toy box games that also extend the package’s duration with a fresh challenge.The Marvel starter pack doesn’t grant you access to the Guardians of the Galaxy and Spider-Man adventures, though. These need to be purchased separately at around £30 for the play-set and a couple of related characters. This is to be expected. However, more surprising is that owners of the original Disney Infinity game have no way to access the new Marvel play set adventures without buying one of the physical 2.0 starter packs. There is a digital only version of the 2.0 toy box but this is restricted to accessing new characters and features in the game creator toy-box mode.This means that families who purchased the first game will end up with two Infinity Base peripherals and have to switch discs to access particular adventures. It seems a missed opportunity to not offer a download option for the play sets on detection of the related physical toy – as the game already does in the toy-box mode. This would not only streamline the experience but also make it viable for owners of the new game to purchase play-sets from the original.Is it okay for my child to play?The Marvel version of Disney Infinity has a Pegi age rating of 7+ again this year, although having provisionally been flagged as Pegi 12 before appeal. At this level, Pegi flags the game for violence and fear: it contains the usual evil plot for world domination and characters from Marvel comics along with oodles of shooting, hitting and exploding enemies. There is no blood, though, and characters fall to pieces and disappear when they are dead.In terms of difficulty rather than suitability, the Marvel adventures skew a little older. Things are more difficult this year with characters that die in the game getting a time-out before they can continue. This means that younger players may run out of lives and need to restart checkpoints – even with a comprehensive set of related toy characters to call upon.Novice players can adjust the difficulty setting from the default to an easier level. Similarly, more able players can opt for a higher difficulty that will offer a more substantial challenge.Disney Infinity 2.0 has certainly advanced in a number of areas since last year’s game. Its greatest assets are its Disney and Marvel characters but these also create its biggest limitations. Whereas every previous Skylanders character can be used in each new adventure, in Disney Infinity, players are restricted to using just those that match a particular franchise. Looking to offset this, Disney Infinity 2.0 introduces cross over characters that can be used in more than one play-set adventure. For instance you can bring Hulk, original in The Avengers, into both Guardians of the Galaxy and Spider-Man play-sets.This is a nice touch, but to get the best value out of Disney Infinity 2.0 you need to make proper use of the toy box mode (where you can use any combination of characters) to create your own video-game experiences and download examples from the community. This takes the game from entertainment into much more creative and educational territory.Disney Infinity 2.0 is a complicated beast, and easy to write off as a money grab for this lucrative new market created by Skylanders. However, see the game in the hands on young players and the different pieces fit together coherently. Provided parents can enforce some restraint on buying every figure, it also offers good value for money – especially as the much improved toy box mode represents an endless canvas for creativity.•Destiny review: the future of games remains locked in the past
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSatya Nadella explains the "mobile" in "mobile first, cloud first" &gt;&gt; Windows IT ProPaul Thurrott:In an appearance at an annual luncheon at the Seattle Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce —which was nicely transcribed by Geekwire's Todd Bishop, thank you very much— Mr. Nadella was asked what he was doing to improve Windows Phone's market share, which is in the very low single digits and shows no signs of improving anytime soon.Nadella didn't talk about "making the market" for Windows Phone. He didn't explain that many new hardware partners have signed on with Windows Phone thanks to "zero dollar" licensing in 2014, and that their devices would improve matters. He didn't vaguely speak of future synergies between Windows Phone and "big" Windows. Instead, he offered up a surprising response.He said that Windows Phone's market share doesn't matter.The $3.2bn Man: can Google's newest star outsmart Apple? &gt;&gt; Co.Design | business + design[Tony] Fadell is still sniping at his home's imperfections. "It's absolutely, utterly hideous!" Fadell growls, zeroing his attention on an ugly beige gadget glued to the outside wall that controls the pool's temperature, a small blotch that's apparently spoiling this otherwise real-life David Hockney painting. "The stupid thing was there before we got here, and it doesn't even try to blend in. It's staring at me, and somehow, I'm going to fix it," Fadell says as he continues to grimace at the plastic rectangle. His eyes then dart to his next object of scorn. "And just look at those horrible [security] cameras up there!"Hang around Fadell and you'll hear these types of complaints all the time.Terrific interview.Introducing exclusive iOS 8 updates for all Readdle apps &gt;&gt; ReaddleScanning, printing, PDF editing, specialist calendars... but the big point about this is that it can be applied to stuff that's already in document libraries, as well as new stuff. Developers are jumping on iOS 8 in a way that suggests they've really wanted its improvements.NewsCorp: Google is a 'platform for piracy' &gt;&gt; BBC News"We thought it was a crucial moment to weigh in," a NewsCorp source told the BBC."We are pleased with the new direction that the Commission will be taking, that there is a more thoughtful approach to Google's practices."NewsCorp's letter says its newspapers, The Times, the Sun and the Wall Street Journal Europe and the book publisher, HarperCollins are unfairly disadvantaged by Google's scale."The uniqueness of news sites has been undermined by aggregation of content which transfers the front page to the Google home page."Readers have been socialised into accepting this egregious aggregation as the norm."He also suggests Google is taking unfair advantage of its ability to sell advertising targeting specific audiences at discounted rates, undermining specialist publishers' ability to generate advertising revenue."For example access to 75% of the Wall Street Journal demographic at 25% of the price, thus undermining the business model of the content creator," the letter says.News Corp complaining about overconcentration of power in one company is... novel.Update: here's theletter from News Corp in full.Foxconn struggles to meet new iPhone demand &gt;&gt; Wall Street JournalLorraine Luk:Last year, Foxconn was the sole assembler of the iPhone 5S, but it only made a small portion of the iPhone 5C as another Taiwanese contract maker Pegatron was assigned to be the major assembler for the cheaper model.  Foxconn also stopped manufacturing the iPhone 5C later and shifted all resources to make the more popular iPhone 5S."We have been churning out 140,000 iPhone 6 Plus and 400,000 iPhone 6 every day, the highest daily output ever, but the volume is still not enough to meet the preorders," said a person familiar with the matter.Apple is now shipping all variations of new iPhones but the iPhone 6 Plus is scarcer.  The waiting time for the iPhone 6 Plus is longer, at three to four weeks, while customers can get an iPhone 6 within seven to ten business days, according to the company's online store in the U.S."For iPhone 6 Plus, we are still ramping up the production line. Another reason for the limited supply is the shortage of 5.5in displays," said the person.The output rate of 5.5in is still only around 50%-60%, which means display makers have to scrap almost half of the substandard output, said a person at a display component supplier.The person said the output rate of the 4.7in display is better at 85%.Who's afraid of #Gamergate? &gt;&gt; tiedtigerTadhg Kelly:You know what else? Not many people find gamergate hilarious. In a callow way perhaps, in a rolling-eyes way maybe. Y'know, gamers, etc. For many of us gamergate is actually deeply disappointing. It reflects a part of the gamer mindset that we'd hoped had evolved by now, but apparently hasn't. For the want of a better word I'm going to call it gaterism.Gaterism has a corporatist, complaining, and inflexible character. By corporatist I mean that it seems to buy into the narrative of companies and the hero mythologies of platforms over people. By complaining I mean it acts as though it has been mistreated by the industry - at a time when we are falling down in games of all kinds to play. And by inflexible I mean gaterism represents a vision of gaming that's small, functional, mechanical and unthreatening. One that maintains that functional merit should be all (by which is meant fun, playable, etc) and that anyone who's successful for other reasons probably doesn't deserve it.As such, gaterism may consist of people from all across the spectrum, but it's divisive.Motorola's lessons for Samsung &gt;&gt; Beyond DevicesJan Dawson, testing the Moto X, Moto G, Moto 360 and Moto Hint, comments on the Moto X:Unless you've used stock Android, it would be hard to see where Android itself ends and Motorola's enhancements to it begin.In many respects, this is just the sort of thing Samsung should have been working on over the last few years, to set its handsets apart against the flood of other Android phones. Instead, it's focused on gimmicks – features that are eye-catching and make for good demos, but that don't really make life easier or improve upon the core Android experience. If Google were keeping Motorola, I would say these features should slowly work their way back into the core Android experience as Motorola invents new ones. Under Lenovo, I wonder to what extent these innovations will continue and to what extent Lenovo will embrace them at a corporate level and build them into its other devices too. If it's smart, it will realise what it's getting here and fully embrace it.When training for a multi-skill sport, you get more rapid benefits if you improve your weakest areas, as your strongest ones are probably hard to make better. Motorola is clearly focussing on making its weak points stronger - to its substantial overall benefit.Surprising top smartphone stats in South AfricaThe most used smartphones in South Africa are the BlackBerry 8520 Curve, the BlackBerry 9320 Curve, and the BlackBerry 9300 Curve. This is according to Vodacom's data about the number of active devices on its network.The data further revealed that the top 10 most used smartphones on the Vodacom network included four BlackBerry devices, three Samsung phones, two Nokias, and an iPhone.While there is a great deal of hype around high-end devices like the iPhone and Samsung Galaxy range, the more affordable BlackBerry 8520 is the smartphone which many South Africans use.Might explain why EMEA - Europe, Middle East and Africa - shows up as still healthy in BlackBerry's accounts. (Quarterly results are Friday 26th.)The future of audio engineering &gt;&gt; Tape OpJohn La Grou, after pointing to what you can and can't extrapolate:By 2050, post[-production] houses with giant mixing consoles, racks of outboard hardware and patch panels, video editing suites, box-bound audio monitors, touch screens, hardware input devices, and large acoustic control rooms will become historical curiosities. We will have long ago abandoned the mouse. DAW video screens will be largely obsolete. Save for a quiet cubicle and a comfortable chair, the large, hardware-cluttered "production studio" will be mostly a quaint memory. Real-space physicality (e.g., pro audio gear) will be replaced with increasingly sophisticated head-worn virtuality. Trend charts suggest that by 2050, head-worn audio and visual 3D realism will be virtually indistinguishable from real-space. Microphones, cameras, and other front-end capture devices will become 360-degree spatial devices. Post-production will routinely mix, edit, sweeten, and master in head-worn immersion.During this transition, perhaps the only remaining piece of CEH (clunky external hardware) will be the sub-woofer, which cannot be emulated with a head-worn device.Google's Android Silver program on ice &gt;&gt; The InformationAmir Efrati:Even before [Nikesh] Arora's departure [in April], the Android Silver program had received mixed reaction from potential partners—phone makers, wireless carriers and retailers—who would have had to give concessions to Google in exchange for marketing dollars to juice sales, these people say. Proponents of Android Silver at one point believed it would eventually replace Google's Nexus phone program. But there were serious doubts in various part of Google as to whether the program would work, one of these people says.The desire to pursue Android Silver and build a brand that appeals to high-end consumers was understandable. Despite the fact that Android powers the vast majority of smartphones, Apple's customers are far more valuable than Android phone owners; they spend a lot more money on apps and a lot more time browsing the Web. Google generates plenty of revenue from people using its services on Apple devices, but Android offers more promise in the long term because Google controls it.Reports suggest that iOS still generates more revenue for Google than Android. Neither Apple nor Google will say.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Internet privacy tools have an unfortunate but well-deserved reputation for being technically difficult and bothersome. There’s a persistent story that says that there is an intrinsic, irreducible complexity to the problem of keeping your communications from being snooped on and keeping your data from leaking that makes it the exclusive domain of spies and the professionally paranoid.I don’t believe it. I think that the real reason that privacy is so user-unfriendly is that thecasefor privacy is intensely technical. The privacy risks presented by everyday internet use involve subtle and esoteric principles – understanding the risks of having your computer turned into a node in a botnet; or having its passwords harvested; or having your search- and browser-history logged and used against you (either to compromise you directly, or in use for attacks on your password-recovery questions); and having your metadata mined and joined up in ways that reveal your deepest secrets or result in false, incriminating, and hard-to-refute accusations being made against you, potentially costing you the ability to get credit, board an airplane, or even walk around freely.You don’t need to be a technical expert to understand privacy risks anymore. From the Snowden revelations to the daily parade of internet security horrors around the world – like Syrian and Egyptian checkpoints where your Facebook logins are required in order to weigh your political allegiances (sometimes with fatal consequences) or celebrities having their most intimate photos splashed all over the web.The time has come to create privacy tools for normal people – people with a normal level of technical competence. That is, all of us, no matter what our level of technical expertise, need privacy. Some privacy measures do require extraordinary technical competence; if you’re Edward Snowden, with the entire NSA bearing down on your communications, you will need to be a real expert to keep your information secure. But the kind of privacy that makes you immune to mass surveillance and attacks-of-opportunity from voyeurs, identity thieves and other bad guys is attainable by anyone.I’m a volunteer on the advisory board for a nonprofit that’s aiming to do just that: Simply Secure (which launches Thursday atsimplysecure.org) collects together some very bright usability and cryptography experts with the aim of revamping the user interface of the internet’s favorite privacy tools, starting with OTR, the extremely secure chat system whose best-known feature is “perfect forward secrecy” which gives each conversation its own unique keys, so a breach of one conversation’s keys can’t be used to snoop on others.More importantly, Simply Secure’sprocessfor attaining, testing and refining usability is the main product of its work. This process will be documented and published as a set of best practices for other organisations, whether they are for-profits or non-profits, creating a framework that anyone can use to make secure products easier for everyone.Technical people need our non-technical friends to adopt good privacy practices. Every communications session has at least two parties, the sender and the recipient(s), and your privacy can leak out of either end of the wire. It doesn’t matter if I keep all my email offline, encrypted on my laptop, if it all ends up in the inboxes of people who leave it sitting on Gmail’s servers.So this is critical, and not just for “normal people”. Even technically sophisticated people often find it difficult to follow security protocol in their own communications and computing. Things that aren’tusablejust don’t getused. Making crypto as easy as your favourite websites and apps is the only way to make privacy a reality for everyone.This is also critical, even for people who aren’t worried about their private lives spilling over into the databases of big corporations, spies, voyeurs and identity thieves. If you were lucky enough to be born with the unearned privilege of having “nothing to hide”, then you owe it to your children, brothers, sisters, parents, and friends who don’t have your good fortune to help provide cover for them: if the only people maintaining their privacy are the people with “something to hide”, then figuring out whose health, political beliefs, sexual orientation or other personal details are sensitive is just a matter of presuming the guilt of anyone who tries to protect her privacy.In the days before the desktop publishing revolution, all the tools for setting type assumed a huge body of highly technical knowledge and skill. It’s true that beautiful, high-spec typesetting still requires this knowledge and skill. But between beautiful, professional-grade design and hand-written scribbled notes are a huge range of typesetting possibilities, things that were once the domain of skilled experts are now possible for virtually anyone to attain. Making privacy technology usable by anyone makes everyone more secure.Bottom line: your computer should do what you ask of it. Asking it to keep your private information private is a reasonable request.
It's Thursday.
The chief executive of Rupert Murdoch's News Corp has written to the European commission calling Google a "platform for piracy" and demanding action.In the strongly worded letter to competition commissioner Joaquín Almunia, News Corp's Robert Thomson calls Google a "platform for piracy and the spread of malicious networks" whose power "increases with each passing day"."The shining vision of Google's founders has been replaced by a cynical management," Thomson writes.Earlier this month the European commission reopened its four-year antitrust investigation into Google's search and advertising business after Almunia said the commission was not close to a settlement. In an interview with Bloomberg TV Almunia said he had received "very, very negative" responses from complainants to a proposed settlement unveiled in spring. Ministers from Germany and France, as well as other commissioners in the EC, had also criticised the proposed settlement.News Corp, publisher of The Sun, the Times newspapers and the Wall Street Journal, joins Microsoft, German publisher Axel Springer and others in a chorus of critics challenging Google's European dominance. The search firm is even more powerful in Europe, where it accounts for around 90% of the search market, than it is in the US, where its share is closer to 70%.Citing Google's "egregious aggregation" of content, Thomson said that, along with serious commercial damage, there is a "profound social cost" to Google's actions.  "The internet should be a canvas for freedom of expression and for high-quality content of enduring value. Undermining the basic business model of professional content creators will lead to a less informed, more vexatious level of dialogue in our society," he wrote."Your decision to reconsider Google's settlement offer comes at a crucial moment in the history of the free flow of information and of a healthy media in Europe and beyond," Thomson wrote.Google's proposed settlement would have allowed rival services to buy spaces at the top of search-results pages. But critics charged the agreement would not prevent Google from favouring its own services, and would divert money from the rivals to Google.Google said Thomson's comments were "absolutely wrong". After Thomson's letter was published the company issued a short statement: "Phew what a scorcher! Murdoch accuses Google of eating his hamster." The comment was in reference to an infamous story run by The Sun in 1986. The paper claimed the British comedian had eaten his girlfriend's pet hamster, Supersonic, after returning to her home following a performance at a Manchester nightclub.In his 2001 autobiography Unwrapped Starr said that the incident was a complete fabrication. "I have never eaten or even nibbled a live hamster, gerbil, guinea pig, mouse, shrew, vole or any other small mammal," he wrote. The man behind the hamster story was the British publicist Max Clifford, the disgraced PR guru who was convicted in May of eight counts of indecent assaults on four women.Google said: "We run a huge range of tests to make sure that any change to our algorithm improves the quality of the search results for our users, regardless of what that means for our income.  In fact, it's well documented that the highest-profile change to our search ranking (called the 'Panda' update) reduced our advertising revenue — but we made the change regardless, because it improved search results for users."• This article was amended on 19 September 2014 to correct the spelling of Joaquín Almunia's name, from Alumnia as an earlier version said.
Revolutionary new food labelling featuring a tactile bump – so shoppers can tell when perishable food has gone off – has won its young designer a prestigious award.Unlike confusing and often unreliable best before and expiry dates, the label lets consumers feel with a finger exactly how fresh an item of food is.If the bioreactive label is smooth, then the food is fresh. But if there is a bump, then the advice is to throw the food away.The Bump Mark label is the brainchild of Solveiga Pakstaite, a 23-year-old industrial design and technology graduate of Brunel University, and it was today announced as winner of the UK round of the prestigiousJames Dyson award.She came up with the idea after working on design innovations to improve life for blind people.Her research highlighted wider problems about the shocking extent of avoidable food waste. A recent UN food report estimates that 100m tonnes of food is wasted every year globally, with British households throwing away 7m tonnes. In value terms, the average UK family throws away food worth £700 each year. Studies suggest more than half the jettisoned food could have been eaten.Best before and sell-by dates have been strongly criticised for being inaccurate – leading to perfectly fresh food being binned. In fact, these labels are often used for retailers' quality control, while the key information for consumers, for food safety reasons, is the use-by date.Pakstaite's solution, using food labels filled with gelatine, is also cheap to use.At first the gelatine is solid, so bumps under the label cannot be felt. As the gelatine decays, it becomes a liquid. When this happens, the bumps can be felt, letting shoppers know the food item is no longer safe to eat. The Bump Mark could be applied to meat, dairy, fish and fruit juices.The prize means Pakstaite will receive funding to help her develop her prototype and test it in lab conditions.She said: "I wanted to create a label that would change its texture over time to model the decay process of food and drink. Gelatine is a protein, so it decays at the same rate as protein-based foods like pork, milk and cheese."And the gelatine can be adapted to match the expiry period of the food by altering the concentration. The higher the concentration, the longer the gel will stay solid."The label simply copies what the food in the package is doing, so the expiry information is going to be far more accurate than a printed date."So far she has designed 20 prototypes, each of which has been tested for user perception and technical performance.The Bump Mark will now progress to the international stage of the award as Pakstaite works on commercialising it. She is liaising with retailers and technology developers and applying for a patent.The award is run by the James Dyson Foundation, a registered charity set up by the British inventor to support design, technology and engineering education.This year's contest attracted more than 600 entries from 18 countries, spanning four continents. Four runnerup UK projects will also go through to the international stage, including a smart injury detection suit to help disabled athletes suffering from paralysis to detect injuries.
Too big. This thing’s too big. Waaay too big. It’s... actually, that screen is pretty nice, isn’t it? Wow, you really can get a lot of content on there, can’t you? Hey, my hand’s getting used to the size. It’s quite comfortable, isn’t it?And that’s how it goes with the iPhone 6 Plus. I expected to find it far too big, and at first my expectations were met. But give it a few minutes, perhaps a couple of days, and you’ll find yourself strangely attracted to its huge-seeming screen.“Phablets”, as the 5.5in (14 cm)-plus screen size is described (which seems to derive fromScott Webster in June 2010, then referring to a 7in Huawei device), are increasingly popular. In Asia and particularly China, they’re very popular, though less so in the US and much less so in Europe. They make up about 15% of sales, although that’sgrowing fast.Enter the iPhoneSince 2011, Samsung has had the high-end phablet market to itself with the Galaxy Note range, now in its fourth generation. Now, it has competition - and the Apple brand could badly dent its South Korean rival’s sales.Compared to the 4.7in iPhone 6, the 6 Plus soon stops feeling absurd when you try them side by side. I often found that I would reach for the larger screen, given the choice, just because you can read a lot more on it.The battery life is also better (proportionally more of the phone consists of batteries); and it has the same pleasing, rounded feel of the 6.The comparison becomes especially harsh against last year’s Galaxy Note 3, which has a 5.7in (14.5cm) screen at 1920x1080 pixels. The Note’s body is almost exactly the same size, but chrome-edged - which looks terribly retro now - with a wart-like camera. The iPhone 6 Plus camera sticks out too - an entire millimetre - but there’s no comparison in looks or feel.Specifications•Screen:5.5in, 1920x1080 401ppi LED; 1300:1 contrast ratio•Processor:A8 64-bit ARM with M8 motion coprocessor•RAM:1GB•Storage:16GB, 64GB, 128GB•Operating system:iOS 8•Camera:back: 8MP with 1.5micron pixels, f2.2, Optical image stabilisation, 240fps video, sapphire lens cover, auto-HDR, face detection, 43-megapixel panorama, burst mode 10fps; 1080p video at 30fps or 60fps. Front camera: 1.2MP (1280x960), f2.2, 720p HD, burst mode.•Connectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi a/b/g/n/ac, Bluetooth 4.0 with BLE, NFC; VoLTE (voice over LTE) capability, Wi-Fi call handoff capability•Dimensions:158.1 x 778 x 7.1mm•Weight:172g•Others:TouchID fingerprint sensor; NFC payment capability for ApplePayCameraThe 6 Plus has optical image stabilisation (OIS) - long a staple of top-end Nokia (now Microsoft) Lumia phones - so that films taken while moving aren’t jerky. Instagram’s Hyperlapse got there first (calling on the gyroscope), but the 6 Plus also adds 240fps slow-motion filming; expect this device to become the new “must-have” among photographers who like travelling light.Screen and usabilityMany apps will need rewriting to deal with the new screen, which feels as though it inflates text in apps that don’t use Apple’s text system. Then again, those who struggled to read text on the 4in screen of the iPhone 5 will welcome the extra 88% of screen real estate. Apple has also introduced a “Zoomed” viewing setting that really does inflate everything as though you’d slapped a magnifying glass over it all - the “grandpa setting”, if you like.Zoomed display on the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus enlarges icons and textPhotograph: GuardianAnother concession to the gigantism is the “two-tap” gesture: double-tap the home button lightly, and in portrait mode the top of the screen slides down to the halfway mark, so that you can reach any part of the screen without adjusting your hand position.Apple’s other tweak, specifically for the 6 Plus, is that when the home screen is rotated into landscape mode, the dock moves to the side; in the Mail app, you get a “two-up” view, with email headers on the left and body text on the right. Other apps will probably follow suit in exploiting this.Samsung, by contrast, offers various different user interface tweaks on the Note: there’s a quick app switching menu on the left-hand side, and you can also run two apps at a time (and resize each). The app switcher is just intrusive, though the two-up configuration clearly has potential uses (say, messaging while looking at a map). Samsung also has a stylus - though I’ve heard internal data that suggests it’s used only 10% of the time, which in turn implies a big chance for Apple via the 90%.Many of the best things about the 6 Plus - widgets, third-party keyboards, “extensions” to create app-based workflows - will only be exploited by new apps that appear in the next few months as developers get to grips with the new size and the potential it offers them. For now, though, it’s a surprisingly big phone that becomes increasingly familiar with use.PriceThe iPhone 6 Plus costs from £619 (inc VAT)/$749 (ex taxes) for 16GB storage.VerdictChoosing between the iPhone 6 Plus and the smaller iPhone 6 could be surprisingly difficult if your hand, and your wallet, is large enough. It is large, yet the extra screen space is a boon. But that also makes it unwieldy, and could increase the risk of dropping it. Compared to other phablets, it’s lighter and thinner – but not cheaperPros:large and thin; bright screen; best battery life of any iPhone; adaptations for extra-large screen; iOS 8 allows third-party keyboards, workflow extensions and widgetsCons:pricey; may be unwieldy if you don’t have particularly large hands•Apple iPhone 6: thinner, faster and slightly cheaper - review•iOS 8 review: the iPhone and iPad get customised, extended and deepened• This footnote was appended on 23 September 2014. Charles Arthur’s travel and accommodation was paid for by Apple.
The Apple iPhone is indeed a thing of surpassing beauty packed with wondrous applications, as Stephen Fry suggests (Apple haters look away, 17 September). Unfortunately, it fails at its primary objective of being a clearly audible mobile phone. Users will be surprised to hear that when you use other mobiles, your interlocutor is not constantly begging your pardon and asking you to repeat yourself. On behalf of non-iPhone users everywhere, could I plead with Apple to ensure their next iPhone has a microphone that works?Paul SawbridgeBolton• Try as I might, I couldn’t spot the header “Advertisement feature” above Stephen Fry’s fawn-fest to the latest iPhone.Paul TothillLondon
According to Apple chief executive Tim Cook, the reason iPhone users have had to wait until now for a 4.7in (12cm) and larger screen is because Apple wanted to do it right: keep the phone thin and light, and keep the screen quality up.Without doubt the iPhone 6 achieves this. The screen quality is excellent, both for brightness and colour quality. The battery life is better than the iPhone 5S. And the phone is even thinner than its predecessor, and pleasant to hold. Before the iPhone 6, the nicest phone I have held was Nokia’s Lumia 800, its first model, which had rounded side edges, and was instantly at home in your hand.But the Lumia 800 had a flat top edge; the iPhone 6 does it better. It’s rounded everywhere. There are no sharp edges. What Apple does, and what it charges for: design. Jony Ive’s team has had eight previous goes at designing phones, and now they’re getting a real design language together, particularly about roundedness.Spending a day or two using the iPhone 6 makes its predecessors feel overweight. The most noticeable thing, besides the thinness, is how smoothly the curved screen rolls over the edges - so swiping from the left edge to the right, or from the right edge to go left (which we do at many navigation points, including in Apple Mail) is a tactile pleasure. On the 5S and the 5C, that gesture finds the chamfered or plastic edge - but at least it isn’t uncomfortable. On the 6 and 6 Plus, it’s lissom.Compare that to the new Moto G, Samsung Galaxy Alpha or LG G3, and the differences that set Apple’s design apart are revealed.The Moto G is fabulously cheap and with high specs, but the plastic back feels as though it’s made from recycled milk containers. The Galaxy Alpha has beendescribed as Samsung’s “most beautiful” phonebecause, well, because it has metal edging? The edging shaves away your fingers, the backplate apparently uses the “dead flesh” that graced the buttons of the ZX Spectrum keyboard, and while it is nominally thinner than the iPhone 6, that’s achieved by allowing unsightly bulges for the headphone jack, micro-USB port and camera on the back, which looks like a metal wart.Sure, the iPhone 6’s camera protrudes - by about a millimetre, and that bothers some people. But overall, in comparison to the iPhone 6, the Alpha feels like it came out of a cut-price Christmas cracker.The LG G3? Far nicer, and beautifully finished. But the front edges are still aggressively sharp, and while it’s less wide than the iPhone 6 Plus (the 5.5in model) it’s also thicker, which means you can’t stretch your hand around it (say, to hold and swipe) as on the larger screen.As expected, the power button moves to the right-hand edge because it would be unreachable on the top, but somehow manages to feel the same size as the previous 5S - until you pick up the 5S, at which point you wonder how you used such a small screen. Anyone with smaller hands may disagree, and struggle with the width of the handset - in which case the smaller iPhone 5S and 5C are still on sale.Specifications•Screen:4.7in, 1334x750 326ppi LED; 1400:1 contrast ratio•Processor:A8 64-bit ARM with M8 motion coprocessor•RAM:1GB•Storage:16GB, 64GB, 128GB•Operating system:iOS 8•Camera:back: 8MP with 1.5micron pixels, f2.2, Optical image stabilisation, 240fps video, sapphire lens cover, auto-HDR, face detection, 43-megapixel panorama, burst mode 10fps; 1080p video at 30fps or 60fps. Front camera: 1.2MP (1280x960), f2.2, 720p HD, burst mode.•Connectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi a/b/g/n/ac, Bluetooth 4.0 with BLE, NFC; VoLTE (voice over LTE) capability, Wi-Fi call handoff capability•Dimensions:138.1 x 670 x 6.9mm•Weight:129g•Others:TouchID fingerprint sensor; NFC payment capability for ApplePayMuch of the iPhone 6’s differences are actually brought about by iOS 8 - which will be available for phones going back to the iPhone 4S from 2011, so readthe separate review for iOS 8.Can TouchID thisApple’s TouchID fingerprint sensor is now on all the phones it makes except last year’s plastic 5C (which is still on sale, at a lower price); one might anticipate it coming on iPads too. Unlike other fingerprint sensors which require swiping or wiping, TouchID requires just a light pressure on the home button with whichever of five fingerprints you’ve registered. I’ve found that the only thing that upsets it is if your finger is actively wet (not damp). Given that this is how Apple is tying authentication into its ApplePay mobile payment strategy, the effectiveness of TouchID is important.CameraThe iOS 8 update brings a number of new features to the camera such as an exposure meter and time-lapse filming. The iPhone 6 has a far more detailed camera than the 5S, despite the lack of sheer megapixels, because the sensors are larger.The camera on the iPhone 6 protrudes very slightly from the back.Photograph: GuardianOne oddity: the camera housing protrudes - about a millimetre - from the back of the phone. You’ll barely notice it even on a flat surface, and you have to squint to see it in the flesh. It didn’t trouble me; certainly compared to the awful compromises in the Samsung Alpha, it’s invisible.Barometer highThe iPhone 6 and 6 Plus add a barometer - ostensibly for motion tracking (so that you can feel virtuous about all those stairs you’ve climbed), though it’s a sure bet that apps like OpenSignal will start using it to generate crowdsourced weather. (Samsung first put a barometer in the Galaxy S3 in 2012, so this is another late arrival.)Screen lowThe screen is now taller than previous models which means that some people won’t be able to reach the top left of the screen with their thumbs, but Apple has made one particular concession to that. It has introduced an extra gesture - “quick double tap” - on the home button, which pulls the top of the screen down to half height. That means that even in the apps which haven’t yet implemented the “swipe right to go back” gesture (like Apple’s Photos app) you can reach the top left “back” button easily. To reverse it, double tap again or touch somewhere else in the page.For those who recall Apple’s ad a while back about how you could reach everything on the iPhone with your thumb, this is a continuation of that thinking. Apple calls it “Reachability”, which sounds like something out of an unsuccessful Mad Men all-nighter.ApplePayAfter insisting it didn’t see the point in NFC, Apple has done an end-run on Android rivals by including an NFC-driven payment mechanism in the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus. It also has an API for online payments which hasPayPal worried enoughto run adverts in US papers stating: “We the people want our money safer than our selfies.”Apple insists that ApplePay doesn’t store your credit card details - not in iCloud or even on your phone. Instead, American users (and at some undetermined date European users) can add the credit card they use on the iTunes store to the “pay” function on their phones. (You can also add it by taking a photo of the card.)However, the phone doesn’t store the credit card number.Rich Mogull explains it here:Via Apple, the phone makes a one-time secure connection to the card’s issuing bank, which then replies with a “device account number” (DAN) - in effect, an encrypted token of the card that is then stored on the phone. Like a one-way hashed password, it’s essentially impossible to work back from the token to the card.The DAN is stored in the “secure element” of an NXP chip in the phone. When you come to make an NFC payment, you unlock the secure element via TouchID (thus providing a “cardholder present” authority to the issuer) and the DAN is sent via the retailer to the bank.The bank checks the DAN is valid (by hashing your stored details to see if that matches the transmitted one), and if it is, replies to the retailer confirming the transaction. Apple isn’t involved; it doesn’t keep any record of the transaction. But the bank does give Apple a cut (reportedly 0.15%) of transactions made using its issued DANs.This differs from Google Wallet in a significant way: in Google Wallet, your card details are stored by Google, which effectively wraps them into its own giant credit card. When you make a Google Wallet transaction, Google’s card in effect gets charged, and it then charges it back against your card. So Google sees what you do and when.PayPal, meanwhile, might have something to worry about if developers start picking up on ApplePay - which might be significantly cheaper because it is a “cardholder present” transaction, which is cheaper for retailers than “card not present” transactions.Processor and battery lifeApple is now in the second generation of 64-bit processors, though it hasn’t upped the RAM in its phones. This is almost certainly to preserve battery life: the more RAM, the more juice you use.That said, iOS is so aggressive in closing down unnecessary background apps that might be using energy or memory, the lack of RAM doesn’t show as a problem. Whether the arrival of Extensions, which add capability to apps, will put extra strain on that isn’t yet clear, but in some months of testing iOS 8 on an iPhone 5C I didn’t hit any problems.Unsurprisingly, battery life on the 6 is better than on the 5S - because more of the phone is battery. I easily got one day’s use, and sometimes much of a second day. Comparisons are difficult, though, because they depend on network availability (when out of range the phone amps up its output to try to contact a mast) and screen brightness.How long? I generally got about 30% more life out of the iPhone 6 than the 5S. That should take you from one end of the day to the other quite handily - much further if you use plug-in battery packs; I don’t agree the wails calling for replaceable batteries. The only downside of the bigger battery is that it takes longer to charge, though it’s still quicker than LG’s or Samsung’s comparably-sized models in my testing.PriceThe iPhone 6 starts at £539/$649 for 16GB, and comes with 16GB, 64GB or 128GB of storage - if you’re in the UK, that’s slightly cheaper than last year’s iPhone 5S, which started at £549/$649.VerdictA beautifully made phone that finally reaches the screen size that many have hankered for from an iPhone, without sacrificing quality. The iOS 8 software adds a lot of key functionality - and NFC allied to TouchID has huge potential for offline and online payments.Pros:beautiful edge-free design, improved battery life, excellent camera, TouchID system works perfectly, integrated NFC offers payment possibilities, has adaptations to make one-handed use easier, iOS 8 software allows third-party keyboards and extensionsCons:expensive•iPhone 6 Plus review: it’s a very big phone - and it feels great•iOS 8 review: the iPhone and iPad get customised, extended and deepenedUpdated: corrected name of Samsung Galaxy Alpha (from Ultra); added that the iPhone 5C does not have TouchID;added the price of last year’s iPhone 5S.• This footnote was appended on 23 September 2014. Charles Arthur’s travel and accommodation was paid for by Apple.
Epic space shooter Destiny has grossed more than $325m in five days, claims publisher Activision. The figure, which includes Chart-Track stats, retail customer sell-through information and Activision Blizzard internal estimates, puts it among some of the most successful video game launches in history.“Destiny fans played more than 100 million hours of the game in the first week,” said Eric Hirshberg, CEO of Activision Publishing. “That’s on par with the engagement levels of our most popular Call of Duty games, which obviously is an industry leader.”“And this is just the beginning. Destiny is a platform that will grow and evolve and we will continue to work closely with our partners at [developer] Bungie to bring a long line of new experiences and content to life in the game.”The impressive sales figures come despite mixed reviews for the game. Set in the distant future, amid multiple alien invasions of Earth, players take on story missions with friends or fight against each other in multiplayer arenas. It’s an ambitious combination of play styles, but some reviewers have found the story dull, and the separate components highly conventional.It’s likely though, that the challenge will evolve over time. Developer Bungie has a series of downloadable additions planned for the coming months – though fans will have to pay extra.Although in the same strata as the mega-selling Call of Duty and Grand Theft Auto titles, Destiny has fallen short of a record performance. Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 brought in $775m within five days of its release in 2011. Grand Theft Auto V, meanwhile, made $800m in just one day.Destiny review: the future of games remains locked in the past
Parents understandably don’t want to spend excessive amounts of money on tablets for their children. Many choose to buy relatively low-cost Android devices from the supermarket, such as Tesco’s Hudl or Aldi’s Lifetab.Once the kids are done with the tablet, mums and dads often flog them on eBay to recover some of the expense. But researchers have warned this could be a privacy nightmare in waiting, as wiping functions on these devices have been known to fail, leaving data accessible to their buyers.Ken Munro, from security firm Pen Test Partners, told the Guardian that the Hudl, Lifetab and theMoshi Monsters-branded tabletall failed to properly delete information when using Android’s wipe feature.After buying 20 devices from eBay, all of which cost less than £20 each, Munro discovered he was able to extract information including passwords for social networks, private photos and browsing history of minors. By looking at the apps, internet searches and passwords found across the 20 devices, the researchers determined six had been used by children.Amongst the data recovered from the tablets were photos of children. There were also passwords to Twitter, Amazon and Steam accounts, as well as login tokens to Gmail, Google Play, Google Plus and YouTube accounts, meaning these accounts could have been compromised.Parents would be horrified to learn their child’s data could be accessed so easily, Munro said. “Our most significant concern is that predators could buy cheap, used tablets from online auction sites and other sources. Using simple tools, they could recover children’s data and passwords,” he said.“This could allow the predator to access their social networks directly, making for terrifying cyber-stalking from inside their social network account. They would have access to your child’s account.”The problem lies in tablets with a range of Rockchip processors, which remain vulnerable today, though the manufacturer is planning to release a fix.The flaw allowed anyone who acquired an affected tablet to read data that wasn’t successfully deleted by the factory reset option in Android settings. Munro’s team of researchers used the freely available‘rkflashtool’to get at memory in the chips on the device and read the data.Whilst some blame lies with Rockchip, the vendors “should have been through an assurance process”, Munro added. “Given the tools have been around for 18 months, then you expect things to improve.”Tesco recognised the issues earlier this year, saying it was able to wipe Hudl devices of all information if returned to them. “Customers should always ensure all personal information is removed prior to giving away or selling any mobile device. To guarantee this, customers should use a data wipe program,” a spokesperson told The Guardian.Mind Candy, the creator of Moshi Monsters, said its device was no longer being made, but directed the Guardian’s enquiry on to Ingo, which made the tablet and creates various devices for children.It had not provided comment at the time of the publication. Neither Rockchip nor Aldi had offered comment either.“Rockchip is working on a fix right now,” noted Munro. “We’ve seen some code which suggests the new firmware will work correctly and fix the bug. Deploying it to the installed user base is another matter though.”A spokesperson for the National Crime Agency, which runs the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre (CEOP), added: “Parents, carers and young people should be vigilant about the digital trail of information left behind when buying or selling a refurbished or second-hand device.“As demonstrated in this example, it may still be very difficult to be sure that information is secure despite taking these precautions, as such it is also advisable to change passwords on social media profiles, accounts, games and apps.”There are a number of steps concerned parents can take to ensure data is properly wiped. Here are Munro’s top tips:Don’t sell your used tablets, unless you can be certain that all your data has been thoroughly wiped. The factory reset option for some Android tablets is not effective as a wipe. If it’s broken so you can’t wipe it don’t sell it. The factory reset for more recent iPads does carry out an effective wipe, though.Encrypt the tablet and then run a factory wipe. This will protect the data even if its compromised. More recent Android versions allow you to encrypt the device – just go to security settings. However, not all tablets support encryption.Some charitiesaccept donations of old tablets and send them for effective wiping before sale. Be certain before you donate though.Several retailers are refreshing their tablet offerings currently, including much better security, encryption and wiping functions. This will include the improved Rockchip processor.If you have sold a used tablet and are concerned that you didn’t wipe your data effectively, a good start would be to change your passwords, particularly for social networks and your Google Play account if you have one. The data is lost, but at least you can keep predators out of your social network and other accounts.Get Safe Online hassome useful advice here.
Sony will not pay a dividend for the first time in its 56-year history as a public company after it warned that troubles at its smartphone division will push it into an annual loss of more than ¥230bn (£1.3bn).The Japanese electronics company is now forecasting a deep loss in the financial year to March 2015, compared to a forecast of a ¥40bn operating profit."This is the first time we've not paid a dividend and we feel that responsibility as management very heavily," the chief executive, Kazuo Hirai, said, adding that Sony would aim to restart dividends as soon as possible.Hirai said Sony had aimed to expand the mobile division but was now revising its strategy. He said Sony would cut 15% of the staff in its mobile unit in the current fiscal year. In July, Sony had cut its forecast smartphone sales for the year from 50m to 43m, barely changed from the 42m it shipped in the year up to April 2014.Hirai insisted the mobile division will remain as one of its core electronics businesses, along with gaming and cameras. Sony says it will now focus on fewer geographical regions and the premium end of the smartphone business.The writedown comes after Sony looked at its performance in the fiercely competitive smartphone market, where Apple and Samsung dominate both revenues and profits, and smaller players including Sony, LG and HTC are coming under pressure from Chinese vendors such as Huawei, ZTE and Xiaomi.Hirai said Sony had not managed to stay ahead of changes in the industry. "The Chinese smartphone manufacturers have made great strides and are expanding outside their own market, and this has caused a shift in the pricing," he said. "Meanwhile, Apple and other manufacturers are launching strong, innovative products. The changes are very rapid and dramatic."Francisco Jeronimo, smartphones analyst at the research company IDC, said it would be unwise for Sony to withdraw from the US, although it is one of its weakest markets in sales terms, because it needs to sell other products and services there."They have a very strong relationship with mobile carriers in Europe, and they have been performing well," said Jeronimo. "But these writedowns show that making money at the high end is possible maybe only for Apple and Samsung." The two companies dominate the segment for phones costing more than £360, though the average price of smartphones is falling worldwide as cheap phones take off in countries such as India and China.The cut in forecasts is the sixth under Hirai, who took his post in 2012 promising to pull the firm's troubled electronics division into the black by focusing on its mobile, gaming and camera units, selling off its PC business, and shifting the TV business into a subsidiary company.The forecast revision is also an embarrassment for the new chief financial officer, Kenichiro Yoshida, who assumed his post on 1 April promising Sony would be more realistic about its outlook.Yoshida had warned in July that Sony could write down losses on its mobile unit for this business year. At the time, Sony cut its profit outlook for its smartphone business to zero but stuck to its full-year forecast.Sales of Sony's high-end Xperia mobile devices have been hit by a lack of relationships with carriers in the crucial US market, where its smartphones are so far only available on fourth-ranked carrier T-Mobile US, as well as in China, where local makers remain dominant.
A new study into British gaming habits has confirmed what many industry watchers have been observing for years: the stereotype of the teenage boy playing alone in his bedroom is well and truly dead.Based on interviews with 4,000 UK residents, the research asserts that women now account for 52% of the gaming audience, up from 49% three years ago. The study, which was commissioned by the Internet Advertising Bureau, also revealed there are now more people over 44 years old playing games (27% of the audience) than children or teenagers (22%). The gamer audience reportedly stands at 33.5 million Britons – 69% of the population.Distribution of gamers among age groups – 99% of 8-17-year-olds have played games in the last six month. Source: IAB UKPhotograph: IABThe surge in gaming among new areas of the population is closely related to the rise of the smartphone, which has made games available to a much wider audience than dedicated consoles or PCs. Mobile puzzlers like Candy Crush Saga and Angry Birds are free, intuitive and accessible, requiring neither the learning time, nor the expense, of traditional “core” games experiences. The report claims that 56% of female interviewees over 44 have played mobile puzzle games, which emerged as the most popular gaming genre over all, ahead of traditional action adventures and shooters.Furthermore, 54% of survey respondents cited their phone as their favourite gaming platform – 25% of whom admitted to playing games on it every day. Smartphones were followed by computers (51%), consoles (45%) and tablets (44%).“The internet and mobile devices have changed the gaming landscape forever,” said Steve Chester, Director of Data and Industry Programmes at the Internet Advertising Bureau. “They’ve brought down the barriers to entry, making gaming far more accessible and opened it up to a whole new audience. In the past you needed to go out and buy an expensive console and the discs on top to get a decent experience, now you can just download a free app.”Top video game genres among players in Britain Source: IAB UKPhotograph: IAB UKHowever the stereotype that female gamers are interested almost exclusively in casual smartphone titles is tested by the data. 47% of female gamers polled had played a disc-based game in the last six months, and 68% had played an online game. 56% of female gamers have played on a console.In terms of gaming time, 8-15-year-olds play for longest, racking up 20 hours of gaming a week. However, the average Briton spends six hours per week playing games, which, according to the report, is “just over 11% of their 52 hours of media consumption a week – the same share accounted for by social media and slightly less than listening to music (14%)“. The hours between six and eight in the evening are the most popular for gaming.Although most people are playing on smartphones, gamers are apparently still playing for longer on traditional platforms. According to the study, the average gamer uses three different devices, and looking at share of gaming time, consoles account for 30%, followed by computers (24%), smartphones (21%) and tablets (18%). The most time consuming types of game are online-focused titles like World of Warcraft and Call of Duty – these take up 47% of gaming time, compared to smartphone apps (23%) and disc-based games (22%).Despite a general move in the industry toward digitally distributed games – usually via smartphone, PC or console app stores – disc-based games are still selling. 29% of adults brought a new game disc in the last six months and 21% had bought a second-hand game.The survey, entitled “Gaming Revolution” and carried out by independent research agency Populus, also looked into in-game advertising. Always a tricky proposition in console games, where onscreen ads are often seen as invasive, the new era of free-to-play games has changed attitudes. 61% of respondents said they are happy to see ads in games if it makes them free; they accepted 1.7 ads every 30 minutes in a free game – twice as high as in paid games.While “hardcore” gaming is clearly still rooted in its traditional user base (playing games is considered the most entertaining media amongst males aged 16-24), what the study shows is a widening audience who are exploring games through new platforms, thanks to the proliferation of new platforms. The suggestion that a quarter of all gamers are now over 45-years-old may well have interesting ramifications for game design going forward.But according to the IAB, one of the most interesting discoveries through the 4,000 surveys and 20 in-depth interviews that contributed to the findings, was the immersive nature of the medium. Researchers found that, when UK gamers are playing, they give their full attention.“We were really surprised by how captivated consumers are by the gaming environment; once they are playing, they are completely ‘in the zone,’” said Chester. “We hear a lot about how everyone is always multi-tasking but the study shows that games are a unique and engaging environment which requires people’s complete and utter focus.”Is Angry Birds Stella sexist? ‘We want to challenge stereotypes,’ says RovioGoogle survey finds games trump all other uses for tablets
The phrase “console-quality graphics” has been overused and abused in the mobile games world for close to a decade now.Why? It’s often due to an assumption that mobile gaming will only be truly credible through comparisons of polygon counts and shading sorcery with “proper” games devices, regardless of whether that’s what’s motivating people to play on their smartphones or tablets.Actually, the most popular and lucrative mobile games – from Candy Crush Saga and Clash of Clans to Kim Kardashian: Hollywood – still tend to have graphics that could have comfortably been handled by consoles two or three generations back.Even so, in 2014 the argument that the current generation of smartphones and tablets have console-quality graphics – as incurrentconsoles – is more convincing than ever.Listen to Karthik Bala, chief executive of developer Vicarious Visions, talking about the next Skylanders game, for example. Due for release in early October, Skylanders Trap Team is the first in the series to be released simultaneously for console and tablets.“iPad 3 is our minimum spec: graphically, it’s a little bit better than Wii I’d say. That was our low-end renderer,” says Bala, while showing me the tablet edition of Trap Team in London, ahead of its launch.“Then we wrote a mid-range renderer which was for iPad 4-class hardware, and then iPad Air and Mini Retina is like Xbox 360 quality in terms of visual effects. Right now, the highest-end tablets that are out there are converging on Xbox 360, I would say. And we’ll see in the next couple of years how far they advance towards PS4 and Xbox One.”This isn’t just hot air: Skylanders Trap Team running on one of the latest iPads really does look (and play) like an Xbox 360 game, complete with cut-scenes, depth of field and the kind of water effects and crystalline refraction that tend to get mentioned a lot when games are previewed for new console platforms.“After we finished Skylanders Swap Force, we wanted to figure out how to bring the full experience to tablet. We’ve had to wait a little while for tablet hardware to catch up to our vision, in terms of raw processing power,” says Bala.“This doesn’t feel like a port. Typically, a port came out first on one format, and was designed for that format, then when you try to jam it onto a tablet, it becomes a less-then experience because it wasn’t designed for it. This isn’t a port though: we’ve been working on it simultaneously with all the other platforms. This is a full HD console experience.”A promotional shot for Skylanders Trap Team.Photograph: PRConsole-quality graphics are all well and good, but what about console-quality controls? Skylanders publisher Activision had already announced that the tablet version of Trap Team will have its own £54.99 starter pack akin to the console editions.It will ship with toys, traps – more on those later – a portal that doubles as a stand for your tablet, and its own gamepad stored in the bottom of the portal – these devices both connect wirelessly to the tablet using Bluetooth low energy (Bluetooth LE) technology.The pairing process is simple – important, given that children are Skylanders’ target audience. The controller, smaller than a standard console joypad as it’s designed for children’s hands, feels more solid than most of the iOS controllers that have gone on sale in recent months, too.Bala stresses the flexibility of Trap Team’s tablet edition, though. Players can opt for touchscreen controls if they prefer – a virtual analog stick appears wherever they place their thumb, with virtual buttons in the opposite corner.“The primary way of playing is with the controller, but some kids are growing up super-comfortable with touch controls on glass, they’re more used to that than a gamepad,” says Bala. “We wanted to be able to accommodate that play pattern as well.”If they don’t have the portal and/or toys to hand, they can play with two digital characters instead, with their own stats and upgrade trees. Bala suggests that this may suit children who want to continue playing a level on a journey where setting up the portal isn’t feasible, for example.“There are four ways to play: with toys and the controller; touch and toys; no toys and no controller; or controller but no toys,” he says. “It’s entirely a function of what’s on and off.”On a business level, tablet is bringing something new to Skylanders: a freemium model. On iOS, Android and Kindle Fire, the game will be free to download, with its first level playable for free using the touch controls and digital characters. When people buy and set up the starter pack, they’ll get the rest of the game.“When you’re spending £65 on the starter pack, it can be a barrier to entry. This is a great way for people to try it out,” says Bala.Skylanders’ big numbers – $2bn of revenues from console games and toys to date – tend to make headlines, but giving away the first level of Trap Team on tablets has the potential to greatly widen the audience for the franchise by removing that initial barrier.One challenge may be file size. Those console-quality graphics come with a cost in terms of how much space Trap Team will take up on tablets. The initial download will be around 1GB in size, with Bala saying that the game then uses a cache of around 3GB to download later levels while people are playing.“As soon as you pair the portal by turning it on, it authenticates with the game, and starts streaming the other levels in the background while you play. As yuo’re playing level two, level three’s getting downloaded, and then level four, and so on,” he says.Bala notes that for the average Skylanders player with around 12 toys, the 3GB cache will be enough to pull down “pretty much the main story levels and the characters as well”, but players with more than 6GB free on their tablet will get the option for a “premium” install, which Bala says will suit those with more toys.New characters for Skylanders Trap team: look out for their weapons’ refractions on tablet.Photograph: PRIt’s notable that Skylanders Trap Team is launching for Android tablets – as well as the Android-based Kindle Fire devices – simultaneously with iPad.It’s an ambitious decision – Bala describes optimising the game for individual Android tablets as “a nightmare” – but one borne out of feedback from Skylanders fans for the series of mobile-only games released by Activision over the last couple of years.“Here’s the painful lesson that we learned: we did the mobile Skylanders games like Cloud Patrol and Lost Islands, and launched on iOS first. And we had so many fans who were on Android who wereveryupset,” says Bala.“We eventually got there, launched on Android and things are great. But for Trap Team, we knew that while life might be easier on iOS alone, it would disappoint fans. So we’ve been working directly with the chipset manufacturers and each vendor to make sure we can get the best out of the devices.”The game is shaping up very nicely, although as a parent, I’m slightly nervous about Trap Team’s new layer of physical peripherals – traps – which are used to capture villains in the game who then become playable characters.They’re Skylanders’ equivalent of Pokemon’s Pokéballs, essentially, except they’re physical products that you buy, and if you don’t have the right elemental trap, you can’t capture certain villains.Together with a new set of “Trap Master” toys, they could see Trap Team provoking plenty of pestering from children. In fairness, the game continues the Skylanders tradition of toys from previous games working with the new ones, so children will be able to use their existing characters too.Skylanders Trap Team may look like an Xbox 360 game on high-end tablets, but come October, we’ll find out how many parents are willing to opt for tablet over console.Bala laughs at the suggestion that the tablet version’s marketing slogan should be “You get your TV back!” but if Activision can prove there’s a decent-sized audience of parents willing to pay upwards of 50 quid for Trap Team’s starter pack, other publishers will be taking the notion much more seriously.•Skylanders: a parent’s guide
1 India’s big biometric databaseIndia houses the most ambitious biometrics database in the world,Aadhaar, which has so far gathered fingerprints, iris scans and photos of more than 500 million citizens – many of whom had no prior proof of their identity. Each gets a 12-digit number used for various services.2 Face recognition returns for Facebook in EuropeFacebook has used facial recognition technology since 2010 to suggest which friends to tag in photos. It removed the option in Europe in 2012 under pressure from privacy campaigners, but recently restored it – but only for photos of friends in the US who’ve opted in for the feature.3 Tesco’s facial recognition advertising screensTesco is introducing outdoor screens showing adverts in its petrol stations in the UK, using OptimEyes technology from British firm Amscreen. The screens include a face-detection camera gauging the age and gender of customers, with that data plus location and time of day used to determine what ads they see.4 Pre-crime biometrics for online fraudIsraeli firm BioCatch’s technology tracks the activity of online banking and shopping users, building profiles to check whenever they log in, to spot when a fraudster might be about to misuse their account.5 Behaviometrics are about what you do onlineBioCatch’s technology is an example of “behaviometrics”, as also seen with a company called Behaviosec. Its software analyses people’s typing rhythm, mouse movements and how they navigate around their applications to determine whether it’s really them at the computer.6 Touch ID key to Apple’s iPhone futureSmartphones have had fingerprint recognition before, but Apple’s iPhone 5s popularised the idea in 2013, with its fingerprint sensor used to unlock the phone and authorise digital content purchases. It’s expected to form part of the company’s move into full mobile payments too.7 PayPal gets into fingerprint recognitionApple is not the only company investigating biometric technology for payments. PayPal is working with Samsung in 25 countries to allow owners of its Galaxy S5 smartphone to pay for goods and services on its site, as well as other sites using PayPal for their payments.8 China to get facial payments technologyIn 2015, China will see the introduction of an app using facial recognition to authorise payments, meaning that people’s features will become their PIN for purchases. Once installed and linked to a credit card or bank account, the app will authorise payments in as little as one second.9 ‘Eyeball selfie’ scanning on your smartphoneEye-recognition technology has been used in airports and other high-secure buildings for a long time. However, the technology is becoming ever more personal: one firm, EyeVerify – dubbed “eyeball selfie for banking” by tech blogTechCrunch– aims to integrate its technology into personal banking apps.10 Hey teachers! Leave those kids’ fingerprints aloneSchools in the UK have experimented withfingerprinting pupilsthen using that data for tasks including library books and lunch payments.However, the European Commission has questioned the practice, including whether schools can make it compulsory and whether parents can challenge it in court.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBreach at Goodwill vendor lasted 18 months &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityBrian Krebs:C&amp;K Systems Inc., a third-party payment vendor blamed for a credit and debit card breach at more than 330 Goodwill locations nationwide, disclosed this week that the intrusion lasted more than 18 months and has impacted at least two other organisations.On 21 July, 2014, this site broke the news that multiple banks were reporting indications that Goodwill Industries had suffered an apparent breach that led to the theft of customer credit and debit card data. Goodwill later confirmed that the breach impacted a portion of its stores, but blamed the incident on an unnamed "third-party vendor."Krebs comments:the entire credit card system in the United States seems currently set up so that one party to a transaction can reliably transfer the blame for an incident to another. The main reason the United States has not yet moved to a more secure standard for handling cards, for example, has a lot to do with the finger pointing and blame game that's been going on for years between the banks and the retail industry. The banks have said, "If the retailers only started installing chip-and-PIN card readers, we'd start issuing those types of cards." The retailers respond: "Why should we spend the money upgrading all our payment terminals to handle chip-and-PIN when hardly any banks are issuing those types of cards?" And so it has gone for years.Round two of Microsoft layoffs coming September 18: Sources &gt;&gt; ZDNetMary Jo Foley:Later this week, Microsoft will lay off another group of employees as part of its planned cuts of 18,000 announced back in July, according to sources close to the company.Microsoft officials said in July that the company would be realigning its worldwide workforce by cutting 18,000 jobs, with 12,500 of those cuts coming from employees Microsoft acquired as part of its acquisition of Nokia's handset and services business. Microsoft officials said the layoffs would happen over the course of several waves. Microsoft officials said 1,351 of the first round of employees cut would be based in the Redmond area.Court tosses VirnetX's $368m patent judgment against Apple &gt;&gt; Re/codeShares of VirnetX plunged as much as 59.8% after the decision by the U.S. Federal Circuit Court of Appeals in Washington. The company and its lawyer did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Apple had appealed a November 2012 jury finding that it infringed VirnetX's patents for virtual private network, or VPN, technology through the FaceTime feature on its iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad products, as well as on its Mac computers.While agreeing that some patents were infringed, the appeals court said the verdict was tainted by incorrect jury instructions from the trial judge on how to calculate damages, and that the error was not harmless.It also agreed with Apple that testimony from a VirnetX expert over how to determine potential royalties should have been excluded, saying it did not reflect the extent to which the patented features were a factor in product sales.Roku sets new TV streaming milestones &gt;&gt; The Official Roku Blog10m devices sold in the US. And also:Just over six years ago we shipped the very first Roku player to stream Netflix to the TV and now our players are synonymous with TV streaming. Today Roku players feature more than 1,800 channels – that's 1,000 more channels than available on other streaming players.And because of this vast selection of entertainment, Roku players stream more than other streaming players. In fact, new NPD data found that Roku is the popular choice among streaming players and accounts for an aggregate 37m hours of video streamed per week compared to Apple TV at 15m hours, Chromecast at 12m hours and Amazon Fire TV at 6m hours.Amazon tops list of Google's 25 biggest search advertisers &gt;&gt; Advertising AgeOne of Google's emerging rivals for online ad dollars is also its biggest search-ad buyer.Amazon spent $157.7m on Google US search ads in 2013, by far the most by any company, according to Ad Age DataCenter's first ranking based on data from AdGooroo, a Kantar Media company focused on search marketing.It may raise a few eyebrows to see Amazon atop the list of Google's biggest spenders. Over the past few years Amazon has ramped up its business of selling search and display ads on its own and others' sites, putting it in direct competition with Google's ad business. Last year Amazon generated $750m from worldwide advertising revenue and is expected to pull in more than $1bn this year, according to estimates from digital data firm eMarketer.Compared to Google's overall revenue, that's not so big.Ways to think about watches &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansAfter you turn it on, well, what does software as part of the experience of a luxury product look like? Nokia's venture Vertu had a go at this, though I always struggled with the concept of an old low-end Nokia in a platinum box as a luxury good, but Apple is trying to do this for far more people. Apple always talks about delighting users, but for a 'watch', it seems to me that delight is central, and it needs to be the delight of the 'normal' person, not the delight of the technical user seeing a cool piece of engineering. That's the delight that comes from milanese loops, sending your heartbeat to your friend, or a butterfly flapping its wings on your wrist, AND knowing that your team scored or your bus is here.How Google fails to enforce "First Click Free" - an Eric Schmidt case study &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandDanny Sullivan:News publishers often want to be listed in Google. News publishers also often want to have paywalls or registration barriers. The good news is Google has rules that allow for this. The bad news is that Google routinely fails to enforce these rules.Below, a case study involving content in a major publication authored by Google's own executive chairman, Eric Schmidt.iPhone 6 screens demystified &gt;&gt; PaintCodeFew days ago, Apple introduced iPhone 6 Plus. The new iPhone substantially changes the way graphics are rendered on screen. We've made an infographic to demystify this.This may be one of the only occasions where an infographic actually does the job it's required to with no wasted drawing or words.Review: the Moto 360 is the best Android smartwatch you can buy &gt;&gt; CiteworkdChris Nerney:If you absolutely must own a smartwatch now, you can't do better than the Motorola Moto 360 (unless you're really into rectangular watch faces). The Moto 360 is a functional and great-looking device that will attract attention, but not in that potentially dangerous Google Glass kind of way.I've already decided I'm buying the Moto 360. It's a quality piece of hardware that will serve as an enjoyable platform for the early days of Android Wear. I'll be using the Moto 360 to explore the many apps developers will be rolling out for Android wearables in the coming months and years.The real problem will be finding one: Google's Play Store is sold out, only three Moto 360s were shipped to my local Best Buy last week (all are long gone), and the device is going for $400 on Amazon.com. Hopefully Motorola will soon catch up to the demand.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The US needs a federal robotics commission to co-ordinate its handling of artificial intelligence and robotics,according to the influential Brookings Institute think tank.Without such a commission, the institute warns, America’s piecemeal response could lead to other nations taking the lead.“Much of the problem turns on the lack of familiarity with robotics and the sorts of issues the mainstreaming of this technology occasions,” argues Ryan Calo, the report’s author. “The FAA does not know what to say to Amazon about delivering goods by drone, and so it says ‘no.’”“At least initially, then, a Federal Robotics Commission would be small and consist of a handful of engineers and others with backgrounds in mechanical and electrical engineering, computer science, and human-computer interaction, right alongside experts in law and policy. It would hardly be the first interdisciplinary agency: the FTC houses economists and technologists in addition to its many lawyers, for example.”Such an agency would be important to tackle the many interrelated problems faced by autonomous devices and software in fields ranging from driverless cars to Twitter bots. For instance, the question of liability is crucial in both fields: if a Twitter bot libels someone, can its creator be held liable? What about if a self-driving car crashes in to someone?When it comes to the latter field, Calo argues, “the addition of even a tiny new area of liability could have outsized repercussions.“A robot may always be better than a human driver at avoiding a shopping cart. And it may always be better at avoiding a stroller. But what happens when a robot confronts a shopping cart and a stroller at the same time? You or I would plow right into a shopping cart—or even a wall—to avoid hitting a stroller. A driverless car might not.“The first headline, meanwhile, to read “Robot Car Kills Baby To Avoid Groceries” could end autonomous driving in the United States—and, ironically, drive fatalities back up.”Calo also addressed criticism that there’s not enough properties unique to robots to justify a federal agency focused on them. “In my view, the difference between a computer and a robot has largely to do with the latter’s embodiment,” he said.“Robots do not just sense, process, and relay data. Robots are organized to act upon the world physically, or at least directly. This turns out to have strong repercussions at law, and to pose unique challenges to law and to legal institutions that computers and the internet did not.”In some of the biggest areas of automation, other countries are already gearing up to compete with the US. This July, Vince Cable, the business secretary, announced a £10m fund for driverless car researchers in the UK.“The excellence of our scientists and engineers has established the UK as pioneers in the development of driverless vehicles through pilot projects,” Cable said at the time.“Today’s announcement will see driverless cars take to our streets in less than six months, putting us at the forefront of this transformational technology and opening up new opportunities for our economy and society.”•Driverless cars get green light for testing on public roads in UK
It's Wednesday.
Can you remember what iOS 6 looked like? Probably not. It had all the skeumorphism - the slider on the lock screen looked like a slider, the Find Friends app with faux leather stitching, the Notifications tab with a “brushed denim” background… it’s a long list. Then last year iOS 7 swept that away, with a flat design where digital things didn’t pretend to be real things.The wild forecasts that iOS7 would put people off proved unfounded; there are now about 360 million iPhone users worldwide, and that’s more than ever.Now iOS 8 takes it to the next stage. There’s no radical change in appearance; instead, there are deeper changes, and an overall cleaning up of the interface.If you’re getting a new iPhone, there are two larger sizes to choose from: the 4.7in iPhone 6 and the 5.5in iPhone 6 Plus - just as I predicted a year agowhen I reviewed iOS 7. As well as changing the look, iOS 7 changed a key gesture - how to go “back” from any screen. Before iOS 7, you had to reach up diagonally to an icon on the top left of the screen; since iOS 7, you just reach across left and swipe left-to-right. For Android users wondering “where’s the back button?”, it’s there - at least within almost every app.For starters: extra securityFor iOS 7 users - whichaccording to Apple’s datais 92% of users, with 6% on iOS 6 and 1% on something earlier - iOS 8 has few obvious changes. Notifications are swiped down from the top screen, although the “Missed” category is gone and has been rolled into the main notifications list. You still can’t change what’s in the Control Centre, revealed by swiping up from the base of the screen.Except, that is, after restarting an activated phone – when the Control Centre and Notification Centre aren’t available (so Airplane mode can’t be activated). Nor is Siri, even if it’s set to work from the home screen. It’s a security measure so that if someone steals your phone and turns it off, they’re stuffed - they’ll need your passcode to get in (so use a long one), and won’t be able to wipe or do anything with the phone.That makes the phone even less attractive to thieves - something that the policehave already noticed.Anyhow, enter your passcode, and let’s get started.Extensions aheadThe really important changes are underneath. Apple now allows “Extensions”, which allow apps to share their functionality with other apps, so an app can add the ability to post directly from Safari to LinkedIn, Instapaper, Pinboard or more. Widgets - strictly “Today Extensions” - you can interact with directly in the “Today” view. It also enabled third-party keyboards, such as Swiftkey.Extensions are like Android’s “intents” - one app tells a second that it can do a particular function for the second app. I tried an app called “ShareEverywhere”, byWandle Software, which can send a link, photo or other text to all sorts of services, such as Flickr, LinkedIn, Pinboard, and so on.To “install” the extension, you simply download the app; its extension then shows up in the related app. So ShareEverywhere offers its services in Safari or Chrome: from the “share” menu, it comes up as an option in the menu, and you then choose which service to send data to. Such apps will also run on iOS 7, but the Extension functionality won’t show up in the target app.Sure, Android had a form of this functionality since the stone age, but Apple claims to have secured it: it’s not the actual app that runs, but a stub with the same credentials, so it can’t take data. For Apple’s business users, this is a very important consideration.iOS 8 lets you edit the sharing options from Extensions - to reorder or remove them. Here, the “ShareEverywhere” app extension is moved from last position to second.Photograph: GuardianThe menu organisation is well done: you can edit and reorder the list of Extensions that will appear in the menu. That’s quite a relief after Android, where every app that can fulfil an “intent” will appear in the dialog - even if you don’t want them to.Android’s “intents” (apps that can fulfil a function) can’t be edited - not a problem when there are only two, but for photos or other functions the menu can quickly become unwieldy.Photograph: GuardianIt’s the same in the “Today” part of the Notification centre, the element that pulls down from the top of the screen: apps can install Extensions there. They’re referred to as “Widgets”, though I suspect they’ll just get called “notifications”. Apps can install an extension that will be called when the menu is pulled down - that means the Guardian app will give you headlines, the eBay app will tell you about auctions you’re taking part in, the preinstalled stocks app gives you stock data.iOS 8’s Today panel can be edited and reordered to give a different view of the day ahead and urgent news.Photograph: GuardianAs with Extensions, you can edit the content of the Today menu, removing widgets or putting them higher up. It’s iOS, with customisation. And that enables workflows - at first simple, but potentially more complex:iOS 8’s Extensions means that you can create workflows (here shown posting to Pinboard using the ShareEverywhere app from Wandle Software).Photograph: GuardianiOS 8 allows third-party keyboards, with warnings.Photograph: GuardianThird-party keyboards are much the same, except you have to configure them in Settings by adding them (Settings &gt; General &gt; Keyboards). I tried one called TouchPal, which lets you “draw” the words.That said, Apple’s own “Quick Type” keyboard is an improvement on what went before. It offers word suggestions - derived, Apple says, from the corpus of words in your emails and messages stored on the phone; the data remains on the phone - which appear in a bar above the keyboard. You can slide the bar down if it’s intrusive. Tap the “world” icon to get it back.Android users will be grumbling, that this is yetanotherthing Apple has finally caught up with, and they’d be right. But I found it only occasionally useful; I use two thumbs and can type quite quickly. Hunt-and-peck typists will probably like it more.The thing you still can’t do, and what Apple probably won’t ever do, is choose a different default app for browsing, or mail, or maps. Still a gap from Android; one that probably won’t ever be filled.Family Sharing: in-app purchases solvedLast year Google introduced an option for tablets in Android 4.2 that let you create multiple user accounts - you could switch between them with a few taps. Considering Google’s business model, this makes sense: it wants to show tailored adverts to different people, so letting them create their own accounts on hardware is good, even if it means the company making the hardware gets no benefit.Apple, being a hardware company, isn’t going to go down that route. Instead, it has created “Family Sharing” - where a single iTunes payment card is shared among up to five people. The owner of the account can invite others, and also set up accounts for children under 13 (under US law, such children can’t).Family Sharing on iOS 8: up to five people can use the same card, and their purchases can trigger an “Ask to Buy” even for free downloads.Photograph: GuardianFinally, there’s a solution for those spiralling in-app purchases by children. The account owner can turn on “Ask to Buy” for any account, which means that before the user can make a purchase, it has to be approved by the owner, although they can still download free apps. I tried this feature on my 13-year-old - who detested it, which probably indicates that it works pretty well.Family Sharing also means that each member of the “family” gets access to the others’ apps, music, films and TV shows. This is obviously going to be a concern for app developers (and the music, film and TV business). Possibly Apple is paying some sort of per-download compensation, though I haven’t seen any mention of it.Finally, Family Sharing also adds a “Family” calendar, through which all those in the shared account can see and edit a calendar. Apple’s motive is obvious - make the incentive for a family to go all-iOS stronger - and executed well. If some of the family have iPhones and some have Android phones, this makes an argument for shifting to iOS (and hence cutting down on iTunes costs). Google hasn’t got anything to match it yet.Messaging: instant, and fleetingThe rise of Snapchat, and Tim Cook’s observations of how people communicate in Asia, means that the new version of iMessage has some extra tweaks. Snapchat, of course, has made self-destructing pictures more popular. And in Asia, people often send brief voice messages rather than typing out a message.In the new iMessage, you can now send pictures or video that will self-destruct within a few seconds - unless the recipient chooses to keep it, so remember that. You can also press the microphone icon on the right of the message bar to record a message which, again, will self-destuct unless the recipient decides to keep it.I’ve written previously about theuser interface challenge that the new Messages represents. I think the really tricky part will be discovering the new interaction.iOS 8 lets you share your location in Messages - useful for arranging meetings.Photograph: GuardianMore broadly useful is the ability to share your location (either temporarily or permanently), view the photos from a discussion in a single list, and mute a discussion if it’s getting annoying. All will be important to the teenage demographic that loves iMessage.Camera, light, slow actionApple has opened up some APIs for developers so that apps can control all sorts of camera details, including exposure, time, white balance, and focus. Filters can be embedded (via Extensions) into the Photos app, where they can make “non-destructive” changes - that is, the original photo remains in your library, and the alteration instructions are stored.Exposure meter on iOS 8’s camera: move the “sun” icon up or down to change the exposure.Photograph: GuardianThe most obvious addition when using the camera is the new “exposure” control - a yellow sun icon around the focus square, which you can slide up or down. The other obvious addition, to go with the Panorama, Square, and Video functions on older phones isTime Lapse, which creates a time-lapse film at 1/30th normal speed. Instagram beat Apple to the punch on the latter with itsgyro-stabilised Hyperlapse, which does much the same and even lets you change the speed afterwards. There’s also a timer function, useful for the selfie generation.We won’t see the full potential of the Camera in iOS 8 until more photography apps appear which use the potential of Extensions. That could take a few months.PrivacyWith the Snowden revelations in 2013, attention to internet privacy gained a sudden intensity. Apple has been emphasising this, though without much effect - but in iOS 8, it’s trying harder.One of the smallest changes is also the most indicative.In Safari, Google is the default search engine, and you can also choose Bing or Yahoo, as in previous years. But now you can make your default search engine DuckDuckGo,Gabe Weinberg’s little startupwhich doesn’t collect any data about you. (It does serve ads, but based simply on your search term.) I use DDG on the desktop, though on mobile, I’ve never found Yahoo or Bing to be good substitutes. Bing is a mess on mobile (if you do one search, and then try to do a second, it reloads the page and fills it with an image). Yahoo’s results aren’t much help.I like DuckDuckGo and its results. It’s still growing. Will many people will switch their default from Google? Almost certainly not - but it is at least an option. For those who don’t like thedatenkraken, it’s a viable alternative.Apps: more privacyiOS 8 is even tougher on app privacy than iOS 7, and will tell you if an app has been using your location in the background.iOS 8 warns you if apps use your location or other functions in the background.Photograph: GuardianIt asks you before they can use your contacts, or access the camera, or Health, or the microphone, or pretty much any useful element of the phone. And you can revoke them. This is a big difference from Android, where location is all-or-nothing, and apps make land grabs for your data.Maps and SiriOnce derided as a joke, Apple’s maps have been steadily improved and have a better interface. Getting walking directions used to be difficult. Now, when you choose a route, you’re subsequently offered the choice of driving, walking or getting an app to tell you.iOS 8 improves the Maps functionality for choosing whether to drive, walk or take public transport.Photograph: GuardianOn the latter, the lack of public transport directions - rumoured for two years, but still missing - is a big omission when compared to Google Maps. But if you have an app installed that will give public transport directions, such as the excellentCitymapper, you’ll be able to go and plan your journey directly there. That’s been the case since last year.Siri, meanwhile, has barely advanced since last year. The only modest enhancements s/he gets this are the ability to be activated by saying “Hey, Siri” as long as the phone is connected to power, and to identify music via Shazam, even without the Shazam app. Ask “Hey, Siri, what’s that song?” and you’ll get an answer.However, it’s still some way off Google Now, or even the “intelligent assistant” made for Microsoft’s Cortana. Possibly Siri will get more love next year.HealthThe Health app seems innocuous at first, but can hook into so many possible devices and sources that it looks like Apple is planning for the iPhone to be the adjunct to everything. The only thing it seems to lack is space to store X-rays.In the new iPhones, the addition of a barometer means Health can record the number of stairs climbed, not just steps taken (a personal bugbear). You can show these in your “dashboard” to monitor quite how wonderfully healthy you’re being.iOS 8 introduces a Health Dashboard. The iPhone 6 and 6 Plus will tell you about stairs climbed as well as steps taken. There are many other medical attributes too which can be added to the Dashboard.Photograph: GuardianPotentially more helpful is that you can create a “Medical ID”, where you can add details such as name, age, blood type, emergency contacts, allergies, medical treatments you’re having, medical notes, and whether you’re an organ donor. Those are optionally accessible on the emergency screen, so no phone unlocking is required - meaning they can be accessed by medical staff if you’re unconscious. Here’s mine:iOS 8 can create a Medical ID accessible on the lock screen for medical staff.Photograph: GuardianiCloud: get in and DriveHaving tried to abstract away the file system, Apple has finally caved in and accepted that some people like finding their way around directory trees. Thus “iCloud Drive” is very like Google Drive or Dropbox, except it isn’t free. You start with 5GB of free storage, and it then jumps to 20GB for $1 per month, 200GB for $4 per month, 500GB for $10 per month or 1TB for $20 per month.The storage allowance includes backups of things like photos from your phone; nubile starlets with publicly available answers to security questions should probably avoid.It’s a huge improvement on the small, highly-priced amounts ($20 per 10GB) of last year, but still feels like Apple is just squeezing money for no good reason. If you’ve coughed up for a 128GB device, you might hope for the same amount of backup. But no dice.Oh my God, it’s full of settingsWhile iOS 8 mostly brings good things, there’s one area that’s growing like Japanese knotweed: the number of settings, and their submenus. There are tons of new things in there - battery usage by app, the Family Sharing element in iCloud.But here’s the problem: you can’t find them via the Spotlight search interface. Will Passcode be at the top level of the menu, or is it buried somewhere in Privacy or General? Is Call Forwarding part of Mobile, or Phone?The Settings menu is becoming gigantic, which wouldn’t be a problem if only you could search within it. But you can’t - which condemns you to endless hide-and-seek games. With broad OS-based settings becoming more important, this is a flaw that will only get worse until Apple fixes it - either by having specific search inside Settings, or adding its elements to the OS-wide search. The desktop OSX has had search within its Preferences (equivalent to Settings)since 2005. It’s overdue in iOS.But how fast is it?The criticism of iOS 7 was that it was slow on older devices, particularly the iPhone 4 and iPad 2, which were the oldest devices on which it would run. For the past couple of months I have been testing beta builds of iOS 8 on an iPhone 5C - effectively iPhone 5 hardware - and found no sluggishness. Owners of iPhone 4Ss might want to see how others get on, but I found no noticeable performance hit compared to iOS 7.ConclusionAs we approach the end of 2014, Apple has made iOS more customisable than ever before - bringing it closer to Android’s flexibility - through Extensions. It’s also added useful touches and more privacy throughout. Should you install it? This is absolutely a no-brainer. Yes, you should.Pros:Extensions add functionality, third-party keyboards and “widgets”; camera gets more function (and APIs); Family Sharing gives parental control over in-app purchases; extra app and search privacy; greater security if phone is stolenCons:no search in Settings; unclear how well it will run on iPhone 4S•iPhone 6 Plus review: it’s a very big phone - and it feels great•Apple iPhone 6: thinner, faster and slightly cheaper - reviewUpdate: this article was corrected: the Wandle Software app is called ShareEverywhere, not Share.• This footnote was appended on 23 September 2014. Charles Arthur’s travel and accommodation was paid for by Apple.
PayPalhas struck out at new payments rivalApple Pay, theNFC-operatedpayment system announced during last week’skeynote speechin Cupertino, California.TheeBay-owned electronic payment platform took out a full-page advert in a number of US publications on Monday, including theNew York Times,San Francisco ChronicleandUSA Today.“We the people want our money safer than our selfies. PayPal, protecting the people economy”, the advert declares.Let&#39;s enjoy our money, not worry about it.#paypalitfor a safer and more secure way to pay:http://t.co/DFAH3bqniS.pic.twitter.com/e5udR8zGBJ&mdash; PayPal (@PayPal)September 15, 2014While Apple is not referenced directly, PayPal is referring to the recentnude celebrity photo leak, for which security lapses in Apple’s iCloud technology were blamed.DespiteApple’s denialsthat iCloud was breached, the scandal was bad timing for the company, occurring just a week before itsiPhone 6 and Apple Watch launch.The advert isn’t the first punch thrown at Apple. PayPal’s senior director of communications, Rob Skinner,told TechRadarafter the Apple Pay announcement: “Nobody can dispute Apple’s strong track record, but payments is a difficult area. It’s much more difficult to do payments than to keep a live stream working!”Jennifer Lawrence, one of the celebrities whose photos were hacked.Photograph: FREDERIC J. BROWN/AFP/Getty Images“We’re quite surprised that Apple Pay has limited functionality. You can’t expect people just to swap their leather wallets for digital ones, you have to offer more and there is nothing to reward loyalty or provide offers or anything built in with Apple Pay”, Skinner added.One might question the wisdom of PayPal’s attack on Apple, given its own security wobbles. Not long ago the company’s two-step verificationproved fallible, and it was caught up in aphishing scamin November 2013. Parent companyeBay was hackedin May this year.PayPal is said to be frustrated at being left off Apple Pay’slist of recommended paymentpartners, which includesStripe, Authorize.net, and Chase Paymentech, FirstData, TSYS – but notBraintree, the subsidiary PayPal uses. However, PayPal doesallow customers to make transactionswith Apple iTunes store.•Paypal to accept bitcoin through subsidiary Braintree
Name:Markus Persson.AKA:Notch, Markus Alexei.Age:35.Appearance:Bald, or wearing a hat. At a party or behind a computer screen.What has he done?He’s a Swedish programmer who invented a game calledMinecraftover a weekend in 2009. Now he hassold the company that makes it to Microsoftfor $2.5bn (£1.5bn).Minecraft, yes. The name is familiar.You’re clearly not eight years old.How can you tell?At this point an eight-year-old would be shouting about being chased by creepers and explaining how you make charcoal in order to create a torch on your crafting table. Plus a few little things in your appearance.And Microsoft. Remind me, who they are again?Bill Gates, Xbox, annoying paperclip, big in the 1990s, still very rich …Ah yes. Them. So well done Markus Persson, eh?Sort of. Not everybody is patting him on the back.How come? Jealousy?Perhaps. But also crossness. You see, Minecraft and Persson hitherto embodied all that was great and pure and noble about computer games. It’s open, like virtual Lego, drawing on the users’ own infinite creativity. In just a few years, they have formed a vast community of mutually supportive hobbyists.How lovely.Yes, and Persson himself became a champion of small, independent companies and free-spirited game-making.“Got an email from microsoft, wanting to help ‘certify’ minecraft for win 8,”he tweeted in 2012. “I told them to stop trying to ruin the pc as an open platform.”That’ll tell ’em. Is it just me or do computer people take random stuff really seriously?They do. Indeed, Persson claims the pressure of being the “symbol” of Minecraft, being blamed whenever anything goes wrong, is precisely why he’s selling.Couldn’t he just put the company in a trust or something?Perhaps he didn’t think of that. “I’m aware this goes against a lot of what I’ve said in public,”he said in a statement. “I have no good response to that. I’m also aware a lot of you were using me as a symbol of some perceived struggle. I’m not. I’m a person, and I’m right there struggling with you.”Struggling in a billionairey kind of way.Exactly.Do say:“He’s the thinking man’sKim Dotcom.”Don’t say: “Perhaps he can pay people to say he’s not a hypocrite?”
FANBOYSWE HAVE YOUR SHOESFreakerSNEAKSdesigner Jonny Barry has created a pair ofNikeAir Jordans IV and given them aSony Playstation 4-influenced makeover; their USP is HDMI.The shoes, to be called JRDN x PS4, come in slick black with an embossed PS4 logo on the back, and – wait for it – an HDMI port in the heel. This almost tops the flashing lights we had in ourCica trainersin the early 90s, but not quite.Unfortunately, the HDMI port doesn’t actually work; it’s just there for decoration. This means the JRDN x PS4s are less functional thanHeelys, but not nearly as irritating. The trainers do, however, come with a HDMI cable, which seems a bit pointless to us, but there that is.The sneakers have their own HDMI port.Photograph: FreakerSNEAKSAnd if you want to get your hands (or feet) on a pair, Barry says he’s selling ten pairs. Better get in there fast.Barry plans to release just 10 pairs of the trainers, retailing at $950 (£587). That’s the equivalent of around 45 pairs of Converse Chuck All Stars or 11 Adidas Gazelles.“My inspiration for these came to me in a flash of insight once I had made the decision to buy the PS4 on release day”, Barry toldDualShockers’ Joel Taveras. “I’m kind of brand loyal to Sony’s products, and I thought the concept would translate well onto a pair of Air Jordan IVs.”Continuing the tech theme, prospective customers can get their hands on a pair of the sneakers by contacting FreakerSNEAKS onInstagram.We think they’re the most exciting piece of wearablethat’s launched this month.Barry’s next project is customising a pair of Nike Air Jordan 1s with a Sonic the Hedgehog theme.•Why has the Playstation 4 been so successful?
