ModelBMW Z4 M CoupePrice&pound;41,285Top speed155mphAcceleration0-62mph in 5 secondsConsumption23.3mpg (combined)EmissionsCO2 292g/kmAt the wheelDjimi TraoreOn the stereoBeyonc&eacute;En route forAlderley EdgeThey'd rather walkJimmy ArmfieldThe BMW Z4 M coupe is a joy to behold. Seen from the side, it appears to have been painted in a single brushstroke - a simple lick of shiny metal. It drew the full range of reactions from people on the pavement, from turning heads, through open-mouthed gasps of appreciation, to the occasional cry of pleasure. I've not heard a car get one of those since the rebirth of the Mini.BMW decided that, as it was producing the Z4 roadster, and replacing the darkly glamorous and sharklike Z3, it might as well run off a few coupe versions, or "pocket GTs", for a laugh. Hence the Z4 M, a niche car for the niche speed freak. BMW expects to sell around 200 of this special number in the UK (and 2,000 of the two lower-powered variants, the SE Coupe and Sport Coupe), meaning that this is not a vehicle that you are going to be seeing about the place all the time, unless you happen to live among footballers.What separates the coupe from the roadster is, by definition, its permanent hard roof. That's a sign that the car has been built for the longer haul and a signal that it is more serious about speed and traction than the roadster and less serious about fresh air and showing off in built-up areas.And a very fine roof it is, too, in a shape that BMW refers to as a "double bubble", with a sunken ridge down the middle, as if a strong head-wind has given the car a centre parting. This would be highly unfashionable on a human, but somehow ends up looking perfectly acceptable on a sports car.The Z4 M is also distinguished by its greedier air intakes at the front and by the hump in its bonnet, known in the business as a "power bulge", suggesting that its 3.2-litre engine is packing so much muscle that it is actually trying to force its way out. It's the automobile world's equivalent of Lycra sportswear.In every sense, the car specialises in the vacuum-packing of its contents, including the driver. You don't so much climb into the Z4 as slip it on like a sock. The leather seats offer you and the partner of your choice a welcome so intimate that it could almost be described as presumptuous. From within, the body of the car also gives the impression - by turns intimidating and emboldening - of coming to an end directly behind your headrest. Accordingly, the anxiety briefly plays on your mind that if you push the seat back too hard, you'll end up sitting in the road.Incidentally, my Z4 came with parking sensors. Obviously anything that diminishes the risk of grazing a car as beautiful and unflinchingly expensive as this can't be entirely unwelcome. Even so, a system of bleepers couldn't help but seem almost comically surplus to requirements. After all, in situations where there was any doubt, I could have turned around, wound down the window and felt my way back with an outstretched hand.As it happens, there is a perfectly acceptable boot beneath the coupe's hatchback - as there should be in a grand tourer, given that nobody ever toured grandly without luggage. Yet you would barely divine its presence to look at the car, leading one to suspect the involvement of mirrors.Nothing else about the Z4 M is remotely illusory. Its poise is unimpeachable. Even on 90-degree turns, slowing down appears to be optional. The rumble and blast of its engine, the sumptuous weight of its steering - it would be possible, I'm sure, not to be seduced by these things, but you would probably need a heart of flint.Naturally, on a car this shrunken there is no room for a spare wheel. Non-M versions get round this by being fitted with those cunning run-flat tyres, enabling you to leave the injured wheel in place and limp to the nearest Kwik-Fit without converting important parts of the car's suspension into small pieces of rubble in the process.However, run-flat tyres weren't deemed high-performance enough for the harder-driving Z4 M, and the car comes with standard, burstable tyres instead. A puncture repair kit is supplied, but bear in mind that a blow-out in this coupe is likely to involve a lot of fluffing about on the hard shoulder with glue and plasters - or, at any rate, cans of sealant - and that this could be the unadvertised price you pay for fancying yourself in a racing car. It's a small one, if you ask me.&middot;Giles Smith's column moves to the Guardian's Weekend magazine on Saturday.
Now, anyone and everyone can have a Facebook account -- even you. TheFacebook blog says:Here at Facebook, we want to help people understand their world. We started at one school, and realized over and over again that this site was useful to everyone -- not just to Harvard students, not just to college students, not just to students, not just to former students. We've kept growing to accommodate this fact.This includes your friends who graduated pre-Facebook (yes, there was such a time), your friends who don't have school or work email addresses, and your friends whose schools don't give out email addresses. Now you can all connect.Comment: Facebook is now officially open for gaming. Advertisers, spam-bloggers and scam artists can now pile in, not to mention the voyeurs and stalkers. There goes the neighbourhood, probably.....
Microsoft released a patch for the zero-dayVML (Vector Markup Language) security holeyesterday, instead of waiting for October's "patch Tuesday". If you have Windows with updates set to automatic, you probably already have it. If not, see:Microsoft security updates for September 2006Comment: I installed the patch without any obvious problems. It doesn't need a reboot.
Microsoft released a patch for the zero-dayVML (Vector Markup Language) security holeyesterday, instead of waiting for October's "patch Tuesday". If you have Windows with updates set to automatic, you probably already have it. If not, see:Microsoft security updates for September 2006
News editors seem to have a thing for cycling stories these days. You can hardly open a newspaper without seeing some item or other. It's usually knocking copy - making out either that cycling is dangerous, or that cyclists are (surely some contradiction?) - but harmless enough. But there is one bike-related story I never want to read again: the one that ran last week about a suicide bomber in Afghanistan who rode into a crowd and detonated himself, killing four Canadian soldiers and wounding dozens of Afghans, including at least two children. The Taliban have claimed responsibility.It's not the first time a bicycle has been used this way. The Tamil Tigers have done so, as have Palestinian militants and Iraqi insurgents. Apart from the horror at such carnage, when a bicycle is named as the suicide bomber's mode of transport, I am filled with a particular melancholy. It is almost as if I feel guilt by association; I hate to think that so pure an idea could be tainted by such desperate cruelty.Which is odd of me. Car bombings are far more common - and destructive - yet do motorists flinch inwardly at hearing of one? I doubt it, and there's no rational reason why they should.For cyclists, though, there is one rational reason why we should fear a link being drawn between suicide bombing and bicycles. It has long been the policy of the Metropolitan police not to permit bikes to be parked in the vicinity of the Houses of Parliament, dating from the time when the security threat came not from jihadists but from Irish republicans.This was absurd. Michael Collins may have ridden a bike between ambushes of British troops during the war of independence (1919-21), but when the IRA wanted to attack the British establishment in the 1970s and 80s, it didn't bother with bicycles: it was car bombs and lorries loaded with mortars. The police impounding bikes around Whitehall always seemed to me more a snobbish concern with street hygiene than with any terrorist threat.Yet the bogey of the bike-as-bomb lives on. The excuse given by Arsenal FC for failing to provide adequate bike parking at its new Emirates stadium in north London is precisely this: that the police advise al-Qaida might send in ranks of bicycle-riding suicide bombers. Not that one wants to contemplate it, but if the threat is that serious, then presumably the police will be excluding all motor traffic and frisking every fan going in. No, of course, they won't. There is parking for 500 season ticket holders' cars beneath the ground. It is clearly considered beyond al-Qaida's capability to acquire a season ticket.Arsenal has committed itself to a travel plan that has 88% of matchgoers arriving by means other than private car. Despite that target, here we have a major public building fighting its planning obligations to provide suitable bike parking. As a precedent, that strikes me as far more dangerous than the phantom bike bomber.Win a bicycle worth &#163;2,700 In association with the Cycle Show 2006The Bike Doctor is away this week. Instead, Two Wheels, in association with the Cycle Show, is delighted to bring you the chance to win a brand new racing bike.All you need to do to enter the draw to win this fantastic Litespeed Ardennes, worth &pound;2,700, is email your answer to the following question to:litespeed.competition@guardian.co.uk(Closing date October 2. The winner will be the first correct answer drawn from all entries on October 3, and the result will be announced by the Bike Doctor next week.)Q. What material is Litespeed famous for making bike frames from?a) carbon; b) titanium; c) aluminium.&#183;The Cycle Show 2006, the UK's premier cycling exhibition, takes place at the Excel exhibition centre, London, on October 6-8, with special guests including Eddy Merckx, Bradley Wiggins and Roger Hammond. For details, visitwww.cycleshow.co.ukor call 0870 126 1786 to book tickets. For further information about Litespeed bikes, go towww.litespeed.comor come and visit the Litespeed stand at the Cycle Show.
Way back in February 2004, Lili Cheng and Sean Kelly from Microsoft Research gave a talk on social networking at O'Reilly's ETech 04 conference in San Diego. There was also a little "do" in the hotel where we could try one of the group's two-year-old projects, which was called Wallop. (Other topics of casual conversation were Howard Dean's campaign and moving from Firebird to this new Firefox browser.) That year, it had roughly 200 users active enough to upload at least some content.The most amusing thing about it was that Wallop used Adobe's Flash whereas Google's Orkut was built using Microsoft.net technology.Well, as we know, Microsoft did get into social networking in a big way: it launched the hugely successful Spaces system, now called Live Spaces.Wallop was just an experimental sandbox project, but it didn't die. A guy called Karl Jacob saw Wallop, hired the main developer, Sean Kelly, set up Wallop Technology Inc and pulled in $10 million in venture capital funding. Wallop launched a beta version ofWallopat the Demo Fall conference in San Diego yesterday. (There's apress release.) Yes, it's still Flash-based.Apparently this is big news --"about 748" hits in Google News. Unfortunately, some of these stories are misleading. Anything that says "Microsoft launches Wallop" is patently wrong. Anyone who says this is Microsoft getting into social networking is an idiot. (It did that with Spaces.) As usual, Slashdot provides a prime example of clueless stupidity withMicrosoft Launches Social Network.But you can understand the problem. Microsoft didn't think Wallop was worth launching, but unless you highlight the Microsoft connection, there's not really much of a story, is there?
Just a quick note for those poor souls desperately hanging on for long-awaited mini-GTA adventure, Vice City Stories. Rockstar released new screens and another trailer for the game on itsofficial websiteyesterday. The new movie, entitled 'Ladies and Gentlemen: Let's Pop' features the usual scenes of rotund reprobates trash talking each other, interspersed with high-speed vehicular shoot-outs. Each movie is available in specially formatted PSP and iPod editions, which is a nice feature. That's all.
If you're thinking about working in the games industry, there are a couple of events taking place as part of this Autumn'sLondon Games Festivalthat should be scribbled right at the top of your 'to do' list. First up, GamesIndustry.biz and Gamasutra.com have joined forces to set up the first everLondon Game Career Fair, taking place on the 3rd and 4th of October at Café Royal.Here, students, recent graduates and budding game designers will be able to meet representatives from the likes of Electronic Arts, Blitz Games, Crytek, LucasArts and Sony Computer Entertainment Europe. Speakers include Chris Williams of LucasArts, Dave Ranyard of SCEE and Sion Lenton of Blitz Games. Goherefor a full schedule.The event is free, but you'll need to register onlinehere.Two days later head over toSense of Play 06, a one day symposium on game design, co-sponsored by theUniversity College for the Creative Arts. The event will feature keynote speeches from Revolution Software founder Charles Cecil, Patrick O'Luanaigh ofnDreamsand Rob Cooper, Head of Interactive Drama and Entertainment at the BBC. The day closes with a display of work submitted by graduates of UCCA's MA in Digital Game Design. Sense of Play takes place on Friday October 6 at the Soho Theatre and is free to attend, although places are limited. You can register your interest at registration@senseofplay.comSo are there any budding game designers, artists, programmers or writers amid Gamesblog's readership?
"Apple and Cingular have signed an agreement that will make the US' largest cell phone provider the exclusive carrier of Apple's forthcoming phone, sources report. Apple's iPhone remains on track for an early 2007 release," saysThinkSecret."Apple's exclusive contract with Cingular is said to be good for the first six months, sources report, meaning other providers will be able to sell the phone in the second-half of 2007. Cingular had an exclusive on the Motorola ROKR -- the first phone to feature iTunes -- when it launched last year."Comment: His Holy Steveness is expected to show the long-awaited iPhone candybar-style cameraphone -- the first of a range -- at MacWorld Expo in January.
This week the gaming focus switches from Tokyo to Barcelona as Microsoft host their X06 event. Kicking off tomorrow (Wednesday) evening and running throughout Thursday, X06 will showcase a stack of upcoming Xbox 360 games plus some Games For Windows (Microsoft's attempt to brand PC gaming) titles. Of course, the real excitement is likely to be found on the 360 - unless you have a particular love of Flight Sim X - with the second wave of titles due to be shown. You can bet that Halo 3 will be there in some form, but I'm also looking forward to having another play on Gears of War, ideally single player this time, and Pro Evo 6 (obviously). Blockbusters aside I like the look ofAlan Wakeand Alone in the Dark - the 360 is in dire need of something a little more sophisticated, so let's hope these psychological thrillers deliver. Wake in particular looks hugely promising, with a lovely Twin Peaks ambience. At the other extreme I still hold a little soft spot for Viva Piñata after a passionately delivered demo at E3 showed the game having more potential than the "Xbox kids game" I'd written it off as.Previous X0 events - always lavish affairs - have seen expensively booked DJ's (ie Mylo) doing their thing in front of a handful of drunken revelers while PR types try in vain to encourage the rest of the industry from the bar. But you can't doubt the importance of the event. Thepress conferencestart around 6pm UK time tomorrow - Microsoft are cranking up the hype by promising big announcements - and I'm planning to blog impressions later in the evening.
"Three AOL subscribers who suddenly found records of their Internet searches widely distributed online are suing the company under privacy laws and are seeking an end to its retention of search-related data," reportsAP."The lawsuit is believed to be the first in the wake of AOL's intentional release of some 19 million search requests made over a three-month period by more than 650,000 subscribers, including the three plaintiffs -- two unnamed Californians and Kasadore Ramkissoon of Richmond County, NY."
Rachel Whetstone, Google's European Director of Communications and Public Affairs, has posted some informaiotn on theBelgian court caseconcerning Google News.It has been a very silly saga, but I was struck by one paragraph:Last week we asked the court to reconsider its decision and requested that the requirement to post the ruling on our home pages be suspended. The court on Friday 22nd September agreed to reconsider its ruling in November this year, but maintained the requirement that we must post the initial judgment to our home pages for five days or face a fine of 500,000 Euros a day.Seriously, what sort of crime justifies a fine of €500,000 ($640,000) a day? This is insane. Europeans are used to getting a laugh out of American court cases where someone sues Mega Corp Inc for $13.7 billion because they stubbed their big toe (though we also know they don't get it). We've already got the EC threatening Microsoft with a deranged level of fines -- €2,000,000 a day, or maybe €3,000,000 -- presumably based on the idea that it has too much money and, since it's Microsoft, nobody will care whether it's just or not. Well, if it works against Microsoft, why not try it on Google, too?I've never seen any evidence that Google does not respect the decisions of any local or national courts (including China's), or that it will do anything except comply. I therefore doubt that threatening ridiculous fines to "enforce" decisions increases anyone's respect for such courts. Just the reverse.
The Gran Turismo post has prompted a mini-debate about the quality of graphics on offer from early PlayStation 3 titles. So for the purposes of comparison, here's a selection of other in-game* PS3 shots, fresh from TGS. ForgetHolbein- wander throughthisgallery of much-hyped images then feel free to add a Brian Sewell-esque comment...*don't start...Resistance: Fall of ManHD-ocity rating: almost baroque in its sense of scale. 7/10Hotshots Golf 5HD-ocity: possibly overdoing the lighting effects a little. 6/10LairHD-ocity: imposingly robust dragons, but will the framerate grind with so many soldiers on screen? Possible early test for Cell processor. 7/10Genji: Days of the BladeHD-ocity: Is this the most elaborate power guage display of all time? 6/10MotorstormHD-ocity: Extremely busy shot. Have seen others where motorcyclist flies off after impact suggesting bloodcurdling ragdoll physics potential. 8/10WarhawkHD-ocity: I'm disappointed by this. Okay, there are a lot of planes, but whatisthat structure in the background supposed to be? 5/10Formula One Championship Edition (working title)HD-ocity: A replay so technically cheating. Also, does anyone still play F1 games? 6/10Heavenly SwordHD-ocity: I'm bored of all this nowMore throughout the day...
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Rockstar has officially announced its latest project, L.A. Noire, an interactive detective story developed by Australian codeshop,Team Bondi. Set in the late forties, it's an attempt to capture the look and spirit of the Film Noire genre - as the press release explains:"L.A. Noire blends action, detection and complex storytelling and draws players into an open-ended challenge to solve a series of gruesome murders. Set in a perfectly recreated Los Angeles before freeways, with a post-war backdrop of corruption, drugs and jazz, L.A. Noire will truly blend cinema and gaming."'GTA meets Raymond Chandler' is what they'll all be saying, but of course this project has nothing to do with Rockstar North, and is actually being overseen by Brendan McNamara of Getawayinfamyfame. And, of course, it's not the first title to play with the themes and aesthetics of Film Noir - Max Payne and Grim Fandango among others have been there first. An intriguing prospect though.A trailer will be availableherefrom October 5.
On the tail of a mixed Tokyo Game Show, Sony has officially released details of Gran Turismo HD, the latest in Polyphony Digital's cerebral driving series. Like other GT specials before it, this is notquitea full-on GT sequel. The game will consist of two separate sections: GT HD Premium and GT HD Classic...The former is a sort of no compromises HD showcase featuring 30 cars two tracks and visuals so lip-smackingly high-def you reallywillbelieve you are driving an Evo IV through a winding mountain pass. It says here. (To be fair,enthusiastic reportsfrom the show floor would seem to back up Sony's hype.)Meanwhile, HD Classic is a more graphically-modest, online-tailored experience apparently using HD-enhanced car models and circuits from previous titles - and plenty of them. As the press release explains:"GT HD Classic features unique online gameplay that not only provides head-to-head racing, but allows for the long awaited feature of additional cars (ranging up to 770 car models) and tracks (up to 51) available through ongoing downloads. During gameplay in Gran Turismo HD, players have the ability to manage race regulations, online competition and communities, as well as organize race events."It's not clear yet, how many - if any - of these hundreds of vehicles will be available from the outset, and how many will be downloadable. Before TGS it was assumed that GT Classic would be a separate retail release from GT premium and that the game would ship withnovehicles, forcing gamers to download everything. Areport on 1up.com, based on a previous feature in Japan's Famitsu magazine, worked out that users may have to pay up to USD975 for a full game with all cars and circuits.Naturally, this prompted plenty of 'rip-off Sony'accusations, although perhaps the fact that the two GT HD versions will ship together will allay some of those concerns. Also, it should be remembered that GT Classic is conceived as an online title - it's likely gamers are going to prove more selective, purchasing only the cars they'll actually use in multiplayer competition. Sure, this scenario goes against the gotta have 'em all philosophy of previous GT titles, but it is very much in line with current online gaming business models - especially those in Korea. There, dedicated online titles like the massively successful Kart Rider are often given away for free, but players need to buy cars, upgrades and decals.Rest-assured, Sony won't be alone in following this microtransactional model - in some ways it's a microcosm of the "bait and hook" business plan used to shift videogame hardware. The initial game release becomes the bait to tie gamers into purchasing endless high margin "consumables" - i.e. in-game downloads.Horse armourwas the opening shot in an industry-wide salvo...
You have to feel slightly sorry for Tiger Woods. Yesterday saw his US team get thrashed in the Ryder Cup and then, just 24 hours later, he was at a rain-soaked Leicester Square doing the promotional thing with Vernon Kay, Jodie Kidd and Ian Wright. Just think of the money Tiger, just think of the money. The EA event, designed to promoteTiger Woods 2007, saw the clearly uncomfortable golf star playing real and videogame golf with the "celebs" and some lucky competition winners.I popped along to the event, mainly because I've always enjoyed the Tiger Woods games but also to get a peek at the best golfer on the planet. He was a lot shorter than I expected, though who wouldn't look dimunitive when stood next to Kay. The event was being filmed forT4so probing interview questions were clearly off the agenda. The best it got was the revelation that Tiger never actually plays as himself in the game, preferring instead to create a "fat guy" character. Can we read anything into this? Does he harbour a secret desire to let himself go? Can he not bear seeing himself lose? Am I digging to deep into a throwaway remark probably fed to him by the PR? Most definitely. At least the game looked good, although I'm still not totally at home with using the analogue stick to swing with - I blame hours spent onLeaderboardin the 80s.
EXCLUSIVE: Apple Trademark Office docs point to REAL reasons for" Podcast" controversysays Russell Shaw's bog at ZD Net.Basically, he searched the trademark section of the US Patent and Trademark Office website and found Aople trying, in a somewhat blundering way, to trademark iPodcast. No surprise, then, if it's getting litigious about the use ofpodcasting (below), which it didn't invent, and to which it has no moral rights at all.
Fortune magazine's latest cover isdevoted to Google, the current media darling, and whether it's a one-hit wonder. So where does chaos come in?To figure the place out, I've repeatedly been told the person to see is Shona Brown, the 40-year-old ex-McKinsey consultant who is Google's senior vice president for business operations. That's what it says on her business card, anyway, but she might as well be Google's chief chaos officer. She literally wrote the book on the subject, a 1998 bestseller called "Competing on the Edge: Strategy as Structured Chaos."And later:The company's goal, says Brown, is to determine precisely the amount of management it needs -- and then use a little bit less. It's an almost laughably Goldilocksian approach that Brown also advocates in her book, co-written with a Stanford business professor. The way to succeed in "fast-paced, ambiguous situations," she tells me, is to avoid creating too much structure, but not to add too little either. In other words, just make it not too hot and not too cold, and you're done. "If I ever come into the office and I feel comfortable, if I don't feel a little nervous about some crazy stuff going on, then we've taken it too far," she says.Not that this solves Google's basic problem:What concerns investors is whether Google can come up with a second act. There's nothing to suggest that its growth engine -- ad-supported search -- is in trouble. But it's clear from Google's tentative lurches into new forms of advertising and its spaghetti method of product development (toss against wall, see if sticks) that the company is searching for ways to grow beyond that well-run core.
Moday's edition of Chatterbox.
Strange Agency, the creators of an offbeat piece of gameplay analysis software namedStrange Analyst, has compiled a new report on what female gamers look for in their interactive entertainment purchases. The company claims to have examined gameplay patterns in order to identify exactly what women enjoy doing in games. "The result is a comprehensive set of guidelines, for creating content to suit this untapped audience," assures Strange Agency lead researcher, Jo Clay.Developers hoping to use this information to attract the newly identified audience of hardcore female gamers (according to new research by the NPD group 21% of 'heavy gamers' are female) will have to stump up GBP250 for the full 'Games Women Play' report. But the company's press release gives a few hints, including the genre that contains most of these female gamer attractors...No, it's not social sim, it's... survival horror! As Jo explains:"In the games preferred by women, violent gameplay activities are almost always accompanied by a strong story element, a pattern identified in all survival-horrors. Women need a reason to fight to become totally immersed in a game's aggressive activity. Survival-horrors often involve protecting someone close to you, the playable character. This compounds the need to kill anything that stands in your way."Strange Agency says it has drawn up a list of 15 games that follow the guidelines for attracting female gamers most closely. Apparently over half were developed in Japan. "'Multilayered and considered gameplay has always been at the forefront of Japanese game design, as has the inclusion of characters that appeal to a wider audience than the male hardcore," Jo explains.Okay so this is another attempt to pinpoint the collective tastes of anentire gender, but at least it comes to an unexpected conclusion.
A bit of a blast from the past, but another suit at Samsung has got in trouble over a long investigation into price fixing.Thomas Quinn made a plea bargain with prosecutors which will see him serve eight months in jail over accusations that the Korean firm was working to fix the prices of DRAM chips. The Registerhas more:"Prison time for price-fixers remains the most potent deterrent to illegal cartel activity," said Thomas Barnett, assistant attorney general in charge of the DoJ's anti-trust division. "Today's action sends a clear message - those who engage in price-fixing schemes will be held accountable for their illegal conduct."Quinn is the fourth Samsung executive to plead guilty in the case. He is the thirteenth person to be found guilty in the probe, which has gathered $731m in fines. Samsung pleaded guilty and paid a $300m criminal fine in 2005.
It was another "Sony Shock" but this time of a more welcome kind. Ken Kutaragi, the company's head of computer entertainment, opened the Tokyo Game Show at the weekend with the dramatic announcement that Sony would slash the price of its entry level PlayStation 3 console in Japan by 20%.The surprise move is seen as an admission by Sony that it risked pushing gamers into the open arms of its competitors by asking them to pay more than double the price of rival consoles sold by Nintendo and Microsoft."Japanese users and the media would not stop saying that a price tag of over 60,000 yen, including tax, was too expensive," Mr Kutaragi said. The PS3 will now sell for &yen;49,980 (&pound;225) when it goes on sale in Japan on November 11 rather than the original &yen;62,790.But instigating a price war on home soil is unlikely to secure Sony victory in the battle between its powerful next-generation games console and rival machines from Microsoft and Nintendo. There will be no price cuts in the US and Europe, where a PS3 will cost $499 (&pound;262) and &euro;499 (&pound;335), respectively.Sony remains under intense pressure after a series of recent defects and production problems have damaged its reputation for technological perfection, adding to the headaches for Sir Howard Stringer, chief executive, as he seeks to turn around the firm's finances.Dell and Apple recently recalled 6m Sony-made lithium-ion computer batteries amid fears they could overheat and even catch fire. Last week, Toshiba said it would recall 340,000 laptop batteries with potential power problems and this weekend Sony acknowledged that it was investigating a fire involving a Lenovo laptop PC that uses one of its batteries.Mitsushige Akino, a fund manager at Ichiyoshi Investment Management, said: "All of this has raised concerns about whether there is something fundamentally wrong with Sony's manufacturing process. And it could further damage the Sony brand."Sony has placed high hopes on a successful PS3 launch to consolidate its dominance of the global $30bn video games market. Yet the console's long-awaited appearance has been fraught with problems. Earlier this month Sony said its European launch would be delayed by four months because of supply problems with its blue diode laser, a key component of the PS3's Blu-ray DVD player. It had already pushed back the console's launch from spring 2006 to November, when it will appear in Japan and the US. The company has also had to cut back initial shipments for 2006 from 4m to 2m consoles.Start-up costs for the PS3 were expected to hit profits this year, even before the decision to cut its price. Sony said in April its game unit expected to post an operating loss of &yen;100bn in the year to March 2007 and estimates it may take five years to recoup losses incurred developing the powerful console.Some analysts reckon Sony will face its biggest challenge when Nintendo launches its Wii console in the US on November 19, and in Japan in December. The Wii, with its motion-sensitive controller, is aimed at children and older people turned off by the complex games available for rival machines. Hirokazu Hamamura, head of the video games magazine publisher Enterbrain, said: "Nintendo succeeded in capturing new fans of gaming machines among people who hadn't bothered with them before."The strategy worked with the handheld Nintendo DS, the fastest-growing console in Japan, and will continue with its next-generation Wii console, which at &yen;25,000 will be by far the cheapest.Hiroshi Kamide, head of the research department at KBC Securities Japan, agreed that Sony's position was looking precarious. "No manufacturer has dominated over two cycles so Sony is looking risky at the moment," he said."Nintendo does seem to have the upper hand. The Sony and Microsoft camps look rather similar with their focus on graphics and attracting 18 to 35- year-old guys. It doesn't look completely unrealistic that Nintendo could take most of the market share."Microsoft, which has sold more than 5m of its Xbox 360s worldwide since its launch 10 months ago, will sell a pared-down version in Japan in November for &yen;29,800 - about &yen;10,000 cheaper than the current version. The US firm will also market an external HD-DVD player for the Xbox for an extra &yen;19,800.Sony was hoping to use the PlayStation 3 to spread its next generation video technology - Blu-ray - to compete against the cheaper rival HD-DVD format, which has support from several computer manufacturers.While Japanese gamers welcomed Sony's change of heart on pricing, analysts questioned the timing. "It's ridiculous to decide to cut the price before they start selling the PlayStation 3," Yoku Ihara, of Retela Crea Securities in Tokyo, told Bloomberg. Others say Sony's brand recognition will be enough to see it through a difficult first few months. "Fans have grown to love the Sony platform over the last 10 years," Mr Hamamura said. "The graphics are beautiful, like something out of the movies. There will be a polarisation between the Wii and the PS3; they will be like the beer and brandy of gaming."No platform will succeed unless it comes with the software to match, he added. "It's not about which format is best, but about which games are best. The games that sell well will determine which hardware sells best."Sony, though, has time on its side, as the gaming industry is expected to have to wait at least 18 months for a market leader to emerge. "It's not going to happen overnight," said Mr Kamide. "This is a five-year-battle."Howard Stringer: The mover urged to be a shakerIt is a fair bet that it is not only jet lag from frequent trips between New York and Tokyo that keeps Sir Howard Stringer, Sony's chief executive officer, awake at night. As if becoming the first foreign head of an iconic Japanese company at one of the most difficult times in its history weren't enough, the Welsh-born Sir Howard now finds himself dealing with a series of embarrassing technical defects and product delays that risk overshadowing the successes of his first 15 months.His brief was to meld the disparate "silos" that were stifling Sony's reputation for creativity, and to see through a restructuring programme that includes job cuts, the stripping of non-core assets, and a new focus on what the company does best: consumer electronics.He had some early successes. Sony was the world's top seller of LCD TVs in the last quarter following strong sales of its Bravia range and, last week, it announced plans to open a factory in Slovakia to produce 3m LCD TVs to meet growing demand in Europe. With the share price gaining about 20% since Sir Howard's appointment in March 2005, the man himself is putting his faith in the young staff he meets on his frequent factory visits and town hall-style Q&amp;A sessions with his right-hand man in Tokyo, Sony's president, Ryoji Chubachi.As Sir Howard told CBS News after six months at the helm: "There are a lot of young people who say 'Go on, shake it up more. Do more ... Go on, fight for it'." On his monthly trips to Tokyo, he uses his sense of humour to defuse potentially tricky situations, according to a source familiar with the firm. If the PS3 is a success, he will be laughing louder and longer than anyone.
Brenda Brathwaite, the current queen of the sex in videogames circuit, has published her long-awaited tome, simply titles Sex in Video Games.You can download the first chapter inpdf(via Brathwaite'sSex in Games blog).Don't expect titillating screenshots (well, unless they're in context). This baby is a how-to, dealing with meaty subjects like self-regulation, guidelines and history. Here's the blurb:Since the first computer games became available, sex has played a role in some form. But with the release of games like Playboy: The Mansion, Leisure Suit Larry, and The Singles, sexual content has gained a firm foothold and for the first time, ventured into the mainstream. Even casual games like The Sims have started to rev things up a bit, and in on-line games, tales of 'cybering' have become commonplace. This 'sexual revolution' in games has generated intense scrutiny of the games industry by political watchdog groups and family-oriented organizations. And it has brought the importance of self-regulation and rating systems to the forefront of the industry. Seeking to understand this emerging trend, developers, publishers, retailers, and consumers are asking themselves: When is sex appropriate in a game? How far is too far? What will it mean for the product? For its distribution? For my company? For me? Do games with sexual content sell better? Are they generally profitable? So far, there are no definitive answers to these questions. Sex in Video Games provides insight into this issue and presents guidelines and answers by studying the history of sexual content use in games and within the industry itself. In addition, the book considers ethical issues, parental and retailer responsibility, and explores industry attempts at self-regulation, along with a growing concern about potential censorship.More on the subjecthereandhere.
When the unstoppable force of the internet generates its own icons of popular culture, what do they look like? Here is one answer. He wears an orange T-shirt, looks like a geek and dances with a unique brilliance.No story better reveals the Web's power to narrow the gap between obscurity and superstardom than that of Judson Laipply, a motivational speaker from Ohio who has hot-stepped his way on to the computer screens of tens of millions of people.Laipply calls himself an 'inspirational comedian' offering guidance on leadership, personal development and communication. Four years ago he began concluding his talks at schools, universities and companies with a physical routine, 'Evolution of Dance', to help people visualise that life is about change. In the space of six minutes, he fluidly moves through 40 years' worth of dance crazes to a soundtrack ranging from Elvis and the Bee Gees to Eminem and N'Sync.The montage made such an impression on one group of teenagers that they bombarded him with emails until he agreed to put a video recording of it on YouTube, the hugely popular website which enables users to post and share home videos and TV clips.Word spread like wildfire, and five months later, 'Evolution of Dance' has been watched nearly 33 million times, making it more than twice as popular as the second most-watched video on YouTube. If viewings via his MySpace page and numerous other websites are added, Laipply estimates that 50-80 million people have seen his esoteric biography of modern dance.The clip opens with the 30-year-old hip-bopping to Elvis's 'Hound Dog', before imitating a stiff-limbed robot for Styx's Mr Roboto and waggling his crotch to MC Hammer's 'U Can't Touch This'. He evokes, among others, John Travolta and Michael Jackson as well as break-dancing and walking Like An Egyptian to the Bangles. In all he gets through 32 songs with astonishing virtuosity for a man whose only formal dance training was a year in his school's musical performance group.Since his video become a worldwide hit, Laipply has appeared on American TV and danced during the half-time break at the National Basketball Association finals in Dallas.YouTube, launched early last year, has rapidly become a short cut to Andy Warhol's fabled 15 minutes of fame, with people watching more than 100 million videos on it per day. Through online sharing, 'lonelygirl15' - a series showing a teenage girl opining about life, relationships, planets, cookies and religion from her bedroom in smalltown America - was the hit of the summer until exposed as a hoax, the star of the videos turning out to be an actress working to a script.Laipply, who lives in Cleveland, Ohio, little imagined how the internet would take 'Evolution of Dance' into the stratosphere. 'Some students from a school in Connecticut were bugging me, because they wanted to show it to their friends,' he told American TV.'They sent me an email every day for almost a month. I said: OK, I'll put it up there, and I put it on YouTube. And then it just blossomed into this craze. The span of the video being sent all over the world was something that no one could have predicted. It was pretty amazing.'Laipply, whose hobbies include avidly reading the Harry Potter books, is producing a new version of the dance with possible additions including the time warp, electric slide, cha-cha slide and hustle.
Sony said yesterday it would cut the price of the long-awaited PlayStation 3 game console by 20% in Japan when it goes on sale in November.The company feared the original price of &yen;62,790 (&pound;284) would push gamers towards cheaper rivals made by Microsoft and Nintendo in the battle for supremacy in the console market. The cheaper PS3, with a 20GB hard drive, will now cost &yen;49,980, the firm said.Ken Kutaragi, head of Sony's game unit, said: "What is important is that we get more consoles sold to make up for the price cut, and get more game makers and chip makers in our camp."
The normally litigious Apple Computer is now attacking Podcast Ready and myPodder, according toWired News. This follows attacks onTightpod, and theProfit Pod, which has nothing to do with iPods. After that, we can presumably expect Apple's lawyers to sink their fangs into Captain Birdseye for references to peas in pods.According to Wired News:Podcast Ready CEO Russel Holliman said he'd consider dropping the name myPodder if he had to, but "Podcast Ready"? If that's infringement, Apple is claiming that it owns the word "podcast." Sure, the word originated with the word iPod, but most people now see it as a general term for downloadable audio shows that isn't affiliated with one brand more than another.Will Apple succeed in defending the word "podcast" as its own trademark? We'll just have to wait and see.Comment: "The term 'podcasting' was one of several terms for portable listening to audioblogs suggested by Ben Hammersley in The Guardian on February 12, 2004," asWikipedianotes. However, podcasting as we know it was invented before the iPod was even launched.It seems likely that Apple benefits from the association of the podcasting with iPods, even though Apple didn't invent portable digital players, didn't invent online music stores, and didn't invent podcasting: all of these things were originally done -- and can still be done -- without using or referring to any Apple products or trademarks.As someone remarkedback in March, when Apple was attacking bloggers, "Even the most die-hard Mac hugger is having problems defending the company's recent litigious spree, where Apple seems determined to become 'The Man' and use its corporate power to crush all before it."
To see all last week's blog posts on one page, clickhereHightlights include:Distributing WikipediaWayMarkr makes life caching practicalIT workers get shirtyMicrosoft does Soapbox, like YouTubeHP cameras can make you look slimmerAnother hole in IE -- porn surfers already at riskThe British web is funnyMoixa unveils novel USB batteriesUniversal studios says Blu-ray is deadSteve Jobs blooper reel: It's pretty awesome when it worksSony slashes PS3 price in Japan
If the Al Gore narrated movie An Inconvenient Truth (climatecrisis.net) persuades you to switch to a more environmentally cuddly lifestyle, here's a few cool green sites to get you going:hugg.comaggregates news about major corporations, such as Sony attempting to be nicer;worldchanging.comoffers inspiration for eco warriors;treehugger.combills itself as a blog for the lazy environmentalist; whilethegreenguy.typepad.comlists practical ethical things you can do - like buying a laptop bag made from recycled tyres. There's lots of this eco consumerism athippyshopper.comwhere you can purchase solar-powered milk frothers and a hi-fi made from bamboo. Maybe you'd like to buy an album fromwww.greenelvis.comto play on it - instead of lonesome Green E asks "Are You Recycling Tonight?"
MondayDigitial distribution: utopia's darker sideChildren in peril: games or real-life to blameTelly addictsTuesdayTokyo Game Show in your living roomLego goodWednesdaySonic is 15Virtual politicsXbox 360 goes 1080pThursdayTokyo Game Show videos and infoIndie game magTechnology sectionPhew, fromat war is overFridayYouTube and ARGsPS3 price drop in JapanCome on KenBig brands seek new platforms
YouTube is the most popular video sharing website in Britain, according to a report.The US outfit dominates the UK market with a 60% share, more than twice that of Google and 10 times more than MySpace, according to the first research HitWise has put out on the popularity of video sharing websites in the UK.YouTube's dominance here is even more complete than in the US, where it accounts for around 43% of the online video market.Google takes second and third place in the UK with its generic video site -video.google.com- accounting for 16.63% of the UK market, and the country-specific Google Video UK -video.google.co.uk- ranking third with a 6.78% share of web visits.MySpace video -videos.myspace.com- which accounts for around 20% of the US market and is the clear second-ranked player in that country, is the fourth most popular in the UK, with a 5.49% share.Video sharing sites offered by Yahoo!, AOL and MSN each fail to take more than 2% of the UK market.The report also shows that visitors spent an average of 17 minutes and 32 seconds on YouTube in the week ending September 16.Google Video users logged on for an average of seven minutes and 14 seconds, with the UK site keeping users' attention for 12 minutes and 45 seconds.Users of MySpace's video service used the site for an average of six minutes and 25 seconds.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
So what if there are more active videogame platforms around at the moment than there have ever been in the past - that's not enough for most publishers. No matter how many people own a PS2, Xbox, Xbox 360, DS, PSP or PC, there are always millions who just don't have access to dedicated consoles. In a world where audio visual entertainment is utterly pervasive, there's always a new avenue to get your brands to the masses.A couple of examples have cropped up this week. EA, for example, has just announced a deal with in-flight entertainment specialist DTI Software to bring Sims 2 and a range ofPogocasual titles to airlines worldwide. Imagine how much more bearable those long haul economy flights are going to be if you can screw up the lives of several digital people en route...Elsewhere, Bright Entertainment Ltd has just announced Lara Croft Tomb Raider: The Action Adventure, an Interactive DVD game based around the Eidos series. According to the press release:"Designed for an audience who may have never played a video game before, the game offers players an average of an afternoon or evening's gameplay from starting to completing the game. The game can be played over and over again achieving better scores and also allows players to divide into teams and challenge one another."Interactive DVD games have been around for a while, but tend to be simple quiz and adventure titles. This, on the other hand, is an interesting use of a high-profile videogame brand - although if these DVDs reallyarefor people who don't play games, then how valuable is a game brand actually going to be? Perhaps Bright Entertainment is aiming at those odd people who went to see the Lara Croft movies without ever having played the games. But when both of them buy a copy, what then?
It's well known that people can be identified from the way they write, or even type. Now, in a paper, Balaji Padmanabhan and Catherine Yang claim that users can also be identified by their surfing behaviour. According to the Wharton Business School'sKnowledge@Wharton:The authors conclude that by observing these patterns, an e-commerce company can distinguish between two individuals with nearly 100% accuracy, sometimes with as few as three Internet sessions, and potentially use that information to deter fraud. The number of sessions needed to identify an individual rises with the number of unique users a site has because there are more people to differentiate.While Padmanabhan and Yang focus on whether individuals have clickprints, the number of sessions needed to identify a unique individual, and potential fraud prevention applications, the paper also shows how companies can track users just by watching behavior. "Our main finding is that even trivial features in an Internet session can distinguish users," says Padmanabhan. "People do seem to have individual browsing behaviors."This could be useful in preventing fraud. For example, if you use an ecommerce site regularly, it could build up a clickprint based on your normal use. If your account is used with a radically different clickprint, this could prompt the system to make extra checks.Some profiling is already used in the financial services industry. If you're a non-gambler who never travels, for example, you're more likely to get a phone check if you use a card to withdraw $10,000 in a Las Vegas casino.
The story started when a scammer in the US "with no special equipment, reprogrammed the mini ATM in the corner to think it had $5.00 bills in its dispensing tray, instead of $20.00 bills". It was reported on CNN. However,as Wired reports:How, exactly, he pulled off the swindle remained unreported. Curious, Dave Goldsmith, a computer security researcher at Matasano Security began poking around. Based on CNN's video, he identified the ATM as a Tranax Mini Bank 1500 series.He then set out to see if he could get a copy of the manual for the apparently-vulnerable machine to find out how the hack worked. Fifteen minutes later, he reported success.The manual explained how to put the ATM into operator mode, and also provided a list of the default passwords needed to manipulate the machine....
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Well, that's what the speculators are suggesting. The Wall Street Journalyesterday positeda deal worth "close to $1bn", while the New York Times says founder Mark Zuckerberg is weighing up an offer of $900m.To woo Zuckerberg, Yahoo offered about $900 million for Facebook and said it would keep the company somewhat independent, with Zuckerberg in charge. This has been its model with other acquisitions like Flickr, a photo-sharing site, and Del.icio.us, a social bookmarking service that lets members share lists of their favorite Web sites.Facebook - essentially FriendsReunited meets Friendster - is a social network site mainly based around university students: whippersnapper Zuckerberg set it up for friends at Harvard. Now the ripe old age of 22, he owns the biggest share of the company (but not a majority) but doesn't seem like he wants to cash in - he's already reputedly turned down a$750m offer this year. Yahoo's had success in buying Flickr, delicious and others of late... but will it nab Facebook too?
Over in Japan it's the Tokyo Game Show, and Sony has decided to take a little initiative after a torrid time by chopping back the cost of the PlayStation 3.The cutbacks, announced by Ken Kutaragi, was in response to consumer complaints about the cost of the machine, which is set to be released in very limited numbers on November 11. The Associated Press says:Sony will cut the price of its basic PlayStation 3 model in Japan to ¥47,600 ($410 or &amp;eur;322), from an originally planned ¥59,800 ($515 or &amp;eur;404.52). That puts the PlayStation 3 in the same range as the combined basic Xbox 360 and HD DVD player in Japan, where the duo will sell for ¥49,600These price cuts will only affect Japanese customers, however - there don't seem to be many perks for the rest of us, despite the fact that complaints about the price have been pretty standard across the globe.In fact, it probably indicates one of several things: pressure from consumers, fear about initial market impact, Nintendo's much-anticipated Wii, and Microsoft's Xbox 360 HD-DVD add-on, which will arrive in late November. And don't forget, when it comes to the bottom line this isn't about narrowing profit margins... it's about increasing the loss made on every single PS3 in order to eke out market share.Ouch.
A shocking E3, manufacturing delays, PR gaffe after PR gaffe - yes the PS3 is having a troubled gestation. This weekend's Tokyo Game Show is the last chance for Sony to sprinkle some PR fairy dust over the new console but things haven't got off to a good start. Sony Computer Entertainment President Ken Kutaragi's keynote address was surprisingly uninspiring with no new game announcements and a heavy focus on the technology. Perhaps the gravity of the PS3 pre-launch situation hasn't sunk in for him, but focusing again on the Cell processor - really Ken, enough already - rather than announcing anything that 99.4% of gamers actually care about - i.e. the games - merely highlights the mess Sony are in.The announcements that were made - HDMI input in the 20 GB version plus a Japanese price cut - were at least sensible but you do have to wonder whether Sony are simply winging this launch as they go along, happy in the knowledge that they will sell as many PS3's as they can make. All eyes on those showfloor hands-on reports then - ooh, I wish I was there.
Ken Kuturagi has announced a retail price drop for the PS3 in Japan. In yesterday's Press Conference, the Sony exec revealed that the basic pack, complete with 20GB hard drive, will now retail for 49,980 yen - the price was previously set at 62,790 yen. It seems, US and Europe price are likely to remain unchanged."The Japanese users and media would not stop saying a price tag of over 60,000 yen, including tax, was too expensive,'' Kutaragiapparentlytold reporters. True, at its previous price point PS3 was double the cost of an Xbox 360 or Wii. But this remains a puzzling move. With so few units likely to be available in the initial shipment, surely these would have been snapped up at whatever price Sony Sony dreamed up. Well... maybe not. There appears to be a crisis of confidence going on here. Nintendo is regaining its strength with DS and Wii, while Microsoft has finally secured some A List Japanese development talent to tempt domestic gamers historically skeptical of Western releases.These is a tide of anti-PS3 feeling growing - a price drop may well be Sony's last ditch flood defense. Strange days indeed.More here
I was very pleased to hear that theYouTube superstarlonelygirl15was a fake. Her eyebrows tipped me off; they were too well-coiffed.However, beyond the simple catty pleasures enjoyed and perfected by the female sex, I was also pleased to hear that she was part of a larger Something that messes around with the use of internet technologies, and formulates them as play.Joystiq(andAlternate Reality Games) proposed a couple of weeks ago that Ms. Girl was part of an ARG. While this has beenrefuted(she and her peeps are artistes), as Joystiq says:this whole episode shows how powerful storytelling and internet video might be interwoven to create compelling new forms of gaming that entertain millions of people who don't normally consider themselves gamers. The interaction between whoever's producing these videos (the game master) and the millions of players is intricate, exciting, and very game-like at heart.This is something that doesn't involve shooting, collecting coins or other items (unless you count watching videos and searching for clues as collecting), jumping across chasms, or perfecting twitch responses.Notably, it's had a bigger audience thanany game ever published.Similarly, the ever-intriguingLost ARGhas managed a record number of gamers and non-gamers, doing game-like things.Come on people, aren't you sick of doing the same things with interactive entertainment? Let's play with the other things that are on offer, and create new forms of computerised gaming that enhance current paradigms, rather than replace them.
Here's an idea: let people suggest ideas for an application they'd like to see, and then get people to vote on it, and then get a team of dedicated developers to, uh, develop it. That's the plan behindMyDreamApp; in the past few weeks, it notes, "the My Dream App development team has whittled down over 2700 submissions to just 24 finalists, and starting today, it's up to you to decide which ideas stay, and which ideas go." Three will win.A sidenote: the developers doing this are Mac-only, so it's one of those marginal things, but it could flow through to the Windows side of the world.The people who suggested the winning programs will get royalties for life (though what happens ifthe program gets bought? Anyone asked that yet?).The programs seem to split into three: user interface; get things done; build the impossible app. In the first category, for example, is iSightsee, which would let you control your machine via hand gestures through your webcam. Sounds very Minority Report-ish, but the professional programmers who are weighing these up shoot it down. In the second category are things like iGTD (I Get Things Done), Stick-IT (a "modernised Stickie solution"), or Cookbook for organising your recipes. And for the last, Minerva, a "virtual secretary for your Mac". Great concept, but impossible to make work across different applications preferences - as one of the pros points out, you can't even get people to agree on an email program, how will they agree on a virtual secretary which uses a particular set of programs?Even so, pitch in and vote. Might as well keep them out of any other mischief. But my own reaction, after looking at the ideas and the putdowns for the ones that seemed promising, was that I wanted to see RON - Re-Open Nominations.
Microsoft's Christmas bundle goes on sale on Friday. You get an Xbox 360 Premium Pack with an extra wireless controller and a copy of Project Gotham Racing 3 for "an estimated retail price of £299.99".It seems the Core pack will continue at £199.99, with Nintendo's Wii at £179.99, and the PlayStation 3 delayed until next year.
APC Magazine has done a nice compilation ofSteve Jobs' Apple Keynote bloopers
Craig Kornblau, president of Universal Studios Home Entertainment, put the boot into Blu-ray at the CEDIA EXPO 2006 electronics design show, reportsIT Wire."The reviews are in and HD DVD is hands down the leader in picture quality, audio experiences and interactive capabilities that have never been seen before," said Kornblau."Look at the blogs, look at the reviews by the early adopters and even look at the mainstream media - HD DVD has maintained its first-to-market advantage and delivered on the promises of providing the best high definition image and sound quality at the best value for consumers today. Take today's announcement of new players from Toshiba, new PC hardware from Niveus and new titles like 'The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift,' and add the hardware and movies that are coming this Fall and you can see why HD DVD is poised for a strong holiday."As the story notes: "HD DVD now has the backing of Universal Studios Home Entertainment, Warner Home Video, Paramount Pictures Home Entertainment, HBO, New Line Home Entertainment and The Weinstein Company."However, Universal never backed Blu-ray.Comment: The Blu-ray camp rushed to market, led by a claimed faulty player, with disappointing discs. Even though AVC (H.264) and VC-1 (wmv) are the standards for both Blu-ray and HD DVD, Blu-ray came out using MPEG-2, without the promised advanced audio, and without the promised interactivity. Also, the PlayStation 3 games console, which was supposed to tip the balance, failed to show. In sum, Blu-ray's backers screwed up their launch.All the Blu-ray studios are now coming under pressure to support HD-DVD as well, with numerous petitions:http://www.petitionspot.com/petitions/MGM_on_HD_DVDhttp://www.petitionspot.com/petitions/Disney_for_HD_DVDhttp://www.petitionspot.com/petitions/Lions_Gate_For_HD_DVDhttp://www.petitionspot.com/petitions/Fox_Support_HD_DVDBut the battle is far from over. There's no reason why Blu-ray movies shouldn't be as good as HD-DVD movies, and if the studios hold firm, the market could swing the other way. The more difficult question is how long Sony can sustain the financial losses it must be making when it tries to compete with formats such as HD-DVD and Xbox 360 that are, at the moment, fundamentally cheaper to produce.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Although it's unlikely you were holding off on your next-gen console purchase until the Blu-ray vs HD DVD war was settled, this piece of news may still be of interest to you. Warner has applied for a patent on a disc that can hold HD DVD, Blu-rayandstandard DVD content via different data layers. "From the standpoint of a manufacturer, it is disadvantageous to have to manufacture and distribute three different types of disc formats to satisfy consumer demand for one product, such as a motion picture," says thepatent applicationaccurately.Technology blog hasmore details.ViaVNUNet
"Moixa Energy, the renewable and portable energy solution specialist, today announced the launch of the USBCELL - a new concept in batteries. This revolutionary rechargeable battery can charge from any USB port without the need for any recharging devices, cradles or cables. Simply pop the lid to reveal a built in connector and charger, plug into any powered USB port on your desktop, laptop, keyboard or games console, to charge the battery," says the press release.The USB cells are on sale atusbcell.com-- UK Price: £12.99 for two.Comment: neat idea, but it remains to be seen how well they work, and how long they last.
I am having some of my emails blocked and returned because at least two of my ISP's mail servers (Wanadoo/Orange) have been blacklisted by SpamCop. SpamCop tells me that the ISP should sort out getting these servers removed and my ISP says that I should contact SpamCop direct. Any idea how to get out of this impasse, and why does Orange seem so unconcerned that its mail servers are being blacklisted? John McGilley, Priory TranslationsSpamCop blocks servers when they are used to send spam, and then automatically unblocks them 24 hours after the last spam was received. There is no point in contacting SpamCop, unless you are interested in looking up blocked servers (www.spamcop.net/bl.shtml) and how long they have been blocked. It's up to Orange/ Wanadoo to stop the people who use its mail servers from sending spam. It seems to have had problems with this going back to the Freeserve days, and if it seems to show no concern, you should consider changing your email service provider or switching to a different ISP.You should, of course, run at least two anti-virus checks to make sure it's not your PC that is sending out spam, and thus causing innocent bystanders' mail to be blocked.Also bear in mind that SpamCop isn't actually blocking your email: all it does is publish the SpamCop Blocking List (SCBL) of spammy IP (Internet Protocol) addresses. ISPs can choose to reject email from these addresses and thus reduce the amount of spam they accept. Some legitimate mail will also be blocked. However, not all ISPs use the SCBL, and most ISPs also have "whitelists" that allow some blacklisted mail servers to send mail through.Backchat: Angelika Voss says: "The problem with Wanadoo/Orange (and with many other ISPs) is not spam but something known as backscatter -- auto-responders, vacation messages and (probably the worst culprit) misdirected bounces." You can read morehere. Unfortunately this doesn't solve the problem for users, since it requires Wanadoo/Orange to change their servers.Mark McKergow has been suffering from Orange/Wanadoo/Freeserve mail problems but can't change providers because his broadband is a mobile phone deal. He writes: "Having got totally fed up this morning, I think I have found a way out. One can sign up to a separate SMTP service like AuthSMTP (www.authsmtp.com), which sends mail through unblocked servers. You also have to change the SMTP port to 2525 (as detailed in the sign-up instructions) to outfox Orange. Downside: there is a cost, but at £14 a year for 1,000 emails per month, this may be better than total frustration in the short term."To be clear: AuthSMPT is a service that offers outgoing mail only,notincoming (POP3) mail. However, it lets you send it using your normal address, eg a Wanadoo/Freeserve address or your own domain name.
I'm a PC user, and I am looking for a simple laptop to use as an electronic typewriter on trains, aeroplanes, in the park etc. Do you know anything about the Dana Wireless from the US firm Alphasmart? It seems to be basically a Palm-OS based machine but with a real keyboard, and Wi-Fi (802.11b). Dagmar WillisI suggested the Dana Wireless a year ago to a reader who asked the same question (seeText on rails), though in the end she chose a Pocket PC with a fold-up keyboard, which takes up much less space. I suggest you compare the Dana with a Dell Axim or an iPaq that has Bluetooth, so you can use, say, a Freedom or Stowaway Bluetooth keyboard.You might also consider a smartphone/PDA such as the HTC Universal (MDA IV, i-Mate Jasjar etc), which also uses Windows CE software, or the Psion NetBook. This used to be too expensive but Expansys is currently knocking out old Epoc (Series 5-style) versions for a tempting £319.95 (seePsion NetBook bundle). However, it doesn't have Bluetooth or Wi-Fi.Comment: Alcib's comment (bleow) is correct, of course, but some people want the portability and robustness, and a machine that offers "instant on". Convenience makes a big difference when you are "on the road". Also, if you write for money, it's very easy to recoup the cost. You can pay for a Dana with one article and the price is tax-deductible. ;-)
I upgraded to Office 2003 and the toolbar has disappeared from my desktop. I cannot find any way of restoring it. Pete WallOffice 2003 doesn't include an Office Shortcut Bar, and it deleted your old one. You can get it back by doing a custom install from your old Office discs, and choosing to install only the toolbar. Alternatively you could try one of the alternative launchers, such as the JetAudio Toolbar, H-Menu, Slickrun or Drag Strip. Seewww.mcse.ms/archive187-2004-10-1191808.html
