AltaVista UK, which promised unmetered internet access, has failed to launch the service blaming BT for not providing the lines.AltaVista's Andy Mitchell said the service won't become active until the company gets a better deal from BT. Currently BT charges internet service providers by the minute, rather than a flat rate."I think the whole industry is a fiasco," he said. "It is a setback for the UK. We are stifled by this type of service. France and Germany are rolling ahead."More than 270,000 people signed up to pay an annual fee of £60 to surf the net 24 hours a day with no further charges when the service was launched in June.BT has a monopoly on fixed-line telecommunications in most areas, and did not offer a wholesale unmetered product to ISPs at the time AltaVista announced its plan.Other companies offering similar unlimited access deals have also run into problems.CallNet0800 launched unmetered access at the end of last year but will return to metered access in September and Virgin Net has announced a delay in the launch of its £15-a-month, flat-fee service.There had been speculation about the fate of AltaVista's proposed service for weeks.After prodding from Oftel, BT has since made available an unmetered-access service through its own ISP, BT Internet.When it was launched, telecoms regulator Oftel welcomed AltaVista's proposal, and prime minister Tony Blair praised it as the kind of service needed to drive prices down and help create an "internet for the people".Mr Blair expressed concern that Britain's "new economy" would lag behind unless call charges were reduced to allow more affordable web access.Altavista UK said it would continue to campaign for a service that would bring down the cost of Internet access.
&#149; UnscaredTwo million people in Britain are now buying financial services over the internet - an increase of 11% from six months ago - a new Mori poll shows. Screentrade, which commissioned the poll, said consumers were not being put off by fears about net security.&#149; TradersIf the 1.3m Latino-owned businesses in the US want to trade together online they now have a dedicated marketplace run by LatinoBanc.com, Infobank, the British firm providing the software, aid yesterday.&#149; EasternersIndia's booming computer software industry is expected to get a helping hand from Japanese prime minister Yoshiro Mori, in Bangalore, India's technology capital, for a four-day visit.
The father and daughter team behind internet incubator Oxygen are planning a flotation of an investment vehicle focused on the burgeoning Israeli hi-tech sector.Michael Edelson and his 26-year-old daughter Emma hope Tel Aviv-based tecc-IS will attract an initial valuation of around &#163;10m following a &#163;5m fundraising on AIM.Mr Edelson, dubbed "Shellmeister" in the City after developing a speciality in   bringing private companies on to the stock market, was the driving force behind high-profile flotations including Knutsford, Magic Moments and Poptones, the recently listed record company.He has attracted a wide following among retail investors, sending the share price of companies such as Knutsford and Oxygen soaring.However, some investors have criticised him after finding that the shares they bought at the height of the frenzy have later fallen in   price, leaving them nursing paper losses.Ms Edelson is a former employee of Mark McCormack's IMG sports marketing group and a director of Oxygen.Tecc-IS, chaired by Joseph Riback, aims to give UK investors exposure to early stage Israeli technology companies that have not yet attracted the attention of major venture capital groups. Government support has turned the Israeli hi-tech sector into one of the most influential in the world."It is in my view potentially   the Silicon Valley of a larger Europe," Mr Riback said.Investment decisions will be taken by tecc-IS's board and a six strong advisory panel of Israeli and European technology experts. Their first move will be to spend &#163;500,000 on a 30% stake in Smashing Concepts, a fledgling artificial intelligence firm.Oxygen will take a 10% stake in tecc-IS. Netvest.com will hold 4% and its chairman ,Andrew Balcombe, will sit on the tecc-IS board. Insinger Townsley is broker to the float.
Netstore, the recently floated application service provider which specialises in small to medium-sized businesses, said yesterday it had tied up a partnership deal with a leading European telecoms company,   which it did not name. A contract was signed with BT's Ignite unit in July.Netstore allows companies to rent applications over the internet rather than install them on their own hardware. Shares in the company rose 4p yesterday to 136.5p following   better than expected maiden full-year results. A turnover of &#163;1.37m was reported against &#163;800,000 last year.Pre-tax losses widened from &#163;1.1m to &#163;4.9m, but broker Dresdner Kleinwort Benson said the company was on target to reach a profit by 2003.
The mounting concern in regulatory circles about the power of the internet to move share prices was underlined yesterday when two financial news websites were told that it is illegal for them to reprint share tips from newspapers.The financial services authority has told the companies that they are not permitted to reprint the share tip information because they are not registered financial advisers - even though newspapers do not have to abide by the same rule themselves.Newspapers and magazines are exempt from the restriction as investment advice is not their primary purpose, an FSA spokeswoman said.The clampdown comes as the FSA is seeking to clarify its position on a range of internet-driven financial information sources including bulletin boards and chat rooms, which have at times been abused by   rogue share promoters. The FSA is expected to outline its feelings in the autumn.Sharepages.com and Digitallook.com both said yesterday that they had suspended publishing round-ups of weekend newspaper tips at the request of the FSA.Several other leading financial news websites said that they had not been contacted by the FSA but would fight to keep their tips summaries as they were merely repeating information that was already in the public domain."It seems bizarre that we are forbidden from merely repeating information that is already widely circulated, especially since we are not altering, interpreting or commenting on it," said Sharepages' managing director, Marc Pinter-Krainer."We have suggested ways that the law could be modified but at present we haven't been able to reach a positive outcome," Mr Pinter-Krainer said.Digital Look said it would   now only publish the name of the stocks tipped and provide a link to the relevant newspaper website.The FSA was at pains to emphasise that it was not "anti-internet", and said that it was working with the Treasury on ways to update legislation so that it took into account how the internet was changing the way in which people buy shares and find out information about companies.Rules governing the newspaper exemption were drawn up in 1986 - long before the internet became a mass phenomenon."It wouldn't matter if the tips were written on the back of an envelope or on the internet, the law prevents those not registered as financial advisers from making stock recommendations," the FSA spokeswoman said."This is all about protecting the consumer. We are looking at ways of making regulation technology neutral."
People use all sorts of strategies to avoid working in August. Some go on holiday. Others are regularly "ill" on sunny workdays.But last Thursday, those who did drag themselves into work found another excuse for inactivity: Nasty Nick's looming departure from Big Brother. It was mayhem. Nobody did any work that day. Everyone was watching the internet.Angry bosses around the country, including other TV channels, called Channel 4, pleading with it to turn off the webcams because none of their staff was doing any work. By anyone's standards, it was a mass-media experience.In the early hours of that morning, there hadn't been as many viewers, but the all-night addicts had been fuming. The webcams had been turned off at a crucial moment. The news on the wires was that the Big Brother website had been shut down deliberately by Channel 4 at around 1am - and it spread faster than a Midwest fire as the late-night nerds hit the chatrooms.Was it a sinister move on Channel 4's part? Had the website really been shut down because there was the chance of a violent confrontation between two members of the house? What were the editorial guidelines? Was the open network of the internet being censored?The stories proved to be true - Channel 4 had pulled the plug. An overzealous night editor had turned off the webcams when it looked as if a fight was impending. Blimey, how awful, a fist fight at three o'clock in the morning. There are shows on Channel 4 such as South Park that don't exactly go easy on the violence. Why should the web suffer stricter editorial guidelines than TV?Of course it shouldn't and, to Channel 4's credit, it admitted it had made a mistake. It had been too cautious. This was a timely reminder that the path to TV and internet convergence will not be seamless. Mistakes will be made.And while we're at it, we'll hold our hands up as well, as the people who built the Big Brother website. Everyone involved in this extra-ordinary project has had to adapt one way or another. No amount of planning could have prepared us for the wave of Big Brother hysteria that has held the country in its grip. Managing what is essentially a live event for 64 days has pushed both technical and editorial teams to the limit.After last Thursday, nobody can be in any doubt. In our offices there were people crowded around computer monitors watching events unfold. We were not alone. Surely this was broadcast history?Parallel broadcasting is the latest buzzword, but there was little evidence of it before Big Brother. True integration is next - and broadband technology will make it a reality.But if the convergence between the internet and TV isn't to become a collision, these media need to work together. Being big on the internet doesn't necessarily mean that TV viewing figures will decline. Viral marketing? Bollocks. Call it good old-fashioned word of mouth. Internet page impressions went through the roof and boosted, not hindered, the TV audience that night. If the content is compelling enough and production teams plan well, the internet and TV can feed each other. It is the viewer who wins.The internet is here, officially confirmed by those wired office workers on that warm day in August. It has the capability to change everything, especially when it comes to video streaming - and the big new media players are circling in an attempt to inure us to video-computers.Real Networks has seen 500,000 UK users download its software in order to watch Big Brother on the web. It's big business and it's catching on quickly. Big Brother is now a brand. And brands sell.I'd never before downloaded software that showed me pictures on my computer. Big Brother changed that. I had to download Real Player 7 to see pictures from the house. I obviously was not the only one.It was weird at first. I was used to logging on to the BBC's website and never listening or watching to any of the audio or video stories. It's a new world now. I'm getting used to it. I want to watch my computer and, in the future, a mobile device. I don't want to have to set the video. I want it now, I want it moving and if I feel like watching it again, I want to be able to.Next season, it will be something new. The summer of Big Brother will be history. The next entertainment format will knock us for six again. There's no doubt about that. Whether it will be "only a game show" is up to us.But when Nick, Mel and the rest of the Big Brother posse have moved out of the limelight, they will have left behind something more lasting than mere skul-duggery. They were part of a much larger experiment. They were part of the future of broadcasting.Paul Munford is the media communications manager of Victoria Real, the company that designed and built the Big Brother website.
* On Thursday, as all hell broke loose in the Big Brother household and Nick fever reached an all-time high, fanatics all over the land stretched the Intel/Victoria Real servers to breaking point. Traffic doubled from the previous peak of 3m page impressions after web transmission was pulled for a few hours earlier the same day by an overzealous Endemol editor freaked out by the prospect of Craig beating Nick to a pulp. A few emergency meetings later, Endemol has decided not to be such a big brother and allow nature to take its course - that is, unless Tom ever does anything about his crush on Mel.*The search for Nathan Barley continues apace following the realisation that Jamie King, one-time admittee of the moniker, has now distanced himself from the title altogether. Barley, the turgid, extreme sports fanatic, new media public schoolboy, mini-skateboard-riding, gadget-obsessed star of a fictional show on satirical website TVgohome.com, is gaining quite a following. Spare a thought then for the browbeaten King, who has discovered that putting the statement "I am the Real Nathan Barley and I claim my prize" on his website, Jamie.com, has tons more drawbacks than benefits. Having been inundated with abusive emails, King wants to set the record straight: "I've just about had enough. My big mistake was in playing along with this drivel, but abuse is abuse," he   says. Stand up the real Nathan Barley, whoever you are.*New media itinerant Julian Hardy is back on the move. Hardy, who took on the managing director's job at Freeserve in March, has decided to leave, so the internal memo said. "This is an entirely mutual agreement between the company and Julian, and reflects a change in Julian's initial expectations of his role and the way in which the role subsequently developed," it explained. So, did Hardy jump or was he pushed? You decide. Hardy's CV now boasts top positions at Emap Online, Capital Interactive, IPC Electric and MTVi, but given that the latter two and the Freeserve job combined lasted less than a year, surely he is a sure-fire contender for Itchy Feet of the Year award?new.media@guardian.co.uk
Ask anyone to name a decent TV show website - one that actually adds value to the related programme - and you'd be hard pressed to get anything other than a furrowed brow.The dearth of decent TV show websites is not entirely down to lack of imagination. It has a lot to do with the constraints of narrowband connections and a reluctance to invest in sites that don't get sufficient traffic. With moves towards the internet-on-TV model and the imminent arrival of broadband access, things are starting to change.At present, however, the consensus is that websites dedicated to TV programmes are little more than brochureware, put together by a   production team that has no direct contact with the programme-makers and finds it difficult to see beyond the ubiquitous chatrooms and character profiles.Granada Broadband, the recently established interactive arm of Granada, is hoping to change all this on August 28, the date on which it launches its Cold Feet website. Cold Feet Online (www.ColdFeetOnline.com) should set new standards for the way in which websites for TV shows are developed.Website producer Simon Bucknall says the danger in developing a higher standard of product is that future products will be judged by new benchmarks. "We've set the standard and we don't want to go back and put out lesser products. But by starting with Cold Feet, the   benchmark has been set particularly high because it gave us so much to work with: fun, interesting characters and a young, net-savvy demographic. And we were able to work very closely with the TV production crew and the actors."While most other TV crews tend not to extend a warm welcome to new-media people hanging around the set, Bucknall hopes this might change once they have seen the Cold Feet website.Changes are taking place in the TV industry. Programme-makers have realised that a website can add a great deal to the programme, bringing in new users and encouraging people to get involved in the show. The Big Brother site (www.bigbrother.terra.com) is flawed, but manages at least to satisfy the viewers' desire for   more footage and information. Channel 5's soon-to-launch Jailbreak will also make the website an integral part of the show. The plan is to provide daily news updates and 24-hour access to the inmates' movements via webcams, and to take the interaction further by encouraging users to register as escape committee members and mail escape tips to inmates.The Cold Feet site makes good use of many of the features of the show and is divided into five self-explanatory sections (The Show, Short Cuts, Catch Up, Fun and Games and The Cast). Character profiles and storyboards will be updated as each series airs. Other basic features include online chats, message boards, an archive of the first three series, competitions and cast interviews. Where the site differs from the typical TV site is in the depth of exclusive content developed for it.One of the innovative ideas built into the Cold Feet website is the behind-the-scenes footage filmed by the Granada Broadband website team. The clips, between three and four minutes in length, show the actors relaxing between takes and include interviews with cast and crew, outtakes and fly-on-the-wall footage of the making of the show. Two clips will be added to the site each week, building up a database of footage, which can then be sold as a finished product.One plan under consideration is to package the footage as a DVD and sell it to another channel, such as ITV2. Another way of making money from the site is to introduce advertisers and e-commerce part ners, such as eBay. A compelling aspect of the new site is the character-oriented email service that will be tied in to the storylines and sent out every day. The email feature will give the impression that messages are written by the characters, emailing each other about plot developments and their feelings for other characters. Having drafted in the services of the show's scriptwriter, Mike Bullen, Granada is hoping to shift the focus away from the weekly show, and develop an ongoing narrative and affiliations between the characters and the fans."The stuff we've been developing is ground-breaking, particularly the synergies we're introducing between the TV show and the interactive services," says Bucknall. "By having the characters send emails to each other, we're making them appear more rounded and adding to their appeal."Little on other TV show websites can compare to this service, although the concept is not new - cK-One ran a similar email campaign based on characters from its advertising. However, other websites are similarly focusing on getting viewers involved daily with a weekly show. Hat Trick Productions' Have I Got News for You, for example, has been building up a loyal daily following with its recently launched site, Haveigotnewsforyou.com. Paul Zwillenberg, managing director of < kpe > Europe, a consultancy/incubator hybrid which has set up a venture with Hat Trick Productions to develop web programming (HKI), says the HIGNFY site is just a starting point."It gave us a way to understand how viewers can interact on a daily   basis with a weekly programme," says Zwillenberg. Despite receiving no on-air promotion on the show (because the site was developed independently of the BBC), he says the feedback has been very positive, and that more than 10% of new visitors who register go on immediately to play the games featured on the site.The move towards a more intimate relationship with viewers - Cold Feet has 8.5m - is Granada Broadband's longer-term strategy, a strategy that sees the phasing out of the g-wizz brand. Justin Judd, controller of content and production at Granada Broadband, says it's all about turning viewers into customers through additional services. "There is limited appetite for extra soap-related material, given that the programmes are aired so frequently, so what we have to do is find new ways of attracting people to the sites," says Judd.Having worked as a TV producer at Granada since 1994, Judd was seconded to Granada Broadband five months ago to work on closer integration between Granada's programming and its interactive services. His appointment has already paved the way for exclusive footage on the Cold Feet website, and now he's taking steps to change the brochureware sites and correct mistakes by building in more interactive content, such as Rovers Return and Woolpack pub quizzes.The new Granada Broadband strategy appears to be in line with the views of industry experts. Zwillenberg says: "Broadcasters are making the same mistakes that newspapers did when they went online. It's not appropriate just to repurpose content. It's encouraging to see major media companies starting to experiment with broadband - if they don't, they'll find themselves very far back. Entertainment is to broadband what sport was to BSkyB."While things are moving in the right direction, the long-term vision - all users accessing the website via TV while watching the programme - is still some time off. Conscious of the upcoming change, Granada is gearing up to launch PowerChannel, its TV-based analogue internet set-top box, in October. The TV internet product - free, provided users participate in monthly questionnaires - will be supported by a new entertainment portal that will promote Granada Broadband's websites. By 2001, Granada PowerChannel expects to have more than 1m subscribers.As its name suggests, Granada Broadband is conscious that the future for broadcast entertainment on the net is heavily dependent on the uptake of broadband. So it must be reassuring to Granada chiefs to hear that their interim strategy is getting the thumbs-up from erudite consultants."Granada is taking important steps to understand how users interact and the value of cross promotion," says Zwillenberg. "Broadband is going to create the same sort of fundamental change that narrowband caused in book retailing and financial services. The internet has not yet hit the entertainment business. We're talking about a sea change in the way users get entertainment - but it's just the beginning."
Our nine month love affair with Mayfair came to an end last week and we skipped across London to new offices near Chancery Lane.We had completely outgrown our shared accommodation, which had seen us expand from three to 14 people. Cramped conditions were not only a pain for us, we were also proving to be an increasing burden on the fast growth of our incubating company, Extraprise, an international e-services company.Incubators have a mixed reputation within the industry. Some, by providing real expertise, resources and contacts have delivered considerable value to their   businesses beyond that of simple investment. Others have been accused of preying on the unwary, using the promise of additional services - from office space to legal advice - as an excuse to take an unhealthily greedy share of the equity of the new business. It helps that the potential entrepreneurs most likely to be attracted to the services of an incubator also tended to be those with less business experience or commercial understanding.Our own incubation experience was a little unusual. The founders were working for Bridgewater, a specialist growth consultancy (since taken over by extraprise). Bridgewater had an entrepreneurial outlook and the directors were interested in building additional expertise within e-commerce. They were excited enough about our idea and had sufficient confidence in the team to want to invest and to enhance the new business's chance of success by providing additional support.Although an incubation arrangement would not suit   everyone, there were a number of benefits to us. Because we knew the organisation we were under way that much more quickly. We did not waste time initially seeking seed funding, finding new offices, or setting up IT systems - it was all already in place and familiar to us.We gained most from the advice that we were given. With retail partners, this included guidance on the most appropriate approach and also whom to contact. More generally, the fact that many of Bridgewater's senior team had been involved in growing their own business themselves from scratch meant that we had a good sounding board.The nature of the relationship between the incubator and ourselves has inevitably changed over time. As we have grown we have   become increasingly independent. The most significant change occurred when we completed our main funding round in May. We could then afford to be entirely self-sufficient. However, the vagaries of the London commercial property market meant that it took more than two months to secure and move into new premises.We have little day-to-day contact with Extraprise now that we have moved out, though we keep up-to-date with developments in each business. Overall our incubation experience has been positive. The relationship was not always smooth - negotiations around investment and differences of opinion on when to seek further funding stick out in our memory - but it was productive. At the most basic level, it is extremely unlikely that we would be where we are now without their initial support.Adam Hamdy and Guy Mallison are the co-founders of rools, a new service that lets teenagers buy online without a credit card
Blackpool's traditional holiday attractions of roller coasters, candy floss and Mr Bernard Manning and the Page Three Stunnas had some unusual competition yesterday: computer hacking.While the stag and hen night parties who prowled the streets the previous night were recovering from over-indulgences in places like Slappers nightclub, a team of hackers from London was tackling the Data and Network Security Council conference's annual Hack the Flag competition - using their skills to break into a computer and seize a small text file, and defend it against all-comers."Any method with the exception of physical theft/violence is allowed," according to the rules, including "social engineering", the term hackers use for interaction with humans rather than machines. "Bribing other team members is allowed."This might sound like the sort of event that gives computer security experts nightmares. In fact, a large group of them were sitting in the same part of the seaside hotel, listening to speakers calling on the government to do more to protect the UK's infrastructure from cyber-terrorists."We aren't worried about the people in this room, we're more worried about people like Saddam Hussein," organiser   Jonathan Wignall told the conference. Mr Wignall, chairman of the Data and Network Security Council, an independent body, is one of a small band of unpaid computer professionals concerned about lax computer security in Britain and campaigning to get the government to act. "We're not talking about Big Brother here. We're talking about having the tools and information available to help us," Mr Wignall said.The organisers want the government to take the threat of "information warfare" seriously, by funding a hotline allowing computer users to warn of virus or hacking attacks, a sort of Hackstoppers along the lines of Crimestoppers. In the longer run they think a government agency is needed to anticipate security weaknesses, and guard key parts of the UK's infrastructure, such as utilities and the government, from possible attacks.The respectable side of the conference sits slightly uneasily alongside the droves of hackers that attend, many of them teenagers in black t-shirts bearing weird inscriptions. But it is hard to tell the hackers from the pros, who wear the same gear and speak the same language. The only difference is in their ages, and even then, not by much.Even the conference t-shirt - black, of course - highlights the contradiction of mixing the hackers and the hacked: on the front is the source code for the I Love You email virus that caused so much havoc with computer users this year. And the annual sandcastle building competition on Saturday was won by a schematic diagram of a US encryption algorithm that technically made the export of Blackpool beach illegal outside of the US.The pub quiz that evening looked much like any other except that the prizes included CD-roms of the Linux computer operating system.In the bar afterwards two of the professionals, both network security operators for IT firms, admitted they were there   partly for fun, and partly to keep an eye on what the younger "freelances" are up to. One couple works for an internet service provider in Cambridge, but would not say which one. "We made a decision before we came not tell anyone. It's nothing personal," said one of them, one of only three women attending.Almost everyone at the conference eschewed their given names, preferring their colourful "handles" or computer nicknames, such as JamJar. "Giving away your real identity on the internet is giving away powerful information," said Zap P.But an unspoken role on the conference agenda is to bring the fringe elements of the hacking community on board, and steer them away from being "black hats" - the malicious hackers responsible for website defacement and security breaches - to become "white hats," who use their skills towards making cyber-space a safer place.NotoriousWhile most attending the conference were probably in the white hat brigade, a few were more notorious members of Britain's hacker community. "If you can't influence these people then you can forget about getting Britain to be number one in the world's e-commerce," said Mark, one of the organisers, who works for a US computer maker. "These are the people who in 10-20 years time are going to be writing software and setting up companies. If you put them in jail or force them to emigrate, then it's a brain drain. Why is Silicon Valley full of British expatriates?"So far this year Data and Network Securities has notified nearly 300 web sites of what it calls "major security flaws". Its most alarming discoveries in recent weeks have been the vulnerabilities in a large number of government websites, including the Foreign Office, the Treasury, the Cabinet Office, and the No 10 Downing Street site, and serious flaws in armed forces web sites. The group recently discovered a bug in the website of National Savings that was more than two years old. National Savings simply pulled the plug on its site.The thank-you's the council has received include an email sent last Wednesday by the Cabinet Office's national infrastructure security co-ordination centre and a letter from Nicole Fontaine, president of the European parliament, asking DNS to get in touch "to discuss the conditions in which the European parliament can call on your expertise."Cyberpirates intent on internet celebrityThe raiders&#149; Kevin Mitnick, the hackers' hero, shot to fame as the first computer criminal to have his face on an FBI most wanted poster. His latest spell in jail was a five-year sentence for fraud related to breaking into the systems of several multinational corporations. He was released in January on the condition that he did not have any contact with a computer.&#149; In March a Welsh teenager allegedly stole information from more than 26,000 credit card accounts across Britain, the US, Japan, Canada and Thailand, and published the details on the internet. FBI agents and British police raided the home of Raphael Gray, 18, in Clynderwen, Pembrokeshire, and arrested him and a friend. He has been charged with 10 counts of downloading unauthorised information.&#149; In 1998 Washington revealed that an Israeli hacker called "the Analyser" was responsible for "the most systematic and organised attempt ever to penetrate the Pentagon's computer systems". He turned out to be Ehud Tenenbaum, 18, who had planted a list of his own passwords in the Pentagon system and passed them to other hackers.&#149; In 1997 the son of a fraud squad detective walked free from a court in London after charges of breaching the security of the US air force were dropped. Three years earlier Mathew Bevan, then 19, and a friend, Richard Pryce, 16, used the internet to gain access to several US military bases. Pryce was fined &#163;1,200 after admitting similar offences.The raids&#149; Hotmail, Microsoft's free email service, was hacked into last September, exposing the correspondence of more than 40m users. A group calling itself Hackers Unite posted a web address with details of how to access any Hotmail account. The service was shut down for five hours.&#149; The "ILOVEYOU" computer virus, launched this year from the Philippines, brought chaos to networks across the globe, costing billions of pounds worth of damage. It spread by sending itself to addresses in recipients' email address books. Once opened, the the virus downloaded more dangerous software from a remote website, renamed files and redirected internet browsers. The love bug was the latest in a string of increasingly potent and fast-spreading viruses. Melissa, which replicated itself by email, is thought to have infected 1m computers and caused &#163;5m of damage.&#149; The Department of Trade and Industry has twice been prey to hackers, once in 1996 and again this year when a DTI computer was programmed to reroute email. The Home Office investigated nine cases of hacking last year, one of which was the leaking of the Macpherson report on the Stephen Lawrence murder inquiry. The Northern Ireland office investigated seven. In August 1996 hackers ran up a &#163;1m phone bill for Scotland Yard, but did not access files.&#149; In 1997 hackers got into the Yahoo! website, replacing the homepage with a ransom note demanding the release of their hero, Kevin Mitnick. Unless the demand was met, the note said, a virus would be released in all Yahoo! users' computers. The company dismissed the threat as a hoax, but the "Free Kevin" slogan continued to appear on other hijacked sites.Simon Bowers
Only the  most trusting workers would go on holiday leaving embarrassing email messages in their computers. But from November there will be additional reasons for clearing out those hilarious exchanges about the boss.A new law will allow employers to read emails and listen to phone message created by their staff, even when the employees are on holiday or off work ill.In a move described as 'alarming' by unions, the Government has bowed to pressure from big business to change parts of the controversial Regulation of Investigatory Powers Bill, which is set to become law soon.Ministers had planned to clamp down on companies' monitoring of staff phone calls, faxes and emails by requiring employers to get the consent of both the senders and receivers of messages. This would have made it illegal for firms to read emails received for people who are away from work.Business organisations reacted furiously, arguing that it would hinder their operations, and the Government has now changed its mind.A Department of Trade and Industry spokesman said the regulations would be altered to 'make it clear businesses are able to monitor communications such as colleagues' email accounts in order to check whether these are business messages that need to be dealt with in their absence'.The unions are furious about the climbdown. Nigel Stanley, spokesman for the Trades Union Congress said: 'While we understand in certain circumstances an employer might need to get access to someone's email when they're away, we are alarmed at the potential abuse of privacy.'We would be concerned that unscrupulous employers will use this as an excuse to fish through people's private messages when their on holiday or on their sickbed.'This is only the latest of privacy issue to be raised by the RIP Bill. Earlier this month,  The Observer revealed how the new law would allow the police and other authorities to track people down using information emitted from their mobile phones.
Cherie Blair's name has been hijacked to promote a bizarre internet website hosting erotica.The Prime Minister's wife is the latest victim of 'cybersquatting', the practice of buying up the rights to celebrities' names on the web to exploit their fame.Net surfers typing her so-called 'domain name' www.cherieblair.org into the computer will find a website with a graphic poem about Adam and Eve having sex.The site is registered to Kevin Koh, whose plans include a 'Love Web' - advertised as 'coming soon' with a picture of a pouting young woman straddling a giant cherry - and a 'Cherry (sic)    Blair Project' playing on the name of the cult horror film,  The Blair Witch Project .Koh would only tell The Observer that, 'the website is going to touch on the theme of love and it will defeat the purpose if I were to tell you what I am going to put up.'Last night Downing Street   said Cherie Booth - as she is professionally known - would consider action only if personally offensive material about her was posted online.'I suspect that she will do nothing given that she has a lot of other things on her mind. If there was something on it about her personally then she may take a very different view,' said a spokeswoman.The Blairs have also rejected offers of the rights to all four of their children's 'domain names', snapped up by private buyers.Many politicians suffer mischievous 'squattings' - www.williamhague.com has a picture of him saying 'I wonder if I'll ever be Prime Minister?', which quickly fades into a snarling Michael Portillo saying, 'No chance'.
'We used to use templates a lot, but not any more,' Jayne says thoughtfully.When Flametree started life, it seemed like a good idea. The templates were part of an off-the-peg web design software package. They would simplify the content editing and management process and allow all staff to edit the site.But templates stifle creativity a bit. And Flametree is keen to expand its horizons. 'In the internet world, templates mean handcuffs,' Chris, the site's content and technical manager, says sternly.So now freelance staff have been brought in to help create tailor-made software systems for the site under Chris's guidance. This has meant a parting of the ways between Flametree and its original web designers. Jayne describes the parting as a 'nightmare with a silver lining', because it has allowed Flametree more control.The bespoke system will allow the site to poll its users - useful for generating new stories to be fed to the press, thereby boosting the company's profile.   Jayne is also spreading the Flametree gospel through networking. She has been invited to talk about Flametree at internet and women's events as far afield as Milan and Tokyo.So far Flametree has grown by word of mouth. But now it is about to receive its search engine listings, having almost completed the complicated process it needed to undertake to persuade the likes of Yahoo! to include it.The software will allow for much more interactivity with Flametree's growing army of users. Just after the April launch, Flametree boasted 25,000 page impressions a week. Now the figure is more than 100,000.Users will also soon be asked to fill in brief online questionnaires, which will help Flametree build up consumer profiles. As a reward for their time, some will win a Flametree 'random act of kindness', such as a Shiatsu massage or technical counselling.Jayne and Rosemary are hoping that the company's user base will rocket when Flametree starts its marketing drive next month. An advertising flier is to be slipped into 200,000 copies of a catalogue aimed at parents, and the company is to advertise at the Prima Baby Show later this month.But has its optimism been tempered by the high-profile problems of health and beauty site ClickMango? 'The jury is out as to whether they will really fold. I'm not sure,' Jayne says. 'But given the current investment climate, I'm glad not to be looking for funding. We have enough for a year or more.'Much will depend on the quality of the new marketing and sponsorship managers Flametree wants to recruit soon. Given the way the company is growing, it is just as well the search for new premises now seems to be nearly finished.
Every  machine connected to the internet has to have a unique address consisting of four numbers separated by dots. It's called an IP (Internet Protocol) address.The server that runs The Observer's site, for example, has the address 193.122.15.190. If you wanted to access the site, you could simply type those numbers in the 'address' box of your internet browser and the server would deliver the front page as cheerfully as if you had typedwww.observer.co.uk.In the early days of the net, people used the numerical form of addresses. While this may have been acceptable to geeks, it was hopeless for normal human beings, so the practice arose of assigning meaningful names to machines. But this required a translation system - a database which could look upwww.observer.co.ukand translate it into193.122.15.190. Thus was born the Domain Name System, or DNS.The DNS is the heart of the internet. All over the network   there are servers performing thousands or even millions of domain-name translations every second. The databases are constantly being updated as new domain names are created, and database entries for them ripple through the servers in the system.At the top the DNS machine hierarchy is a small number of 'root servers', which are the authoritative repository of name-to-machine translations. If the internet can be said to have a centre, these high-level DNS servers are it. The person who controls them has their thumb on the windpipe of cyberspace.For many years, that person was a computer scientist, Jon Postel, who was one of the architects of the Advanced Research Projects   Agency (Arpanet), the bomb-proof network connecting US military bases. Postel oversaw a system whereby the US government, through contractors including the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority and a firm called Network Solutions Inc, co-ordinated the assignment of IP numbers and domain names.This worked fine while the net was primarily a space for academic researchers, but when its commercialisation began in 1995, something more elaborate was required to cope with a future in which domain names would be as valuable as trademarks.In June 1998, the US government announced its intention to end its role in IP numbers and DNS co-ordination, and proposed a new, non-profit corporation to take over these and related functions.That body, theInternet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann), came into being in October 1998 and is now the outfit with its thumb on the windpipe.Given that awesome power, it's important that Icann be an accountable, representative and transparent institution. Its constitution allows for any internet user to become a 'member at large' and to vote in elections for five seats on the Icann board - one for each major geographical region of the world. The elections are being held in October and the names of those nominated as candidates have just been posted on the Icann site.It's a start, I suppose, but the omens for governance are not good. Of the 300 million internet users, only 211 wanted to be considered, or were recommended, as candidates for the Icann board.In most parts of the world, the call for nominations was greeted with a resounding yawn. Among Europeans, only the Germans seem to appreciate the organisation's significance. Of the 17,000-odd 'member at large' registrations submitted worldwide, 24 per cent are from Germany - compared with only 4 per cent from the UK, and 2 per cent from France. The US accounts for 41 per cent of the membership.The message for UK users is loud and clear: log on towww.icann.orgregister; and vote.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
Five British companies won the right to internet domain names that claimed they "sucked" yesterday, in a case that delivers a blow to anyone hoping to cash in on website registration.The World Intellectual Property Organisation, Wipo, ruled in Geneva that websites called natwestsucks.com, standardcharteredsucks.com, directlinesucks.com, dixonssucks.com and freeservesucks.com should all be owned by the companies concerned.NatWest, Standard Chartered and Direct Line, three financial services groups, the electrical retailer Dixon's, and the internet service provider Freeserve filed their complaint two months ago to the United Nations' arbitration panel after Purge IT, a British company, had registered the sucks.com domain names.Disputes involving some of the thousands of so-called cybergriping sites have escalated in the past year as companies have decided to stop turning a blind eye to what they consider blackmail.In a separate case yesterday, Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, won control over wal-mart-europe.com from a resident of Geneva. In May, Wipo   handed the Wal-mart several sucks.com domain names.So far this year, Wipo has accepted 954 domain name disputes for arbitration, although not all of these relate to corporate insults. The UN body introduced a new arbitration procedure last year to cut down on so-called "cybersquatting" amid complaints from corporations that it cost too much to buy back the rights to their names.In yesterday's ruling, William Cornish, the arbitrator, said that Purge, which is based in Bicester, had no legitimate interest in the names and had registered them in bad faith. He had heard evidence in the case that Purge had asked the companies concerned for money. He found the company had bought the domain names solely to sell them on rather than protest about the targeted companies.Purge argued that it had never used the domain names and had never intended to sell them to anyone but the companies involved.A spokesman for Freeserve said yesterday that it would not complain about legitimate protest, but added:"The company acts in every way it can to protect its trademark and its brand. It is unacceptable for people to use our name in vain."
QXL.com yesterday clawed back from the brink its European expansion plans by confirming that it would, after all, buy German rival Ricardo.de but on different terms.The UK online auctioneer said it would pay &#163;171m, a reduction of 71% on the originally agreed price of &#163;627m, to reflect an unexpected downturn in revenues and gross auction value at Ricardo.Analysts had warned that if QXL's deal with Ricardo fell apart it could spell disaster for the company's European growth plans. It would also end its hopes of beating eBay, the US company, and becoming Europe's dominant inter net auction company. Shares in QXL rose to 63p in early trading amid initial relief that the deal would go ahead, but ended the session down 0.5p at 59.75p. Shares in both companies have fallen by some two-thirds since the deal was first announced in May.Analysts say the merged group will have a lot to prove, not least improving revenues and better gross auction value at Ricardo, which the company warned would be 20% lower in the fourth quarter than it was in the third."OK, the price is far lower than previously announced, but with already small revenues down 20% you have to ask what exactly QXL are buying," said one analyst.QXL insisted that the fall in revenues was temporary, and that Ricardo presented good growth prospects in one of Europe's most important markets. The revised terms of the deal will see QXL give 34 of its shares for each Ricardo share, as opposed to the previously agreed 42.6 shares. Last week QXL said that the deal was being re-examined after new information about Ricardo had come into its possession.The renegotiation of the merger has cost Ricardo chairman Eckhard Pfeiffer his place on the enlarged board.QXL said that the former Compaq chief executive and director of General Motors would be replaced by another Ricardo director.
When the regulatory body for financial services itself says that past performance provides no guide to the future of an investment fund, managers and customers alike may wonder whether they are wasting their time. Comment on the aims and make-up of any unit or investment trust might seem useless.Yet some special trusts have clearly been winners over recent years. That cannot be said of many of the general life assurance funds that provide the pensions or endowment savings of the average UK investor, because they stuck with old UK shares.The investment funds that doubled and redoubled in a year or two were mainly those that concentrated on the new software, internet hardware and network communications providers whose ideas promised high returns, if not   just yet. Henderson Technology, Finsbury Technology and the other specialists, along with one or two venture capital or smaller investment trust companies and unit funds, made hay with purchases of a relatively small number of stakes in hi-tech companies. JSB and London Bridge Software were the gold nuggets in a handful of funds. ARM, the chip-designer offshoot of Acorn, made fortunes for a rather larger number.All very well, you might think, but what's the message now? Profits are still there for medium-term investors in technology funds, though many software shares are around half their peak values. A glance at the more entrenched and soberly managed funds, led by 3i, the largest development capital provider in Europe and the newer technology fund offshoots in its stable, shows that finding new growth companies is no random pursuit. Other large development   capital and buy-out funds have made millions for hundreds of thousands of mainly US investors. Some are run by investment banks for wealthy private clients and partners.In the public arena Herald Investment Trust has been one of the best performers over the past five years with twice the growth of the best UK growth or income fund and close to the best of the venture and development capital funds, ahead of 3i itself. It has grown more than fourfold in three years, topping the smaller companies section led by AIM Trust. Listed as international, it is around 60% UK invested. ARM and Sherwood, the insurance software providers, have been outstanding investments. The media section has also provided winners on a global basis, including NRJ, the French radio station operator, and Switzerland's Publigroupe.The number of holdings is surprisingly long, around 200, with a long list of smaller US companies.   Alba, Amstrad and Linx Printing Technologies were among last year's larger holdings, though software is the largest single category, with about a third of the total. Manager Katie Potts pursues a cautious policy and liquidity is sometimes quite high.Another fund whose manager expressed amazement at the heights some technology issues reached a few months ago is British Empire Securities. It differs from the technology specialists and other growth funds in seeking out value. This is seen not so much in old economy stocks but in investment trusts and holding companies. Lazard's French property interests and holding companies there and in the Fiat empire in Italy have provided lucrative revaluation gains.So have investment trusts like Lazard Birla India and Gartmore Fledgling, which bought at large discounts and sold at big profits. The shares have made sustained progress   but still stand at a large discount on underlying holdings. Manager John Walton will continue to concentrate on special areas of value, eschewing monumental price/earnings valuations. UK and European holdings comprise 60%, excluding cash.For TR European Growth, which has grown fourfold in five years, selling stakes in small companies that have soared in value is nearly as important as selection. Walford, the Austrian underwear maker, was one such and its disposal before the market turned dull established the reputation of manager Stephen Peak. He has since made millions in Spanish pizza, French media and Swiss consumer goods suppliers. If Europe continues to accelerate its growth, with newer euro countries participating and the currency itself picking up, the fund should keep prospering, though the shares are at a premium on assets.Outperformance for all three is no rarity; it has come to be expected.
The playwright Dennis Potter once explained that he had decided to write for TV rather than the theatre because only television offered the possibility of a "common culture": one in which people of all classes and generations experienced the same event simultaneously and talked about it the next morning.No Potter of today would go into television for that reason. Technological developments in transmission - with programmes in the future to be delivered through computers and telephones - are generally expected to make viewing a fragmented and isolated experience. In this envisaged world in which viewers become their own schedulers, you will watch Friends at 3.30am on a Tuesday if you decide to. Only a dramatic news event - the sudden death of a princess, for example - will unite the audience.Yesterday, though, the internet - frequently predicted killer of the common culture - offered a shared viewing experience of an unusually powerful kind. In offices - or at least hi-tech, media-friendly offices - employees crouched round computer screens to watch the live web transmission from the house in East London where the surviving seven contestants in Channel 4's house-share elimination game-show Big Brother had rounded on stockbroker Nick Bateman, the series' villain, after discovering evidence of what viewers already knew: that he was breaking the game's rules by playing the contestants off against each other.Bateman was already established as the stand-out character of Big Brother, a series which has managed to combine compelling voyeurism with genuine psychological revelation. While the rest of the 10 seemed to have calculated that the best way to avoid being voted out of the house was to be pleasant or inoffensive on screen, Nick was duplicitous and scheming. The Sun newspaper - which, like most of the British press, runs at least one story about the programme every day - intensified anti-Nick sentiment among viewers by alleging that he had broken the game rules of total seclusion by hiding a tiny mobile phone in his sponge bag. The claim later became more lurid: the tiny receiver was strapped behind his testicles.During the early hours of Thursday morning, evidence of Nick's scheming - a pen and paper, which   he used to pass illicit notes to housemates - was discovered by the contestants. The suspension of the supposedly 24-hour internet transmission for two hours led to rumours (denied by Channel 4) of a punch-up. But - yesterday lunchtime - Nick faced his fellow residents with a Clintonian explanation for his actions, blaming a large family and employment in the City for his competitive tendencies. Showing once again the sophisticated understanding of the modern media that has marked him out from the others, Bateman is then reported to have negotiated safe passage to a London hotel and asked for sessions with a psychiatrist. He left the house late yesterday afternoon. A show that has become a live factual version of Lord of the Flies had lost its Lord of the Lies.People in homes and offices unable to receive broadcasts on the internet kept up with developments in the house through email and mobile phones. Technology expected to divide and isolate was unifying people around this media phenomenon of the summer of 2000.As a significant moment of television, the rumbling of Nick Bateman is most remarkable for being the first of the medium's high spots not actually to have occurred on TV. It is the first television hit in which the scheduled transmission is almost incidental to the effect. Whereas other celebrated moments of shared viewing -   the revelation of JR Ewing's assassin in Dallas, the major weddings and deaths in EastEnders and Coronation Street, the big-money moments on Who Wants to Be a Millionaire? - commanded audiences of around 20m, Big Brother has achieved television ratings of only 4m.But this small impact has thrown up a disproportionate cultural mushroom-cloud of Sun front pages, broadsheet editorial columns, websites and workplace conversations. This is partly because the series has a compelling concept, but mainly because - through the use of the live web transmission - Big Brother is the first TV show to make serious use of the new viewing possibilities. Another significance of yesterday's scenes was that viewers were for almost the first time watching genuinely unedited events: no presenter or director was mediating the coverage. By the time Nick's departure is seen in conventional form - on Friday's edition of Big Brother - it will seem second-hand to many viewers. This is a remarkable change in the nature of what it means to watch TV.The only drawback to this up-rooting of the couch potato is the one which has always afflicted the internet. Nick's ostracisation could   have marked the coming of age of internet broadcasting, but in the event, this was not the case. Like an impotent bridegroom, the worldwide web is always let down at the potentially sweetest moments by the equipment. The infuriating message "web congestion" - which will be familiar to those who tried to download either the Starr report or the Louise Woodward judgment - frequently interrupted coverage as the internet again failed to meet demand.This provided a second irony for historians of television in yesterday's office huddles. The second most common prediction about the future of television - apart from the one that shared viewing would no longer occur - was perfection of the image. Widescreen and digital TV were expected to allow programming of absolute clarity. Indeed, I remember writing a few years ago in a television column that the future of the medium was immaculate images watched by smaller and smaller individual audiences.Disproving one half of this bet by becoming talking-point TV, Big Brother - in its web-cam manifestation at least - also knocks down the other half, because the pictures offered are equivalent in quality to the first ever experimental television sets. People huddled excitedly   together around a tiny, unreliable image: in a quite unexpected way, the future of television has turned out to mirror its distant past.As for Big Brother's hold on its audience, the Nick transmissions may represent the peak. Channel 4 has consistently denied that the game is manipulated by the programme-makers in any way. But, if so, their scrupulous honesty has been rewarded by remarkable good luck. What was called for dramatically at this halfway mark of the series is something very like what happened yesterday. It is the point at which a dramatist or screenwriter would have had the group turning against one of their number.But anyone writing or directing the events would also understand that Nick - as the dramatic engine of the piece - needed to be around for the d&eacute;nouement. It is traditional to lament the prospect of Hamlet without the prince, but Hamlet without Claudius would be equally problematic as a piece of drama. Melodrama - and Big Brother is melodramatic documentary - needs a villain.The shaming of Bateman wasn't remotely equivalent in cultural significance to the shooting of Kennedy or the death of Diana, but it marks a stage in the technology of television revelation. JFK died on amateur celluloid. Diana died on live 24-hour television. Nasty Nick was nixed on the net, a day before you'll see it on a set.Must-see TV: shows that captivated the nationby Jemima SissonsFawlty Towers: The GermansFirst broadcast:October 24 1975.A concussed Basil Fawlty had some difficulty with his German guests.Fawlty: "Is there something wrong?"Guest: "Will you stop talking about the war.""Me? You started it.""We did not start it.""Yes you did - you invaded Poland."Morecambe and Wise Christmas showFirst broadcast:December 25 1977.Viewers:More than 20m.The yuletide audience gasped as Angela Rippon stepped out from behind her newsdesk and engaged in spectacular high-kicks with Eric and Ernie.Dallas: Who shot JR?First broadcast:May 26 1980.Viewers:21.6m.After a summer of bumper stickers, T-shirts and news items, the nation tuned in to find that ex-lover Kristin had pulled the trigger.Live AidFirst broadcast:July 3 1985.Viewers:1.5bn in 160 countries.Bob Geldof became a TV legend when he implored the audience to: "Give us your fucking money."Eastenders: The divorce papersFirst Broadcast:December 25 1986.Viewers:30m.Christmas in the Old Vic. Den launches into Angie, who has lied about having six months to live: "This &#91;brandishing an envelope&#93;, my sweet, is from my solicitor telling you that your husband has filed for a divorce. It also tells you to get a solicitor pretty quick. Happy Christmas, Ange."Only fools and horses: Del falls through the barFirst broadcast:January 8 1989.Viewers:24.3m.Slapstick perfection. Del attempts to impress the ladies by leaning casually on the bar. The waiter lifts the hatch and he falls through it.Blackadder goes forth :  GoodbyeeeFirst broadcast:November 2 1989.Baldrick offers one last gem of wisdom as to the cause of the first world war: "Archie Duke shot an ostrich because he was hungry." Tears were jerked as Blackadder and Baldrick went over the top.Brookside: The lesbian kissFirst broadcast:January 14 1994.Viewers:6m.Beth and Margaret raise profile, ratings and eyebrows with England's first ever lesbian screen kiss.The Brit awardsFirst broadcast:February 19 1996.Viewers:11.7m.Pulp frontman Jarvis Cocker waggles his behind at most of underage Britain as a protest against Michael Jackson.This life: The last episodeFirst broadcast:August 7 1997.Viewers:More than 3.5m.Rachel has blown the whistle on an affair between Milly and her boss. Milly clobbers her.
Flooz.com, the online gift voucher company, is planning to launch in Britain after talking with some 15 retailers in the UK, including Harrods and Tower Records.The planned launch of Flooz.co.uk reflects the continuing ambitions of online payment companies in the US.A number of firms are fighting a crisis of confidence among e-commerce investors as well as doubts about the viability of their systems to offer payment alternatives to credit cards online.Flooz.com, launched with an advertising blitz featuring Whoopi Goldberg, who is also a shareholder and one of the sector's best-known names.The firm markets itself as a virtual gift service at which customers buy "credit" from the website using a credit card and send it to someone else via email. The recipient of the gift, or "stored value" in industry parlance, can spend it with more than 60 online retailers.British consumers can already shop at a handful of British companies, such as Whittards of Chelsea and Thomas Pink, using credit denominated in pounds rather than dollars. The launch of a British service next year will allow them to use their accounts at many more locations.Robert Levitan, chief executive of the New York-based company, admits that it has reined in its original international ambitions."We were on a faster track and then we decided to stop and take the right partners," he said. "We want to do it properly, and we don't want to be the arrogant Americans who think we know it all."As well as negotiating with retailers, the company is also talking to distributors and prospective employees. The cost of the entire venture will run into several million dollars.Analysts are sceptical about the future for online payment systems, in spite of the signs of caution. James van Dyke, a senior analyst at Jupiter Communications, said: "There have been several so-called stored value currencies which   have tried to make a go of it over the years - and it has been a tough ride. It's a momentous thing to change payment behaviour."Mr van Dyke and other analysts refer to a roster of companies forced in the past to retreat from ambitious plans to offer incentive-based, or promotional, currencies.At the beginning of the internet frenzy companies such as DigiCash, CyberCash and First Virtual Holdings all introduced online incentive-based currencies with limited success.The internet gold rush encouraged other companies to set up online-based currencies in spite of these failures.Beenz.comalready offers an international online currency, whileWebcertificates.com,Netcentives.comandMyPoints.comall compete in the same space.Jomono.comis Britain's version of Flooz.com."If the goal was to become a standard currency on the internet, none of them have been successful," said Mr van DykeThe difficulty of establishing a trading currency is not new. The historic nature of incentive programmes was given a new twist last month when Netcentives, a Nasdaq-listed company, teamed up with the Sperry and Hutchinson company, the original purveyor of offline rewards.S&amp;H Greenpoints.com is the web version of a company which began operations more than 100 years ago before running into financial difficulties during the 1980s.Mr Levitan, a 38-year-old who also co-founded iVillage, the online site for women, is unfazed by the industry's lack of obvious success to date. "We will succeed if we are the best way to give and receive a gift online," he said.More than 600,000 people have sent or received Flooz vouchers worth about $5m so far. The private firm, which is still not profitable, is keen to expand its corporate client base, which provides about half of its sales. The idea is for clients such as Cisco Systems and Eastman Kodak to give their employees Flooz credit to spend as an incentive rather than simply putting more money in their wage packet.Mr Levitan also believes that the companies could work together, as they trade in slightly different currencies. When he talks of Jomono, for example, he says: "They could be a competitor or a partner. It's really too early to tell."
Cable &amp; Wireless's hopes of replenishing its bank account with the proceeds of the sale of its Hong Kong subsidiary to the internet startup, Pacific Century CyberWorks, were dashed yesterday.Cable &amp; Wireless has been left with a 20.2% stake in entrepreneur Richard Li's PCCW and only &#163;4.3bn in cash from the sale of its 54% stake in Cable &amp; Wireless HKT.Graham Wallace, chief executive of Cable &amp; Wireless, said earlier this year he had hoped for a minimum of &#163;5bn cash from the deal as the proceeds had been earmarked to help fund the firm's global roll-out of its data network, web hosting centres and investments in internet service providers.The cash amount that Cable &amp; Wireless extracted from the deal was based on the offer's structure. PCCW made an all-stock offer of 1.1 PCCW shares for each Cable &amp;Wireless Hong Kong share.An alternative combined offer of 71.16 cents (47p) of a PCCW share and 92.9 cents cash for each Cable &amp; Wireless HKT share was also put down.If the 46% minority owners among Cable &amp; Wireless HKT shareholders accepted the all-share offer, Cable &amp; Wireless would have been left with an 11.2% shareholding in PCCW and about &#163;7.1bn in cash.The maximum Cable &amp; Wireless could end up with under the deal was a 20.9% stake and cash of &#163;3.8bn.When PCCW made its bid for Cable &amp; Wireless HKT in March, when its stock was riding the euphoria surrounding internet stocks.Since then, PCCW's shares have tumbled as investors have become sceptical of the earnings and revenue potential of web-based companies.This meant most of the minority shareholders in Cable &amp; Wireless HKT opted for the   cash and share alternative offer by PCCW."Given we're not in a bull market, the small shareholders may as well take the cash," said Phil Campbell, analyst at Schroder Salomon Smith Barney. "That's why we assumed the worst case, that Cable &amp; Wireless would get less cash."Cable &amp; Wireless has already stated its intentions to sell off   blocks of its 20.2% shareholding in PCCW. It may be some time before internet stocks return to favour, allowing Cable &amp; Wireless to exit its investment.Mr Wallace yesterday maintained that Cable &amp; Wireless was happy with the outcome."We are extremely pleased with the value that has been realised for our shareholders through this merger," he said.In 18 months Cable &amp;Wireless has spent &#163;650m transforming itself from a traditional telecoms operator that derived most of its revenue from voice traffic to an organisation that is increasing its investment in data and internet protocol services. Internet protocol is the language that allows computers to share resources across a network.
&#149;Safety firstIrish telecoms group Eircom has changed the dial-in and email passwords of around 30,000 internet service subscribers after a security breach. Eircom said a hacker had gained access to one of its servers but there was no evidence that any websites had been interfered with.&#149;LeakA working version of software being developed by America Online for its new generation of internet-linked devices has leaked out to the worldwide web, the Washington Post reported in its online edition. The Linux-based software - codenamed Gamera - has been available for download on several rogue websites for at least a week. It is being developed by AOL for use in devices such as wireless pads and computers for the kitchen.&#149;Check-inInternet search engine and directory Hoojit, founded by former Telinco boss Chris Matthews, is launching an online hotel guide which lets users find accommodation anywhere in Britain within a matter of minutes. Some 20,000 hotels have paid &#163;100 each to sign up to the website.
Computacenter directors yesterday came under renewed pressure to revitalise the computer services firm after they admitted that the millennium bug-induced hangover that forced it to issue a profits warning in June would continue into 2001.The chief executive, Mike Norris, said that while certain divisions were showing signs of recovery the market place as a whole remained tough. "The second half is likely to be substantially better than the first, but it may take until this time next year for normal growth rates to return," he said, as Computacenter shares fell 11% to 380p.They now stand close to their all-time low, and way off the &#163;15 level at which they traded in February.Computacenter's troubles reflect a wider malaise among computer hardware and software companies which has forced several to issue profit warnings. Warnings from the likes of Unisys, Compel and EDS in the US that profits will be lower than forecast follow a reluctance among big corporate IT directors to spend on new computers and software.Dutch firm Getronics yesterday became the latest firm to blame the millennium effect, posting a sharp fall in profits and seeing the price of its shares slump 18%.Computacenter said that in the six months to June 30, pre-tax profits fell from &#163;40.7m in the comparable period last year to &#163;21.2m. France, Germany and Belgium were the worst-hit regions.Turnover edged up from &#163;904.8m to &#163;926.7m. Margins fell from 22.6% to 21.2%, with the company expecting them to come under further pressure in the next few months.Several analysts said they were looking to revise their full-year profit forecasts of around &#163;61m - although Deutsche Bank analyst Ross Jobber said that the shares had probably already bottomed out.Mr Jobber added that he expected trading to improve in time but given the range of other IT stocks available to traders the Computacenter shares were unlikely to be the first targeted for investment.Mr Norris said that Computacenter also needed to improve its German business and product margins.The general order book looks positive, with contracts from BP Amoco and Shell, Mr Norris added, while its e-business divisions were experiencing strong demand from dot.com companies.Plans to float Biomi, an e-commerce joint venture that allows customers to order office supplies over the web which was the subject of a &#163;2m investment during the period, have been shelved due to poor market conditions.Computacenter shares trebled between October and February, and the company was looked upon as a major consolidator within its sector. In June it had an &#163;85m offer for smaller rival Compel rejected, and although Computacenter is thought to be still keen to agree a deal it is unlikely to make any move until it has sorted out its own internal trading difficulties.
They say revenge is a dish best eaten cold and yesterday Michael Williams, who suddenly resigned as chief executive ofFreecom.neton Wednesday, appeared to be putting the old cliche to the test.An official stock exchange statement said the outspoken Mr Williams sold 1m Freecom shares on the day of his departure. Paradoxically, Freecom shares rose 14% after his resignation.While Freecom maintained the departure was   amicable, dealers are not so sure. They point out that Mr Williams had come in for fierce criticism from the City over the handling of the Oneview.net acquisition and the slump in Freecom's share price since March.With Mr Williams still holding a 2.39% - or 2.4m shares - stake in the company, dealers believe further selling cannot be ruled out. This is likely to affect the shares - down 1p to 56.5p yesterday - in the short term.
Cyberlibertarians who saw the internet as a way of escaping the dead hand of central government must be disappointed. Many believed that the internet offered the ideal testing grounds for one of the most famous predictions of Friedrich Hayek, Mrs Thatcher's favourite economic guru, who suggested 25 years ago that private money would spontaneously arise as a credible alternative to legal tender issued by central banks.It is nearly five years since the first prototype digital currencies were launched, and a single currency for the internet has yet to emerge, spontaneously or otherwise. Early attempts to solve the money conundrum have not been a success. DigiCash, one of the pioneers in the field, went bankrupt nearly two years ago. Last year Barclays dropped its early experiment in the field, Barclaycoin, based on technology from the US firm Cybercoin, which has also abandoned the e-payments game and gone into payments security.These early systems were not new currencies - they relied on customers downloading software to install a digital wallet on their PC. The wallet could then be loaded up with transfers from the customer's bank account. Installing the software was a hassle and finding a website enabled to accept payments even more so.Credit cards have become the default payment system for e-commerce in the absence of a better option, but neither consumers nor merchants are happy. Consumers don't like trusting card details to websites. According to one recent survey, four in 10 UK consumers say they are reluctant to use their credit cards   for purchases on the internet, even though security experts promise it is no more risky than giving a credit card number down the telephone or letting a waiter take a card out of sight when paying for a meal. The customer does not bear the major risk for fraudulent transactions whether online or in the real economy.Fraud is undoubtedly a problem online, but it is e-tailers - not customers - who are paying the heaviest price. Web sites offer would-be fraudsters programmes to download which will automatically generate valid card numbers. Other fraudsters trawl the net picking up credit card details stored on retailers' sites.Stolen credit numbers were used in 1.2% of US internet sales last year. Some analysts estimate e-tailers are 10 times more likely to be hit by fraud than offline retailers. In the UK, the main banks' clearing house, APCS, estimates online card fraud in 1999 to have equalled &#163;3.7m   - or 2% of total card losses.The real sting for the merchants is that, unlike face to face card sales where the issuing bank bears the risk if the retailer takes reasonable precautions, with any kind of remote card transaction they are fully liable for the cost of the fraud. Not only do they lose the payment, but card companies bill them a $40 "chargeback" for accepting a fraudulent payment.Credit card issuers already charge web merchants more than real world retailers: 2.5% of sales, plus 30 cents per transaction as opposed to 1.5% plus 30 cents. All of this is cutting into web merchants' already slender profit margins.Swingeing transaction costs are one reason why cards are hopeless for small purchases - so-called micropayments. They are not much use either if you are trying to pay another individual rather than a retailer - as often happens on internet auction sites.A bewildering variety of payment systems has emerged as an alternative to credit cards. The sex sites, usually the leading edge for commercial exploitation of the internet, got out of credit card payments some time ago, crippled by fraud. Now they use different systems, including programmes which enable customers to add the cost of visiting the site to their phone bill, or use a third party which holds the customers details to guarantee that credit card payments are genuine. But such sites are themselves vulnerable to hackers.Paypalpromises to take the uncertainty out of person to person transactions - P2P in the jargon. Both parties register their credit card or bank account details, and payments   are triggered by sending an email. Paypal will arrange for payments to be taken out of the buyer's account and transferred to the seller's.If you receive an email with money from Paypal, you have to sign up to the service to get it: a sure fire way of increasing the numbers using the system. But it too has recently fallen victim to fraudsters using false card numbers, and has promised to review its procedures.Billpointpromises the same advantages for P2P payments on eBay, the web's leading auction site. The big players clearly think there is money to be made from P2P: US bank Wells Fargo has a 35% stake in Billpoint, while Paypal is part owned by Finnish mobile phone giant Nokia.For micro payments, the choice of payment methods is even more bewildering.    Online rewards schemes likeBeenzandFloozwhich pay people to surf are starting to look more like currencies as they become more widely accepted across the internet.Other schemes involve variations on the digital wallet: atY-creds, parents can load pocket money into their offspring's accounts which can then be used to shop at a parent censored selection of online merchants.ExchangePath, formerly 1Clickcharge, a US site, offers prepaid accounts and P2P payments.The problem with these substitutes for credit cards is that there are too many of them. Consumers do not want to have to go shopping with a wallet full of dozens of different payment options, but so far there is no accepted   standard on which to rely.David Birch, head of Consult Hyperion, a UK e-payments consultancy, says the race is on in the US and Europe to find secure, convenient solution to internet payments which will unlock the commercial potential of the internet. The ideal system would offer certain features: they would be:&#149;  fraudproof&#149;  private&#149;  exchangeable for a wide range of goods and services&#149;  a reliable store of value, not likely to be eroded by inflation&#149;  downloadable for real economy purchases&#149;  good for small as well as large transactions.US companies are racing to design software which offers these features, while in Europe the preferred solution is smart cards - where the security information is   encoded on a chip rather than in the magnetic strip of the more familiar credit and debit cards. They can store credit card numbers so that the consumer does not need to give the information away over the net or the phone, or they can be loaded up with cash which can be used for small payments.Birch believes smart cards are the way forward because software solutions will always be vulnerable to hacking. While the security information on magnetic cards can easily be copied and stolen, the security on smart cards   means that they have to be literally ripped apart before they give up their identifying information.With a smart card, users can pay for small and large purchases online without identifying themselves to the merchant - thus offering privacy.But to become the ubiquitous payment mechanism for the internet, smart cards require extra hardware - readers attached to PCs or set top boxes. M-commerce may well get a headstart over e-commerce simply because some mobile phones already come with readers installed.But for smart cards to evolve further, the big players have to get together to agree common standards. Brian Gladman, a former security expert for Nato, says the failure to agree common standards so far is because it involves two groups - bankers and technical experts - who don't understand each other.He believes that although the US hasn't shown much interest so far in smart cards, once they latch on to the technology, they are likely to race ahead of Europe, because their bankers are more technically literate.If smart cards become the prevailing mechanism for internet payments, it means   the end of the dream of private money because the cards will link back to national currencies and to real time payment systems.True digital money would look very different to the account based systems which are developing as the standard. In an account based money system value is stored in the accounts of a trusted third party like a bank. Money is exchanged by taking from one person's account and transferring to another.True digital money would be based on a system where electronic tokens - an unforgeable packet of bits - are exchanged. Instead of relying on third party verification or on the banking system as a guarantee of value, in a token system, ownership is all - whoever has the token, has the money.Oakington, a British company, believes it may have developed the software platform which would allow other players to issue true digital currencies.The software is still being tested for bugs, but the company says it already has major e-tailers interested in the concept.Hayek's dream of companies challenging governments for the right to issue money may yet be realised.Paying your waye-goldwww.e-gold.comNumber of users25,000Spending powerVery limited number of sites at present, mostly in the US.How does it work?Users buy a chunk of a gold bar which they can then use to make small and large payments on line. The gold is centrally stored and payments are debited from one account and paid into anotherPros and consSlightly wacky idea, definitely for the libertarian fringe who have always had an obsession with payments sytems based on gold. Has the advantage of being easily to trade internationally - if you've found another person with an e-gold account. Not widespread enough to be very useful, but hey, who cares about the practicalities? You too can own a chunk of the world's favourite metal.Surfmileswww.surfmiles.comSpending powerSite boasts that it can be used at 140 major e-tailers.How does it work?Users earn points for surfing the net. Points can either be spent online or downloaded for real money.Pros and consFree money is always good, but at 30p an hour, you would have to be a pretty dedicated surfer to make your fortune.Mondexwww.mondex.comNumber of usersOne million worldwide, a quarter of whom are in Hong Kong. In the UK, university students are the biggest usersSpending powerOnline, Mondex is accepted by 3000 merchants.How does it work?A smart card with a purse enables users to store money for small transactions, on and off line. In Hong Kong, the cards are used to pay for train ticketsPros and consThe granddaddy of smart card systems. It had bad publicity in the UK, when its Swindon based trial failed to catch on. It's proved more successful overseasChargitPREPAYwww.glintbill.comNumber of usersIn developmentHow does it work?Users buy a card from a newsagent which can be used to pay for online purchases. Each card has an individual pin concealed behind a scratchpanel. Its value is monitored on the company's website and is debited everytime a purchase is made.Pros and consCheap way of making micropayments and, because cards can be bought for cash, can be used by people with no bank account or credit card.
Nazi trialIt was meant to be the conclusion of a three-month trial, but late last Friday, the judge in the Yahoo/Nazi memorabilia case in the French courts   ruled that what everybody needed was more time.The dispute is about the selling of Nazi flags and other memorabilia on Yahoo - the English language portal hosted in the US but available across the world. The French authorities are seeking to forceYahoo!to stop French citizens from gaining access to Nazi artefacts on the US site.More information, intended to encourage the exchange of ideas about the legal issues arising out of the case, can be found atwww.gyoza.com/lapres/html/yahen.html.Six appealMulti-media artists Hexstatic have just launched a website atwww.hexstatic.co.ukto help promote their new album, Rewind.Hexstatic are principally musicians, but ones that have done more to embrace multimedia than any other. Their performances are more like watching a digital film than a live act, and their new album comes with a CD-rom that allows users to remix the tracks from the album.The new website is very interactive and features much of their new work: a kind of slowed down techno that   samples heavily from early electronic toys and arcade games of the 80s. The site also features a virtual Stylophone, a full discography, video clips, and a playable version of Asteroids.Carnival!Next weekend, west London will go mad as the Notting Hill Carnival takes to the streets. Before you go you might like to visit one of the many sites that are already up and running. Althoughwww.nottinghillcarnival.net.uk, didn't seem to be quite ready at the time of writing, the site atwww.portowebbo.co.ukis better, and the carnival's official photographer, Tim Holt, has his very own site atwww.matrixsr.demon.co.uk.MutantwatchMutantwatch, promoting the new X-Men movie that opens in the UK tomorrow, is the third such site to appear. Someone wants to replicate the kind of hype that made the Blair Witch Project such a success:www.mutantwatch.comworks as a mock-up of Senator Kelly's campaign site, Kelly being a character in the film who tries to build a political career out of persecuting mutants. Using QuickTime movies and other materials, the site becomes an online ad campaign that seeks to warn America of the dangers of mutants, and only rarely betrays any sign that it is connected to a film.The other sites, mentioned here on July 27, arewww.virgin.net/x-menandwww4.x-men-the-movie.com.Euro fighterCaptain Eurois a character created by the EU to help children learn about the institution. However, not everyone sees Euro as a hero. One group of US artists reckons the Captain is propaganda, and has set off to England to challenge the creators. A record of their confrontation can be found atwww.geocities.com/the_yes_men.Hot courseThe Ucas clearing system is a safety net for students who failed to get the grades they needed to get into the university they chose. It can also be a very bewildering one. Thankfully there are now websites that can help them out. Recently launched iswww.hotcourses.comand don't forget the Guardian's service athttp://clearing2000.guardianunlimited.co.uk.In cockneyEver wanted to change your favourite website into another language? Go tohttp://rinkworks.com/dialect, type or paste in the address of your favourite website and - stone the crows - it is translated into cockney.Click helpComputers for charitiesis another charity website. You visit the site and click on the donate button, and one of the site's sponsors donates a penny towards computer equipment for charities.New and notedA new site promoting fair trade and campaigning against child labour is atwww.shopasiabazaar.com;iPublish.comis a new e-book publisher from Time Warner, andwww.FindStolenArt.comlets you... find stolen art.Six of the bestUS election raceAl Gore official sitewww.algore2000.comGeorge W Bush official sitewww.georgewbush.comReform Party official sitewww.reformparty.orgUS interactive town hallwww.e-thepeople.comParody sitewww.gwbush.comGore's gaffes on videowww.mediaresearch.org/news/goregaffesvideo.html
Bored with your Wap (wireless application protocol) phone working only spasmodically? Try a simulation on a web page instead. One of the best iswww.gelon.net. It has a "wapalizer" which reproduces a wap phone on screen by fetching pages from web sites and converting them into Wap pages.For a large directory of Wap sites go tohttp://mfinder.cellmania.com/and click Wap under "Reference" then double click on any entry to test it on the wapalizer. Another site (http://Wapland.com) contains news, reports, searches and reviews.Practising on these emula tors is a great way of monitoring the progress of Wap phones. One day they will suddenly start working properly and quickly. It would be a shame not to be there at the time.If you prefer to read about Wap offline then try "Wap", possibly the world's first glossy Wap magazine. It has made an impressive start with the August issue. It remains to be seen whether it can maintain interest despite the imperfect performance of current models.Digitaloctopus's wap wine guide (Online, August 3) gets its revenue from a licensing agreement and not from a share of telco revenues.
When Wired magazine was launched in the UK in 1995, the front cover pictured Thomas Paine, and a wonderful article argued that he should be adopted as the patron saint of the information age. I was delighted to see this recognition that he still has something new to offer us, despite the fact that he died in 1809.Paine was one of the few people to do something to which countless have aspired: he wrote a book that changed the world. His extended pamphlet Common Sense, published in January 1776, galvanised colonial opposition to the British government and in many ways sparked off the American Revolution.That revolution seems to have interesting connections with the internet revolution. Discussions in internet newsgroups covering politics, economics and social issues make frequent appeal to the US constitution and the thoughts of the founders. This must be partly because of the US origins of the internet, but I don't believe it is the whole story. There is too much resonance between the founders of the American Republic and the English-speaking denizens of cyberspace.Start with the analogies bandied around. How many presentations about the internet refer to it as the Wild West? This was geographically distant from the seat of government and had to evolve its own codes and rules. When government finally reached the frontier it legitimised these codes but didn't really have any choice about their   foundations and structures.Today the frontier is the internet. It is equally distant from the seat of government but in this case the distance is in "information space" rather than physical space. The government will eventually catch up, but its only course of action will be to legitimise rules that are being formed right now.Even though the metaphor is useful, the internet isn't the Wild West. For one thing, the West existed before it was exploited: cyberspace is being created and extended every day.How about a different metaphor? A superpower is bogged down in a distant guerrilla war. It must resupply its army (victorious for a generation) thousands of miles from home and it is very expensive. Support for the war is tentative, dividing both the people and the political leadership. The guerrillas are supported by the superpower's greatest enemy. The war drags on and the rebels continue to gain momentum, even though they are occasionally beaten. Vietnam? No: British North America in 1782.It's easy to see the roots of the dispute:&#149;  A distant colony where conditions are different.&#149;   Politicians taking actions they feel constrained to implement even while they are being advised that they are acting against the nation's best interests. In 1774 Viscount Rockingham (Britain's 'Minister of War') said that a land war in America would be useless, costly and impossible to win.&#149;  Legislators trying to fit something they don't understand into existing models. British politicians operated in almost complete ignorance of America. None of them had ever been there, and they made no effort to learn anything about it.There is a another parallel: the row going on about encryption on the net and the row that went on in the colonies about taxation. In 1760s, the British government introduced the Writs of Assistance to clamp down on the evasion of customs duties. These didn't work, of course, because the cost of enforcement vastly outweighed the revenues collected.However, similar legislation introduced in England - the hated Cider Tax - prompted William Pitt's famous tirade in opposition: "The poorest man in his cottage may bid defiance to all the force of the Crown. It may be frail; its roof may leak; the wind may blow through it; the storms may enter; the rain may enter - but the King of England cannot enter; all his forces dare not cross the threshold of the ruined tenement!"This is as good a call for strong cryptography as anything since.Britain tried to get the colonies to pay for their defence, and they wouldn't, much as business does not want to bear the cost of the RIP Bill.As American historian   Barbara Tuchman has written, a consistent feature of the dealings between the British and the Americans in this period was that each side over-estimated the goals of the other. British intransigence, when compromise was both sensible and feasible, created rebels where there were none before. Is that so different from the current situation, where netizens suspect Jack Straw of wanting to read their email while the Home Office sees subjects suspicious of the RIP Bill as agents of anarchy?As we all know, the colonists decided against the many benefits of British rule.   But as Edmund Burke was later to observe, the retention of America was worth far more to the mother country economically, politically and even morally than any sum which might have been raised by taxation, or even any principle of so-called constitution.A Britain that would have gained immeasurably by   retaining a smaller proportion of the colonies' rapidly expanding economy acted directly against its own self-interest and lost everything.Will we be thinking the same about cyberspace a decade from now?I recently heard that around half of all income taxes are paid by around one twentieth of the population; and around half of them could work anywhere in the world provided they had a telephone line. Secession isn't that difficult for them.A rational government ought to proceed on the basis that trading with cyberspace is more important than control ling it. It isn't just about economics, though, as in the case of the Colonies. Economics may be at the core of the discontent but it is when the more emotional and emotive issues of liberty and freedom come into play that the flames are fanned to fire. This is why arguing about the RIP Bill may turn out to have more significance than people may think.&#149;  David Birch's company, Consult Hyperion, is one of the sponsors of the Tom Paine Project in Lewes, Sussex, where Paine spent some of his early life as a customs officer. For more information, visitwww.tompainelewes.org.uk
Back upWhat is the cheapest backup medium - Zip drives, rewriteable CD's, tape streamers? - and from whom?Nigel Brucenigel@grove22.freeserve.co.ukJack Schofield:Ask me next year, because I'm optimistic about the progress of rewriteable DVD, or DVD-ram drives like the Panasonic LF-D103.Today, tape streamers are great for professionals, and I like the look of the Tecmar Travan NS20, but tapes don't appeal to home users. One possibility is a "superdisk" such as the Iomega Jaz drive or the similar Orb system.These can store 2GB per disk, but the disks are expensive. (Iomega's popular Zip disks, which hold 100MB or 250MB, are now too small for back-ups, and the disks are also too expensive.) CD   writers are more attractive because they double up as CD players and let you create your own audio CDs.They are cheap to run: blank CD-R discs cost less than &#163;1, and rewriteable CDRW discs cost less than &#163;2 each. The problem is that one disc does not hold enough: typically 74 minutes of audio or 650MB of data. You would need 16 discs, and a lot of spare time, to back up a 10GB hard drive.DVD-ram drives can store 2.6GB on a single-sided disc costing about &#163;15. When the cost of drives comes down to &#163;200 or less, and blank disc prices are also halved, they could be almost irresistible.Why not MD?Is there any reason why it shouldn't be possible to back up PC files onto a recordable MiniDisc player and, if not, why doesn't this facility seem to be available?John Arranjohn.arran@eds.comJS:MiniDiscs were designed to store audio data using a "lossy" compression system that Sony calls ATRAC (Adaptive TRansform Acoustic Coding).Unfortunately, "lossy" compression systems, which throw away data they think you can't see or hear, are no use for computer data where every bit counts.In 1993, however, Sony announced a suitable format   called MD Data, and Sony and Sharp said they would have 650MB drives ready by 1997.  This is only 4.6 times the capacity of a standard MiniDisc, so I expect Sony could have done it.But presumably they could not do it at a price competitive with CD-based systems.Why not CD?I back up data files to floppy disk. I understand I can use a CD-R or CD-RW (rewriteable) drive, but CD files are "Read-only", and when copied back to the hard drive cannot be edited. Have I understood correctly?George Katritzkygkatritzky@cwcom.netJS:You can't edit files on a CD, not even on a rewriteable CD. However, if you copy a file from a CD to a hard drive, you can easily change the "Read-only" setting in Windows.Right-click on the file and select Properties. The Attributes section at the bottom of the sheet has a   check-box to mark it Read-only. Uncheck it.Partition itMy PC has a 27GB of hard drive, of which 25GB are unused. It was purchased with the primary objective of video editing with Pinnacle Systems' DV500, which stresses that part of the hard drive should be reserved exclusively for saving raw video footage. My problem is that I do not know how to separate part of the hard drive (15 or 20GB) or how to make it Drive E.Ronald Foxwellantiphonfoxford@care4free.netJS:The problem is that hard drive partitions are set up before any software is installed on a PC, and changing the drive with the DOS/Windows utilities Fdisk and Format will erase everything. The solution is a commercial program called Partition Magic 5.0 ( Seewww.powerquest.com/partitionmagic/). I bought a copy and it is brilliant. There are also some free programs that do the same thing, such asMikhail Ranish's Partition Manager. This is a very powerful program, but too hard for most of us to use.Fixing flickersI want to change the display refresh rate on my PC (jitter on the new monitor), but in true Windows form, nowhere does it tell you how to do this.K. Lillingtonkarlin@indigo.ieJS:Windows may be cagey because setting too high a refresh rate can damage the monitor. It will therefore set a conservative (too low) refresh rate if it does not know what the monitor is, and will not let you increase it.To check, right-click on the desktop and select Properties, then go to the Settings tab and click the Advanced button in the lower right hand corner. Look at the Monitor sheet and see if Windows recognises your monitor. If not, try to find the appropriate .inf (information) file, which may be on a floppy disk supplied with your system, or may be downloaded from the supplier's website.Now go to the Adapter sheet and see if Windows knows which graphics card you have. If everything is OK, you should see a drop-down list of available refresh rates including "Adapter default" and "Optimal".Bear in mind that every graphics card has a finite amount of power and memory. You can only get the highest refresh rates by compromising on the screen resolution and the number of colours. So go back to the Settings page and either reduce the colour depth or screen area or both. Changing from, say, 32-bit True Colour at 1280 by 1024 pixels to 16-bit High Colour at 1024 by 768 pixels should automatically produce a higher refresh rate.France callingI have two ageing PCs, one in the UK and one in France. My internet service provider, Cable and Wireless, does not offer a number I can dial into from   outside the UK and suggests I subscribe locally to access my email. I wonder if there are other ISPs in the UK who offer what I want.Amanda Parkynamanda.parkyn@cwcom.netJS:I think your best bet is to change to an ISP that offers a "global roaming" service where you can use a local number almost anywhere in the world. In fact, any ISP can do this by joining an organisation such asGRICoriPass. Both groups have members in the UK and France: seewww.gric.com/zone/isplocatorandwww.ipass.com/partners/isp-partners/europefor details. America Online (AOL) also offers global roaming facilities that are very easy to use, but calls are surcharged.BT AnytimeHaving just read Jack Schofield's Weblife (August 10), I was delighted to hear that BT had finally introduced 24-hour unmetered access for &#163;19.99 a month. I rushed to my computer to sign up, only to find no sign of such a service anywhere on BT's site. Was Jack dreaming? Is it his little joke?Eira Reedeira.reed@lineone.netJS:I have never been suspected of having a sense of humour, and I hope BT is equally serious about the Surftime Anytime service. It is inviting people to sign up atwww2.btwebworld.com/netgeneration/surft/html/anytime.html
Peter Duffett-Smith, Cambridge academic turned hi-tech entrepreneur, has a vision. "One day soon your mobile phone, laptop and palm-held computer will all merge into a single personal communicator. It'll tell you everything, from how to get a map to the closest restaurant to finding where your friends are; it could even track your kids and your car," he says. "The key to information when you're mobile is knowing your location - and we know how to find it."It might sound like an outtake from Star Trek, but Duffett-Smith is staking his future on it. The 50-year-old husband and father of two has abandoned a lectureship at Downing College, and more than 20 years of research in radio astronomy, to pursue the vision of making every mobile phone locatable.This is no flight of fancy; he's convinced some of the biggest players in the mobile communications business to join him for the ride. Cambridge Positioning Systems has struck deals with both Ericsson and Siemens (which holds a 3% stake in the company) to incorporate its positioning software in future handsets. Deals with Nortel and Lucent are also under negotiation.The concrete offices of CPS are a stone's throw from the ivory towers of Downing College. In one room a map of the town centre is projected on a wall to demonstrate the CPS positioning technology, called Cursor.Rogue dotA yellow dot flashes where CPS HQ should be. Inches away another dot is flashing. The flappable Duffett-Smith points at it and cries: "What's this?"The rogue dot - supposedly showing the position of the phone I'm holding - indicates we are across the road in a residential building, a hundred metres away."Impossible. That shouldn't happen," he says. An aide looks worried and rushes to explain the anomaly. "The Cursor System is accurate to within 50m 67% of the time," she says, "and within 100m the remaining 33%."Embarrassing, you might think, but the glitch is a mark of a company that is stretched to the limit to keep up with its   meteoric growth over the past 20 months.At the end of 1998 CPS had eight employees. Less than two years, &#163;9m in venture capital invested by 3i and Prelude, and scores of field tests later, the staff has grown to nearly 60. If the chief executive officer, Chris Wade, has his way that number will almost double to 100 employees by the end of the year and is forecast to reach 200 by the end of 2001."If the market conditions are right, we'll go for an initial public offering this time next year," he says.A Washington-based telecoms analysts, Strategis, estimates $81bn in revenues will be generated by location services in Europe by 2005.CPS wants a chunk of the p-commerce (position-based commerce) action and is fast developing WAP-based services."In September we will formally launch the services division of our company," says Wade. "It will be responsible for developing applications and providing infra structure for location-dependent content."CPS has entered partnerships with online map providers Webraska and directory service Scoot. Soon you'll be able to find your nearest hotel or restaurant, and then get a map showing you how to get there; send out your location in case of a breakdown or emergency; manage your employees remotely; or give your children wrist-watch style transmitters so that they too can be tracked.But perhaps the biggest market, according to Duffett-Smith, will be the teenage affection for "the trivial and frivolous"."The 15-to-25-year-old lifestyle market will be huge," he predicts."I believe a major market will be these buddy-buddy systems where friends choose to let each other know where they are. Imagine a system where you could let a select group of friends find out where you are at any time, it'd be an instant hit."As if to back up this prediction, his 17-year-old daughter calls him twice within 30 minutes while we talk. "You have to have teenagers to understand this," he says.Stretch the idea further and one day we might use our mobiles to find a date. Imagine, you could store a profile of yourself and your heart's desire, and then should that special someone walk by you'd be alerted with a ring.In the US, CPS is already angling for market domination. Wade and Duffett-Smith have just returned from Houston, Texas, where they demonstrated Cursor to a panel of American mobile phone companies desperate to buy positioning technology.Scribbled ideaThe E911 rules (E stands for Enhanced), adopted by the federal communications commission in 1996, require by 2002 that all US mobile phone operators make their handsets capable of automatically supplying location information accurate to 125m with every emergency call. In October operators must declare which technology they will use."VoiceStream, America's biggest mobile phone operator, has unofficially declared it will use Enhanced Observed Time Difference technology to comply with the rules," says Duffett-Smith. "Cursor is the only commercial system in existence based on EOTD."CPS has no competitors in EOTD because for a time it was thought that the technique didn't work. "We proved them all wrong," says Duffet-Smith.He has more than a mere clutch of mobile phone experiments to prove Cursor's worth, he stands on 50 years of scientific research.Cursor began in 1987, inspired by an episode of BBC TV's Tomorrow's World. Duffett-Smith scribbled down an idea and showed it to the university technology transfer office. They were impressed and agreed to pay the &#163;500 fee to register a patent.In his spare time he began experimenting, first in the lab, where he managed to track a student walking in the garden with an accuracy of 10cm, then using signals from local radio transmitters - accurate to 5m. The latter he affectionately calls "navigation by pop music".Cursor is based on the same principles Duffett-Smith used to locate radio signals from outer space in his days as a radio astronomer."The important difference between our system and other systems is that the mobile phone is in control of sending the location information, so you can't be tracked unawares. There's no Big Brother. If you don't agree to be tracked you won't be."Cutting-edge technology is crucial to the company. So much so that when Duffett-Smith decided to buy a patent from the Sydney University of Technology spin-off, Insearch, he grabbed two of the patent's inventors into the bargain and added them to his research team.It's still early days for CPS. When 3G phones begin to appear on the market then the fun really begins."With 3G technology Cursor's accuracy will improve ten-fold to a resolution of 5m," says Duffett-Smith. Then the glitch that's blinking behind him on the map might just be a fond memory of his pioneering, start-up days.
Concerns about the amount of time workers in the United States spend surfing the net produced bumper sales yesterday for software snooper specialist SurfControl.The company, whose software monitors which websites employees are visiting and allows managers to restrict access, said the trend for staff to surf while they work had boosted its bottom line.According to Steve Purdham, chief executive of SurfControl, the company has been successful in America because of the growth of internet terminals in offices.He said that for a company with a thousand employees, each surfing the web for one hour a day, the cost is $35m (&#163;23m) a year. "This is about 12.5% of the salary bill," Mr Purdham explains. "&#91;Our software&#93; allows the company to set up rules &#91;for internet use&#93;."Sales last year grew by more than 110% in the year to $14.3m. About 90% of revenue came last year from the US.The company, which is based in Cheshire, expects sales to rise as web use increases across Europe. Robert Barrow, the group executive officer, said: "Our market is a burgeoning one in the US, with the UK catching up, and mainland Europe will come soon."Despite the optimism, the company reported a full year loss before tax of $24.9m against $2.1m last year. The loss includes write-offs from goodwill and provision for tax on share options. Deutsche Bank, the house broker, is predicting profitability in late 2002 or early 2003.Cash balances at the end of the period were $32m, while fourth-quarter revenues leapt 614% to $3.9m from $0.5m.The company said the cost of marketing and sales were the   main drag on the post goodwill losses, but they were due to expenditure on infrastructure necessary for expansion.SurfControl now has seven worldwide offices - two in the US, two in Britain, and one in Rotterdam, Frankfurt and Vienna and does not expect marketing and sales costs to slow down next year."Its all about getting market presence," says Mr Purdham. "SurfControl goes into markets that are ready for the product rather than educating the market."The company has also increased its staff by 285% and now has 293 employees. It plans to build on this growth through an "aggressive" acquisition strategy to build market share.SurfControl, formerly called JSB Software, recently acquired Austrian company CSM Security Management, provider of web content and email filtering software, and Cybercontrol from Mattel. The share price closed yesterday up 50p at &#163;20.&#149; Shares in Patsystems, the software company that floated in March, tumbled despite a more than threefold rise in first-half sales as it reported wider losses. The shares were down more than 5% or 9p at 150p by the end of play yesterday.Losses increased to &#163;3.8m in the six months to June 30 from &#163;0.58m a year earlier, which the company said was due to investment targeted at accelerated software development, increased customer support, strengthened sales and marketing and wider global coverage.The company posted revenues of &#163;1.1m, up 304% percent. It said its number of clients had risen to 20 from six and billable end-users to 488 from 177 at the same point last year.
If you were hoping to take refuge from the Queen Mum's recent 100th birthday brouhaha in cyberspace, bad luck. She might not have been an early adopter, but the Queen has her own website now atwww.royal.gov.ukand, rather charmingly, has plastered the site with pictures of her mum's birthday. She's not the only one, there are plenty of websites already out there devoted to everyone's favourite unelected rulers.Unfortunately, the Queen's own website is the triumph of the bland that one might have feared. Designed in suitably tasteful colours, there are some attempts to get with the medium. There is an FAQ, for example, perfect for the Queen, who is presumably "frequently asked questions" on a daily basis. But these aren't questions that one would actually ask the queen, given the chance. ("Why don't you splash out on a new set of dentures for the Queen mum?" springs to mind.) Instead, one can thrill at the answer to "Who was the last monarch to fight in battle?" (George VI, Battle of Jutland, pub quiz fans.)If you have never made it to London and always wanted to gawp at Buckingham Palace - you are in luck. There are 3D tours of Buck House avail  able with a Quicktime Player from the Queen's site, and sites such asVR Londonlet you view a 360-degree panoramic view from the outside of Buckingham Palace. Console yourself with the fact that this is as close as Fergie gets nowadays, too.If you are a real royals' buff, visit the Central Office of Information site, which links through to theBuckingham Palace Press Office site. This lists the public appointments of all the big guns up to a month or two in advance, with dates, locations and even times. If there were ever an argument that we need a royal family, it is here. Fancy "an evening reception at Windsor Castle for Members of the Diplomatic Corps, Thursday November 2, Windsor Castle, 9.30pm"? Thought not. That's why we have the royal family - they go, so we don't have to.For those who want the very latest news on the Royal family, with the more unseemly gossip removed, try theRoyal Report. You can subscribe to its impressive free weekly newsletter email which creams off all the best stories from the papers.Given the fame and fortune of the royal family, it is amaz ing that there aren't more loony sites devoted to them, bearing in mind that, after pornography, loony sites is probably what the internet does best. Put 'royal family conspiracy theories' into any search engine and you'll be disappointed.It's the Spencers who attract most of the "fan" sites that are out there, and Prince William is the object of many a young girl's affections. If you do have a "pash" for young Willy, then don't waste your time typing in "Prince William" as a search, it brings up all manner of US sites. Try William Windsor instead."Carly's Site"is a classic example of a fan site dedicated to "that fine boy and wonderful person, Prince William". You can leave a message on the site noticeboard too (it's obligatory to mention how "gorge" he is).Diana obsessives crop up in the most unusual places, too. Take this page that appears to be inaccessible from the otherwise completely normal home page for the stately homeHammerwood House. It has an article by Diane Tessman, with a "message" from the late princess, channelled through Diane (obviously). "First, allow me to explain that I am the   angelic essence of the lovely human being who was Princess Diana. I have rejoined my higher 'home vibration'. This is a difficult reality to explain in current Earth language but I shall try." Oh dear.For the "official" Diana version, try the Althorp website, which even has aFlash version. There are tours and plenty of pictures of Diana's final resting place.If it is something a little more biting you are after, check outwww.hippy.freeserve.co.ukfor some much-needed irreverence - "As we approach the new millennium, we now have new technologies to hand and, although it is not easy, there is no reason that the Queen Mother could not be replaced by a robot."Newsgroups are also a good source of gossip: what was it exactly that Tara Palmer Tomkinson did to Prince William in the toilets of a nightclub? Check out alt.gossip.royalty and alt.talk.royalty for more lasciviously enjoyable nonsense.However, if all this deference is getting to you, try the outstanding republican site atwww.throneout.freeserve.co.uk, with its "Chocolate Starfish" awards for sycophancy, andthe Queen Mum obituary. "Since the Queen Mother has done nothing of note that we or anyone under 120 years of age can remember, we have decided to publish her obituary now as it's pretty unlikely to change before the inevitable happens."No OBE for them then.
Well, what went wrong? It is only 14 months since Britain's internet boom commenced, yet analysts are already chanting its obituary against the descant of high-flying startups hitting the decks.Companies such asNetimperative,Boo.comandClickmangoran into trouble despite having established quite well known brand names. For many years Britain's inability to nurture a strong venture capital industry was regarded as a serious structural weakness. Now it seems to have gone from boom to bust in a year.Or has it? The collapse of funding is really confined to the business-to-consumer (B2C) start-ups. A year ago venture capitalists were giving out-of-college entrepreneurs money even before they could get their backpacks off. Now, persuading a venture capitalist to fund a B2C proposition is like selling an ice cream in the Sahara. It melts into nothing while you are talking.But this doesn't mean that venture capital is dead. As Vic Morris of Atlas Venture points out, there is still plenty of venture capital around - but the smart money is now going into infrastructure, software and mobile telephony. VCs are still lending to retailing start-ups but just being much more choosy and concentrating on proven management skills rather than bright ideas.The surprising thing about the fall of the dot.coms is that anyone should be surprised. They are all small companies: and small companies have a very high mortality rate. Half of all new companies fail within five years, according to Dun &amp; Bradstreet. That's just the normal rate of creative destruction that makes capitalism tick. With dot.com   companies you would expect the failure rate to be higher because of the youth and inexperience of the main players and the uncertainties of the new world of the internet. The difference is this - if they had been normal small companies, their successes would never have been exposed to the relentless daily spotlight of national publicity.Consider: Clickmango, with Joanna Lumley as its icon, had a turnover of only &#163;2,000 a week - which scales up to annual sales of &#163;104,000. The local village shop could do better than that.At first "Old Economy" companies feared they might be swept away by the internet revolution they had been so slow to foresee. Then they realised they had two invaluable assets that the dot.coms had not thought much about. Brand identity and a proven delivery system.At this point the writing was on the wall for many of the less original start-ups that were merely selling old economy goods in an electronic way. They soon found out that the   economic benefits arising from not having to build a national network of shops was offset by other factors. Like the vast amount of money needed first to make the public aware they existed and, second, to deliver the goods in a reliable way.It is salutary to see thatLastminute.com, the best known of all the UK start-ups which benefited from huge free publicity, spent almost &#163;6m on sales and marketing in the latest quarter. This was almost six times the value of its sales during the same period. This may turn out to be justified once the company has established a strong international presence - but it is not something that other less well endowed start-ups can easily replicate. Interestingly, Lastminute this week spent &#163;59m buying the French travel company D&eacute;griftour which pre-dates the world wide web. A rare case of a new economy company buying an old economy company to bolster its survival chances.So who gained from the frenetic first year of activity? The answer is everyone. It has   been a traumatic wake-up call for commerce and industry. Companies know they must embrace the internet or be devoured by it. From the small corner shops now able to sell their specialist wares on a world market to the huge trillion dollar intranets being constructed by the world's biggest car companies to rationalise component purchases, the message is the same: the internet will transform the way we buy, sell and produce goods and services.The clear winner has been the consumer who has benefited from the deflationary impact of globalisation and the internet. This has brought remorseless downward pressure on prices because of the global availability of suppliers and the consumer's ability to   surf the net for cheaper offerings of the same product.We have now entered the second stage of the internet revolution - a financial bloodbath which only the fittest will survive. The worst of the new start-ups will simply collapse and never be seen again. Some will struggle on without making any money while others will be snapped up at bargain basement prices by predators who will adapt the assets for new purposes.Hopefully, the second stage of the revolution, will also generate new business ideas based on the unlimited potential of the internet rather than merely gluing an internet selling solution to an Old Economy business.Meanwhile, the venture capital money is migrating to business-to-business ideas, to infrastructure building where less competition means there is more money to be made and to the huge, but as yet uncharted, possibilities of commerce through the ubiquitous mobile phone and interactive television. The revolution has barely begun.
Is the internet a triumph of hype over content?I get caught between the two camps of it being the new wave of corporate control and my initial dream of it being like the consciousness of the planet - the planet dreaming about itself. When it's that side of it, I get very passionate and I adore it, but occasionally I get depressed about all the dot.coms and the dot.communists!Any favourite places on the net?One of my favourite sites isDot.com Failures. Another one I enjoy isDotster, where you can feed in three words and they'll transform them into a new dot.com name. It makes you realise that any name, any sound, any grunt has already been registered. I love the sense that you're more likely to find flights of imagination on the web than in the mainstream media, which has got as straight as it possibly can get.Is the net bringing people together or is it breeding a generation of loners?It's a combination of the two. Loners are sad people in a community. That's the way the world always was in a way, with people using music, literature and entertainment to find ways of being together. I like the nets weird isolation, the sense that somehow we're all dreaming together.Are you, or have you ever been, a geek?I kind of flirt with it. I guess I've got it in me, and if I was 20 years younger I'd probably go for it wholeheartedly. There's got to be a sort of middle-class, middle-aged geekiness about the fact that I do my shopping atwww.tesco.comand book my holidays throughwww.virgin.com!How does the net affect the writer?My favourite type of writing tends to exist on the net. It's uncensored and unedited. A lot of writing that goes on in the mainstream media now is often compressed and fairly tedious. It is often untrained, but I find the most exuberant writing on the net now.What do you see as being the next stage of the net?I guess it's an ongoing battle and I'm hoping that anarchy is going to win and that business is defeated. At the moment I'm optimistic and I've gone back to thinking the net is the consciousness of the planet in its wildest and most far-fetched sense. I think that some of the business dot.coms are starting to look a little stiff and absurd.Is the net creating a two tier society?There's always been elitism but I do get the feeling that there's an underclass connected on the net that hasn't been connected before. Although the net will still isolate other people it does seem like a move forward because there are people who were previously denied freedom of expression who are now beginning to get it.Whose e-mail addresses would you like to have?If they were still alive, I would love to have Samuel Beckett's and Lenny Bruce's. Two others I'd love would be Chris Morris's and Alan Alda's.Paul Morley's new book  Nothing is now available from Faber and Faber.
Wireless wiredOrange has launched a new &#163;299 wireless device that plugs into the PC card slot of your laptop enabling two-way transmission at 28.8kbps. This enables emails and faxes to be sent and received up to three times faster than normal mobile phone speeds, dispensing with the need for a modem or infra-red connection. At present it supports PCs but not Macs or Psions. It will be on sale from Monday.It is based on the same high speed HSCSD technology which will also be used for Orange's pioneering video phone expected next year. A brief test this week of one of only 10 prototypes revealed a device that was clunky but full of potential. Its large (for a   mobile) screen comfortably accommodated my face and that of the person at the other end though resolution was only half the planned level. It is too heavy to carry around in a pocket but its versatility - including facilities for everything from MP3 or web browsing to instantly emailing colour photographs - will have a strong novelty value. Though at a planned introductory price of &#163;1,000 to &#163;1,500 it will take time to escape from a niche market.  (VK)Berry newUS heavyweight PC manufacturer Compaq appears to be hedging its bets in the personal digital assistant market. After releasing a PDA based on Microsoft's Pocket PC earlier this year it is now promising a model that uses the rival BlackBerry operating system as developed by Canadian company Research in Motion.Microsoft is not completely out of the picture, as the PDA will use the company's Outlook messaging and organisational software. The handheld device is just one of a series of new products announced in the US this week that will be marketed under the iPaq brand. Others include an MP3 player and a home networking gateway. Although the PDA is expected to go on sale in the UK, it's unlikely to reach the stores until next year.  Seewww.compaq.com.Rolling to RioRio, one of the original movers in the personal MP3 player market, has unveiled two new models and is   promising a pair of internet music products.In the stores now is the &#163;160 Rio 600, a personal player that plays both MP3 and Microsoft's Windows Media A (WMA) files. It features 64Mb of storage - enough for around two hours of tunes - though it can be upgraded to archive as much as 340Mb worth of music.Due at the beginning of November is the 600's big brother, the &#163;200 Rio 800. Among the goodies the extra money buys you are a remote control, a more prominent high-resolution display and voice recording facilities.Rio has also unveiled plans for internet music based home units and ghetto blasters. Due in December the Rio Rack teams up a CD player. The device, designed to be hooked up to a hi-fi system, also features a modem and internet browser to enable users to download music without having to resort to a PC.A portable MP3/CD player/hard drive storage system, dubbed the Rio Boombox, will go on sale next year. No details on prices for   either product yet.  Seewww.riohome.com.MP3 goes loudFancy listening to a blast of your favourite MP3 tracks on your home entertainment system? Korean manufacturer Scan has added MP3 playback to its debut DVD player. Not only will the &#163;186 Scan SC-2000 spin your favourite movies and top CDs, it will also playback MP3 files stored on a CD-rom. The player's on-screen display will also give you details of the MP3 tracks. Expect to see MP3 playback featured on other DVD/CD players in the near future, most notably from Philips.  (AN)Picture thisSony has launched two new digital cameras, both on sale now, in an attempt to tempt "analogue" photographers down the film-free path.The company says its new Cyber-shot DSC-S70 is good enough to make it difficult to discern any difference between its pictures and a conventional 35mm camera's, even when reproduced at A4 format.The DSC-S70 has a 3.3 megapixel resolution and a specially developed Carl Seiss Vario-Sonnar lens, and boasts various digital effects and the ability to record short Mpeg videos. It costs around &#163;699.Also on sale is the DSC-F505V which, says Sony, boasts a 24% improvement in resolution over its predecessor, 5x optical and 10x digital zooms and improved picture controls for photographic enthusiasts, including variable apertures and shutter speeds. It costs around &#163;749.  (NM)
Killing bugs has never been so dullParasite Eve IISquare	&#163;29.99 Sony PlayStation 	*I'd never even heard of Parasite Eve I, much less played it. But however bad it was, Parasite Eve II cannot possibly be an improvement.You play Aya Brea, an agent for MIST, the Mitochondria Investigation and Suppression Team. The FBI has an entire department dedicated to exterminating bugs.That's right, the FBI has an entire department dedicated to exterminating bugs (although   technically, a mitochondrion is not a creature at all but a constituent of a cell). Bizarre names, abstruse organisations, disregard for basic science - if you hadn't already guessed this was from the makers of Final Fantasy, now you know.It's just as well the FBI is so foresighted, because a swarm of overgrown creepy-crawlies has just infested a building in Los Angeles. And it's MIST's job to splat them.PEII is a "cinematic adventure", which translates into a scrolling third-person display reminiscent of Resident Evil and detailed but oddly dull graphics.Points are everything: HP (health points), MP (mitochondria points), and the experience points you earn after defeating each enemy.This is all accessed through   a convoluted (and, in the heat of battle, deeply unrealistic) menu system. But whereas FF was largely about magic, the main concern here is firepower.Dozens of weapons are available in the game, many of which can be combined for even more lethal effect: Magnum, machine gun, flame-thrower, etc (disappointingly, giant cans of Raid and outsized magnifying glasses are not among them).By all rights, bug-busting ought to be fun. But with its drab visuals, infuriating controls (no run button?) and logic-defying plot, Parasite Eve II is as enjoyable as dipping your face in a barrel full of live cockroaches. Me, I'm sticking to beetle drives.  (AB)Dark, dark times in EuropeArcatera: The Dark BrotherhoodUbisoft	&#163;29.99 PC CD Rom 	*We enjoy their wine, climate and culture but one thing we Brits can't digest is the European love for point-'n'-click games. And that's not the fault of the genre. The seminal Monkey Island series, and titles like Grim Fandango, offered some of the best game experiences around. This was down to their humorous scripts and user-friendly interfaces - neither of which applies to Arcatera: The Dark Brotherhood.In fact it's almost as if the developers had deliberately decided to ignore everything that worked so well in Monkey Island and the rest. So we get laughable dialogue, complete with subtitles that often bear little relation to what is being said. We also get character accents that are unintentionally hilarious. The female lead   sounds like a 19th Century West Country milkmaid.Even worse is the way you interact with your surroundings. Examining a chest takes two mouse clicks and if you want to cast a spell or get into a fight then prepare for excessive   appendage motion. And don't even think about being able to navigate easily; the screen exit arrows regularly get hidden behind the stats menu.However, the ability to choose and develop a character, along with the medieval   criminal investigations of the plot (complete with time limit), does offer some potential.The game is very easy on the eye, with some practically photo-realistic environments and quality cut-scenes. But beautiful backdrops and a sprinkle of RPG innovation are scant consolation for the game's numerous shortcomings. Arcatera makes aEurosceptic of us all. (GH)
Love for saleFurther to your article oneBay(August 10) I've seen a few "wacky" auctions on there myself - although the truth is that EBay frown on them.My friend Pete listed his "eternal love and friendship" and had several interested bidders (I think it went for about $8).However, he received a particularly tetchy e-mail from eBay administrators asking him not to list such things as they're not tangible products.Bloody killjoys.Andrew Emeryacn42@dial.pipex.comTake a look...In response to Search Engines I feel that one omission was made.www.alltheweb.comsearches all the web very quickly for anything.It's a very useful first time search for anything that you want, and provides you with a wealth of information very quickly without restraints, unless you ask for them in the advanced search facility.Search now, specialise later.David Dobbied.dobbie@ntlworld.comNot newI was surprised to read in What's New (Online, 10 August) that "Computers featuring a DVD-ram drive are scheduled to go on sale in the US before the end of the year". Mac G4 buyers have had the option of DVD-ram drives since last year.Roger Houghtonmail@rogerhoughton.comPain 4u usersLike AL Ronald (August 10), I signed up to 4unet, sent my &#163;20 off and received a box to plug into my BT socket. It doesn't work, and the only technical solution offered is to wait in a queue on a premium rate phone line.I don't know if one ever gets to the front of the queue, as having gambled a few   quid waiting I gave up. I emailed them requesting either a refund or a solution, but they do not even bother replying to emails.Tony Evansstonybonytony@hotmail.comAL Ronald asks how many others are awaiting a refund from 4unet.co.uk : count me in.Like him, I signed up months ago for free internet access and cheap phone calls. I was billed immediately but unlike Mr Ronald, didn't even receive a dialler.After complaining by phone, I eventually wrote to their head office asking for a refund. Interestingly, I got a phone call from them about three weeks ago and was told I'd get a refund "next week". I'm still waiting.Regarding David Cowling on the continuing subject of BT Surftime, I have this gem from a recent BT mail shot: "Surftime is available NOW* (*subject to availability)"John Armstrongjohn.armstrong@btinternet.comFollowing my letter last week I received a number of other e-mails detailing similar problems regarding 4unet.co.uk and its inability to provide either the service paid for or a refund.However, when I made my usual fortnightly call to 4unet over the weekend to see if adverse publicity had stirred them into action, I was told that the company had been taken over in the last 10 days by Callnet and a special department had been set up to deal with refunds.Request for refunds should be sent (by letter only) to:Customer Queries Department, Callnet PLC, PO Box 31149, London E14 9ZF.Andrew Ronalda.l.ronald@theronalds.clara.co.ukNo surpriseYour expos&eacute; of the poor service offered by the current crop of unmetered ISPs was long overdue.However, no one should be surprised that BT is dragging its heels in offering wholesale rates for the local loop.They are making money from their own "unlimited" internet services and have no incentive to change the current situation. It needs stronger action from Oftel to unlock this BT stranglehold.In my experience, the BT   Internet service, offering unlimited free call access at off-peak times for a flat monthly fee, is particularly poor.I have had more access problems with this in the two months I have been trying it than with my other ISPs in five years.The software had a bug which prevented the rest of my family from accessing their ISPs (and cost me &#163;3 in telephone calls to resolve). and, most cynically of all, this software automatically selects a local-rate rather than the "Free" number for the connection without prompting the user for a choice.Ian West101337.3022@compuserve.comHappy userIn defence of NTLword, the service it is providing to those who have received the CD is very good. I get a connection on the first dial-up and response is very good.Unlike Lineone, Breath and others, NTL is not backing out. The company is doing its homework properly and ensuring that service levels are met.To those who have not received the CD, I would say the wait will be worth it. One happy NTLworld User.Emir Kumbarjiterazone@ntlworld.comCopper dreamI have been forced to write you about Jim Giles' article about the maximum speed of copper wires.May I point out that although it is true that ADSL has a maximum bitrate of around 6Mbps, this is just one of many technologies in the DSL family.The VDSL specification, which admittedly is more of a dream than reality at the moment, allows for data rates up to 52Mbps using the same copper wire. See a good FAQ on the subject at:www.orckit.com/orckit_dsl_center.html.In addition, the rather dubious assertion that "high quality full screen moving images" requires 30Mbps is clearly wrong.The BBC transmits its channels at a fixed 3.5Mbps over digital TV, and you only need to walk into your nearest TV store to see how good it looks.Matt Pynematt.p@softsim.co
Different day, same story: more bad news for internet auction houseQxl.com. Not only did a trust connected with its non-executive chairman sell more shares, but the analyst who stunned the brokerage community by setting a &#163;44 target price made an embarrassing climbdown.First, the share sales. Yesterday it emerged that New Jersey based Fenwick Trust, of which QXL's non-executive chairman Jonathan Bulkeley is a beneficiary but has no control, sold 500,000 QXL shares at 55p each on Tuesday. Although Fenwick claims the disposals were made to cover the administrative expenses of the trust, dealers were more sceptical, pointing out that Fenwick made a similar move earlier this month.On August 7, Fenwick also said it had sold 325,000 QXL shares between July 19 and  August 2 to cover its administrative expenses.Whatever the reason for the sales, dealers are starting to get twitchy. Not only are the sales undermining what little confidence remains in QXL, but Fenwick still holds 18.2m shares. Given that it has been selling from 78p downwards, there can be no guarantee that further sales will not follow. QXL shares, which were 1.5p better at 59.5p last night, have already fallen from 778p in the past 10 months.Meanwhile, SG Cowen analyst Thomas Bock, who drove QXL's share price up six-fold in one day when he first came out with the eye-catching target price back in April, appeared to throw in the towel on QXL.In a research note, Mr Bock cut his rating on QXL to "hold" from "strong buy" citing recent developments that have created concerns regarding the company's growth strategy, its acquisition of German rival Ricardo.de, and its financial position.On this last point, Mr Bock, who made no mention of a new target price in the note, said QXL might only be able to finance its operations for another four to five quarters before it needs to raise fresh capital.Elsewhere, leading shares continued their winning run. The FTSE 100 index closed up 56.5 points at 6,532 - its highest close since June 14 - on a turnover of 1.46bn.Most of the support came from oil heavyweightsBP, up 13p to 615p,Shell, 6.5p stronger at 573. Both were boosted by the strong crude price.The banking sector also chipped in withBarclaysrising 63p to &#163;16.75, whileAlliance &amp; Leicestergaining 18p to 550p.Dealers remain convinced that some form of corporate activity is on the cards at business services groupHays. According to the story making the rounds yesterday, Hays is working to unlock hidden value via a demerger of its recruitment arm. The shares closed up 3.25p at 403.25p, as 7.1m shares changed hands.On the downside,Rolls Royce, off 10.25p to 228.75p, was the worst blue-chip performer, unsettled by a negative research note from UBS Warburg. In a preview of interim results due on August 24, UBS said that it was expecting a complex set of figures that are likely to contain some and hidden and unpleasant surprises.British Airwayslost 12.75p to 368.75p, hit hard by the withdrawal of Concorde from service and the buoyant oil price.Lower down the corporate scale,Safewayfell 18.25p to 282p, as CSFB set about placing 40m shares with clients at 282p, a significant discount to Tuesday's closing price.Whitbreadwas also out of favour, sliding 20p to 508p, unsettled by the gloomy outlook for the pub market. The latest data from market research firm AGB Taylor Sofres indicates that all is not well in the industry, with the growth in pub bar snacks all but evaporating.Great Portland Estatesonce again moved higher (up 4p to 237.5p) on a reasonable volume. Market gossips believe the property group, which stands at a significant discount to net asset value, is vulnerable to a takeover.
My business has just been punched in the stomach. I paid $1,000 (&#163;665) for the privilege. Eventually it might easily cost me over $100,000.I had asked the World Intellectual Property Organisation in Switzerland (Wipo) to help resolve a dot.com dispute. For almost 20 years I have been running a successful media business called Look-Hear. I own the registered trade mark in the name and have a thriving media website,www.look-hear.com,with visitors from around the globe.But last year I discovered that a rival London media firm had registeredwww.lookhear.com.I knew there could not be two media businesses called Look Hear, just as there cannot be two businesses called Coca-Cola.This is where Wipo came in. It has a division that deals with just this type of problem. Since last year it has decided on 369 dot.com cases.In each case the decisions appeared to be consistent. When one side owned the business name and the registered trademark, and the other side had absolutely no rights or interests in the name, Wipo ordered that the domain be transferred to the rightful owner of the name.But not in my case. The arbitrator, a London solicitor, ruled against me. He stated that, apart from the fact that I had a trademark certificate,   he could not see what reputation I had in the name Look-Hear. In one sentence he appeared to blow away two decades of my hard work.I admit that my business is nowhere near as famous as Coca-Cola, but over the years I have been building a genuine going concern. I went to the trouble of registering Look Hear as a trademark.But all this counted for nothing. To help the arbitrator come to a decision, I prepared a 62-page document about the history of my business. I told them how, in 1983, I had left Roger Cook's BBC investigative programme at the BBC to start Look-Hear. How I had incorporated Look-Hear Ltd in 1984. And how I had also started Look-Hear Music in 1985. I showed them press clippings, company literature and photos of my multimedia products. But it did not impress the arbitrator.I pointed to my website where I give details of my customers, multimedia programs and sales turnover. Just one of the programmes, People Power at Work, presented by Sue Lawley and John Humphrys, has achieved sales of about &#163;1m. I told the arbitrator how successful I had been in stopping others from using the brand name. Usually such success is taken to indicate solid reputation in a trademark.My lawyers assure me that were the rival site to be launched as a media website in any country where I own the trademark, I would have grounds to take action for trademark infringement and passing off. But that is little comfort to me.Unfortunately, Wipo has no appeals procedure.
On the face of it, the new economy looks like a nirvana for women. The skills required for success are cerebral (ideas generation, IT knowledge) or semi-social (networking, team-building). And the entrepreneurial spirit required to jump the "not com" old economy corporate ship and establish a start-up seems to reside in the X chromosome: US women are in the forefront of new business creation and British women are not far behind.The technological slaying of distance, with websites and email allowing new economy recruits to work as and where they please, is particularly helpful to women trying to marry paid work with childcare. Throw in some glamour in the shape of Martha Lane Fox and the feminisation of the new economy seems complete. Women sick of banging their heads against the glass ceilings of the old economy can give it up as a bad job and join the flexible, gender-neutral new one instead.Except things aren't quite as they seem. The surface impression of a new dawn of gender equality does not fit with the reality of the changing economy. Helen Wilkinson, a writer on gender and technology, argues that a harsher dot.com environment means women are struggling to establish themselves in start-ups. "The new economy looks good for women on paper - technology allows new ways of working, creating the potential for better work-life balance," she says. "But start-ups require a huge initial investment of time and energy, meaning long working hours. The dot.com culture is still quite male-oriented and in a climate in which investors are cautious, there is a tendency to go with safe options."Wilkinson points out that the venture capital firms backing dot.com start-ups are dominated by men; the specific IT skills required for website building and e-commerce are still being acquired by more men than women - indeed the number of women applying to study IT has dropped slightly. And while the image of the new economy worker logging on from home seems attractive, the truth is less futuristic: a study by the Institute for Employment Studies found that women telecommuters were three times more likely than men to be interrupted by children.Perhaps most importantly, the working culture of dot.coms is more macho than the old economy, with the possible exception of City   trading rooms. Start-ups operate in a go-go, flat-out climate and the line between success and failure is often so narrow - and the gains from stocks options so great - that working all the hours God sends is entirely rational. Far from prefiguring a feminine future, dot.commery is fuelled by testosterone and takeaways, with friends and lovers found in the late-night office and "start-up sex" made more exciting by the shared sense of pace and risk in many e-ventures.In the US, there are signs of a backlash against start-up craziness. The initiatives to reduce pressure on employees speak volumes about the levels of insanity. Justin Kitch, founder ofHomestead.com, decided to rebalance his life when he got married, cutting back his office hours to just 60 and putting in, on top, a mere 20 at home. Charlie Kim, head of Next Jump, which produces online college guides, told Fast Company magazine he was cracking down on long hours by banning sleeping in the office and removing all beds and futons.On this side of the pond, too, the atmosphere of dot.coms remains relentlessly macho. Employees boast of pulling "all-nighters" - an activity once reserved for just-in-time essay production at university.Of course, it is not just men who are adopting a work-all-hours approach - Lane Fox herself rises at dawn, rushes around until dusk and puts in more work in between than most of us manage in a week. Which is fine until children appear on the scene because women still have most of the childcare responsibilities and the dot.com culture is about as family-unfriendly as you can get.Without relinquishing their command of the old economy, men are colonising the new one, too. Far from narrowing the gap between men and women, the rise of the dot.com is in danger of widening it. So much for e-quality.&#149; Richard Reeves is director of futures at the Industrial Society. You can contact him atrreeves@indsoc.co.uk.
&#149;TakeoverAiming to expand its internet backbone, semiconductor maker Broadcom Communications said yesterday that it would acquire privately held optical communications chip maker NewPort Communications for about $1.24bn (&#163;826m) in shares.&#149;ShoppingUS retailer Kmart Corp yesterday said it made an $80m (&#163;53m) joint investment with Softbank Venture Capital and Softbank Capital Partners, units of Japanese internet investor Softbank Corp, in its online subsidiaryBlueLight.com. Kmart will invest $55m and Softbank an additional $25m to continue to develop the online shopping site.&#149;ScorersWest Ham player Rio Ferdinand and Liverpool captain Jamie Redknapp were among the stars featured on the new interactive website,bigfanof.com. Fans will be provided with a low-down on their lives on and off the field, video highlights and daily interviews.&#149;UnshelvedBritish Telecom said on Monday its plans to invest $2bn in an internet hosting joint venture with AT&amp;T were unchanged, despite a report that it had shelved the proposal.&#149;Wipo outA UN panel ruled yesterday that a Uruguay resident and another group of cybersquatters must give up 40 internet sites containing the names of Yahoo or its unit GeoCities. The World Intellectual Property Organisation said the sites were registered in bad faith, following a complaint from the US internet media network.
The $1,500bn a day international foreign exchange market is about to be turned into an internet battleground. Three leading banks - Citibank, Chase Investment Bank and Deutsche Bank - are teaming up with the news and information provider, Reuters, to develop a company to deliver foreign exchange dealing services.That will put them in direct competition with FX Alliance - a 13-strong banking consortium that revealed its net forex plans earlier this year.The three banks and Reuters declined to comment on the scheme, which is being put together under the codename Rose. Banking sources in London, however, said that although the project has still to be finalised it is expected to be launched in the first quarter of next year and will offer a full range of services by the third quarter of the year.The creation of rival online forex services highlights the growing trend towards the use of the internet for the trading of currency products.Industry sources say that customers increasingly want to use a single platform rather than a raft of systems each owned by a different bank.The crucial question for the rivals is whether there is a big enough market for two online   services, whether they will be able to offer different products and services or whether the rivalry will come down to price."They could end up specialising in different things but if they don't differentiate themselves like this it will come down to prices."In the short term, Citibank, Deutsche and Chase could be very aggressive on the pricing," said one source in the banking industry.The plans for FX Alliance, which is expected to be up and running either later this year or early next, were announced in June.Initially its line-up was Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, Credit Suisse First Boston, Goldman Sachs, HSBC, JP Morgan, Bank of America and UBS Warburg. However, another six banks including Dresdner Kleinwort Benson and the Royal Bank of Scotland signed up last month.Citibank, Deutsche and Chase are all believed to have been involved in the original talks over FX Alliance.According to another banking source there were talks between the heads of 12 banks in New York."There were discussions and it got to the point where things had gone far enough for them to say that people either had to declare a conflict of interest or walk away. Citi, Deutsche and Chase walked away."
The world is getting smaller thanks to the increasing numbers of people with access to the internet. The number of internet users in the United States is expected to reach 157.3m by 2003 - and poorer regions, too, are getting in on the act, with Latin America overcoming numerous practical hurdles to get its population online.Equifax, a credit reference agency based in Atlanta, Georgia, is finding a lot of business in Latin America as internet usage spreads like wildfire in the region. Equifax is one the world's biggest providers of financial information and its Equifax Secure arm aims to ensure that net transactions are safe.Ian McKinnon, director or Equifax Secure in Europe, says Latin America is a growth area. "Surprisingly, we are getting a lot of business in the region," he said. "The fact that they don't have massive physical infrastructure is actually an advantage."Equifax Secure's experience in Latin America shows that the internet boom is not confined to the US and Europe. The two economic giants are far ahead of the rest of the world in internet usage, but the net is catching on fast in some developing countries. In Latin America, the number of internet users, currently estimated at 10.5m, is projected to rise to between 19m and 37m by 2003.While analysts may differ on the potential for e-commerce in Latin America, they agree on one thing: the region has a great advantage in its young population, which is where the internet can make the most impact. The Latin American population is much younger in Europe than those of the US, Europe or Japan.Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, the financial services group, believes that as it matures, Latin American youth is "more likely to embrace the net for information, entertainment and shopping than their parents or grandparents".The growth of e-commerce in Latin America faces many constraints. There are fewer PC-owners. The region lacks a sophisticated telecommunications infrastructure and it suffers from weak payment systems, a rickety postal system and low credit card use.But these are not necessarily insuperable barriers to the spread of e-commerce. Payments can be made through cash-on-delivery couriers, and prepaid telephone cards could be adapted for internet commerce. Internet kiosks in shops, cafes, universities and other public places could make up for the low number of PCs.     The lack of PCs is no deterrent to net access, judging by the experience of China, where non-PC access methods are becoming increasingly popular. Personal digital assistants, mobile phones and television set-top boxes were used to get online by nearly 590,000 people as China experiences an internet boom similar to that of Latin America.Internet penetration continued to skyrocket in the first six months of this year. The number of people accessing the web rose to 16.9m, an increase of 8m since the start of the year, according to the China internet network information centre. More Chinese surfers now use the net to shop online, with 14% of users buying goods or services from internet retailers.No wonder the Chinese government looks to the internet as an engine for economic growth, although it is also nervous at the prospect of non-party views spreading through cyberspace like a virus. The People's Daily, the official Communist party newspaper, earlier this month warned that "enemy forces at home and abroad are sparing no effort to use this battle to infiltrate us".But while net use is accelerating rapidly in Latin America and Asia, that cannot be said of Africa, which had just 2.5m users as of June this year. That total is expected to increase to only 4.4m in 2003.A report compiled by African portal woyaa.com and Unesco, the UN agency on educational and cultural matters, said the number of sites in all African countries, apart from South Africa, is worryingly low. This is due to the dearth of appropriate equipment and infrastructure, the lack of regulation surrounding copyright and security issues, and the low level of awareness of the benefits of the net.South Africa had the most diverse sites and up-to-date content, followed by sites from Egypt, Morocco and Tunisia. Sites in sub-Saharan Africa had the most room for development.Woyaa and Unesco call for improved training schemes and awareness campaigns as well as higher visibility for African sites through listings on international search engines.Public sector institutions should also provide a "good example" to other groups by developing comprehensive and user-friendly sites, Woyaa and Unesco argue.Some international effort is being mounted to help developing countries get their act together. The International Telecommunications Union, a specialised UN agency for telecommunications, is seeking to develop e-commerce in the developing world through its Electronic Commerce for Developing Countries project.The venture encourages developing countries to use existing infrastructures and services to join the digital economy through partnerships with the private sector. But the £1.7m it has at its disposal is puny.Even in Latin America, which shows considerable potential, a digital divide is emerging. Brazil, Argentina and Mexico comprise more than 80% of the region's 8m internet users, while Brazil accounts for 60% of e-commerce revenues alone.Policy makers in the developing world thus face a twin challenge. They have to try and keep up with the US and Europe, while making sure that their own domestic digital divides do not widen.Woyaa.comAsia.internet.commark.tran@guardian.co.uk
Lastminute.com's acquisition of France's biggest online travel agent, Degriftour, for &#163;58.9m (98m euros) cash and stock will speed the growth of its French operations by 2 or 3 years, according to chief executive Brent Hoberman.Lastminute.com, launched in October 1998, announced  this morning that it would buy Degriftour for &#163;27.1m cash, and issue 19.7m new shares at Friday's closing share price of 162pence.     "It brings us 2 or 3 years ahead organically of where we would otherwise be in France," Hoberman said.    "This (the acquisition) makes us the largest European e-commerce company."Hoberman also confirmed that the acquisition should enable Lastminute.com to move into the black far sooner than anticipated, even ignoring the effect of the expected revenue synergies and cost savings.Lastminute.com's chief operating officer, Martha Lane-Fox, said "We felt that Degriftour was the right move for us. We are very excited by the opportunity to combine our wealth and breadth of supply to offer even more for our combined customer base."Degriftour provides a similar service to Lastminute.com, specialising in short notice travel sales. In 1999 it reported a gross profit of &#163;9.1, with sales figures of 7#163;50.3m in package tours, airline tickets and hotel reservations.
The choice is between chive pancake spirals and tapenade crostini at the regular must-go-to Friday evening rooftop bash in central San Francisco thrown by the internet's news magazine, the Industry Standard.As the margaritas and chat of the latest start-ups flow, the free frisbees are handed out and the weekend beckons, it is hard to imagine that all is not well in the capital of the dot.com world.But resentment is stirring in Silicon Valley. Earlier this month a petition bearing 20,000 signatures was delivered to San Francisco's department of elections, heralding a new fight between the clashing cultures of one of the world's great cities.The signatures mean that later this year voters will decide whether to call a halt to the flood of e-commerce companies taking over the city and making its residents and artistic community homeless.On the other side of the city, in Portrero Hill, the unfinished canvases lean against the wall of Debra Walker's studio. Ms Walker, a well known local artist, has just been named in the annual awards of the Bay Guardian as a "local hero" for her campaign against the developers. As a founder of the Coalition for Jobs, Arts and Housing, she is one of the people behind the proposition that would limit office development, provide affordable housing and require landlords to let a percentage of space to artisans and non-profit organisations."The whole cultural world of San Francisco is being rocked," she said. "What is happening   right now could affect the whole future of the city. Theatre groups, artists, dance companies - every venue is at risk. Even the blue-chip art galleries are closing, and all that will be left here will be museums. Where we are now is the result of unmitigated development."Nowhere are the changes clearer than the district where   she works. Originally an industrial area, it evolved into a home for print shops, laundries and studios. Ms Walker moved into her studio in 1984. But as Silicon Valley prices soared, the new companies sought cheaper space in San Francisco. E-commerce companies like Dotcomix, Red Ladder and Spinner, the free music company, have arrived and the nearby restaurant caters very specifically for the laptop-bearing newcomers, with smoked salmon filone for breakfast and meeting-places for the nascent companies."San Francisco will be like Singapore in five years," said David Adams, of Earthjustice,   the non-profitmaking environmental law firm which has its offices in Montgomery Street, in the city's central area. "There will be nice hotels and shops but all the atmosphere and the culture - both underground and accessible - will be elsewhere. It will be a city of commerce and banking.For the last decade, Earthjustice has been at the hub of the city, but the office building it leases a part of has now been sold for $98m and the market rate for office space in the area has gone up to $80 a square foot. This means that the charity's rent would rise from $360,000 to $1.6m million a year. It will therefore have to   move. All the non-profit organisations and charities that have served San Francisco face the same threat.The release of figures last month by the California Association of Realtors showed that the median sale price of a   condominium in the city had risen by 32% in the past year, to more than $500,000."There are people who are casualties of what has been going on," said Eric Savitz, an executive editor of Industry Standard, which charts e-commerce's ups and downs, as well as throwing the industry's best parties.He agrees that even the shakeout of companies has had little effect on property prices. "It's taken the froth off the top of the market, but it's still pretty brutal."While the hi-tech companies move into the city, their workers have already colonised the most desirable residences in   the valley. Mark Cowan, a manager in Silicon Valley, is typical - he bought his home in Santa Clara and Porsche Boxster with the money from stocks he cashed in.Many of the party-goers on the magazine's rooftop are sympathetic to the plight of those being driven out, such as teachers, fire-fighters and police officers, who now have to live many miles away.Inventive dot.com minds have come up with solutions for many of life's problems, but so far no one has quite worked out how to preserve the soul of the city at the heart of the boom.
You would be foolish not to research a market that you wanted to target. As twentysomethings we feel we have some instinctive understanding of young people. However that is never going to be enough and we have hired some real experts to help us gauge the nature of the online teen market.The hired hands are a specialist "youth" research agency that has considerable experience in working with online services and with parents. If you think their work is child's play - think again. Their consultants toy with 1,000-people surveys and explore the fuzzy responses of focus groups.The work has been fantastically useful. The focus groups have provided valuable ideas for how the site should be laid out and how users would like to navigate through it. It has helped us develop a final site that should appeal both to boys and girls. This sounds easy, but it is not - one red-themed page was highly rated by 90% of girls but disliked by a similar proportion of boys.You inevitably receive some results from the research that you could have predicted beforehand. Would anyone be surprised to know that "MP3", "sex" and "Britney Spears" are some of the most popular online search terms with teenage boys? Results such as these do make you wonder whether you are getting real value from the work.However, you do gain some real insights into how the teenage experience is changing. Mobile phones, for example, are popular with teenagers, and now account for 20% of a typical young person's monthly expenditure. Young people are also becoming more aware of online services, at least partly as a result of continued television advertising. More than   two-thirds of young people are keen to buy online, even though a significant proportion still see it as a bit of a novelty.Perhaps the most interesting piece of research still lies ahead of us. The extended team, including a number of our key agencies, is participating in a day of "teenzifying" activity. The idea is to immerse ourselves for a short time in the lifestyle of today's teenagers. The day includes such delights as a shopping trip to the local high street and a video diary by a teenager. We are drawing the line at buying skateboards.But market research does not come cheap. With the research we expect to do over a full 12 months we could have   hired two extra members of staff.Luckily, going forward, there are other more cost effective ways of researching the market. In particular, when rools is launched we will have customers and using the service and interacting with the site. We will then be able to capture valuable information about their activities, such as which parts of the site are visited most frequently, directly. We'll also be able to ask customers for feedback. This will be a real help, particularly in a market that is notoriously fickle and fast moving.Adam Hamdy and Guy Mallison are the co-founders of rools.com, a service that lets teenagers buy online without a credit card
Reuters, one of world's biggest providers of financial information, is likely to cut its workforce by more than 1,000 as part of a drive to transform the company, say analysts.The move, part of a two-year plan to refocus Reuters on to the net, is seen as necessary if the company is serious about increasing margins in all of its divisions.In 1999, for example, its information division operated   on a margin of 16%. Reuters chief executive Peter Job wants to increase that to 20% in two years.By then Mr Job, a former journalist who has been with Reuters for 38 years, will be close to retiring - he leaves in July 2001 - and City sources have made it clear that the company needs a salesman for its products.Already in the running are Tom Glocer, the boss of Reuters Information who has just been promoted to the   board, and Philip Green, who was poached from logistics company DHL to run Reuters Trading Solutions.Paul Richards, media analyst at West LB Panmure, said: "They have set themselves a very aggressive target. It is clear that there will be an element of staff cuts as part of this."However, he said that it was unlikely that Reuters would "cut swaths of staff in one go". Instead the company would handle the loss in a "gentle   way", redeploying staff where it could.Reuters has been quietly reworking itself into a internet-based information provider. It recently announced that it will invest some &#163;500m over four years as it shifts focus to providing services via the net.Last year, Reuters stock took a dive as analysts said the company had yet to deliver a net strategy.Then the City said the company had not foreseen the threat from online brokers   who had hit Reuters big clients - the broking houses. Nor had the group noticed that the internet meant sellers of real-time financial information (such as the London stock exchange) did not have to go through an intermediary (such as Reuters) to get to the buyers of information (such as the banks).As part of its new strategy, Reuters has formed a series of divisions within the company which it is planning to float off separately.Those headed for the market include incubator Greenhouse Fund, which has investments in 60 companies, notably Yahoo! in 1994, and Instinet, its share-trading company which its is planning to float next year.Credit Suisse First Boston estimates that Greenhouse could be worth &#163;2.9bn and Instinet &#163;3bn, or a total of 442p per share. The investment bank says that Reuters is worth at least &#163;13 per share. Reuters closed at &#163;12.59 on Friday.
Ever confused venture capital firm3iwith online personal finance company "iii" otherwise known as Interactive Investor International?3i believes someone could. It considers the risk of mistaken identity is enough to warrant court action and is fighting a legal battle with iii for it to drop the use of its initials.The venture capitalists - originally known as Investors In Industry - claim that the use of the iii logo has infringed on 3i's trademarks and consequently claims to have suffered "loss and damage".There are some obvious similarities; 3i's listing code, for example, on the London stock exchange is III.However, iii has dug its heels in and is confident it can prove that no such confusion exists among the public.An iii spokesman yesterday said iii established and patented its trading identity five years ago. "This is an action which we will robustly defend," the spokesman said.3i was not available for comment yesterday but the venture capital group is also understood to want iii to stop using the internet addresswww.iii.co.ukand has demanded a copy of the internet company's client list. Interactive Investor had more than 1m registered accounts at the end of June.The ultimate arbiter of who owns the web address www.iii.co.uk is the World Intellectual Property Organisation in Switzerland. The battle between the two companies is expected to take place in the high court next year.The action is unfortunate timing for iii, which confirmed last week that a drop in transaction-related revenues had curbed revenue growth in the third quarter.The transaction revenues - which include fees from online share placings and the sale of Isas - fell 37% compared with the previous quarter.Tomas Carruthers, chief executive of iii, blamed the decline on seasonal factors and the fall in investor activity after the internet investment hype in the first few months of the year.However, overall revenues were flat at &#163;1.8m with iii having benefited from solid growth in advertising turnover. Pre-tax losses for iii widened to &#163;3.8m compared with &#163;2m for the corresponding period last year.The company listed in February and its shares peaked at 415p in the midst of the internet frenzy but were trading at 48.5p on Friday.Internet stocks have lost their lustre since the beginning of the year as investors have focused more closely on revenue projections.
A French judge yesterday avoided making a ruling on freedom of speech on the internet, instead ordering experts to see if it was possible to bar French surfers from accessing online sales of Nazi memorabilia on the site of US based web portal Yahoo.Three human rights groups in Paris launched proceedings against Yahoo in April, saying it was breaking French law by hosting internet auctions of Nazi paraphernalia including SS daggers, swastikas, propaganda films, photographs of death camp victims and replicas of Zyklon B gas canisters.The case raises the question of whether one country should have the authority to regulate the content of web sites in another country.Industry observers suggest the issue should be addressed at government level and not incourt.In France, it is illegal to sell or exhibit anything that incites racial hatred. In a ruling in May judge Jean-Jacques Gomez said Yahoo had offended against the country's "collective memory".Saying the US pages in question "constituted an apology for nazism and a contestation of Nazi crimes", he ordered the company to block French users from them.Yahoo argues that this is technically impossible, but the judge ruled yesterday that over the next two months a team of French, American and European experts should look for a way to identify web users by origin, and filter French users from the site.The experts will present their findings on November 6.The judge rejected demands by the three anti-racist and Jewish organisations bringing the case, LICRA, UEJF and MRAP, that Yahoo be fined more than &#163;100,000 for each day that the auction pages remained open to French surfers.He also rejected one of Yahoo's main claims: that the US-based site was outside the jurisdiction of the French court.Yahoo's lawyer, Christophe Pecnard, welcomed the decision to appoint international experts."We will cooperate with the experts in order to see if any solution is possible," he said.But Marc Knobel, leader of the LICRA campaign, was angered by the decision."Technical solutions do exist," he said. "These web pages are an offence to anyone who has lived through nazism."There are moral questions here - what kind of internet do we want?"France, with all its history, rejects nazism and fascism and will continue to reject it."Yahoo said that it had never allowed auctions of Nazi memorabilia to take place on its French portal, Yahoo.fr.It added that it had taken the step of adding warnings, in French, to some pages of the site containing sensitive material, that alerted users that they risked breaking French law by viewing them.Although Yahoo's French-language portal does not grant direct access to the Nazi web auctions, the US pages can be accessed with a few clicks of the mouse.The pages are protected in the US under the constitution's guarantee of freedom of speech.
A French judge today ordered a team of experts to examine ways of blocking the US search engine and web directory Yahoo! from French users after the company was found selling Nazi memorabilia on its popular auction site.Under French law it is illegal to sell or exhibit material that incites racial hatred. In a previous judgement the company had been told find a way to stop French users from accessing the site but had claimed it was technically impossible.Judge Jean-Jacques Gomez has given the team of three experts - one French, one American, and one European - until 6 November to find a solution and will then rule on whether Yahoo! has done enough to comply with French law.The case highlights the extent to which individual countries will accept freedom of speech on the net. Yahoo!, based in Santa Clara, California, is protected by the US constitution if its pages express racist or extremist ideas. However, in May, Judge Gomez ruled that the service provider had offended France's "collective memory".The battle has sparked fears that one nation's legal system, such as the US, could stretch its tentacles across national borders, subverting laws in other countries. Countries have previously been largely powerless to combat extremist web pages stored on servers in other countries, but the Yahoo! case has given some legal observers a start."It could be a worldwide prior restraint against free expression," said San Francisco-based lawyer Michael Traynor , who filed an affidavit on behalf of Yahoo!. "For &#91;France&#93;, a country that prides itself on human rights, it would be an extraordinary imposition on fundamental freedom of expression."Yahoo! has pulled Third Reich paraphernalia from its French site - fr.Yahoo.com. In a further step, the company recently added warnings, in French, to some pages of its US-based site, alerting French users they risk breaking French laws by viewing them.Yahoo!'s lawyers say it would be impossible to go further, arguing that it is not technically feasible to keep French users off disputed websites.On the other side, the International League Against Racism and Anti-Semitism (LICRA) and the Union of Jewish Students of France say the country should not be subject to ideologies it has made illegal."It's linked to our history, which has known the occupation, &#91;and&#93; the collaboration of our government with, the Nazis," said Marc Knobel of LICRA, whose letter-writing campaign sparked the lawsuit.The prosecution has asked that Yahoo! be fined for each day it violates French law.
People all over the world are awaiting today's judgment by a French court about whether Yahoo! broke French law in allowing Nazi memorabilia to be auctioned on its US site which can be freely accessed in France.The case raises a number of crucial issues about the nature of the internet and how it is governed - and they are unlikely to be resolved by today's judgment.In France it is illegal to sell things that incite racism but Yahoo is based in the US and, it argues, subject to the first amendment of the US constitution guaranteeing free speech.But, in any case - the company argues - it would be technologically impossible to cut off certain users from its French site  because if it cut off all mentions of the word "Nazi" in them, they would sever legitimate researches as well.This point is debatable. Haven't they heard of Autonomy, the British company with the "smart" search engine that can tell from the context  whether the  user is a bone fide researcher or not?At the root of the problem is the age-old dividing line between my "freedom to" and your "freedom from". The whole culture of the internet is based on "freedom to", the right of everyone around the world to express themselves freely. Yet, at the same time, most countries, including Britain, quite rightly have laws prohibiting incitement to racial hatred.How can these principles be reconciled? One way would be to argue that the web should remain free but it is the responsibility of the authorities to track down inciters of racial hatred whether they are using a web site or any other means. Goodness knows, as recent publicity has shown, they have plenty of technologically sophisticated means (like the Echelon and Carnivore spy systems) to eavesdrop on miscreants using the web for perverted ends.But this won't solve the underlying issue - whose law is paramount. Why should the writ of law of the US law be imposed everywhere just because the US dominates the infrastructure of the web? How would the US react if the French decided that in order to implement their own laws they would have to send their own teams to the US to track down the people behind the Nazi sites?This problem won't be solved by one country unilaterally imposing its own law on everyone else. The internet has become a sort of transnational nation in its own right governed by mutual principles. Unless that mutuality can extend to stamping out flagrant abuses of freedom of speech then other - internationally agreed - ways will have to be found to curb its occasional excesses.
