After three increasingly popularSimsseries over the past decade, with a myriad of marriages, divorces, unruly children and pets, fans of the franchise were starting to wonder where developer and publisher, EA could take it next. So raise your goblet of mead to toast another fine addition to the stable.From the outset, the game feels new and exciting, with an entertaining opening movie narrated by Sir Patrick Stewart – a video game voiceover veteran – setting the scene for the task ahead. While the premise remains true to theSimsheritage, playing as individual characters, this time you must also achieve a "Kingdom Ambition", chosen at the start of your game to determine the fate of your realm and its citizens. For example, you may choose Imperial Domination to expand your empire or Wealthy Populace to fill your coffers.You start by playing as your kingdom's monarch, enabling you to customise your attire and living quarters, while choosing personality traits, such as "adventurous", "compulsive gambler" or "whale ate my parents", the latter apparently making your troubled Sim shout angrily at the ocean. However, the game comes into its own when you go on to play as other Hero Sims who, like their monarch, have their own quests and ambitions to accomplish, earning Kingdom Points to spend on new structures to help complete your Kingdom Ambition.Overall, it's enchanting stuff, set in a beautifully animated and immersive fairy-tale world. And, with a clearer structure for achieving quests and character development, it will appeal to RPG fans as never before.
Nintendo's newest console arrives at a time when its maker faces one of its biggest challenges. Having dominated the portable market for so long with a string of successful handhelds, the firm now finds itself in unsettling competition with the rapidly growing force of smartphone gaming, Apple's iDevices in particular. So it is no surprise to see Nintendo courting those gamers who want something a little more substantial on the move.3DS is a much more powerful console than its predecessor, but its key selling point is, naturally, its ability to display glasses-free 3D. The effect is startling: the wide-eyed stares and even wider grins featured in Nintendo's marketing feel like a genuinely plausible reaction to that initial viewing. It can take time to get used to, though – initial common complaints range from mild eye strain to gentle nausea – so the ability to dial the effect down or turn it off entirely is a welcome one at first.The device is typically robust, perhaps a little less attractive than its immediate predecessor, but comfortable to hold and well-made, with a new "circle pad" offering analogue control akin to the thumbsticks of traditional game pads. Installed software allows users to take low-resolution 3D photos and listen to music and an SD card is included to boost the limited internal memory. Rumours of short battery life haven't been exaggerated: with 3D and wireless communications turned on, it can be just three hours before the console needs recharging via the provided cradle, though playing older and less graphically intensive games extends that time.Other features are designed to encourage users to carry their console at all times. A built-in pedometer awards Play Coins, an in-game currency set to be used by a number of first- and third-party titles, while SpotPass and StreetPass wireless communications allow 3DS owners to swap data, including their Mii avatars, with their consoles in standby mode. The latter is a very Japanese feature: with gaming culture firmly ingrained in the east, connections will be frequent. If Nintendo succeeds in persuading western gamers to be as socially active, it could be one of its most significant victories.The versatility of the hardware is well demonstrated by the preloaded software, which is entirely unsuited to the daily commute. The superbly named Face Raiders turns a photo portrait into a spherical enemy, asking players to shoot themselves in the face using the internal gyroscope to aim. A set of six Augmented Reality cards, meanwhile, provides arguably the most technically dazzling demonstration of the console's capabilities, allowing users to shoot targets, go fishing or take photos of famous Nintendo characters with their lounge as a backdrop.Otherwise, though, it's a fairly low-key launch for first-party software, with Nintendo content to let two lesser lights take centre stage on day one.Pilotwings Resort(cert 3) returns to the idyllic Wuhu Island featured inWii Sports ResortandWii Fit Plus, offering a range of flying vehicles from a glider to a jetpack to navigate a series of simple courses. The picturesque setting looks better than ever in 3D, but the game itself is almost shamefully brief, making the company's recent comments about the importance of high-value content seem a little hypocritical.Nintendogs + Cats(cert 3) fares better, revisiting the game often cited as the catalyst for the DS's success. Though light on additional content, the improved graphics and depth of the 3D image make it all but impossible not to reach out for a pup's proferred paw.Elsewhere, a number of solid third-party titles will be jostling for attention.Ridge Racer 3D(Namco Bandai, cert 3) is hardly a technical knockout, but the franchise's trademark fast-paced and drift-heavy racing is even more thrilling in three dimensions. The ever-shifting perspective of the dynamic player camera inPro Evolution Soccer 3D(Konami, cert 3) may well bring on a bout of queasiness, but switching to a more traditional side-on view reveals an accomplished version of the popular series, with especially impressive 3D action replays.The dark horse of the launch line-up isTom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Shadow Wars, (Ubisoft, cert 12), a terrific strategy title which makes subtle use of 3D to add visual depth to its turn-based tactical skirmishes.ButSuper Street Fighter IV: 3D Edition(Capcom, cert 12) is the real standout, the classic beat-'em-up arriving on 3DS in feature-packed form, and with a control scheme that offers a way in for those who've historically struggled to cope with the thumb gymnastics required to pull off the most spectacular special moves. Offering quick and easy online play and the most impressive graphics on the system, it's the perfect showcase for the hardware's capabilities.
A friend recently went to a business meeting. He prepared by pulling his laptop out of his bag. All of the clients responded by taking their iPads out of their briefcases.These were not gadget freaks or latte-quaffing Hoxton-based web designers, as some imagine iPad users to be. They were a large group of senior civil servants and bankers, in a country well beyond Europe and the US. To them, the iPad wasn't a status symbol; it was a device they had chosen to use because it enhanced their ability to do their job.A year on from its arrival, and with the faster, thinner, second-generation model released in the UK on 25 March , Apple's iPad tablet computer still divides opinion. A large group of people insist it is an "overpriced toy" with limited functionality – no keyboard, doesn't run Microsoft Office, can't play Flash video, can't expand its storage. But a growing number believe that, on the contrary, the iPad represents a new frontier in computing. And they simply don't care what the first group thinks. They're getting on with using their machines.We have lived with the PC paradigm for around 30 years now, since IBM introduced its first personal computers and pushed them into businesses in the early 80s. Until the launch of the iPad last year the only comparable change in the market had been the laptop, which led to the emergence of an army of travelling salespeople whose most urgent need was always to find a power point where they could charge their machine's fading battery.The iPad seems to be different – a third stage of computing. Horace Dediu, a former analyst with the mobile phone company Nokia who now runs his own consultancy,Asymco, argues that "the definition of a new generation of computing is that the new products rely on new input and output methods, and allow a new population of non-expert users to use the product more cheaply and simply".That certainly sounds like the iPad. It shows that it is possible to have something that does all the computing functions you want with a big screen that also has long battery life and weighs almost nothing, certainly compared to a laptop. It is portable and durable, and the touch screen adds another dimension.Though it has the most prominent tablet in the market, Apple isn't the only player (see its rivals assessed below). Dozens of companies are using Google's free Android software to power tablets, and Google is helping them along with acustom version called "Honeycomb", designed for iPad-sized Android tablets.An estimated 17 million tablets – from Apple and others – were sold in 2010, and that number is likely to keep growing.But is it really changing the way we work? We interviewed a range of people in different professions to see whether the iPad is all hype – or whether in future we will all keep taking the tablets.CAMargaret Manning – businesswomanMargaret Manning uses her iPad at work. Photograph: Sonja Horsman for the ObserverMargaret Manning first realised that her iPad was going to change how she worked when she was in hospital, recovering from a minor operation, about a month after buying it. "I realised I could comfortably do emails, download a book to read, watch a film, whatever," she says. "There's no other device that you can do that with. You certainly can't read with a laptop in bed."Manning, 50, is the founder and chief executive of Reading Room, a London-based web development agency employing 170 people. She takes the iPad with her to client meetings and presentations: "It's got a wow factor," she says. "I did a presentation that I ran off it, and all the people in the room went, 'Ooh'," she recalls, adding: "They were all bankers."To Manning, the iPad's chief virtue is its versatility. She can carry it in her bag to go to clients, check work emails in a coffee shop or train, and then take it to a bar later and kill some time playing a game. It's become her laptop, TV screen, iPod and iPhone. "It's adaptive to today's digital age. You can create and consume content in a different way."Key to that is the screen size. "The iPhone was a step towards this, but the format is vital. This allows businesses to start using it in a way they couldn't with the iPhone."She cites an app that Reading Room has developed for Grains Research Development Corporation in Australia which lets farmers examine crops for disease by comparing them, in the field, to pictures on the iPad. That could be done on a laptop – but it would be cumbersome compared to doing it on the handheld screen.She revels in the simplicity of the interface, and says battery life is key: "If it was shorter, that would change the relationship. If I had to travel with plugs and extra batteries that would change things. The iPhone's battery life is too short – it hacks me off."Are there any drawbacks? "There are two things that it doesn't do well: the keyboard – if I travel with it, I have to take a lightweight keypad – and voice calls. You can use Skype [the free internet voice call service], but not everybody has Skype, and I can't use it to call a client. "CAFrasier Speirs – teacher"Nobody has lost a file for a year now," says Fraser Speirs. "Which used to happen every week – someone coming along and saying they couldn't find where they'd saved some work or other."Speirs teaches computing studies at the private Cedars School of Excellence in Greenock, and is also the IT co-ordinator there. Last year he went to his bosses with a radical plan: equip every one of the children in both the primary and secondary schools with an iPad. And not just for computing studies: for every lesson. Speirs wants them to replace textbooks, though he admits that is still some way off.But the iPads, with their simplified approach to filing (you can't choose where to save a file), have made at least part of his life much simpler.The lack of a keyboard wasn't an issue. "The problem with laptops in the classroom is the battery life, and the size and weight. When Apple said that it would last for 10 hours, and we realised it actually did, that was really important. And the size and weight matters too for younger children."The primary pupils only use them in school; secondary pupils can take them home. And teachers have them too, which has changed their view of computing.Speirs thinks it is time to reconsider how and what we teach children in an internet-connected world. "Previously, we taught technology just for business needs – Excel, PowerPoint. But now technology is there to assist learning. What do we teach, when you can look up facts in two seconds flat? The answer I think is much more about challenge-based learning, where you give the pupils a high-level goal, and have the teacher support them in achieving it."But what happens when those children leave school and encounter laptops and even desktops in businesses? Speirs isn't worried for them. Children starting at Cedars now will graduate in 2024, he points out – and any company still using desktops by then will be hopelessly behind the curve.CARichard Bowman – physicistWill the iPad soon become a fixture in science labs alongside Bunsen burners, microscopes and graduated cylinders? Richard Bowman, a 24-year-old physicist doing his PhD at the University of Glasgow, reckons so. His field is optics, and in partnership with colleagues at the University of Bristol he recently developed an app that allows users to manipulate microscopic objects simply by touching the iPad's screen. Before iTweezers, Bowman employed a desktop computer and a mouse to control optical tweezers, an instrument that traps and moves microscopic particles using laser beams. Now, he does it all on his iPad."It's quite a natural interface," he says. "It's like you're touching the actual particle and pushing it around. We can also move particles up and down with the pinch gesture, which is hard to do with a mouse."It may be some time before iTweezers appears on the market – "there are loads of intellectual property issues" – but Bowman has already had interest from scientists in various fields, including chemists at Glasgow University who are using it in experiments with crystals. In the meantime, he's developing a more commercially viable iPad app called LabVIEW with his colleagues in Bristol: "It puts virtual dials and sliders on the screen to let you control your experiments in the lab".One serious limitation of the iPad, according to Bowman, is that "Apple are quite restrictive in what they'll allow to run on it. You have to register as an Apple developer and use their tools to do things." But, he adds, "I think the iPad is definitely here to stay – its capabilities are increasing all the time – and multi-touch interfaces definitely are the future. If you can control several things at once, it means you can interact with your experiment better, it can happen faster, and you can do things that you couldn't do before."KFDavid Kassan – painterWhen David Kassan bought an iPad last spring, his intention was to use it simply as a portfolio to show to prospective clients in the art world. Kassan, 34, is a Brooklyn-based artist who paints "really realistic lifesize figures" using oils on wood panel, and the iPad, he says, is "like a perfect art portfolio. You can adjust the colours, it's a cool thing to hold, and it's easier to update than a printout. That's the reason I got it."Richie Hawtin uses an iPad to control the sound during his elaborate live shows. Photograph: ObserverBut on a trip to Europe last summer, Kassan started messing around with the ultra-basic Brushes app on his iPad. "I sketched people in subways and airports, and did studies of paintings in museums. I started using it as a completely portable, full-colour sketchbook. It meant I didn't have to bring watercolours or an easel with me. I could just slide it out of my bag and start using it."Now he finds himself painting much more when out and about. "I'm an observer of everything – that's my job – and the iPad is a great tool to see things around me and be able to record them so that my eye gets keener. Also, if I'm in a museum I can do a study of the colour of a painting, not just the drawing and compositional aspects, which is all I'd really get to understand with pencil and paper."Kassan believes that the device has improved his "real painting", but  does this mean that the paintings he does on the iPad will never qualify  as "real"? Actually, he says, "I'm working on a piece right now, a lifesize head that I'm trying to do exactly like my real paintings." Using a more advanced app called Artrage and aNomadtouch-screen paintbrush, he hopes "to make it as realistic as possible, print it up and sign it. I thought I might put it in my next solo show in October to see what it'll sell for."KFRichie Hawtin – musician/ DJEarly last year, the DJ and producer Richie Hawtin was putting together a live show to mark 20 years of Plastikman, the most prominent of his many musical alter egos. Due to its scope, the show posed a considerable challenge to the British-born techno megastar. "When you do an electronic performance, traditionally you have a mixing board with all these knobs and faders to create the sound," he explains. "For this show, each song called for a whole different set of knobs and faders."What Hawtin needed, in order to control all those diverse environments at once, was a touch-screen device. The iPad came out in April. Within two months, Hawtin and his team had integrated it into the Plastikman performances. Six months later, they formed a company,Liine [www.liine.net], to turn the apps they'd developed into commercial products.One of these apps, Griid, "allows you to navigate a musical environment that would be hundreds of screens deep if you were trying to look at it on a normal laptop. With your hand movements you can zoom from left to right, find the instrument and the melody that you want, and start, stop or modify it with a quick touch."Another app, Kapture, "allows you to take snapshots of different states of your performance. If something amazing comes together, you can capture that moment just by touching the screen, and return to it later. Then you can then morph all these moments of the show together." Both apps interface with the popular Ableton Live sequencing software and can be used in the studio as well as onstage.Harnessing touch-screen technology, Hawtin says, is like "following a dark path with a torch and stumbling upon new techniques. The show has evolved into something that we didn't even realise was possible." Being able to use both hands on a screen, rather than being tethered to a mouse and keyboard, "transfers a bit more of your spirit into the technology you're using".Ever the restless techno-pioneer, Hawtin is now looking forward to future devices "that can sense not only left or right movements but how much pressure you're applying to the screen. That, as far as musicians like me are concerned, will be the next huge development."KF
Ark Music FactoryIf you've been near YouTube recently, chances are you've seen the worst-ever promo video, which just so happens to be for the worst song ever. Yes, Friday by US teen Rebecca Black. How, you may possibly have wondered, did such a thing ever come into existence? The answer is Ark Music Factory, a vanity music label which charges undisclosed sums to American parents in exchange for making their teenage daughter's pop princess dreams a reality. For their cash they get some super-compressed Auto-Tuning, a guest rapper, membership of a "community" and a literal pop video. In the case of Black the formula has worked – although not entirely how they'd hoped – but the other teen pop videos here aren't so bad that they're funny, they're just bad. Is this the future of pop? Let's hope not.Food MournMmmm - beige. Salad bar fail.In magazines and books we're regularly presented with photographs of food that looks too beautiful to eat. Meanwhile, TV shows such as MasterChef have demonstrated the importance of presentation in whetting the appetite. Both though are very distant from the reality of what most of us will sit down to. This site redresses the balance by demonstrating the exact opposite of food porn with a selection of reader-submitted photos of the world's most solemn and un-appetising "grub". A popular offender is the "salad bar fail", one of many examples of a dish falling down due to the simple fact that almost everything on the plate is the same colour – beige. Other delicacies include practically anything on a Ryvita, depressing school dinners, and the misery of an over-microwaved shepherd's pie with a scattering of iceberg lettuce on the side. Yum.Blog roll: CraftsAngry Birds, papercraft-style.Sad Etsy BoyfriendsThe plight of men exploited by their crafting girlfriends into modelling ill-fitting woolly hats.Homemade CrapDIY upscaling, glamorous recycling and the perennial appeal of a felt owl.Kitschy LivingA whole load of kitsch from a "Nice Jewish Guys" calendar to Clockwork Orange jumpers.203gowFrom knitted benches to crocheted Buddhas, the work of the Japan's finest guerrilla crafter.MakeDIY projects, how-tos, tech inspiration and craft hacks including the SNES transformed into a guitar.Papercraft ParadiseCelebrating paper toys, including some Angry Birds models to download and make yourself.What we learned on the web this weekThe smell of space. Photo: NASA/Scott Kleinman/Getty ImagesPickpockets are disappearingAmbient music and cop radio go well togetherSocial media is driven by the fear of missing outRoger Sterling's sexiest one-linersWhat space smells likeHow they invented the wah-wah pedalThe sexy sax man is above the lawWe love the bit in a movie when they say the name of the movieThe beauty of scaffoldingThe average Briton has three mysterious keys
The headline feature of Nintendo's 3DS is that it lets you play games in three dimensions without wearing silly-looking glasses. And get this: it actually works. Each game appears to tolerate its own level of 3D (adjusted using a handy slider next to the screen), and the effect only comes into focus when the screen is held at exactly the right angle and distance from your face. Without noticing, this rapidly shifts from a lot of wobbling and a slight sense of double-vision to second nature.As a device, it's both heavier and shinier than past Nintendo efforts, and not as sleekly sexy as a Next-Generation Portable – Sony's factually accurate but dull name for its forthcoming handheld – or iPhone. But it does have a 3D camera, useful for augmented-reality tricks and taking stereoscopic photographs of friends, pets and household items. There's no online shop or web browser yet, but both are promised in future updates.LAUNCH TITLES ROUND-UPFace RaidersFace Raiders.Take a picture of someone's face, which is then stretched on to a series of attacking floating heads that you shoot down to win. Action comes from all directions, which means wildly swinging your 3DS around to fire at incoming heads. It's surprisingly good fun and encourages you to capture a new face for each game, leading to an amusing collection of friends' slightly distorted noggins to pump full of cartoon lead.Nintendo, free with systemPilot Wings ResortPilot Wings Resort.Returning to Wuhu Island, last seen in Wii Sports Resort, this iteration of Pilot Wings brings back the much-loved cobalt blue skies, plinky-plonky music and mellow flying action that's at least as much about drifting around looking at interesting things on the ground as it is about timing and dexterity. The 3-D effect works beautifully even if its set of challenges barely takes an afternoon to complete.Nintendo, £39.99Super Street Fighter IV: 3D EditionSuper Street Fighter IV: 3D Edition.That Capcom has managed to shoehorn this incredible work of subtlety and strategy into such a small space is impressive. Unfortunately, the game highlights the 3DS' only major shortcoming: placement of its direction pad, which unlike the analogue joystick is unusably near the bottom of the machine. Even purists will find themselves reaching for onscreen shortcuts for special moves, which is a shame when everything else works so perfectly.Capcom, £39.99Nintendogs + CatsNintendogs & Cats.As well as learning their names and responding to a bit of vigorous petting, the puppies in Nintendogs also use the camera to mimic the motion of your head and lick the screen if your face gets close enough. Kittens are available, but their resolute intention to ignore you completely makes them a mere sideshow compared to the dogs.Nintendo, £39.99Ridge Racer 3DRidge Racer 3D.Ridge Racer has always been about power-sliding round corners in ludicrous, impossible-in-real-life arcs of burnt rubber and tyre smoke, and although this iteration adds a pleasing sense of depth, it's business as usual in every other respect. Employing classic tracks from the series and cars that start a bit dull and quickly get very exciting indeed as you unlock faster classes, its only real omission is a bizarre lack of online racing. That aside, it's as entrancing as ever.Namco Bandai, £39.99
We have Forest Air in this one. Meaning the speed of the airconditioning fans fluctuates, creating a light wind in the car similar to a natural breeze passing through trees. The aroma changes, too, alternating approximately every hour between Leaf and Fragrant Wood. These scents, created from the ingredients of green plants, are said to calm the emotions and may help to reduce fatigue. Aromatherapy on wheels. Actually, to be honest, I'm&nbsp;not sure I can feel the breeze or smell the Fragrant Wood. Maybe it is&nbsp;working, though, because I am feeling quite serene, but also alert; I'm a tiger, ready to pounce…Put your foot down, and this car does pounce. The smooth 3.7-litre V6 engine produces 316bhp and gets you to 60 in just over six seconds. It's a big old car, but it doesn't feel big on a snaky A road; it's steady, balanced, grippy and relishes the bends. God, I do apologise about all that, but this one does bring out the inner Clarkson in a fella.Infiniti is to Nissan what Lexus is to Toyota – the luxury division. You may not have heard of them because they haven't been in Europe for long. This one, their executive saloon, will take on the Germans – the 5 series Bimmer, E Class Merc, Audi A6. From the outside, I like it – it has distinctive lines, looks muscly and a bit retro. In black, with dark glass in the rear windows, there's something attractively shifty about it – like who knows what goes on, and with whom, in the back. If I was an executive with 45 grand to spend on a saloon, and wanted to stand out from my dull colleagues in the golf club car park, I'd consider it.Inside, it's hit and miss. It's very comfortable and there's plenty of room, but some of the detail isn't good. For instance the rectangular analogue clock: it looks like an alarm&nbsp;clock your granny had in the 1970s (I can see the glass with the false teeth alongside). I think it's meant to be posh. It's not.This car is loaded with gizmos. There are buttons to do things you didn't even know you wanted – heat up the steering wheel, say, or play a triumphant little you're-nearly-home-fanfare when you turn into your street. I can see these could be useful if you had Raynaud's disease, or if your Alzheimer's had got to the stage you'd forgotten where you live, but do the rest of us need them? More is more is the approach they've gone for, when sometimes less can be classier.Plus the Forest Air thing, I'm not sure that's really necessary. You can get those Magic Tree air fresheners for about £1.50 from most garages, if&nbsp;you really want your car to smell like a minicab.Infiniti M37 SPhotograph: Simon Stuart-Miller for the GuardianPrice£45,000Top speed155mphAcceleration0-62 in 6.2 secondsConsumption27.2mpgCO2 emissions235g/kmEco rating3/10At the wheelThe HoffIn a wordBadass (well, a bit)
Apple's iPad 2 drew thousands of British shoppers who queued for up to 33 hours on Friday, with the number waiting exceeding those last year according to researchers.As the doors opened at the company's flagship store in Regent St in London, the queue was 632 people long, compared to 451 in May 2010, said Protectyourbubble, a gadget insurance company. Figures gathered by the Guardian suggested that there were thousands waiting at stores elsewhere in the country, with the queue at Birmingham's Bull Ring estimated at more than a thousand as it stretched out of the shopping centre, and lengthy queues in Brighton, the Bluewater shopping centre and others.However some third-party retailers were reported to have short supplies, with Phones4U said to have only one iPad per store, and some PC World stores only having the cheapest version.Expectations are now growing that the number of tablets sold this quarter will far exceed those sold last year, when Apple dominated the market by selling 14.8m iPads, comprising between 75% and 90% of the market.A number of companies, including Motorola, RIM and Samsung intend to offer challengers to the iPad soon in the UK, at similar prices. But more companies are expected to attempt to offer cheaper Android tablets to try to grab a share of the market. That will have been helped by RIM's announcement on Thursday night that it willenable Android apps to run on its forthcoming 7-inch PlayBook tablet.But it is not only consumers who are expressing interests in the iPad and tablets generally. Peter O'Donoghue, head of the consultancy Deloitte's technology practice, said his research suggests that "millions of units will be shipped to retail, hospital, military, and the banking market. People are increasingly talking about tablet computers as a work tool." He calculates that businesses could make up 25% of the tablet market this year, but 40% in 2014. "In some ways, the virtues of tablets - easy to use, virus-resistant, and portable - are enormously appealing to businesses," he remarked.Reseach by Protectyourbubble found that this year's iPad buyers are subtly different in attitude to those last year. Compared to expectations in 2010, when nobody had used the device, more people now want to play games (33% v 12%) and watch films (13% v 3%) with it, while fewer expect to use it principally to browse the web (30% v 57%) or use different apps (8% v 15%). There is a small increase in the number who want to use it for reading books (7% v 4%) - which will be a disappointment to Apple's attempt to push its iBooks platform.The company also found that the profile of the queuers outside Regent St did not fit an obvious demographic.• 44% in the queue just used Windows PCs; 46% owned a Mac and 10% owned both;• 10% in the queue had Android gadgets, with 75% owning an iPhone. 15% owned other brand phones; one person had a Windows Phone;• 60% were aged 18-25; 28% aged 26-39; 2% 56 and over (the same age or more than Steve Jobs)• 14% of those queuing were women, nearly twice last year's 8% number• 34% wrongly assumed the iPad would just be available from the Apple Store. (Other retailes were also selling it.) Most said they queued for the atmosphere and "to be there" (49%), only 6% admitted to being die-hard Mac fans, and 13% "didn't know" why they'd queued.The interest in the iPad, which costs as much as a small laptop, may indicate that people are prepared to pay more for the devices.  O'Donoghue said that he does not expect cheap tablets priced at around £100 to flourish. "The higher end products from £400 upwards are likely to be the mass market, and cut-price tablets will be relatively niche. Lower-end products are not likely to offer the combination of ease-of-use, range of applications, processing power and screen quality that purchasers, actual or prospective, are going to expect from a tablet."O'Donoghue added: "Some have commented that the popularity of the tablet will challenge the laptop market. Deloitte disagrees. Our view is that both laptops and netbooks are likely to remain in strong demand for years to come."However Acer, the world's second biggest computer maker behind HP but ahead of Dell, on Friday warned that its first-quarter PC revenues will be about 10% below those of the fourth quarter, which were themselves 11% down year-on-year. It blamed weak sales in North America and Europe - the two areas where tablets are selling most strongly.At the beginning of March the research companyGartner lowered its forecast for 2011 PC salesto 387.8m units, a 10% growth from 2010, rather than the 15% growth it had forecast in December - and the 18% growth it had anticipated in mid-2010 before the extent of sales of tablets had become clear.
The launch of the Nintendo 3DS has sucked up most of Gamesblog's limited attention bandwidth this week, so here's a selection of the interesting snippets that almost got away.The picture comes courtesy of Activision, who captured a range of Star Wars mini-figs sightseeing in London to celebrate today's launch ofLego Star Wars III: The Clone Wars. Of course, what theyshouldhave done is commission a special Bobby Kotick figure, dressed as Emperor Palpatine. "Now witness the power of this fully armed and operational Modern Warfare 3 multiplayer subscription charge!" Just kidding – that's not actually happening.Anyway, here is some more stuff I wanted to write about, including a Red Dead Redemption song, GameCity Nights, an intriguing alternate reality game and a mash-up of Monopoly and Tory economic strategy!GameCity Nights – TonightThe latest event on theGameCity Nightscalendar is taking place tonight, and it looks like a cracker. This regular series of Nottingham-based gaming get-togethers is organised by the creators of the GameCity festival and they always feature an unmissable range of indie upstarts and superstar developers. Headlinging tonight is multimedia artist Jakub Dvorsky, founder of Czech games studioAmanita Design, who'll be showing off his two latest works – a significant coup for GameCity – and chatting with Goldeneye co-creator Martin Hollis. There will also be a range of new indie games to check out, plus Nintendo 3DS demo units to try, and the brilliant videogame-inspired graphic designerCory Schmitzwill be giving a live video interview. The event takes place at the Antenna club in Nottingham and tickets are £6 on the door.Akira versus Red Dead RedemptionEarlier this month, mixtape specialist Akira The Don released his25th compilationof mixes and mash-ups, but the line-up included a track of special interest to us. Red Dead Redemption is essentially a forlorn ode to Rockstar's western adventure, written after he'd finished the game. "I found myself singing 'lord I miss red dead redemption' to myself over and over in the shower, which is how a lot of my songs start. So I got out, sat down at my desk, and went to the Red Dead Redemption website, where the first thing I saw was their music video for Jose Gonzales' Far Away, which was used to such emotive effect in the game. I press play, and within four bars I found that the "lord I miss red dead redemption" refrain I'd been singing to myself fit over it perfectly, so I sampled it, looped it, played some drums over it, took a load of music from the game itself, changed the pitch of that so it fit with the song, and put the whole thing on loop for half an hour, at the end of which I had written completed song."Rockstar later discovered and cosigned the track. "Hopefully they keep me in mind when choosing music for GTA5!"Black Helix and the future of ARGsThe Design Zoo, a creative digital agency based in Northern Ireland, is currently running an Alternate Reality Game, entitledBlack Helix. The action revolves around the mysterious kidnap of a 27-year-old PHD science student who is snatched from her apartment after conducting her latest research video log. Players must use social networks and websites to work out where she is and what's happened. Participants have even been able to interrogate characters from the game via a live video feed. The fascinating project is ending tomorrow, but not without leaving a legacy. The creators are crowd-sourcing all the player-created narratives and turning them into an ebook, which will be published in the summer.The creators hope to attract more casual gamers to the ARG scene and reckon the genre has plenty of untapped potential. "Over the last few years, ARGs have been mainly focused on launching new films/TV productions and have usually been as an addition to a large digital marketing spend," says technical director, Adrian Campbell. "The recent Dark Knight and Flynn Lives ARGs got great press coverage and engagement by players. But ARG's also have great potential in the area of serious games, the idea that gaming can bring change and tackle important subject matter such as energy crisis, social change etc. This has seen a recent rise in popularity, with awareness of ARG's increasing rapidly due to advocates such as Jane McGonigal,her recent TED talkon serious games attracting a lot of attention."Black Helix is designed to be playable from any point in its lifespan so it's not too late to get online and check it out.Hide&amp;Seek vs George OsborneEarlier this year, the experimental game development studioHide&amp;Seekreleased a brilliant app namedThe Board Game Remix Kitwhich provided users with a selection of compelling and clever new games based around Monopoly, Scrabble, Cluedo and Trivial Pursuit. The team jokingly mentioned a number of game titles they'd like to have included in the batch of 25 possibilities and one of their undeveloped projects was entitled, Being George Osborne. An owner of the Remix Kit liked the idea so much, he invented the game. All you need is a Monopoly board and thenew rule set. The aim of the revised version of the property trading game is to evict all the benefit-claiming tennants from your area while filling the Government account with cash. There's definitely a Facebook Game in this idea, too. OsborneVille, anyone?
Apple chief Steve Jobs made a point of knocking rivals' "copycat" tablet computers at the iPad 2 launch earlier this month. Samsung, RIM and Motorola "aren't even catching up with the first iPad", he said.Apple didn't need to launch a second-generation iPad. The original commands around 80% of the US tablet market. It is less than a year out of the box.But when Jobs can improve on one of Apple's products, you can rest assured that he will. Thinner, lighter and faster than its predecessor, the iPad 2 has a smaller footprint than the original – plus two cameras and extra software such as GarageBand.At 241mm tall, 186mm wide and 8.6mm thick, Apple's iPad 2 is the sleekest tablet computer on the market. Its minimalist outer shell is complemented by a new "smart cover" that removes all the smears that come with thumbing and prodding the screen.Unlike its older brother, the iPad 2 has rounded edges, meaning it can be held more comfortably for longer. And at 100g lighter, it is noticeably more comfortable to hold than its predecessor, which could become uncomfortable if held in the same position for more than 10 minutes.The greatest departure from the original iPad is its speed. Apple claims that loading apps, playing games and browsing the internet are up to up to twice as fast as on the original. Certainly, internet browsing is the most striking difference. Fixtures on the average internet page tend to load all at once – Flash excepted, of course – and sometimes five or six seconds ahead of the original iPad.As an owner of the original iPad, I've never felt that performance was lagging (then again, I also own a 20-month-old iPhone 3G), but the iPad 2's A5 dual core processor makes it much more responsive to touch. The graphics upgrade is really only noticeable when playing £5.99 shoot-em-up games or streaming long-form programming such as the iPlayer.For most people, I suspect the greatest immediate draw to the iPad 2 will be the cameras. Apple was slammed when it didn't include them in its first edition and later claimed it to be users' most-wanted function. Sadly, the cameras on this device are left wanting. Leaving aside the question of whether people really want to wave a 10inch x 7inch computer around in public, the VGA-quality front and rear-facing cameras – for video and stills – are pixel-poor and not flattered by the iPad's high-quality screen. The rear-facing camera is put to best use with FaceTime, Apple's video-calling function.Which leads us to software. The iPad 2 includes a string of media apps which first-generation owners won't ever get a look at. Apple's popular music-making software GarageBand (which iPad 1 users can get if they upgrade to iOS 4.3)  is great fun and a boon for those with rambunctious young kids knocking about the house. Warning: it doesn't come with headphones so don't turn the volume up too loud.Apple's movie-making app, iMovie, also finds a new home on the iPad 2. Precision editing was never one of the iPad's strong points – writers bemoan spending hours hovering over misspelt words before the cursor would respond to the change – so the iPad seems an unnatural home for iMovie. Frankly, uploading to the web or to a synced Mac is so painless that iMovie could happily gather dust for most users. (A new hall-of-mirrors-style app called Photo Booth is so pointless it wastes good real estate – it can't be deleted.)Despite the faster processor and enhanced graphics, the iPad 2's battery life is on a par with the original; long-life performance is one of the device's strongest selling points. My one qualm has to be the amount of time it takes for the iPad to charge – inordinately long compared with drain time.Apple's attention to detail shines through with the new "Smart Cover". At the iPad 2 launch, Jobs spent so much time demonstrating this magically magnetic clip-on sheath that I thought it would inevitably be a flop. In fact, the Smart Cover promises to shut out all the third-party manufacturers that churned out dog-eared cases for the iPad 1.Overall, the iPad 2 offers a string of incremental but important improvements on its predecessor. It remains a stretch ahead of the pack – though not quite "lapping the competition", as Apple would like to make out – and it is hard to find any serious shortcomings with the second-generation tablet. However owners of the original iPad should not feel too sore about the upgrade: you don't need to buy a new tablet. Those waiting to buy their first tablet could do much worse than the iPad 2.
Over a thousand shops around the country opened last night for the launch of the Nintendo 3DS. Gamers were queuing for over day at the HMV store on Oxford Street where Capcom producer Yoshinori Ono was on hand to sign copies of Street Fighter IV 3D.But have YOU bought one? What do you think? What games have you tried? Have you taken any rude pictures? We want to know everything. Except for the rude pictures part.You can catch our video reviewhereand our essential guide to the consolehere.
The Apache Hadoopopen source software project won the top prize at Thursday night's 2011MediaGuardian Innovation Awards, the Megas.Described by the judging panel as a "Swiss army knife of the 21st century", Apache Hadoop picked up the innovator of the year award for having the potential to change the face of media innovations.The judges felt the project had the potential as a greater catalyst for innovation than other nominees including WikiLeaks and the iPad.The Apache Hadoop project develops open-source software to allow companies such as Facebook and Twitter to easily process huge amounts of data.Doug Cutting, a founder of Apache Hadoop and chief architect at Cloudera – the leading provider of Apache Hadoop-based software and services – said: "Apache Hadoop pushes data management forward by empowering enterprises to make sense of their increasingly large and diverse collections of data."The 2011 awards were hosted by comedian and presenter Iain Lee at the Science Museum in London.&nbsp;"This year's entries reflected the way that new technology is feeding creative content and vice versa" said Aleks Krotoski, TV presenter and the Guardian's Tech Weekly podcast host. "They all shared a common sense that only through innovation can we make a digital future attractive to the public."• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
DIGITAL COMMUNICATION CATEGORIESThese six categories rewarded innovative digital communication across different industry sectors.Culture and the artsTate TrumpsAgency: Hide&amp;SeekClient: Tate MediaTate Trumps encourages visitors to experience the gallery in a different way. Visitors use the iPhone game to choose artwork and can then play a game of top trumps with others.LifestyleNike Grid: Claim Your StreetsAgency: AKQA, Wieden + Kennedy, MindshareClient: NikeThis campaign engaged young people in Nike Running by creating a running contest across London. Participants checked in on Facebook at rebranded London phone boxes to update their progress.Media &amp; TechnologyNokia Push N900Agency: HyperClient: NokiaThe PUSH campaign encouraged hackers to create inventions from Nokia devices. These ideas were used to generate marketing, devised and led by Nokia's consumer community.Public SectoriHoboAgency: Publicis LondonClient: Depaul UKiHobo is the world's first homeless tamagotchi. The app puts a homeless person on your phone for you to care for, prompting donations to a homelessness charity.Campaigning – Charities and Social EnterprisesFairshare MusicAgency: Traffic DigitalClient: Fairshare MusicFairshare music is an innovative digital platform for fundraising. It is a music download site that donates 50% of its profits to charity.On a BudgetiHoboAgency: Publicis LondonClient: Depaul UKiHobo is the world's first homeless tamagotchi. The app puts a homeless person on your phone for you to care for, prompting donations to a homelessness charity.TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION CATEGORIESAcross these categories we rewarded innovative uses of technology. Along with large companies which are funding and driving innovation in this area, we encouraged entries from independent developers. It was the innovative concept that was judged rather than the big budget behind it.Disruptive TechnologyE InkE Ink is an electronic paper display (EPD) that reads like printed paper, with content that is changeable wirelessly. Electronic readers such as the Kindle rely on this technology.DataData tapAgency: Arcus GlobalClient: Royal Borough of Windsor and MaidenheadA simple, cloud-based, integrated solution for the extraction and sharing of data for local authorities and public sector organisations in the UK that could provide the public with the insight they want into their public services.Technology Breakthrough BusinessShutlThis service allows online retail customers to choose specific delivery windows for goods they are ordering, to within a one-hour period, by using a network of local couriers.Mobile ApplicationmyFryiPhone and iPad applicationAgency: DareClient: Penguin BooksStephen Fry's enthusiasm for technology is famous and well-documented, and this application allowed his fans to enjoy his work in app-friendly bite-sized chunks.Technology for Social ChangeSuperMeAgency: Somethin' Else/PreloadedClient: Channel 4This project tackled a difficult subject, teen mental health, and aimed to provide support and advice in a way which would be engaging to its target audience.FREE TO ENTER CATEGORIESThe final two categories rewarded those entrepreneurs and innovators who represent the spirit of the Megas. These categories are free to enter.Digital EntrepreneurWonga.comWonga allows borrowers to access funds for a short period at predetermined rates of interest.MediaGuardian Innovator of the YearApache HadoopThe Apache Hadoop project develops open-source software to allow companies to easily process huge amounts of data.
Research In Motion has moved to bolster the catalogue of apps for its soon-to-launch BlackBerry PlayBook tablet, announcing a pair of 'app players' for the device that willenable it to run Android and BlackBerry Java applications.The players won't be available until the summer, a few months after the PlayBook goes on sale in the US and Canada on 19 April. The Android angle does not mean PlayBook owners will be able to buy and download apps from Google's Android Market store, though. The onus is on developers to submit their apps for inclusion in RIM's BlackBerry App World store.President and co-chief executive Mike Lazaridis claimed in a statement that the new players will "provide our users with an even greater choice of apps and will also showcase the versatility of the platform". Up to a point, that's true. More than 200,000 Android apps are already available, as well as more than 25,000 Java apps for BlackBerry smartphones.However, it's notable that the PlayBook will only be able to run apps developed for the Android 2.3 OS – software that is overwhelmingly used for smartphones rather than tablets. RIM's announcement makes no mention of apps created for the Android 3.0 Honeycomb software, althoughGoogle is currently in the news for its unwillingness to open-source Honeycombin the same way it has previous versions of the Android OS, which is a likely reason for RIM's omission.An influx of Android apps made for phones is thus unlikely to be a killer selling point for the PlayBook, which is why RIM is also continuing its efforts to persuade developers to make native apps for its tablet too.Alongside the Android announcement, the company said that its BlackBerry Tablet OS Native Development Kit (NDK) will be released as an open beta this summer, while it has also signed deals with gaming engine firms Unity Technologies and Ideaworks Labs to support the PlayBook.A beta NDK launching months after the actual device may not seem ideal, but RIM's announcements are the latest sign that when it comes to tablets, attracting a thriving mass of developers is as important as the hardware and software of the device itself.
Rumours of a Resi Evil spin-off having been ciculating the industry for a while, like a particularly virulent strain of the T-virus. But now we would appear to have confirmation. Of sorts. US gaming blogStickskills claimsto have seen the next issue of the Official Xbox Magazine, which features an exclusive preview of Resident Evil: Operation Raccoon City, a team-based shooter set inbetween Resident Evil 2 and 3. The game is apparently being developed bySlant Six, the studio behind the squad shooter series, SOCOM.It seems players take control of an Umbrella Security Services squad sent in to the zombified town to destroy evidence of the ongoing outbreak – and to kill all the survivors. Alternatively you can play as a spec ops squad charged with saving innocent bystanders and stopping the USS. Key characters from the series will crop up along the way, as will recognisable monsters like the tyrants. Players will be able to earn XP to unlock new weapons and abilities.The weird thing is, the reported release date – winter 2011 – seems a bit soon, considering the lack of official comment from Capcom. However, it fits in with the publisher's new habit of giving established Japanese franchises to Western developers – 2009's Bionic Commando reboot was handled by Swedish outfit, GRIN, while the next Devil May Cry is with Cambridge studio, Ninja Theory.Hardcore Resi fans are unlikely to be impressed with the continued shootification of the series, a process that started with Resident Evil 4, a much more action-orientated take on the 'survival horror' theme, than previous titles.For them, however, Capcom has alsoannouncedthat it's bringing downloadable HD versions of Resident Evil 4 and cult favourite Resident Evil: Code Veronica X to Xbox 360 and PS3 later this year.
Music app Shazam has always had a simple main selling point: it analyses songs and tells you what they are. This USP is simple and appealing enough to have generated more than 100m downloads in its history.As a company, Shazam has had some success adding features on top of that, notably by providing links to buy songs "tagged" by its users. Of the 3m songs tagged a day, on average about 300,000 will lead to purchases.This week,Shazam launched an updateto its iPhone app, adding a social feature called Shazam Friends. Users can now link their Shazam profile to their Facebook account, and browse a real-time feed of the songs their friends tag within the app. It builds on the existing ability to post tags on Facebook and Twitter, so looks like a sensible if iterative upgrade.It might be more important than that. Making Shazam more social has the potential to turn it from being an app that people fire up specifically when they want to identify a song, to one that gets used more often."We do think it will change how people think of Shazam," says Alex Musil, executive vice-president of product marketing. "They won't just tag songs because they don't know them. Tagging becomes a social activity."By which he means Shazam users may start tagging songs because they want friends to see them, even if they already know what's playing. Musil also says this is just the start of social features for Shazam."Once we're live with this, we want to go beyond what we have in the first version. We have a massive list of new things to build on top of version one, but we'll see how our users receive it."Not just music identification, but a social music community through which people keep friends posted on the songs that they're loving. Sound familiar? Apple is onto a similar thing with its Ping social network, although it has received distinctly mixed reviews since its debut last year – not least because it does not integrate with Facebook at all.Shazam has other fish to fry as it evolves as a service: for example its work in the US with TV broadcasters and advertisers to let users tag other kinds of content beyond music.The question is whether Shazam Friends will succeed in getting people to spend more time within the app itself, rather than just calling on it when they want to tag a song.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRIM Expands Application Ecosystem for BlackBerry PlayBook to include Android &gt;&gt; RIM"Developers currently building for the BlackBerry or Android platforms will be able to quickly and easily port their apps to run on the BlackBerry Tablet OS thanks to a high degree of API compatibility. Â The new optional app players will be available for download from BlackBerry App World and will be placed in a secure 'sandbox' on the BlackBerry PlayBook where the BlackBerry Java or Android apps can be run." A smart move. BlackBerry developers can still know that enterprises will want their apps, while ordinary buyers can feel happy about running Android apps.ÂTSO OpenUP Competition Winner: Opening Up UCAS Data &gt;&gt; OUseful.Info, the blogâ€¦Tony Hirst's presentation and notes for the winning idea from the OpenUp competition run by TSO. It's huge and ambitious and it's now got Â£50,000 of funding behind it, and Hirst has Â£1,000. Who says there's no money in free data?Touring The The Amazon Appstore &gt;&gt; carpeaqua"Overall the Amazon Appstore isn't a terrible experience, especially compared to Android's default Marketplace. I just don't believe it has a place in the market unless Amazon cuts deals with carriers or phone manufacturers to bundle the store on devices from the factory. Alternatively, perhaps this is the start of Amazon's master plan to build its own Android powered tablet for distributing Kindle books and, now it seems, mobile apps."Microsoft files against Barnes and Noble: The hidden cost of Android | TG Daily"The problem with Android appears to be that it is on starvation funding from Mountain View. This was to allow Google's executive team to claim it was cash positive even though it generates little direct revenue and largely lives off of a slim advertising revenue stream. Â  "This decoupling of revenue from the product has led to a number of problems, not the least of which is a rather impressive amount of charges of infringement from companies and the open source community. Â Microsoft bears the not inconsiderable costs of their platforms; Google appears to pass those costs on."Parking in Southampton &gt;&gt; dor.ky"A proof-of-concept system for interaction with parking data aimed at end-users in Southampton, UK to be accessed via telephone, SMS or the web. "The local council in Southampton provides electronic data for the public to use and see, for selected car parks throughout the city. This data contains information about the capacity, space usage and predicted space usage over the course of the day for each parking venue. By collecting this data two services can be created." Try it yourself - there's a phone number and everything.Samsung Galaxy Tab cut in price to Â£299 &gt;&gt; ASDA directCut in price from Â£437 according to the Asda site, ie by Â£138. Given that it was sellingcontract-free for Â£600as recently as October, we're guessing Samsung hasn't made a vast profit on it so far.Amazingly, MySpace's Decline Is Accelerating &gt;&gt; Techcrunch"Between January and February 2011, says Comscore, worldwide unique visitors to MySpace declined by a staggering 14.4% from 73m visitors to 63m visitors. It's about half of the audience they had a year ago. "Everyone knows MySpace traffic is going the wrong way, but the accelerating decline (and big financial losses) is a serious problem. Parent company News Corp. is in the middle of a sale process, and everyone from venture firms to private equity firms to operating companies are taking a look. 'It's like slowing down at the scene of an accident,' says one person with knowledge of the discussions, 'everyone wants to take a look at how bad things have become." They've become bad. And getting worse.Where's my phone update? &gt;&gt; Windows Phone 7The only disappointment is that they didn't prefix it with "Dude".'Copy and paste' update status &gt;&gt; Windows Phone team blog"This week we're sending out the new update only to 'open market' Windows Phones around the world. If you own one of these phones, you probably already know it: these are unbranded devices that aren't customized for a specific mobile operator. "In next phase of the rollout process, we'll start making the update available to a broader range of customers. When the update is available for your phone, you'll get a message on the device letting you know. All the instructions you need to install an update are here on the Windows Phone website. (Some new phones come with the update already installed.)"You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Yes, it's Friday! They won't expect you to do any proper work today, so just hang out on here for the next nine hours.
While you were sleeping, the iPad 2 went on sale in Australia, and it seems to have drawn a lot of attention.This was the queue at 0704am this morning in Sydney...Photo byBeauGileson Flickr.Some rights reserved...and this was the queue by sale time at 5pm:Photo byBeauGileson Flickr.Some rights reserved(Thanks toBeau Gilesin Sydney who took awhole set of picturesthrough the night.People had been queueing outside the Sydney Apple store for almost two days: some told World News Australia that it's all about meeting people:Canadian backpacker Alex Lee arrived in Sydney on Wednesday to be first in line to buy Apple's iPad 2 and has theorised on the phenomenon."I call it the 90/10 rule for Apple - 90 per cent is about the people, the experience and just the whole feeling and 10 per cent is about the product itself," the IT consultant said.CNet Australiasays there were around 300 people queueingat the Brisbane story in Chermside and that they had started at around 5.30am that morning. Large queues werealso seen in Hobart.And lest you think it's only a game for the whippersnappers, theAustralian newspapers found Sally Johnson, aged 73, who "may be hot and tired, but that hasn't deterred her from queueing..." (It's not the heat of summer in Sydney - it's just turning to autumn. Which is still hot compared to the UK, of course.)Johnson has recently emigrated from Nottingham. She was roughly 250th in line. And why was she there? "Queuing for her son Mark, who was at work."
Until now, those who wanted to watch 3D pictures required a cheap set of plastic glasses and an expensive cinema ticket or Sky subscription. But Nintendo's new games console – the handheld 3DS - is the first mainstream device to boast "glasses-free" stereoscopic effects.Launched throughout Europe at midnight on Thursday, the 3DS allows players to perceive the extra dimensionin a similar way to movies such as Toy Story 3 and Avatar.The console's screen uses technology known as a parallax barrier, which overlays an LCD display with a series of precise slits providing a slightly different version of the image to each eye. While the Japanese electronics manufacturer Sharp has already used these displays in laptops, this is the first time the technology has been made available to a global audience.But the invention has not been without controversy. Since the console was announced last summer, there have been concerns about the effects of the 3D visuals on users' eyes, and Nintendo has advised that children under six do not play games with the 3D functionality switched on (a slider control on the side of the screen allows gamers to choose the intensity of the 3D effect, or turn it off altogether).The British Association of Optometrists has suggested that the proximity of the device to the face could cause eye stress in young children, as their vision is still developing.Such concerns, however, have not dampened enthusiasm. At last month's Japanese launch, the device was a sell-out, with 400,000 units shifting in the first 24 hours. Nintendo says it expects to sell 4m consoles worldwide before the end of March. British retailers are already offering discounts from the RRP of £229, with Tesco selling units at £175.The 3DS represents the latest move for a company that had been written off as a force in games hardware until the unexpected success of the motion-sensing Wii games console. "Nintendo 3DS … continues the tradition Nintendo has for changing the technology landscape," said Laurent Fischer, Nintendo of Europe's Managing Director of Marketing.This is not Nintendo's first foray into 3D gaming. In 1995, the company launched the Virtual Boy, a bizarre "virtual reality" device resembling an old Viewmaster toy, which featured basic monochromatic visuals created via red LED pixels. The device was withdrawn a year later.This time, judging by the excitement of gamers gathering outside HMV's Oxford Street branch, some of whom had been there for over 24 hours, it is unlikely that the 3DS will suffer such an ignoble fate.A new "StreetPass" mode allows the console to detect when other 3DS owners are nearby, prompting the two devices to automatically swap game items, characters and scores as they pass.Nintendo has also announced partnerships with Eurosport and Sky to bring 3D video clips to the 3DS, though pricing details have not yet been revealed. Movie studios such as DreamWorks, Disney and Warner are also set to release their latest 3D titles on the platform.
The queues for the iPad 2 have begun, with the first arrival settling down outside Apple's flagship Regent Street store in London 33 hours ahead of its 5pm launch on Friday.The first person in the line, Jules Lewis from London, was also in the queue for the launch of the original iPad last May. But he insisted that he is not buying it in order to sell it on eBay but will "keep it in the family".By lunchtime the queue was already seven strong, and the queue was growing too at Apple's store in Covent Garden.Demand for the iPad 2 is expected to outstrip supply substantially. Consumerintelligence.com surveyed 438 iPad owners earlier this week and found that one in four plans to buy an iPad 2 - which will give extra uplift to the tablet's sales. Apple announced earlier this week that it has cut the price from the original £429 to £399. The new device features a faster processor and cameras on the front and back.Industry sources suggest that there will be constrained numbers of the devices in the first week or so. Besides Apple's stores and online ordering, it will also be sold from Argos and by a number of mobile networks including T-Mobile and Vodafone. But The Guardian understands that despite requesting large numbers, the number allocated to non-Apple outlets is less than 20,000. The company is launching the iPad 2 in 24 other countries on the same day, which has put strong pressure on supply: in the US between 500,000 and 1m iPad 2s were sold in the first weekend when it went on sale a fortnight ago.T-Mobile  and Orangewill be selling the 16GB Wi-Fi and 3G modelfor £199 with a 24-month contract for existing customers, or £229 and 24-month contract to new customers.Vodafone will havesimilar pricing plans, though it is offering all of the storage sizes - 16GB, 32GB and 64GB - in the 3G range, for prices varying from £199 to £349 for existing customers, and £24.50 per month. New customers will have to pay slightly more.Rival tablets that would have equivalent features and processing power to the iPad have been announced by a number of competitors, including Motorola, BlackBerry maker RIM, and Samsung, but so far none has given a firm date and price for a UK launch.
Smartphones and iPads should be allowed into the chamber of the House of Commons, a committee report proposing to overthrow the ban on Twitter in parliament has said.The procedures committee has ruled that MPs should be allowed to use such electronic devices during parliamentary debates provided they are on silent and "used in a way that does not impair decorum"The new rules would also allow them to refer to electronic devices rather than paper notes when making speeches.The committee recommended keeping a ban on laptop computers or devices larger than A4 paper because of a lack of space in the crowded chamber.The committee chair Greg Knight, the MP for East Yorkshire, said the group had taken a "common sense approach" to modern technology that would stop MPs feeling obliged to miss chamber debates in order to catch up with vital emails."In the modern age, it's easy for your inbox to fill up but ... [this measure] allows MPs to attend a debate and still keep an eye on their inbox as long as it doesn't impair decorum."At the moment, we have the odd situation where we can have a wad of notes an inch thick but, if you have your notes on an iPad, you can't refer to them. We have to acknowledge the need for change."But the debate has split MPs, with some warning that the changes could undermine the principle of parliamentary debate.The Conservative MP for North Wiltshire, James Gray, voted against the report, saying the changes could lead to a "worrying change in the atmosphere" in parliament."The excessive use of any [electronic] device ... could become an epidemic which would both be very unattractive to those observing our proceedings and also diminish the power of our debates," he said."MPs should be in the chamber of the House of Commons and in committee to listen carefully to arguments advanced by colleagues and be ready to intervene or reply in their own speeches."Rules governing Commons microblogging have been confused since the deputy Speaker, Lindsay Hoyle, told MPs in January not to use Twitter to update their followers from the house.In its final report, the committee acknowledged that there were potential disadvantages to the changes if they were used inappropriately by lobbyists to influence members in the chamber.Knight also said there was a risk of embarrassment if MPs failed to act with discretion, adding: "Rightly, there would be an outcry if, whilst a minister was announcing deaths in Afghanistan, someone was tweeting about their holidays ... but we are relying on the good sense of members. To pretend this [technology] doesn't exist would just be backwards."The report said 225 MPs now tweet, and the committee had received a large volume of correspondence during its consultation.The Commons will have to decide whether to accept the recommendations in a vote, which is expected to take place in the next eight weeks. If accepted, the changes proposed by the committee will be given a one-year trial.
Tony Hirst, an Open University lecturer in computer science, has won a £1,000 prize and access to a £50,000 development fund from The Stationery Office for his proposal to create an open data project using the UCAS Course Search data to help would-be students compare and contrast universities, courses and results more easily.Hirstwas awarded on Wednesday night, in the TSO's first OpenUp competition. The number of people who could benefit from the idea – which would mash up all sorts of data from universities, such as courses, fees, subsequent employment data, and so on – is presently 600,000, who apply for university courses each year; 500,000 places are awarded.And the reason nobody has done this before – despite the existence of sites such ashotcourses– is thatUCASkeeps its data rather close to its chest. And that got the judges interested in wresting that data away: after all, universities are public bodies, at least partly publicly funded, and so this is data the public should have free access to. And the universities would benefit too from an open market of information about their achievements.Hirst proposes creating a "scaffold" of data, using each course code as a unique identifier. Course codes do work in that way – but there's no rhyme or reason to how they're allocated. There's also a "secret sauce" of search terms that each course is linked to when you use the UCAS site. The trouble for anyone wanting to generate a UCAS-like site is that the universities don't give the data out. And as for scraping – if it could be scraped, Hirst would already have done it, as he's an expert in data mashing (you'll find many of his examples onhis OUseful blog).Hirst has already blogged about his win (you can see the trophy) and we've asked him to blog at greater length here about his idea.The runner-up – chosen after great amounts of debate, because we (the judges, of which I was one) thought its importance was presented in a compelling way - was the Great British Public Toilet Map byGail Knight.Sure, some people might snigger (it's a British thing) at the idea that you might want to know where a toilet is. But as Knight pointed out, to elderly people or people with irritable bowel syndrome or other afflictions, knowing you'll be able to find a toilet isn't just about discomfort; and not knowing can mean they circumscribe their lives.Yet public toilets' locations is data that is held by local councils (parishes, city councils, district councils), they're obliged to provide them, they're paid for with taxpayers' money, and there would be a huge public benefit in opening them up. The trouble is that hardly any councils publish that data. We will feature a blogpost from Knight here soon.So we hope now that both projects will go ahead. Yes, there are public toilet apps, but they don't use the council data, because that doesn't always exist. And there are sites which offer data about courses, but they're incomplete. Generating public benefit from open data is the target: and these projects, we hope, will be the arrows that hit it.I was one of the judges (because it's about open data, and I'm co-founder along with Michael Cross of the Free Our Data campaign); the other (more exalted) judges wereProfessor Nigel Shadboltof the University of Southampton, most frequently seen at the side of Sir Tim Berners-Lee as they try to get central and local government to open up data;Emma Mulqueeny, founder of Rewired State (and now a Guardian developer);Lucian Hudson, who was the UK government's first director of e-communications;Ashley Friedlein, chief executive and founder of Econsultancy.com; and helping it alongRobin Brattelof TSO.
It would have been surprising if there hadn't been a Nintendogs game ready for the 3DS's launch, since the man behind Nintendo's new handheld, Hideki Konno,  is also the producer of the unfeasibly cute puppy sim. And sure enough, we have Nintendogs + Cats, with kittens added as a sop to the feline-friendly percentage of the population. Having interviewed Konno and acquired his Mii via Street Pass, I know that he is a dog-lover, though, and that shows in Nintendogs + Cats, since if you acquire a kitten from the kennels, there isn't much you can do with it beyond wait for it to return from an adventure in the garden bearing a present for you.Which, at least, is authentic in behavioural terms, and that is one area in which Nintendogs + Cats impresses in comparison with the original Nintendogs. I own a real-life French bulldog, so was naturally excited to get the French bulldog version of Nintendogs + Cats (golden retriever and toy poodle versions are also available, although each lets you pick from nine breeds), especially when it became obvious how uncannily the virtual puppies are endowed with the distinctive mannerisms of their real-life counterparts. They also look amazingly realistic (again much more so than in the DS original), with meticulously modelled fur and facial expressions designed to melt the hardest of hearts.Nintendogs + Cats' core gameplay is more or less identical to that of the original game, though – thus you must feed, walk, groom and play with your puppy, furnish your house and clean the sidewalk up behind it. There is a massive list of tricks you can train it, and three competitions you can enter – frisbee catching, obstacle-course racing and obedience. Gameplay isn't exactly as before, though, since Nintendogs + Cats makes use of the 3DS's unique abilities. Especially the Augmented Reality cards. These are central to the obedience mini-game, and you can also use them to insert your virtual puppy into real-world tableaux. Simply select the AR card option from the store, and you can photograph your surroundings with your puppy apparently frolicking atop the AR card.Konno admits the 3DS's Street Pass evolved from the original Nintendogs' Bark Mode, and it brings plenty to Nintendogs + Cats. It lets you swap presents, photos or even virtual puppies with fellow owners, and you can meet up in a virtual park with your puppy to play with the Miis and puppies of other owners – a process that opens up new breeds to your kennel.Nintendogs + Cats isn't massively different from its predecessor, but its subtle enhancements mean it will prove even more irresistible to dog and now cat lovers, and that it towers in an even more colossal manner over other pet sims, no matter what their platform. If you yearn for a dog or cat, but can't have one for whatever reason, it will make you very happy indeed.• Game reviewed on a Nintendo 3DS
I confess, as a diehard PC fan, I had my doubts about Crysis 2 – particularly in the compromises (both technical and gameplay) required to drag this intelligent, open-plan game to other formats. However, although some ambitions have been tempered, this is still a hugely daring and different FPS, whichever platform you play it on.Let's start with the graphics, because some forums have been noting the PS3 version lags behind the 360 (and naturally the PC) version in both screen resolution and frame rate. Having only had a brief time with the 360 version, I can say that whatever difference there was, it was not easy to spot and the proprietary CryEngine 3 can comfortably hold its own with any FPS around. Compared to the photo-realistic textures of Killzone 3, it does occasionally look a little washed out, and the brightness settings may need some adjusting on your TV. However, the water and lighting effects are stunning and, combined with the destructible scenery, ensures that almost every vista; from ravaged bullet-ridden streets to panoramic horizons, are dripping with natural light and shade.In terms of gameplay, as with the original, the generous single player campaign can be approached in three different ways. If you want to sneak around, you switch your nano suit to Stealth mode, whilst Armour mode allows you to charge in all guns blazing and Strength powers up your speed and jumps. All three use energy, which is the only real restriction on how you approach your task of liberating New York from alien invasion, but the ability to instantly swap between modes takes Crysis 2 to a level of tactical flexibility that most FPSs can only dream about.EA took serious flack over the recent PS3 multiplayer demo, particularly with connection and frame rate problems. PS3 servers were still intermittent at the time of writing, but what I can attest to are 12 richly detailed maps and six online modes, unlocked as you gain experience and including the usual Deathmatch and capture the flag variants. In play, Crysis 2 multiplayer harks back to the twitch-reactions of Quake Arena rather than Call of Duty's more methodical squad-based approach. The key difference is the nano suit, combined with a huge supply of upgrades that allow you to unlock new weapon or suit abilities as you level up.  Balancing so many different abilities may yet take some work by the developers, but even now the shock induced by one rival power-jumping into your midst while two more blink out of sight in mid strafe is quite unlike anything else around.So far, so good. But Crysis 2 on this platform has a few niggles that collectively make a difference to the final score. For a start, neither of the two controller layouts felt particularly comfortable – particularly mapping Fire to the L/R1 buttons rather than the more comfortable/conventional L/R2. Also, compared to the open-plan nature of the original, Crysis 2 is decidedly more linear. It may focus attention on the action, but it's a pity the total freedom of Far Cry, compromised for the original Crysis, continues to be constrained here. There are technical glitches too; some (such as occasionally dodgy enemy AI) that can be patched, others (this was the first game to crash my PS3 repeatedly) that add to the suspicion that Crytek is still far from mastering Sony's hardware. Crysis 2 is an impressive beast – but maybe you need to see it on a PC to appreciate just how impressive.• Game reviewed on a PS3
If Nintendo's range of ever-dependable gaming franchises were a band, Pilotwings would be the lanky, slightly introverted bass player: dependable, earnest, but not the one the girls rush for at the end of a gig. The series has been around since the days of the Super Nintendo Entertainment System, offering a collection of increasingly tricky flying missions using light aircraft, rocket packs and hang gliders.Pilotwings Resort sticks to the recipe like a fly to a jet plane's windscreen. You start on novice stage learning the basics of your environment (effectively, the skies above a quaint little holiday island) and your various craft. Then you work through bronze, silver, gold and platinum cups, each offering a selection of challenges. Sometimes you're flying your plane through a series of rings, shooting at targets; or you might be swooping gracefully over the town on your hang-glider, tasked with taking a glorious photo of a historic lighthouse. The control experience is different for each craft – the jetpack is all about careful bursts of speed and constant downward glances at the land below, while on the glider you must look out for thermal air currents to provide you with extra height.The new analogue thumbpad works really nicely here, giving you intricate and comfortable control through some tricky aerial courses. It turns out, however, that the 3D visuals are less useful. The wider-scale depth effect is lovely, with island features passing convincingly in the far distance as you soar through the blue skies. In the free-flight mode there's simple pleasure to be had in zooming around getting a real impression of space and height (you can also pop balloons and soar through info rings to unlock new craft and 'dioramas'). But when it comes to navigating through hoops suspended in the air, or working out how to land on small pads, you never quite get the intricate depth information you need, perhaps because the small screen fails to immerse you fully in the environment.It's a diverting little game though, with a grading system on each mission that encourages you to come back and improve your scores. The visual style is pleasantly warm and bright, with lovely lens-flare effects from the sun – it all wistfully recalls the simple but expressive polygonal graphics of Pilot Wings 64. Fans of the series will also recognise the musical themes, which have been given a sort of lightly jazzy muzak reinterpretation here, so it sounds like you're flying through a shopping centre or being kept on hold by your bank. But more fun, of course.There was certainly room here to provide more in terms of options and activities. Alongside Nintendogs, this is a key launch title, so some sort of Street Pass implementation would have been welcome. But for gamers wanting a nicely sedate, yet increasingly fiddly and demanding challenge, Pilotwings Resort delivers in the same way as that introverted bass player – with modest, affable confidence. Only this time, he is not accompanied by a sexy Italian plumber to please the groupies, and he can't quite fill the spotlight alone.
On the next-gen consoles Pro Evolution Soccer has recently lost ground in its perennial battle with the much-improved FIFA, but PES 2011 for the 3DS gives the impression that the less demanding process of developing for a handheld offered Konami some welcome respite. Not that PES 2011 3D resembles a handheld game – its 3D pops beautifully and, in the buildup to a match, the players even resemble their real-life counterparts. Incredibly, that continues onto the pitch: the game defaults to a close-in down-the-pitch view reminiscent, ironically, of FIFA's Be A Pro mode. It's more dynamic than Be A Pro, swinging round responsively when you lose the ball but, unfortunately it takes an awful lot of getting used to (if, indeed, you manage to do so at all) because it's such a tight view that your nearest player to the ball is too often out of shot. That's a shame, because it looks magnificent.Once you switch to the more conventional Wide view, PES 2011 3D continues to impress. You still get an appreciable 3D effect, which makes it marginally easier to judge cross-field distances, and the analogue circle pad lets you access the full silkiness of PES's famed control system. The 3DS's four buttons, used for passing, are closer together than is ideal, but that will only worry those with the fattest fingers, and the control system can be customised extensively (deranged masochists can even opt for the +-pad rather than the circle-pad). Dribbling and passing lose nothing in terms of precision compared with the next-gen console versions.Understandably, PES 2011 3D's general scope is much smaller than that of the full console versions: you can play a full Champions League campaign, or plunge into a Master League campaign, which involves a Europe-wide roster of clubs, and lets you play the transfer market. Only clubs involved in the Champions League are fully licensed, but you can still pick any other Premier League team as long as you can put up with a made-up club name and players who have become the victims of slight typos – which is not something that will worry long-term PES enthusiasts.Setting up games against remote human opposition via Wi-Fi is easy enough, and the game will exchange data via Street Pass – games can be played automatically against teams discovered by Street Pass, giving you various benefits with having to do anything taxing.So, in terms of the available game modes, PES 2011 3D does feel like a handheld game – and given that it has to fit on a cartridge, that was always going to be the case. However, its look and feel when you actually play a match is more akin to what you would expect to find on the Xbox 360 or PS3. Which is mightily impressive – the only compromises that PES makes in order to fit onto the 3DS affect the least important aspects of the game. For us, PES 2011 3D is probably the pick of the 3DS launch titles.
Sometimes it seems as though my washing machine is more automated than my computer when it comes to the simple things. I would like my PC to boot up every morning at the time I set, load Firefox with a couple of my favourite websites and load Thunderbird for my email. Then I won't have to spend 20 minutes every morning watching the computer start up, download all its updates, run its checks, start up the applications and so on before I can do anything with it. How can I arrange this simply, please? If possible, I'd rather not write scripts, create macros, or "walk" my computer through the tasks… any more than I want to walk my washing machine through the stages of a cotton wash.Martin LeaSome solutions require little or no work. For example, you could leave your PC running all the time, or you could select Hibernate instead of turning off your computer. When your PC hibernates, it stores everything in a file on your hard drive so it can start up exactly where you left off. Hibernation uses little or no power, so it's cheaper than leaving your PC running all the time.There may also be a setting in your PC's BIOS chip, which you can use to turn it on at a specific time. Access the Setup by following the messages before Windows starts, and look for a setting that says something like "Power ON / RESUME By Alarm".There are lots of different ways to make a program run when you start your PC. Perhaps the simplest is to put a link to the program into the Startup folder, which is accessed via the Start button. Select a program icon on your desktop, hold down the right mouse-button, drag it to Start then go through the program menu to the Startup folder. When you get there, release the mouse-button and select Create Shortcuts Here from the drop-down menu. It takes less than 10 seconds. Seven Forums has atutorialfor Windows 7 users.Another option is to use the Scheduled Tasks utility. To find this, click Start, then All Programs, go to the Accessories folder, open System Tools and then click Scheduled Tasks. The first and possibly the only item in the main display panel (under Name) is Add Scheduled Task. Double click this item to run the Scheduled Task Wizard, which will list all your programs so you can pick the one you want. You have to tell it when you want the task to be performed, so select the penultimate option: "When my computer starts". Of course, people who don't like Wizards can enter tasks manually using the menu options.Microsoft has a support document,How To Schedule Tasks in Windows XP. Windows 7 users should seeSchedule a taskand read the section: "To schedule a task to run automatically when the computer starts". It's pretty much the same.You can take automation much further by using a "macro recorder". The basic idea is to start recording a macro, run the three or four programs you usually use, then stop recording and save the macro. After that you just have to run the macro to perform all the actions again, including mouse movements and clicks. Microsoft used to include an accessory called Macro Recorder with Windows 3.1 in the early 1990s, and Freelabs'Windows Macro Recorderlooks like the same sort of thing.There are, as usual, dozens of alternative ways of automating Windows, with the open source;AutoItbeing one of the more popular. The AlternativeTo website lists;some of the alternatives. Commercial options include;Macro Express,;AutoMateand programs fromAutomation Anywhere Inc.You said you'd rather not do any macro-recording, but it can save a lot of time in the long run, and it costs nothing to try. There's not much more to it than clicking a couple of buttons while you do what you'd have to do anyway.Otherwise, I think you should find out why your PC takes 20 minutes (or whatever) to start up. A Windows XP machine shouldn't take more than two or three minutes to start up from cold, including any checks and downloads, and Windows 7 can start in less than a minute. Have alook at one of my previous answers,;10 steps to speed up a slow Windows PC, and see if you can get it down to a more reasonable number.PCs looked after by not-very-competent IT departments can take 20 minutes to start, if they're all downloading everything from a server at the same time. (This is OK if you're actually getting paid for a free half hour of coffee and chat.) If a home PC takes a long time to start, something is wrong, and it could be malware-related.
Launch titles for new consoles generally possess an air of the over-familiar – the rush to get them ready for the first day in the shops habitually involves using assets from a version made for an older console. But Super Street Fighter IV – the latest iteration of what can plausibly claim to be the best-loved of all beat-em-up franchises – feels commendably fresh on the 3DS. Street Fighter games almost by definition recycle their predecessors, with their cast of familiar characters, and never have any form of plot to worry about. Capcom has therefore been able to concentrate on what the 3DS can bring to the party.And Nintendo's 3D marvel turns out to be very well suited to beat-em-ups. The key reason for that is its graphics chip, immensely more powerful than those of previous Nintendo handhelds, which brings visuals akin to non-portable consoles, rather than forcing developers to make 2D graphics appear three-dimensional. To show off the stereoscopic 3D, Capcom has come up with an over-the-shoulder view which can be toggled on or off, that works beautifully, although arch-traditionalists (who are rife among the ranks of beat-em-up aficionados) may still opt for the original side-on view, which is turned on by default.The touchscreen also plays a part – again, one which might upset the hardcore following, but which will delight those whose fingers aren't stroboscopically rapid. During bouts, the touchscreen is split into four, each denoting a special move, which you can launch with the touch of a thumb, as long as your Super Combo and Revenge gauges are suitably charged (the latter, which lets you launch Ultra Combos, is only filled when you've taken a lot of punishment). They take a while to recharge, and you can select two of your favourite special moves, but hardcore Street Fighter-heads would view them as a travesty. You can turn them off for head-to-head play, or set them to ape the function of the ordinary buttons. And, of course, you can perform special moves in the conventional manner, with various arcane button combinations plus gestural movements of the analogue circle pad, which provides the control system with the silkiness it has previously lacked on Nintendo handhelds.All the familiar Street Fighter characters – 31, to be precise – are present and correct, while the classic Arcade mode is augmented by various ways of playing human opponents: locally, via the Internet or via Download Play, which lets two people take each other on if they only have one copy of the game between them. A bewilderingly customisable Training mode lets you hone your skills, and Challenge mode measures your ability to produce specified combos at will, and includes two mini-games involving punching barrels and a car.Super Street Fighter IV 3D, despite being a beat-em-up, is one of the most grown-up-feeling games we have ever encountered on a handheld console. It is commendably lacking in compromise and makes good use of the 3DS's unique abilities. Even those hardcore fans who worry it has been dumbed down will find out that, in practice, it hasn't. Impressive stuff for a launch title.
Bertrand Serlet is a very smart guy: you don't get to be in charge of one of the development of one of the principal desktop operating systems (and more to the point, you don't survive Steve Jobs's flamethrower management style) without having a brain something like the size of a planet. In fact he's been working with Jobs since 1989, which means he's come through 22 years where he's held his own with him. This may make Serlet the longest-standing co-worker with Jobs.Serlet is in the news because of theannouncement on Wednesday that he is leaving Appleand his role as senior vice president of Mac software engineering; that job will be taken over by Craig Federighi, who demonstrated the next version of Mac OSX (dubbed "Lion") last October. Federighi, like Serlet, is also an ex-NeXT Computer guy; NeXT was the company Jobs set up after leaving Apple in 1985.Over at the WSJ's AllThingsD site, John Paczkowskisays the departure was a planned transition, with Serlet gradually selling off shares and looking towards doing some sort of academic study. But Serlet's fingerprints are all over core elements of Cocoa, the Objective-C programming language used on Mac OSX.So Serlet leaves at a time when the rivalries between Microsoft, Apple and Google are growing ever more intense. He's a computer scientist. He's also, as you may have noticed from his name, French.Which leads us to this example of how there's still some way to go before computersreallyhave everything down pat. The video below shows Serlet poking fun at Vista at Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference in 2006. Pretty standard stuff.But nowgo and watch it on YouTube- and turn on the little option (which doesn't come up in the embed) of "Transcribe audio". This uses Google's whizzy speech-to-text system which works on what people say and gives them as subtitles.However, it's challenged enough when it comes to Steve Jobs: can you guess what it means when it transcribes him saying "But is now called Mr"?Maybe so. But we think you'll find it more difficult to reverse-engineer this part."Two years about doubling the bruce lee, research we've talk a little bit of phone at two fourteen redmond. We're still working on my own home. So we had in the hallways of the conference was the big band of thieves had said 'ride home stalk your foot thick appeals'. Goes on the charge but today it back to you too can seriously."Audience:are.(Which makes them sound like a crew of pirates.)Bertrand Serlet, auto-transcribed by Google: 'two years ago about doubling the bruce lee'?Puzzled? How about "Off those arena says the backbone saving scrambling to understand how to implement that stuff. Now in terms of fuel values they did the two major innovation.  Instead of having is a venue on zip-top arrives."No? You'll have to go and watch. It is the gift that keeps on giving. Serlet is certainly going to be missed - but the Google Transcribe tool probably won't be among those mourning his departure.Click this button on YouTube to turn on on-the-fly audio transcription.Remember, to join in the fun, you'll have to watch the video on YouTube, and choose "Transcribe Audio" in the "CC" button, as above.(Updated: corrected spelling of 'Cocoa'.)
Another day, another innovative smartphone app based around photo-sharing.Coloris the work of a team assembled by Bill Nguyen, the entrepreneur who previously sold streaming music service Lala to Apple.Backed by $41m (£25.3m) ofventure capital, it lets users post photos tagged with a location, browse the latest pics of people around them, and form ad-hoc groups to bundle together shots from a group of friends in the same place.It brings to mind another hotshot photo-sharing app that launched last year:Path. There, the focus was on sharing pictures with just 50 close friends and family members — a deliberately restricted social network. It provoked similar excitement among the big US tech blogs.Here's my question: are these kinds of apps trapped in a Silicon Valley bubble? Not in the financial sense — although that $41m for Color may fuel the debate around that too. More of a cultural bubble, where it may be a little too easy to assume that all your friends and family will be quick to catch on to the same cool new apps as you.Put it another way: if I made a list of my 50 closest friends and family members, none of them are using Path already. They won't know about Color. And judging by my experience trying to tempt them onto Foursquare in recent months, they won't be interested for a long time either.For now, all these apps only let me connect with other mobile industry geeks like myself.That's where the suspicion of a bubble comes in: the assumption that if all your friends and colleagues aren't using these new apps already, they'll want to when you talk about them. Color may have an additional focus on strangers sharing pics, but while that's a perfect storm of virality in Silicon Valley, it's rather more of a lonely cul-de-sac in, say, Bishop's Stortford.The answer may simply be to wire in Facebook, as Path does already, to widen the distribution to ... well, to your real friends. An app like Instagram has its own social network, but I suspect much more social activity around its filtered photos is happening on Facebook and Twitter.Color is an interesting app with lots of money behind it. Investing in features that break it out of that Silicon Valley cultural bubble will be essential if it's to amount to more than a geo-restricted social plaything.
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRIM Bows to Pressure, Yanks BlackBerry DUI Checkpoint App &gt;&gt; PCWorld"RIM is the first of the three smartphone operating system makers to confirm that it's removing applications from their online marts." The wait is on.Think Quarterly: Google Launches Its Own Online Magazine &gt;&gt; NewsGrange"We are not a media company. We are not a media company. We are not a media company."Why Color Matters: Augmented Reality And Nuanced Social Graphs May Finally May Come of Age &gt;&gt; John Battelle's Searchblog"Trust me on this. If Colors fails, it will be due to execution, and someone else will get it right. Because the world wants and needs this, and the time is now. (By the way, I'm not encouraged by the website, which focuses on group sharing and such. I think the service is way bigger than that. But I guess you have to start somewhere...) Oh, and note to Facebook, Twitter, and Foursquare: If you don't get this feature into your service, pronto, you will more likely than not be rueing the day Colors launched."Color Launches Implicit Proximity-Based Social Network for Smartphones &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"Bill Nguyen, the serial entrepreneur who most recently sold Lala to Apple for around $80 million, is today launching Color, a proximity-based social network with no privacy settings."Microsoft readies tool for managing iPads, iPhones and Android devices &gt;&gt; ZDNet"My first thought when I heard that SCCM 2012 will enable management of iPads is that Microsoft may be undercutting its own argument that Windows-based slates and tablets are inherently better because IT managers can't manage iPads as easily and well as they can Windows-based PCs and devices. If Microsoft makes enterprise management of iPads a key selling point, won't the company be removing one of the advantages it claims for Windows slates?"Firefox 4 doubles IE9's 24-hour download tally &gt;&gt; CNET News"Microsoft, not without reason, boasted that IE9 was downloaded 2.35 million times in the first 24 hours after its release last week. And that is indeed a big number, especially for a browser that tech enthusiasts had scoffed at for years. But less than 24 hours after its own launch, Firefox 4 cleared 4.7 million, according to the Mozilla Glow site that logs downloads."The Father of Mac OS X Is Leaving Apple &gt;&gt; Gizmodo"The Father of Mac OS X Is Leaving AppleBertrand Serlet, the guy who led the development of Mac OS X since the beginning, is leaving Apple. He was one of the heavyweights and a legendary figure at the company, even while he wasn't well known by the general public. But why is he leaving?" Gizmodo has some plausible theories.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Windows Phone 7 owners in the UK will have to wait until next week to update their handsets with Microsoft's "NoDo" (no doughnuts) software version which adds cut and paste and other features.UK networks have told the Guardian that they will be rolling out the update to contract customers over the next 10 days, though the precise timing varies between them.The update, which will be available through Microsoft's site and require owners to connect their phone to their computer to carry it out, is the first major upgrade since Windows Phone 7 was released in the UK at the end of October, and is being rolled out through carriers around the world.Some users of SIM-free phones will already have the update notification, UK networks told the Guardian.The delay to the update has partly been caused by the networks' requirement – imposed on all handset manufacturers – to test the update thoroughly to ensure that it will work with their individual systems.Among the features the Windows Phone update will introduce are:• cut and paste functionality;• faster app launching;• improved Marketplace search and stability;• Wi-Fi improvements, including display of the phone's MAC address in Settings, which is sometimes needed to join networks that use MAC address filtering, and removal of limits on Wi-Fi profiles;• improvements when you receive an MMS if you have a PIN-locked SIM;• better Facebook integration;• more stability when switching between still and video on camera settings; and• improvements to Outlook for viewing photo attachments from Gmail, Hotmail or Yahoo mail accounts when using Exchange Server.UK carriers have been testing the update to ensure that it will work with the handsets that they are selling, and are rolling it out cautiously, afteranearlier update rendered some Samsung handsetsinoperable."The updates for the HTC 7 Trophy and LG Optimus 7 [the WP7 devices that Vodafone offers] have been approved by Vodafone and will be distributed in due course – MS have begun to gradually roll out the update, starting small with customers with open market phones this week. Update will be via PC suite," said a Vodafone spokeswoman.A spokesperson for O2 said: "We're working with Microsoft to bring the Windows Phone 7 NoDo update to our HTC HD7 customers as soon as possible. We currently expect it to launch in early April."Everything Everywhere – which combines Orange and T-Mobile – said: "Our current plan is for Microsoft to roll out our approved version next week in line with other operators."The update does not however bring full multitasking support for third-party apps. That will have to wait for a more major update, codenamed "Mango", which is expected about October. Nokia, whichrecentlyannounced a strategic alliance withMicrosoftto put Windows Phone onto its futuresmartphones,will wait for "Mango" – and possiblylater– before releasing any Windows Phone devices.The "NoDo" update had been expected initially to arrive in early February, after a phone using it was usedinSteve Ballmer's keynote at the Consumer ElectronicsShowat the start of January. That date then shifted to 8 March, which passed. The "pre-update" that affected the Samsung phones was intended to make future software updates simpler, but its effect on those phones is understood to have delayed the update for about a fortnight.Every software update to any carrier-sold phone, including the iPhone, is tested by each carrier before it is sent out, and can only be rolled out when all of them agree to its use.The number of different phone models that run an operating system therefore complicates the update process. There are five different Windows Phone 7 handsets available in the UK, and new ones being prepared, each of which has slightly different firmware and so which has to be checked against the software update. That does raise the question of how the update that bricked the Samsung phones passed the approval process – but has meant that the networks are more cautious than ever about rolling out Windows Phone updates.
Thursday at last! But what game-related chatter doth the day bring?
The 3D industry is in trouble. The saviour of movies, and the killer feature that was meant to make us go out and replace our TVs for the fifth time in a year,may be falling flat. The $150m Robert Zemeckis animation Mars Needs Moms has just bombed spectacularly in the US, making less than $7m in its opening weekend. That followed other 3D flops such as Cats and Dogs: The Revenge of Kitty Galore, Drive Angry and Step Up 3D.But help may be at hand. TheNintendo 3DS, launching to much hype and fanboy hysteria on Friday, is a handheld games console that boasts glasses-free 3D visuals. You need to position the thing right in front of your face to get the effect, but once you do, it's a rather magical experience – aeroplanes zoom overhead, dogs shove their paws out to greet you – and there's even a camera that lets you take 3D pictures of your family and friends. Boy, is that going to be horribly abused.At around £220 it's not cheap, but it is much more affordable than a 3D LCD TV, and you don't have to wear daft spectacles. Nintendo is expecting to sell 4m consoles within the first month. Could this be a cute little Trojan horse for the 3D entertainment industry? Disney, Warner and Dreamworks certainly hope so – they've all signed up to bring their 3D movies to the device, while Aardman Animations is making a special series of Shaun the Sheep for it. Forget the cinema then, the future of 3D entertainment could, quite literally, be in our own hands.
Retailers have been as keen to jump on the apps bandwagon as many other brands, although many have chosen to launch limited apps to gauge customer demand before committing major investment. Now a second wave of apps for shoppers is emerging, building on the lessons learned from the first.Two this week are worthy of note in the UK, for Debenhams and QVC. Debenhams launched its iPhone app in October last year, but this week added Android and Nokia versions, which it says makes it the first high-street retailer to have an app presence on all three platforms.That first iPhone app generated more than £1m of sales in its first five months, according to the retailer. 110,000 people have used the app more than five times – a better metric of active usage than pure download stats – with more than 2.4 million "shopping sessions".The Debenhams appsare interesting because the company hopes they'll be used in-store, rather than purely for remote shopping. The inclusion of a barcode-scanning feature is also notable, being more often found in the apps of online firms such as eBay and Amazon. Debenhams works with mobile commerce firm NN4M on the apps.QVC's new appis also designed to complement rather than replace the way its customers interact with the company. The iPhone application is an update of the company's existing app."Version 1 of the QVC app was quite basic and developed in a short timeframe," says head of interactive Gina Deeble, who says the app was downloaded more than 7,000 times in its first four days of availability, and then provided important feedback from its users."We found that customers required greater functionality and access to a wider range of services. Building on this we gave users access to the full product range and allowed them place orders directly from the app. Previously, ordering was routed back to the QVC website."The most innovative element is the way the updated app synchronises with the main QVC TV channel to show the items currently being hawked on-screen. Not as complex to do as you might think, according to Deeble, who says the broadcaster is well used to this kind of synchronisation in its web and interactive TV services."We're currently developing another iPhone app version that will stream the live show directly to the app so customers can watch QVC anywhere," says Deeble, who adds that QVC is currently exploring Android as a new platform for its mobile activity too.Apps are not the total picture for retailers' mobile strategies by any means – this sector was one of the earliest to catch on to the importance of a decent mobile web presence too.
Listen. Just stop, and listen. How much noise is your computer making? Can you hear it? Are the fans going? Is the hard drive making its constant little noise?Not the one I'm using. It's silent. That's because it's got a solid state drive (SSD), which roughly doubles its read/write speed and improves the performance of the laptop I'm using it in by about 50%.That's quite an improvement - equivalent to upgrading your machine completely. The drive in question is a Kingston SSDNow 100 256GB (model number KINGSTON SVP100S2256G), which I'm using in a three-year-old MacBook laptop running Apple's Mac OS X 10.6 with 4GB of RAM (the maximum it can take).Hard numbersYou can see precisely how much the SSD gooses the performance: using theXbenchbenchmarking suite, the Macbook scored 193.67. Comparing that to theaverage for Macbooks- which is 101.96 - you can see that something's changed.If you look at thiscomparison of two similar-specced Macbooks, one with and one without an SSD, the difference is pretty dramatic when it comes to the disk work - and that affects everything else. Basically, adding an SSD is like making your machine a year to 18 months younger.Hard sellSSDs are, in essence, high-speed Flash memory - but very large amounts of it. The challenges of booting and running your machine off what is in effect a giant SD card are obvious enough: every address in memory is immediately accessible, because there's no need to wait for data to be located on the rotating drive, pulled off it, and pushed through to the motherboard. The only limits on an SSD drive's speed are its read/write speed (reading is usually much faster than writing) and the data throughput available on your computer - which will be mercilessly exposed by an SSD. (I've certainly noticed it on this ageing laptop.)All in favourThe arguments in favour of SSDs are plentiful. Compared to rotating hard drives they are:• quieter (silent, actually, because they have no moving parts)• much, much faster• shockproof (because, again, they don't have any moving parts)• immune to magnetic effects (in case you often wave big magnets around your laptop)• smaller, potentially (though SSD drive manufacturers are building them to the same configurations as rotating drives, to make installation simpler)• more energy-efficient (again, no moving parts, so no need to keep the drive spinning)All againstThose are very considerable upsides. The downsides? Compared to rotating drives, SSDs are:• expensive - about five times (laptop) to ten times (desktop) more for a given amount of storage, though the price is roughly halving every year and the differential is shrinking• either require OS support for best use, or careful choice of the disk so that it will work with non-supporting OSs• potentially limited in life due to write/rewrite (in which the cells deteriorate over time; it takes thousands of rewrites but is a known problem. Equally, all hard drives will die eventually; which is why you keep backups, of course)• the technology is still improving, so in a couple of years SSDs will be even faster and have even longer lives.What's it like to use?In a word: heavenly. You'll notice it most when you boot your machine, when RAM usage is at its smallest and the machine is basically talking between ROM and, now, the SSD. What used to be a slow procession turns into a sprint: a startup that would take a minute takes about 10 seconds with an SSD. (If you boot your machine regularly that will turn into quite a saving.)Similarly, when logging into your user account, programs that used to take forever to get going will snap to attention and race to start.Everything happens faster, because - you realise - so much of what a modern operating system does is disk-bound: we're using browsers that cache more and more data (such as Google Maps and other Ajax-y things), we're trying to do more at the same time, and we want to switch between applications seamlessly.All that data has to be cached and paged back and forth from RAM to the disk as you move around; having an SSD means you're far less aware of the paging process. I'm a very heavy browser user (I'll regularly have four or five pages open, each with 20 or more tabs open). Life with a standard drive quickly became painful: switching between tabs or pages or programs always involved waiting for the data - which sometimes seemed to be coming via container ship from somewhere across the world.By contrast, fitting an SSD is like giving your old computer a mad dose of amphetamines, but with none of the iilegality or medical problems. It feels as though you've got an entirely new machine - but at only half the cost (in general) of that new machine.Overall, you'll spend more money getting an SSD than a standard rotating drive. But you'll save stupendous amounts of time.Who benefits?Laptop users, who for years have lived with rotating drives that spin at 4200 or 5400 rpm (rotations per minute), will see a far bigger immediate difference than desktop users (where 7200rpm drives are more common); there's also the fact that if you drop your machine, there's no risk of the drive heads crashing and destroying your data. Laptops also tend to have less storage than desktops, so it's cheaper to upgrade them: personally I think that 256GB is the sweet spot for laptop and arguably desktop storage: it's enough for the OS plus plenty of room for films and music. If you really need to add lots more storage, then add-ons are cheap, with 1TB of USB 2.0-speed storage costing around £50 (and falling; in a year's time that will buy 2TB).Desktop users can benefit too from SSDs: Microsoft's programmers, for instance, have begun  replacing their rotating drives with them because of the faster boot up and other speed benefits. Again, you will definitely notice the difference.Keeping in TRIM: why it's importantIn OS support, a key element needed by most SSDs is called "TRIM", in which the OS tells the drive firmware which blocks it doesn't need anymore and can be wiped. Windows 7 does include TRIM; previous versions of Windows do not. Existing versions of Mac OS X don't include TRIM, though versions shipped with MacBook Airs built with SSDs do. The upcoming version of OSX, 10.7 (aka Lion) does, though.Thisdoesn'tmean that you can't use SSDs with older versions of Windows or Mac OS X; just that you have to be careful to make sure that the disk you buy has firmware that will perform the TRIM function that the OS won't.That's because normal OS operation involves a lot of writing, reading and then overwriting. It doesn't matter to a magnetic drive whether a bit is set or not; "deletion" is done in the disk index, not at the actual data point (the index entry pointing to the data is wiped, but the data remains on the drive).But if you overwrite an already-written SSD bit, that shortens the cell's life; it's better to write new data to a cell that hasn't been used, or which has had less use. That needs to be handled by the OS (via TRIM), or the drive firmware.The Kingston SSD that I've been using, for instance, has firmware functions to carry out the TRIM work that OS X doesn't, meaning that the lifespan of the drive isn't affected. The V100+ drives do the function known generically as "garbage collection". The key is that it makes your drive live longer. (If you want to read more about TRIM/garbage collection,Anandtech has more technical detailthan you can shake a well-specced stick at.)How to do itBear in mind that replacing your computer's hard drive requires you first to back it up to external storage. But backups are good, and having somewhere separate with a backup of your data mans you're obeyingSchofield's Second Law,which is always good. Different machines make it more or less easy to replace the hard drive (the newest MacBooks involve a fair amount of screwdriver-based jiggery-pokery), but Kingston, for example, provides fittings so that you can replace a laptop or desktop SATA hard drive, including the connectors you'd need. Alternatively, you may want to hire a local expert. Make absolutely sure that you have a working backup (ie that you can boot from the backup). If you're running Windows and/or Office, make sure too that you know where all your licence numbers are - your SSD will look to a Windows system like a new installation.In fact, unless you're doing a like-for-like size replacement, you may want to leave some things off your SSD drive that you previously had on your hard drive. In which case you might want to consider whether you really need those Restore points and that hidden recovery partition on your drive.Once you're runningWith your system restored to life, and on the SSD, you can do some things that will save you and it lots of space and time, because using an SSD (unless you do a like-for-like size replacement) means being careful about what you have on your drive.Things you won't need:• Defrag (definiteiy; it will mess up your drive because it will overwork the cells. Leave it to TRIM or the firmware)• hibernation (on Windows)• various other elements, which are well set out inthis blog post about using SSDs on Windows(which builds on a series by Ed Bott at ZDNet on using an SSD on Windows:part one,part two,part three).Mac users should turn off the "spin hard drive down" setting in the Energy Saver preferences, since you won't need it (no moving parts, remember?). You can, if you want,turn off the "sudden motion sensor"that will try to stop disk activity if it detects that the machine is falling, since that doesn't matter now, but it's not an important tweak.Finally, some people may try to tell you that it's far better to spend the money instead on a REALLY BIG rotating hard drive because that will give you loads of cache availability and you'll never run out of space. Ignore them. You can hive off all those big files to fast offline (or slow cloud) storage, and the speed benefits of an SSD have to be experienced to be believed.Only one warning, though: once you've tried it, you'll never be able to go back.Kingston V100 SSD drives: The verdictPros:Extremely fast; quiet; lower power demand; no risk from being dropped; unaffected by magnets; contains firmware that does TRIM function if not provided by OSCons:Expensive (about £350 for a 256GB drive, compared to around £60 for the same size of rotating drive for a laptop); lifetime depends on usage.Verdict:has to be 5 stars, despite the price, because anything that lets you completely revive your machine for less than half its cost is definitely worth the money.Kingston V100 SSD drives on Amazon:•96GB(£150)•128GB(£181)•256GB(£454)
The pre-orders are in, the midnight openings are arranged, the Redknapp family have no doubt recorded a charming TV advert in preparation. Yes, Friday sees the UK launch of theNintendo 3DSconsole, and with hundreds of stores staying opening until midnight on Thursday to serve eager gamers, the industry is expecting a bumper weekend of hardware sales."It's been really interesting watching how retail has behaved since January," says Michael French, editor-in-chief of gaming news sourcesMCVandDevelop. "I don't we've ever seen so much price cutting and really aggressive promotion of a platform on price before. It points to strong demand from consumers. The fact that Morrisons would drop the price to £187 which is not far off the cost of the unit for them, shows they're confident they can attract a lot of people in and then sell enough extra software to make a profit."But can Nintendo really do it again? Can the company that has existed for the past 10 years on a hardware business model of 'gimmicky interfaces for mainstream audiences' seduce us into buying another chunk of specialised gaming plastic?The problem is, today's marketplace is very different to the one in which the Wii and DS flourished. Over the past two years we have seen the rise of social gaming, the explosion of smartphone gaming, the dawn of tablet gaming… Now, mainstream consumers have a wealth of gadgets available to them if they want to occasionally play a video game, which means all the people who once went to the DS for titles such as Nintendogs, Advance Wars and Brain Training can get very similar experiences on their iPhones or Android devices – but they can pay £1 for them. And check their email afterwards.There is certainly a school of thought in the industry that suggests the days of the specialist games device are over. Last week, Brian Meehan, vice-president of sales at smartphone developerSourcebits,told Modojo, "My kids will never own a DS or PSP. They have everything via smartphones and tablets […] Angry Birds is the world's new [Super] Mario Bros." This might sound like madness to veteran gamers who'll always favour the rich depths of a Miyamoto adventure over flinging birds at pigs. But for a burgeoning stratum of app developers, there's no sense in the old school model of producing long-form Triple A titles for the retail market – not while a bird-flinging game created by a team of Finnish students can do 100m downloads and get them over $40m in VC funding.Nintendo is certainly aware of the threat posed by mobile gaming, but has been rather dismissive in response. As part of his keynote speech at theGame Developers Conferenceearlier this month, Nintendo chief Satoru Iwata spoke about his fear for "high value" games in a marketplace dominated by smartphone app stores:"These platforms have no motivation to maintain the high value of video game software – for them, content is something created by someone else. Their goal is just to gather as much software as possible, because quantity is what makes the money flow - the value of video game software does not matter to them."The problem is, fighting on a quality vs quantity ticket is getting less and less feasible. As industry analyst Nicholas Lovellnoted recently in a blogposton the subject, smartphone games aren't necessarily lower in quality because they're cheap (or even free). Titles such asChaos Rings,Infinity Bladeand Rockstar's stunning conversion ofGTA: Chinatown Warsshow that deep, challenging titles are available on smartphone platforms.Nevertheless, Iwata's views were later reflected and expanded upon by 3DS project leader Hideki Konno, who picked up on the argument that games for dedicated handheld consoles are now too expensive, considering that you can buy one that looks quite similar on Google Market for £1. In responseKonno told Gamasutra:"So now in terms of one dollar games, or free games, or whatever that is out there in the market, I mean, really, we're not going to be competing with that; we're just going to continually strive to not just maintain, but increase, the quality of the entertainment that we're providing, and let it sort itself out."Konno did, however, concede that Nintendo's online app stores for the Nintendo DS and Wii have been disappointing, with poor interfaces and a lack of compelling content. He insisted that the 3DS eShop would be much more intuitive and well populated – which is at least a nod toward the need for a digital download offering. But essentially, Nintendo's message is, it will not compete on price with Apple and Android, it's not looking to enter the freemium space with its games. Instead, it's going to continue making really good titles and see how that goes.In many ways – ignoring, for a moment, the increasing competition from the best smartphone titles – this makes perfect sense: Nintendo has always placed great value on quality and heritage. As Rob Hearn, editor of handheld gaming sitePocket Gamer, argues, "Nintendo are responding to the smartphone sector in a very sensible way. They're aware that the casual market they used to have with the DS has gone to iPhone and the other smartphone platforms, but at the same time they don't want to compete directly by lowering their prices or encouraging cheap third-party development on their platform. So if you look at the 3DS lineup they've gone the other way – they're saying, "remember Zelda? Remember Pilotwings?" They're piling in with these big recognisable franchises to underline the fact that they're different – they're not a manufacturer of 59p games."But the key challenge now is to capitalise on the unique strengths of the 3DS. Relying on a few big software franchises that have been slightly refitted with a stereoscopic sheen may not be enough. Just as Wii made motion control a central component of abrand newseries of titles like Wii Play and Wii Fit, the 3DS has got to create its own superstars."In the last year or so we have seen teens and 'tweens' migrate from Nintendo's amazingly successful DS to the iPod," says David Braben, founder of Frontier Developments, which created the adorable Kinectimals for Microsoft's Kinect launch. "The 3DS is Nintendo's hope to pull them back, and in terms of 'bells and whistles' it has a good chance. I am sure the launch will be great and we will see eager fans rush out and buy it, but the longer-term challenge will be whether parents fork out (again) for another expensive device. It will come down to the 'must have' nature of the games and the draw of the 3D. It certainly has a big 'wow' factor on first look so it has a chance to do very well, but the extent of its ultimate success will depend on what the games do with the 3D, and whether players end up turning down the 3D after playing for a few hours."Hearn concurs and wonders whether the strengths of the console may ultimately lie away from its 3D selling point. "Nintendo needs to think about what to do when the novelty of 3D wears off – which it will do as people get headaches or turn the 3D down to extend battery life. They need to think about the other things the 3DS can do which separate it from other platforms. And they are to a certain extent: they're drawing a lot of attention to the augmented reality stuff. AR has been around for a while, but just as Apple took video calling and made it into FaceTime, I think Nintendo might be the one to finally make AR into something people actually use."But let's say the aim is to compete, not on novelty hardware features, but with better, more interesting games. During his GDC keynote, Iwata expressed concerns that the industry was not preparing the next generation of great game designers because the skills required to create current Triple A titles are too specific – artists and programmers are no longer getting a general education in development. To many, it showed that Nintendo is breathtakingly out-of-touch, seemingly unaware of the expanding global indie development scene, which has fostered break-out hits such as Limbo, Minecraft, Angry Birds and Doodle Jump – the sorts of titles that Nintendo's producers should be scouring the planet for.Instead, it seems to be erecting barriers. Last week, Nintendo of America president Reggie Fils-Aimetold Gamasutrathat Nintendo was interested in speaking to independent developers, but up to a point: "Where we've drawn the line is we are not looking to do business today with the garage developer. In our view, that's not a business we want to pursue." The problem is, the distinction is nebulous and getting more hazy by the day.Plus, even the acceptable indie studios don't seem to be getting much of a look-in with 3DS. I spoke to several independent UK developers, each of which has previously worked on Nintendo DS titles, and none have received 3DS dev kits – even though Nintendo,according to sources contacted by industry magazine Develop, a wider dev kit programme was meant to start in January. "Nintendo do things by their own rules," says French. "If they think their platform needs to be managed and controlled that's up to them – the Wii proved this is achievable. But the more smartphones that sell, the more pressure is placed on Nintendo to acknowledge the need for the likes of Angry Birds and Tiny Wings to run on their platforms."The thing is, right now Nintendo has a platform that people are excited about, and that early adopters will eagerly share with more sceptical pals, spreading the stereoscopic message by that most valuable of 21st century media: word of mouth. Nintendo estimates that it will sell 4m units by the end of March and it will probably achieve this. The glasses-free 3D tag line is a compelling one for those of us who can't afford a new 3D LCD display, but are interested in this new entertainment era. The big question mark is what happens next. With a software lineup dominated by classic franchises, will the company be doing anything more than treading water with this incredible piece of kit?Hmm, that doesn't really sound like Nintendo. True, the company has always relied on its big brands – Mario, Zelda, Metroid – but the veteran industry leader has always been able to offer surprises too; it's highly unlikely we know everything about the capabilities of 3DS or its 2011 software lineup. Indeed, it's telling that, while talking to developers and industry insiders for this article, no one was prepared to say the Big N can't win again. Once upon a time, everyone wrote Nintendo off as a spent force – then it released Wii. I asked Nicholas Lovell if there could ever be another dedicated games console as successful as the DS, and he said: "My first answer is no, I don't think it will ever happen again. But my second answer is 'Foolish is the analyst who ever bets against Nintendo…'"
On this week's Tech Weekly, Aleks and Charles are joined by David Coplin, director of search for Microsoft UK, who translates the complexities of the search industry, from the psychological intentions of users to the privacy of their data. How does Bing increase serendipity, and what is the true, exploitable value of the social graph?The panel are joined by Jim Killock of the Open Rights Group, who reports from communications minister Ed Vaizey's parliamentary roundtable discussion about net neutrality.Also this week, will the .xxx domain name be a boon to the porn industry, or will it marginalise the online adult market?Listen up for all the answers.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamJudge Rejects Google Books Settlement &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"The U.S. Justice Department last year said it opposed the deal on such grounds. The solution, Judge Chin suggested, is simple: rather than let copyright owners of books to "opt out" of the settlement, which was reached in 2008 between Google, the Authors Guild and the Association of American Publishers, copyright owners should be given the choice to "opt in.""Google's safety notice for the cr-48 &gt;&gt; Flickr"Read this paper. Then recycle it. Or make it into a super cool paper airplane that you can give to your nephew."The self-publishing frenzy : a view from this side of the pond &gt;&gt; David Hewson"Your margins are likely to become very slim indeed, very quickly. Best-selling titles on Kindle tend to be there largely through price. It's one thing to price back list titles, that have no need of further work, at 99p or 99 cents (I do that myself). But if you start pricing original work at that level you'll be receiving a mere thirty odd pence or cents per sale. The current legal minimum adult wage in the UK is £232 per week. You are going to have to sell 662 of those 99p books each and every week to reach the same pay level as someone behind the counter of McDonalds. To reach the median weekly wage of £499 you will need to shift more than twice as many, more than 1,400 copies. That's a lot." A useful reality check from an experienced (published) author, though it doesn't get us any closer to a resolution. Most authors don't make much money.AOL Begins Culling Content Sites &gt;&gt; AllThingsDAlso known as Mission: Cut The Wheat From The Chaff And Envelope Everything Else Into Huffington Post. Forecast: Expect more fallout.About the Mac OS X v10.6.7 Update &gt;&gt; AppleAmong the fixes: "Fixes a rare issue in Mac OS X v10.6.5 that could cause user accounts to disappear from the Login window and System Preferences after putting the system to sleep." Must be fun to discover that you're one of the people suffering from that one.Tablet computers take on the workplace &gt;&gt; BBC News"Raido Purge is one of the owners of Taibula, a colourful toy shop tucked away in a shopping mall in Tallinn, the Estonian capital. "He is holding a Samsung Galaxy Tab tablet computer. The shop has started using the device running an app called Point of Sale as a replacement for the traditional cash register. "'Clients are really impressed when we walk up to them and basically show them right here and right now, this is your product, would you like some additional information, would you like to see a Youtube video about this product?' he says."The Apple iPad 2 Review &gt;&gt; AnandTech"There's no support for Flash. Like it or not Flash support is still an important part of the overall PC experience. Eventually Apple will either cave, become irrelevant or HTML5 will replace Flash entirely on the web. One way or another, this problem gets solved." Ohh-kay. "Multitasking is a pain. When the iPad first debuted there was no hope for multitasking, but now with the feature it's still far from magical. I need to tap the home button twice to bring up a task switcher, then tap or swipe/type before getting to the application I'm trying to switch to. There's no alt+tab (or cmd+tab) and no immediately visible task/dock bar of my currently running apps. Copying data between apps is a pain as I can't physically look at two things at once, there's just constant switching required to get things done. When I get a new email on the iPad I have to stop what I'm doing, go read the email and then switch back to what I was doing." Translation: where's Ctrl-Alt-Delete on this laptop?Why Fukushima made me stop worrying and love nuclear power &gt;&gt; George Monbiot"You will not be surprised to hear that the events in Japan have changed my view of nuclear power. You will be surprised to hear how they have changed it. As a result of the disaster at Fukushima, I am no longer nuclear-neutral. I now support the technology. "A crappy old plant with inadequate safety features was hit by a monster earthquake and a vast tsunami. The electricity supply failed, knocking out the cooling system. The reactors began to explode and melt down. The disaster exposed a familiar legacy of poor design and corner-cutting. Yet, as far as we know, no one has yet received a lethal dose of radiation." In fact nobody has had much worse than if they were female and had had a couple of mammograms. And mammograms are safe, to any workable definition of the word.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's Wednesday, or 'hump day' as some call it. A good day for some games chat whatever way you look at it.
Not so long ago, it was the stuff of nightmares: you pick up the landline and there's no dialling tone. Nothing. The phone is useless, dead in your hand. For most of the 20th century, this was a horror film cliche, a symbol of isolation and doom foretold.But just 15 years after Drew Barrymoreanswered her kitchen phoneto her killer in the very first scene of the first Scream movie, the death of the landline is close to being a reality – and one entirely of our own making. BT has announcedplans to hike charges for landline calls, in a bid to maintain commercial viability for landline services. The move suggests that BT – which has long promoted the emotional case for landlines over mobile calls, with the tagline "if a conversation is worth having, have it on your BT landline" – may have given up on turning back the clock. In the US, the proportion of households that have mobile phone connection but no landline has risen  to a quarter. The most recent decent-sized research in the UK, in 2007, put the equivalent figure at 15%, but the number is likely to have since risen.My landline rarely rings these days. And even when it does, I usually don't answer it. It seems like an increasingly alien concept, picking up a phone without knowing who is on the other end, so as often as not I let the answerphone pick up. Oh, and I never, ever listen to landline answerphone messages. My reasoning is that a message left at a house when someone's not even there must by definition be  so non-urgent that it doesn't need listening to. I assume that if anyone actually needs me, they will reach me on my mobile, or by text or email.  And this, at the grand old age of 37. For millions of today's twentysomethings, who have had a mobile number since their teens and for whom a landline makes no practical sense during the transient years before they settle down, the moment of opting into landline-owning may never come if it becomes an expensive extra. My sister and my closest colleague, for instance, both have grown-up jobs and mortgages, but no landlines.The demise of the landline has gone almost unnoticed. After all, the din of mundane phone chatter is all around us – on the bus, at the next table in Pret. What difference does it make whether the cables lie underground  or not?A lot, actually. The death of the landline is a cultural shift that affects our personal and public lives. It has untethered us from our groupings – in the office, where email has disconnected us from what the people who sit three feet away do all day, and even more significantly, at home. In any household in the days before mobiles took over, the landline served as a switchboard for everyone's connections outside the home. The phone rang, you answered it, you asked who was calling, and then you passed the phone over. Everyone knew who called you, and how long you spoke for. Within families, couples, flatmates, it was a kind of invisible knowledge map about the state of everyone's romantic and social lives, and one we took for granted. Now, we are all freelance operatives. In my early teens, we had a kitchen phone and an upstairs phone – but even the act of transferring a call to another line  spoke volumes. My children's teenage dramas will never be as transparent to me in the way mine must have been  to my parents.'Do you have any idea how much this call is costing?' Drew Barrymore in Scream. Photograph: Sportsphoto Ltd/AllstarAnd devoted though we are to our mobiles, most of the time we aren't talking but typing.Comic Reliefthis year heavily promoted the option to donate by text, to save you having to actually speak to anyone. Office culture has become increasingly silent. As someone who learned how to do my job as a junior by listening to people around me – editors commissioning, writers interviewing, fixers cajoling – I wonder how today's young people learn the ropes. Now that the corner-office is as retro as Mad Men, open-plan culture demands a level of quiet. But it's odd, on a personal as well as a professional level. When I started work, you knew everything about the person who sat next to you, because they had no choice but to conduct their relationships with their lover, their mother, their bank manager from their desk phone, while you had no choice but to pretend not to listen. These days, all you overhear is the clatter of typing, the lull while they wait for a response, and then the rapt concentration when the emailed reply appears.Enough with the rose-tinted nostalgia for the landline. After all, it's not as if the era of the one-landline household, the 1950s to 1980s, coincided with a blissful time of unalloyed family and community harmony. But with the demise of a shared line we all become a little more unassailable in our individual worlds, and less available. The mobile phone, with its haughty "ignore" button, is an opt-in form of communication. Email has made it increasingly acceptable to break news that people don't want to hear while opting out of having to listen to them hearing what you  have to say, and empathise with their response. Saying what you think and hitting send is not the same as having  a conversation.There is a line in the filmThe September Issuewhen Anna Wintour's publisher says of her that "she doesn't make herself accessible to people she doesn't need to be accessible to". By not answering our landlines, we bring a little of that ruthlessness into our home lives. We expect to communicate on our own terms, and at a time that suits us. If I don't answer the landline because I'm putting the kids to bed, fair enough. But if I don't answer it because I'm exhausted and I don't feel like talking, or because the film I want to watch is about to start . . . ? If I stop to think about it, that's pretty selfish. Add to that the fact that many people I asked said that the only people who called their landlines were older relatives, and there's a slightly callous edge to our willingness to let it ring and ring.It would be sad if, having crammed our lives full of texting, tweeting and status updates, we no longer have the energy to speak to people who want to talk to us. There are repercussions of cutting ourselves in or out of the loop as we please, because real community doesn't work like that. Interestingly, relatively new forms of online interaction, such as Twitter and BBM instant-messaging, have returned to a more conversational, back-and-forth style, rather than the hit-and-run approach of sending an email. Horror films have moved on from the snipped landline to the dreaded out-of-battery/low-signal plot device. But in real life, we're all running scared from a ringing phone.
Apple appears to have pulled an iPhone and iPad app promising "freedom from homosexuality through the power of Jesus" after coming under fire from gay rights activists.More than 146,000 peoplesigned a petition calling on Apple to remove the so-called "gay cure" appbacked by Exodus International, a Christian group that describes itself as "the world's largest worldwide ministry to those struggling with unwanted same-sex attraction".According to the Florida-based group, homosexuality is "a multicausal, developmental issue and that any individual can experience freedom through the support of caring individuals and the healing power of Jesus Christ". The app aims to give users "a useful resource for men, women, parents, students and ministry leaders" to "reconcile their faith with their sexual behaviour".The app has been on sale since 15 February but was last night no longer available. Apple has yet to comment on the furore that the app sparked and was unavailable for comment. The company has strict rules on governing the content of apps and regularly blocks apps it believes may cause offence or contain  risqué content. Exodus had been marked "4+" by the company, a grade that meant Apple judged it contained no objectionable content.In the petition letter addressed to Steve Jobs, the Apple chief executive, and posted last week on the Change.org site, objectors said: "Apple doesn't allow racist or anti-semitic apps in its app store, yet it gives the green light to an app targeting vulnerable LGBT youth with the message that their sexual orientation is a 'sin that will make your heart sick' and a 'counterfeit'."This is a double standard that has the potential for devastating consequences. Apple needs to be told, loud and clear, that this is unacceptable."The objectors called on people to continue signing the petition last night. Noting that the app no longer appears to be available, they wrote: "Does that means Apple has pulled the app, like more than 140,000 customers have asked? It's hard to tell; Apple hasn't issued an official statement yet. Until they do, it's important that we keep up the pressure, so that Apple hears loud and clear that "ex-gay" therapy deserve no place in the App Store."Earlier this week Dr Gary Remafedi, director of the Youth and AIDS Projects, accused Exodus of distorting his research into homosexuality and called on Apple to remove the app. In a letter to Apple Remafedi, director of the youth and Aids projects and a professor of pediatrics at the University of Minnesota, said the app "erroneously cites my research in support of claims that homosexuality can be changed ... Associating my work with that of the ex-gay ministry and other unfounded treatments is professionally injurious and grievous."He told the Minneapolis-St Paul Star Tribune that he had challenged many misrepresentations of his work over the years and has had "100%" success in doing so. Apple had responded to his letter. "They said they are on it," Remafedi said. "I am simply pointing out a problem. I'm sure they will do the right thing."
Google's controversial plans to create the world's biggest online library have been shelved by a US judge.In a ruling filed in the US district court in Manhattan, judge Denny Chin ruled the company had gone "too far" in its ambitious plans and rejected a legal settlement with authors and publishers that Google reached in 2008.The web giant has scanned millions of books, many held at some of the world's greatest libraries including Oxford University's Bodleian and Harvard's libraries, and made them available online via its eBooks platform. The plan has split the publishing industry and attracted fierce criticism from authors and rival tech firms.While Google said it would show only snippets of works that are in copyright, some authors complained that they had not given their permission for the scanning in the first place and were wary of Google's future plans.In court Google rejected calls for an "opt-in" solution where copyright owners would decide whether or not to be part of the scanning project. The company said the idea was not viable. Chin suggested he might look more favourably on a settlement that allowed copyright owners to "opt in"."While the digitisation of books and the creation of a universal digital library would benefit many," Chin wrote, Google's current pact would "simply go too far". It would "give Google a significant advantage over competitors, rewarding it for engaging in wholesale copying of copyrighted works without permission," he said.The agreement rejected by Chin was negotiated with the Authors Guild and the Association of American Publishers. Under the settlement, Google would continue to digitise books and sell access online and the company would pay $125m (£76.9m) in royalties every year to the copyright owners of the books being scanned.Copyright concerns persisted, however, as the ownership of many of the works being scanned by Google could not be established.Hilary Ware, managing counsel for Google, said the judge's decision was disappointing. "We believe this agreement has the potential to open up access to millions of books that are currently hard to find in the US today," she said. "Regardless of the outcome, we'll continue to work to make more of the world's books discoverable online through Google Books and Google eBooks.""Publishers are prepared to modify the settlement agreement to gain approval," said John Sargent, chief executive of Macmillan,  in a statement issued by the Association of American Publishers. He said they would work to overcome the objections raised by the court.Google co-founder Larry Page was the author of the firm's plans to make 150m books accessible via the search engine. He has been promoting the idea since shortly after the company was formed in 1998.Google began working with several libraries in 2004 to scan and digitise books and other writings in their collections, and has said it has completed 10% of the effort. The search engine currently allows users to search about two million books that are out of copyright, including the works of William Shakespeare. That service will be unaffected by the ruling.Chin's decision is the latest in a series of setbacks. The plans have attracted criticism not only in the US but across Europe and in China and Canada. It is also separately being investigated by the US Justice Department on competition and copyright grounds.
The UK risks being a laggard in the race to build high-speed mobile internet unless operators drop legal threats over Britain's digital infrastructure, the communications regulator has warned.Ed Richards, Ofcom's chief executive, on Tuesday outlined plans for its largest auction to date of mobile phone spectrum, with the aim of enabling high-speed wireless internet around the UK. The rights to "fourth generation" (4G) radio spectrum – which enables connections at speeds of up to 100Mbps, about 25 times faster than the average broadband connection now in use at home – will be auctioned in 2012.The disposal will give access to 80% more radio spectrum than was sold in 2000, when the 3G spectrum was auctioned for £22bn. But the price is expected to be far lower this time because two of the incumbents, Vodafone and O2, have substantial amounts of radio spectrum.Many Britons will have to wait until at least 2014 to enjoy the benefits of 4G mobile internet because of the time and expense involved in building the new systems. That could be further delayed if Everything Everywhere, the UK's largest mobile operator, formed by a merger of Orange and T-Mobile, goes ahead with a legal challenge to Ofcom's proposals."Do I wish that we hadn't had any dispute and debate and delay? Of course I do, but let's be realistic," Richards urged on Tuesday. "This is a massive debate of huge economic importance to a lot of very powerful companies and of huge importance to the country. We shouldn't be surprised or uncomfortable that there is a rigorous and thorough debate. This matters to people, it matters to companies, it matters to us, it matters to consumers."Other countries including South Korea, Sweden, Denmark, the US, Russia, Germany, Kenya, Nepal and Australia either have 4G networks, or will develop them by the end of this year. But Richards said: "I don't accept we're laggards. But I think there is a danger if we don't move in a timely way that we become laggards. Others have already started moving now and we do not want to fall any further behind."Two of the UK's mobile operators, 3 and Everything Everywhere, protested in January after Ofcom allowed the two older networks, O2 and Vodafone, to "re-farm" low-frequency spectrum that they had been allocated when the mobile networks were first set up in the 1980s for 3G connections. Low-frequency bandwidth around the 800MHz mark is highly sought after as it is more effective for connections over long distances such as in rural areas. The bandwidth is being released by the "digital switchover" from analogue to digital TV signals across the UK.Tom Alexander, the chief executive of Everything Everywhere, said on Tuesday that while Ofcom's new proposals provide "partial solutions" to its complaints, "we are concerned that the proposals … do not significantly reduce the dominance" of Vodafone and O2, which own all of the low-frequency bandwidth below the 1GHz mark, giving them better coverage in rural areas. The company said it would outline its opposition to the plans to Ofcom, but would not go into further detail.Kevin Russell, chief executive officer of 3 UK, said: "Ofcom's proposals set out the core principle that the UK must retain four wholesale mobile operators. Against a background of consolidation in the UK and US, we believe this is a clear and strong commitment from government and Ofcom that will stimulate investment in mobile broadband and protect UK consumers."The January 2011 reallocation of 2G spectrum has given a huge competitive advantage to Vodafone, O2 and Everything Everywhere. Ofcom's proposals seek to rebalance this in the medium term but there are still immediate distortions that need to be addressed. These include significant coverage, capacity and financial benefits."Richards said: "I hope that all [operators] recognise that the UK needs to move on with this now and accept that a judgment's got to be made. What I hope doesn't happen is that the debate spills over into litigation because that will delay the award [of the spectrum after the auction] and then there is only one loser – the British consumer."Why low frequency mattersOfcom intends to auction off the radio spectrum for the next-generation 4G networks in pairs of bandwidth: some chunks below 1 gigahertz (1,000 megahertz) paired with others either at 1.8GHz or 2.6GHz. That's because to mobile operators both are desirable, but in different ways. The low-frequency spectrum gives excellent coverage across large distances, in the same way that a large swell travelling through the sea isn't diverted by breakwaters.Vodafone and O2 were the original phone networks in the UK (when O2 was BT Cellnet), and so were allocated spectrum in the 900MHz band; later allocations were at higher frequencies. That's why customers of those two networks can get voice signals where Three, Orange and T-Mobile can't.The high-frequency spectrum, meanwhile, allows really fast connections, but only over comparatively short distances – so in cities, where you want an intensive data connection, it would be ideal.What 3 and Everything Everywhere (Orange/T-Mobile) find galling is that in January the government instructed Ofcom to hand over that 900MHz spectrum to Vodafone and O2 for free. The rivals think it should have either been auctioned, or at least paid for on the basis of its potentially huge value for reaching customers outside cities. That leaves them at a disadvantage to start with – and is part of the reason why this auction will not raise anything like the £22bn that the 3G one did, despite having more spectrum and, arguably, being more useful.
BT will on Wednsday take to the high court to fight government plans to curb illegal filesharing. A coalition of beleaguered rights owners will line up in opposition. An apposite time, then, for this industry'smost controversial anti-filesharing cabalto be back in the news.Ina post on its customer forumon Tuesday evening, BT said that it had ordered DigiProtect and MediaCAT, two (very different) media companies used by notorious solicitors' firm ACS:Law, to delete thousands of its customers' details they received last year.The two companies had issued a court order (known as a Norwich Pharmacal Order) for the information – which includes telephone numbers and addresses of customers – with the apparent intention of suing them for illegal filesharing, which wenow knowwas probably unlikely.BT said in the statement:"With regard to Media CAT, we have been under a court order since July last year to supply them with details belonging to thousands more customers. We refused to do so and have now secured a further order to set aside the July order, meaning that the customer details will not be disclosed. Media CAT has also confirmed that all customer data that we sent to them in the past has now been deleted."The UK's largest broadband provider has also escaped having to hand over thousands of customer details to Ministry of Sound, which applied for them back in May 2010 – months beforethe whole ACS:Law row blew up. BT adds:"Digiprotect was another client of ACS:Law. We have already disclosed some customer details to them under a court order in early 2010.  Since even before the revelations about ACS:Law, we had been challenging Digiprotect on their use of that data but did not get satisfactory answers."We have now taken the matter back to court and secured an order requiring Digiprotect either to issue proceedings or delete the data. The time for issuing proceedings has now expired and the data should be deleted."We rang DigiProtect on Tuesday afternoon to see whether the data had been deleted. We were told that Dr. Frederik Gerckens, the company's managing director, was "in a meeting" and that we should ring back on Wednesday. That we shall. In the meantime it would be interesting to know what power BT, based in the UK, will have over Digiprotect, based in Germany, to order the deletion of user data that it handed over – and how it will be able to confirm that that deletion has been done. After all, how do you prove something isn't there?All of this isbad newsfor so-called speculative invoicing schemes. While they wereunashamedly lucrativefor the solicitors' behind them – reaping money from those accused of illegal filesharing, but who didn't want to face the embarrassment (many were charged with downloading adult films) of fighting the charges in court – thelong-term damageto these companies will likely outweigh the short-term spoils.And that's before you ask big rights owners – Paramount Pictures, Disney, 20th Century Fox etc. – whether the row has sullied their cause. Back to BT:"As a business we must facilitate genuine rights holders who wish to enforce their copyright in a proportionate way. With that in mind we have been working on a new framework policy to deal with future applications, in a bid to protect our customers."We continue to develop that policy, particularly in light of the comments of HHJ Birss QC in the recent Media CAT cases."
It's a day for tablets. FirstRIM announced US prices and dates, though not UK ones, for its Playbook tablet.Now Apple has announced the price for the UK version of the iPad 2, which will work out cheaper - even after the VAT rise introduced in January - than the first version.Prices are, including VAT:Wi-Fi only:16GB: £399.00 (£332.50 ex 20% VAT)32GB: £479.00 (£399.17 ex 20% VAT)64GB: £559.00 (£465.83 ex 20% VAT)Wi-Fi and 3G:16GB: £499.00 (£415.83 ex 20% VAT)32GB: £579.00 (£482.50 ex 20% VAT)64GB: £659.00 (£549.17 ex 20% VAT)Those compare to prices last year respectively of £429, £499, £599, £529, £599 and £699. Calculating the differences, the retail (with VAT) price has fallen by between 4% and 7%, with the average being 5%; the ex-VAT price (the one you would normally compare against the US price) has fallen by between 5% and 9%, averaging 7.4%.That is Apple unveiling its next weapon - price - in this battle, where everyone is using every trick that they know to get an edge.Or is it? It turns out that what's happening is that Apple is indeed cutting prices, but doing it with the help of the exchange rate.At the moment$1 = £0.6191; back in May 2010 (when the iPad launched in the UK and other countries) itwas $1 = £0.682452 (20-day average), so the dollar has weakened against the pound (you need fewer pounds to buy a dollar now than you did). The dollar, in fact, is about 10% lower now than it was against the pound last May.In turn, that means that $499, the iPad price in 2010 and 2011, equated in 2010 to £340.54, but is now £304.69. (In other words: it takes fewer pounds to get the $499 that Apple wants to get for each iPad sold.)So it might seem like Apple is doing everyone an enormous favour by cutting the price (and it certainly won't hurt sales), but it is actually benefiting from the movement in exchange rates - in fact, it's going to makemoreprofit from iPad sales this year than last year, even with a lower price.A couple more interesting wrinkles to the iPad 2 launch internationally: sales won't start until 5pm in the evening of Friday, or 1am that day if you're ordering online. Why has it chosen such a time of day to do it? No word on that (we have called Apple but got no response), but there's the faintest possibility that it's to discourage the people who made the lives of would-be iPad buyers in the US hell - buying up loads of them in order to ship them off to the Far East. And another clue that that is the motive comes from the fact that sales in Hong Kong, Singapore and South Korea won't start for another two weeks, even while the other 25 countries (Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the UK) get theirs. (Though that won't really dissuade them - they'll just come back at the weekend, surely.)The dollar/pound exchange rate since May 2010: the pound has sttrengthened since the launch of the iPad last year, which will help Apple's bottom line even as it cuts pricesAnd just to add to the tablet fun, at CTIA Samsung has announced (or possible re-announced) its tablets and pricing. There will be the Galaxy Tab 10.1 (guess the screen size), to be released on 8 June - running Android 3.0 ("Honeycomb"). Prices: $499 (16GB), $599 (32GB). The Galaxy 8.9 will be priced at $469 (16GB), $499 (32GB), and be released in "early summer".So is this iPad competition? Well, Honeycomb is certainly nice, and that's price-competitive with the iPad, at least in the US. UK prices haven't been set (or suggested) and the release date is only "later this year". Samsung didn't want to share sales figures either: "those are only for internal use," we were told. (The press release and details haven't made it toSamsung's online press releases.)The list of tablets that have been announced is thus growing ever longer, but the list of those actually seen in the wild in the UK remains extremely short - the iPad and the Samsung Galaxy Tab (and now@Dirkbruere'sAdvent Vega) being the principal ones. Anyone else got a tablet not in that list that they've bought in the UK this year? And what do you think of it?
Better late than never...
