EMI chairman Eric Nicoli today said he was optimistic that EMI's
merger with Time Warner's music division will be cleared by the
competition authorities."On the regulatory approval front, we are at the very start of
the process,"
he said. "But we think we have a compelling case and we are
optimistic."Between them, the pair will have a global market share of 20%,
even
higher in certain regions. However, Mr Nicoli, who will be
co-chairman of the new Warner-EMI Music, believes there is
little to fear from industry watchdogs such as the US federal
trade commission and the European commission.The companies said they complement each other geographically,
with Warner Music Group's strength in the US and EMI's strong
market positions across Europe and other countries. The enlarged
group would be a leading source of music for both traditional
sales in shops and, more importantly, over the internet;  Time
Warner's merger with America Online would give EMI an
unprecedented opportunity to sell via the internet."It enhances our ability to realise the opportunities present by
the internet and other new media, and it will allow us to
deliver all of our main strategic objectives in a dramatically
shorter timeframe," Mr Nicoli said.The alliance between EMI and Warner Music will assemble a huge
talent pool, including the Rolling Stones and Madonna. The new
company will have combined sales of more than £5bn and rank
second only behind Seagram's Universal music group. Time Warner
and EMI would each control half of the new company, to be called
Warner EMI Music. It would have combined revenues of £4.9bn and
a pretax profit of £650 million.Warner EMI Music will be headquartered in New York, with
international headquarters in London. Mr Nicoli and Time Warner
president Richard Parsons are to be co-chairmen of the merged
company.The new firm would represent some 2,500 musicians. EMI brings to
the deal the Virgin, Priority and Capitol record labels -
including names like the Spice Girls, Van Morrison and Frank
Sinatra. Time Warner contributes its Atlantic, Elektra and
Warner Brothers labels that include Cher, Eric Clapton, Phil
Collins, Madonna, Metallica and REM.The merger marks the end of Britain's last great music company.
EMI led the pack in the swinging sixties when the Beatles were
the most famous group on the planet and Abbey Road the most
instantly recognisable recording studio."It's a shame to see the last major British music company
effectively fall into overseas hands," said Alison Wenham, chief
executive of the Association of Independent Music.Lorna Tilbian, analyst at the brokerage house WestLB Panmure,
agreed: "EMI is one of the few UK companies with a double digit
market share in every global market. It has a back catalogue
that has taken over a century to put together and to drift into
American hands in the digital age when you want to be world
leaders as well is a bit of a shame," she said.Meanwhile, German media giant Bertelsmann, long rumoured as a
suitor for
EMI, denied reports that it was preparing a bid of its own for
the British company to break up the deal.Useful links:EMI GroupTime Warner
A dream line-up of the some of the world's biggest music acts, including Madonna, the Spice Girls, Robbie Williams and Janet Jackson, was assembled yesterday through the &#163;12bn merger of Britain's EMI and the record labels of US group Time Warner.The deal to create Warner EMI will be formally announced this morning and will catapult the combined group to the top of the music business charts alongside Sony, Germany's Bertelsmann and   Universal PolyGram. Warner EMI will have sales of more than &#163;5bn a year and account for almost one in every four CDs sold worldwide.The merger has been driven chiefly by the increasingly global nature of the &#163;23bn music market, which is seeing the same acts charting in cities from Bangkok to Berlin.It is also a tacit acknowledgment of the profound impact that the internet will have on music distribution and is part of the continued convergence of old and new media.The deal will mean that America Online, which acquired Time Warner earlier this month, will end up as the one of the largest record companies in the world - a testament to the growing power of the internet over the music industry.EMI recently predicted that 10% of its sales would be generated via the internet within five years and had already begun making investments in a series of web-based music firms. Industry experts believe it is only a matter of time before most music is sold over the internet, by downloading directly onto recording devices.Directors of EMI and Time Warner were locked in the offices of City investment bank Warburg Dillon Read yesterday negotiating the final details of the transaction and issued only a brief statement saying that the merger would "represent an opportunity to establish the world's premier music group".EMI, which began life as the Gramophone Company in 1897, was the last sizeable British music group."It's a shame to see the last major British music company effectively fall into overseas hands," said Alison Wenham,   chief executive of the Association of Independent Music.The merger unites labels including WEA, Elektra, Atlantic, Virgin, Capitol, Chrysalis, and Blue Note.EMI made &#163;75m profits in the first half of its financial year on sales of just over &#163;1bn, with its most notable success coming in Japan where the company sold 9m units of schoolgirl Utada Hikaru's R'n'B debut album First Love. Warner's sales are focused in the US, where it had 23 of the top 100 albums during 1998.Music sales worldwide have been sluggish recently. The industry has suffered in comparison with the sustained period over which buyers replaced their vinyl collections for CDs.Consequently the industry has witnessed a succession of large-scale mergers including Canadian group Seagram, which owns the Universal business, acquiring PolyGram. The Warner EMI tie-up is likely to face intense scrutiny from competition authorities.There was some speculation last night that Bertelsmann, which had been named as a potential bidder for EMI in recent weeks, may attempt to   spoil the party with Time Warner or else try a merger with another of its rivals.Although EMI and Time Warner will have equal stakes in the new company the US giant will be firmly in the driving seat. The new business will have headquarters in New York, and Roger Ames, head of Warner Music Group, will be installed as chief executive. Costs of up to &#163;300m are likely to be stripped out through combination of the two groups' promotion, marketing and distribution networks, which could spell job losses in Britain.The British music industry contributes &#163;3.2bn to the economy and employs 130,000 people, with British artists accounting for 10-15% of worldwide sales.EMI has been the subject of almost constant takeover speculation for the past two years. It saw off a hostile approach from Seagram and has also been linked with Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation and Walt Disney.EMI will retain its quote on the London stock market but will effectively become a holding company for its share in the joint venture.Time WarnerTori AmosPhil CollinsSinead O'ConnorREMMadonnaEric ClaptonCherMissy ElliottBjorkAC/DCEn VogueTracy ChapmanCatatoniaSimply RedAlanis MorissetteEMISpice GirlsGeri HalliwellFatboy SlimBeatlesRolling StonesStingProdigyMartine McCutcheonDavid BowieJanet JacksonLenny KravitzRobbie WIlliamsGenesisQueenBlurRadioheadBritney Spears
If someone told you that the Government had implemented a plan to censor the Internet use of 12 million British subjects you would say they were scaremongering. Think again.  Index on Censorship  has a terrific story about the so-called 'National Grid for Learning', designed to ensure that Britain's 12 million schoolchildren do not have access to anything on the Web that is not approved by David Blunkett and the commercial contractors implementing the grid.Blunkett regularly vies with Jack Straw for the title of the most authoritarian minister in the Blair cabinet. Even so, arrangements to censor children's use of the Net take one's breath away.The  Index article quotes from his speech introducing the Superhighway Safety   Pack. 'I am determined,' he rants, 'to ensure that children are protected from unsuitable material. We all share a responsibility to make sure that children's use of the Internet is appropriate and safe.'Suppliers to the Learning Grid are 'expected to offer adequate filtering of the material which can be accessed through their connections to the Internet'.Ah, those magic words: 'appropriate', 'safe', 'adequate' and 'filtering' - the catch phrases of intellectual nannies, censors and authoritarians everywhere. Who is to judge what is appropriate, safe or adequate? Why, the companies supplying connections to, and material for, Blunkett's fatuous grid.And how will they meet his requirements? Answer: by    installing the kind of filtering software which is already a byword for stupidity, insensitivity and illiberality. The kind of software which - as astronomer Heather Couper told  Index - prevents a schoolboy from accessing a website she has co-developed. Why? Because the site explains how to do 'naked-eye observations' of the stars from your back garden. God alone   knows what Blunkett would make of the transit of Venus.The net is buzzing with conjecture about why Bill Gates has handed control of Microsoft to Steve Ballmer. It depends what you mean by 'control' of course, but some wags have suggested it is because Gates wants to spend more time learning Linux, the open-source operating system, which is slowly but   surely beginning to threaten Microsoft's hold on the network server market. If so, it would be a typically far-sighted move by a man who has always been very good at taking the long view.For the Linux bandwagon continues to roll. The most vivid proof of this is IBM's announcement that it is seeking to establish Linux as a serious competitor to Windows in the corporate world. IBM developers are to work with Linux hackers to develop e-business software which can run on various hardware platforms.And Netcraft - the company which surveys the Web to see what software servers are using - reported that even the Queen's website has switched to Linux. Gates's hopes of a Royal Warrant are receding.Still with Linux, people have speculated for years about what Linus Torvalds, the Finn who created Linux, has been doing since moving to Transmeta, a pathologically secretive Californian start-up. Now we know.On Wednesday the company unveiled a revolutionary microprocessor codenamed Crusoe - a computing engine designed exclusively with mobile applications in mind. Among the claims for this new technology are Wintel compatibility and incredibly low power consumption, which, if true, will make Crusoe processors perfect for the wireless 'information appliances' regarded as the Next Big Thing.If nothing else, this might take some of the shine off ARM, the darling of UK investors because of its stranglehold on the mobile market. But perhaps the most significant thing about Crusoe is that it comes with Linux on a chip.john.naughton@observer.co.ukFor links and background material see:www.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
Credit card fraud soared by 40 per cent last year. Organised criminals using the Internet have fuelled the rise to a record &#163;190 million, security experts warned.Consumer spending on credit and debit cards in December rose by &#163;500m to &#163;14.5 billion, the Credit Card Research Group will announce tomorrow. One in every thousand of those transactions was fraudulent, according to credit security firm Apacs. The Home Office admitted last week that cyber-crime is booming.Counterfeiting is responsible for 10 per cent of total fraud, according to Apacs. The rest is believed to be due to the rise of Internet and telephone sales.Experts warn that a counterfeiting technique known as 'skimming' is more popular than ever. A genuine card is swiped through a card-reader, its data copied and used to make new magnetic strips for fake cards.Organised gangs, believed to have Mafia and Triad links, recruit skimmers, often in restaurants or petrol stations, according to the security firms.Up to 80 per cent of skimming is being attributed to Chinese Triads and the fear   is that workers are recruited not just in Britain but also in their native country before they reach the UK. The National Criminal Intelligence Service recently said Triads are mainly responsible for trebling credit fraud between 1994 and 1998.Mastercard's European security operation Europay's regional risk manager Paul Lucraft said: 'The greatest risk at present comes from highly organised international gangs who move across borders, and between jurisdictions. They use credit card data stolen from around Europe to make fraudulent credit cards. These cards are then used to buy bogus goods at a bogus retailer, through which the money reaches the fraudster.'Fraudsters look for a country where retail security is weak, and target consumers to gain genuine card details to use elsewhere.The revelations suggest Britain's security lags behind Europe, making it attractive for criminals. Chip cards which can protect information are not due to be issued before 2002. Even then, only half of Britain's retailers will use them. Valuable time is being wasted because security companies and retailers cannot agree on a method of cost-sharing for installation.
Fathoming Jellyworks is like trying to wrestle with a mound of the wobbly, kids' party staple itself.The miracles needed for the firm to justify its 20-fold share rise and &#163;200 million price tag are enormous enough. For new investors to profit, returns on its investments will have to be more spectacular than hedge funds' wildest dreams. And Guinan and Rowland will have to show near-superhuman foresight by investing early and cheaply in sure-fire winners.Each time they put money into other Internet investment funds, you're only backing their judgment of other people's nous. So the likely returns diminish exponentially. Three of Jellyworks' biggest investments are in other 'incubator funds': Antfactory, WorldCap and Grand Central Holdings.But why not ask, instead, whether you know exactly what Jellyworks already has. The answer is a resounding 'no' - it refuses to disclose the size of its stakes, and the prices paid per share, in all its investments. Last week chairman Edward Guinan said he would come back to us on these and other specifics, such as when precisely the Rowland family took each of its stakes. He never did.Evaluating the prospects of each firm is hard enough (much of Matchnet's dating website, for example, is still 'under construction'). But without this basic data, you can't tell what stake Jellyworks has in their success.Jellyworks' start-up    structure is also confusing.  The Observer asked Guinan why it had taken an option over the Rowland family's investments. Why not simply put them in Jellyworks from day one?'The accountants' attorneys raised questions,' he said. 'It would have had to go to the valuers. It was suggested the simplest way was to create an option. It &#91;the alternative&#93; looked as if it would add &#163;50,000 to the costs. It would have taken lots of time, with people running round for days over Christmas.'There are other niggles. First, the sudden change of mind on domicile: between the AIM admission notice on 6 December and the prospectus eight days later, the firm switched from Guernsey to the UK. Three (presumably Guernsey-based) non-executive directors were dropped in favour of one non-exec, Ashley Ward of Orchestream. The vehicle for the Rowland family holding also changed.Second, the exercise of 831,000 options in lieu of   fees by Jellyworks' advisers, Fiske and Nabarro Wells. Unlike other locked-in investors, Guinan says, the advisers have been free to deal since. How many shares, you may ask, have they sold?A third is Guinan's own purchase of 150,000 Jellyworks shares at between 50p and 52p. That came a day before the firm's surprise investment in Grand Central and a &#163;1m placing of Jellyworks shares at 60p each. Guinan's buying was seen as a sign of confidence, and the shares shot up. To spend &#163;75,000 on stock and see the value of rest of your shares and options rise by &#163;6m is a very profitable way to show confidence.Jellyworks would dismiss this as nitpicking. But it is the impossibility of ascertaining the stakes Jellyworks has that defeats valuation. You have to believe that the prices others will pay will spiral higher than whatever it paid. You have to suspend your belief not only in human fallibility, but in gravity itself.
If ever there was an illustration of how Internet companies can seemingly suck money out of thin air it is to be found at the plush London offices of Jellyworks. The paint has yet to dry on some of the walls in the Internet investment firm's Westminster HQ. Its website is still under construction. In the boardroom, which overlooks St James's Park, roller blinds lie on the floor, waiting to be put up.Through the window looms the Treasury. What Iron Chancellor Gordon Brown would make of Jellyworks can only be imagined, but the prudent Scot is unlikely to find any evidence of neo-classical endogenous growth in the month-old company's brief history. Floated just before Christmas, Jellyworks has seen its market value soar from &#163;10 million to more than &#163;240m.The reason for this gravity-defying leap is that the City is betting on a hunch. Investors in Jellyworks believe the company has the expertise and access to capital that will allow it to invest in those fledgling technology businesses which may become the Microsofts of the future.Much of the euphoria surrounding the company's share price stems from a feeling of d&eacute;j&agrave; vu. The company's chief executive is 24-year-old Jonathan David Rowland, who left Bedales after his GCSEs, tried his hand at a number of jobs, and now finds himself under the Square Mile's spotlight. The putative investment guru is the son of David Rowland, the property magnate and legendary fixer who reputedly made his first million by the age of 23, earning himself a place in City folklore and the sobriquet 'Spotty' to boot.Rowland senior's later business dealings were not so coruscating. Williams Hudson, a Rowland-controlled conglomerate, went under in the 1970s. A Rowland-backed takeover of Hibernian football club ended up in receivership.Now it is up to Rowland junior to prove he has his father's precocious alchemic touch. The story goes that Rowland senior gave his son   &#163;8m to set up Jellyworks. The money came from a firm called Easton Investments, a Guernsey-based company owned by the Rowland family's trusts. A family friend, Edward Guinan (Rowland senior was his best man), invested &#163;1m and is now the company's chairman.The two older men are adamant that it will be Rowland junior who calls the shots. One obvious reason is that, as a tax exile, Rowland senior could attract the attentions of the Inland Revenue if he were seen taking a part in the company's activities.'I respect what my father's done. He's a clever guy,' says Jonathan Rowland. 'He has left us alone and he's not involved day to day. If I see him for dinner, we chat and that's about it. He trusts my judgment and trusts Ed.' Never the less, the links to the Rowland family seem extremely strong. Even the Jellyworks HQ is rented from the family.The idea of floating an Internet investment vehicle seems to have been Rowland   senior's as well. Says Jonathan: 'I got married in October, and when I got home I spoke to my father who said "you should put together a public company which will be investing in Internet stuff". I spoke to Ed. He'd been having the same thoughts for six months.'The company's name came from a brainstorming session between chairman and chief executive. 'We sat around trying to dream up something whimsical but unforgettable which had a .com still available,' Guinan recalls.Guinan, a former Wall Street trader, claims Jellyworks has huge resources. 'We are unique in that we are not restricted by access to   capital. If we saw an opportunity we wanted to deploy serious amounts of money to, we could do it. We have serious firepower. We're looking at larger transactions now. If we saw a &#163;100m deal today we could do it.'So far, Jellyworks has done little to earn its stellar value. The company has made, or has options to make, investments in a number of Internet firms including EPO.com, a Swedish online investment bank; Antfactory, a US incubator for early-stage technology companies; and Orchestream, a software company specialising in solving Internet congestion problems. Orchestream's chief executive, Ashley Ward, is JellyWorks' sole non-executive director.Guinan is 52. Rowland insist theirs is a partnership of equals. Guinan is an expert in corporate finance while Rowland, who once worked in the family's property business as a trainee surveyor, is strong on identifying investment targets.Guinan says: 'This was a lucky relationship. We were old friends anyway. It's a very powerful situation. We have some deep brainstorming sessions. Jonathan and I could go and have a beer in a pub and create a new company, literally.'Rowland got the thirst for seeking out investment targets after working for his father. 'I decided 18 months ago the best thing to do was work with the old man, who had a proven track record. I'd resisted it for five or six years. I sat under his guidance, listened and learned.'He then started to identify Internet investment targets. 'I understood it better than he did. I started to source deals, ring people up, meet people.'Some of Rowland's earliest investments included Autonomy (an Internet software company) and Demon, an Internet Service Provider.Now things have changed. Answering to shareholders rather than to the Rowland family creates new pressures to deliver returns - either through selling Jellyworks' investments at a premium to   trade or through Initial Public Offerings. This hybrid firm - a blend of venture capital outfit and shell company - may be a strange beast to UK investors, but it is not without successful precedents.Rowland cites as the company's role model CMGI, the US investment powerhouse which started out as a direct mailing firm and has now made billions by investing in technology stocks, notably Internet search engine Lycos.Of course, such success can be sustained only if the value of Jellyworks shares remains buoyant. If sentiment turns against the firm, chances are its boasts of being able to secure access to capital will wear thin.Guinan is dismissive about this possibility: 'We were asked "is your company money for old rope?". I'm not entirely sure what that comment meant. We see ourselves as building a billion-pound company.'Jonathan Rowland has even greater designs: 'I respect what Richard Branson's done with Virgin. I think we can make Jellyworks a similar sort of brand in the future.'The Internet - it's a wibbly, wobbly world.ProfilesName:Jonathan RowlandJob title:Chief executive of JellyworksBorn:8 June 1975Other directorships:NoneHobbies:Saloon car racing; holds pilots licenceName:Edward GuinanJob title:Chairman of JellyworksBorn:7 October 1947Other directorships:Chairman, chief executive and founder of International Advance, a privately held investment company.Hobbies:Spends weekends at country house in Northamptonshire; horse-riding
Major inquiries have been launched into e-commerce and money laundering as part of a shift to "proactive regulation" by the financial services authority. Chairman Howard Davies said yesterday the inquiry's reports would be used as the basis for day-to-day supervision of the City.Three other inquiries have also begun - into the implications for investors of a low-inflation environment, into after-care for savers and investors and into ways the FSA can provide market incentives for firms to conform with rules and regulations.The agency is setting up what is in effect an internal ad hoc think tank to guide its enforcement policy. Mr Davies said the pension mis-selling affair was a set-piece example of something that could have been prevented by one of the FSA's new "theme projects".Denying it would be "an academic body", Mr Davies said the think tank represented "a shift to more front-end activity". He was presenting the FSA's conclusions to a review of the old regulatory system, one crucial finding of which is that there has been too much emphasis on routine surveillance and on reacting to scandals when they occur.Regarding the inquiry into e-commerce, Mr Davies said the development of investment over the net presented risks, especially in terms of "potential criminal activity".
Alex Allan, former high commissioner for Australia (now there's a qualification for the top Whitehall IT job) has just started work as "e-envoy". His mission is "to drive forward e-commerce and e-government". The latter means putting the state online, a huge enterprise. Allan's chivvying of the private sector is going to be a lot more effective if government itself becomes a paragon of the new forms of electronic communication with the public.Recent weeks have been breathless... NHS online; &#163;500m for IT learning centres; an audit of the state's websites; guidance on website design; and large rhetoric from Allan's boss, cabinet office minister Ian McCartney. (Pat Hewitt, the e-commerce minister, is also somewhere in the chain of command.) "Through the click of a button we can provide high quality services, health advice and help finding jobs, directly to citizens in a simple and convenient way." And to that end, quantitative targets: 100% of public services to be online by 2008.But forecasts highlight the downbeat expectations of Whitehall's top brass; e-dealings between citizen and taxman will double within three years, but still represent only a fifth of total contact with the inland revenue. Burning a hole in Allan's desk is last month's sharp report from the national audit office entitled Government on the Web.All allowances made for the   fact its survey of Whitehall web use is 12 months old, it says Whitehall lost the plot between the period of early Tory enthusiasm for "government direct" in 1995-96 and now. Is Allan, a mere civil servant, to evangelise and push through changes that must profoundly alter the economy of official information? The web means more freedom of information. It is ushering in an era of "co-production" in government - by giving the public so much more access and involvement. Lip service is paid to the idea in the latest plan for Whitehall reform, but unless and until civil servants start putting their email addresses (the vast majority still don't have them) on accessible websites, the rhetoric is empty.At the centre, a cast of hundreds divides responsibility. If the prime minister has other things on his mind, who is the minister with enough seniority to crack the   whip on improving websites? The Central IT Unit - once the main Whitehall think tank on the web's wonders - has ceded place to the Performance and Innovation Unit. Ian McCartney's new media team services the Information Age Champions' Group, which is meant to be spearheading the departments' push: government by committee with a vengeance.Out on left field is the Central Computer and Telecommunications Agency, responsible for the state's central portal,www.open.gov.uk- this ought to be a gorgeously-bedecked anteroom to the Aladdin's cave of official information but is in fact a pallid, poorly arranged thing scarcely changed since its inception in prehistoric times (ie 1995). One of the deficits on the open.gov site is how hard it is to follow policy around. There is no entry, for example, for "children" - a good example of the cross-cutting issue the cabinet    office keeps saying must be joined up. The site does, however, support some little gems. There, nestling between the Scottish virtual teachers' centre and Sedgefield council iswww.securityservice.gov.uk; MI5's is not a bad site as these things go.In e-land, a little imagination goes a long way. GCHQ, the government centre for    signals intelligence, won favourable publicity recently for putting a light-hearted crack-the-code quiz for job seekers on its web site (www.gchq.gov.uk). There is talk of citizens getting "personalised" home pages, based on their dealings with the state. But that would require lines between Whitehall and local government to be clearer than they are and for   some constitutional theorist to advise the IT anoraks just what the boundaries of the state now are (BAA, a private company, is on the open government site for no explicable reason).A besetting problem in our system is how to translate initiatives into delivery by disparate Whitehall departments, let alone all the peripheral bodies, local authorities and so on. There is talk of putting online targets in the "public service agreements" on which the treasury will in theory base spending allocations, but that will only work if the centre has a tight game plan. The web has to let a thousand flowers bloom.Most of those paying tax under self-assessment can probably afford a computer and modem; most of those receiving income support from the department of social security cannot. DSS has its dedicated IT agency (ITSA) but it is the social   exclusion unit in the cabinet office which is looking at paying for more computers in libraries or in kiosks in DSS offices to give poor people better e-opportunities. ITSA is, however, experimenting with letting people use information on its website to forecast their pension.The national audit office shows how cost-effective the net can be for the state. Some 400,000 phone calls are placed each year to the department of trade and industry inquiry unit: if only 1% of calls were redirected to its website, it would save &#163;6,400.The DSS ITSA says it intends to put benefit claim forms online "as and when the public demand is there". In that phrase lies Alex Allan's (and Tony Blair's) problem. Is the state merely going to follow the curve in developing e-government, or is it going to innovate ahead of public opinion and behaviour and seek to lead us to the promised land?
We use theNMEwebsite, every day. We get interview biographies and band biographies from it. The good thing about it is that it won't let you forget about it as it stays on the screen, and it has loads and loads of links. You can flick through reviews from the night before as well as records the NME has reviewed - and then you can access the music. But the main reason people use NME is for the news pages. The quality is good, very fast, and it's updated daily.Hint Magazineis basically a fashion magazine on the web. It's an irreverent look at the fashion industry and the media. As well as reviews, it looks at industry gossip - at what the editor of Harper's Bazaar or Gwyneth Paltrow is doing. There was an article about which model has the sexiest, prettiest and cutest eyes, which we extracted for our magazine; it listed the top 10 and then it let the people who accessed the website have a debate in the chatrooms. It ran for four or five days. I guess what I like about it is there's no pomposity, but it's also very informative and tells you when the fashion shows are on. The whole package is slickly done.I suspect a journalist is behindwww.tvgohome.com. It's a mock-up of the Radio Times, with all the same fonts and photos with bylines with the latest TV series and film premieres, but all the entries are made up. It's a satirical look at news programmes and a satire on news presenting on television - I think it's fair to say it wouldn't exist if it hadn't been for Chris Morris and Brass Eye. It's literally a page of television listings with a paragraph block for each programme (over Christmas, say, it had a billing that said: "4.00. Film Premiere: A Muppet Schindler's List. Harrowing drama starring Liam Neeson and Kermit the Frog.") It's not interactive, but it's incredibly humorously and rudely written. Kind of fun.&#149; All the reports from Life Online week, plus a comprehensive guide to how to get the most out of the internet, can be found atwww.guardianunlimited.co.uk/lifeonline
Linus Torvalds, founder of the Linux computer operating system, plays a game as he demonstrates the new Crusoe chip from Transmeta Corporation for laptops and mobile internet   applications in California yesterday.The market response was to push shares in palmtop computer group Psion and microchip designer ARM sharply down as investors    worried about the effect of the new low-power mobile chip on their business. Transmeta's new chips, used with the Linux system, were introduced as "revolutionising the   field of mobile computing".ARM, which fell sharply on Wednesday before the new chips were made public, was off more than 7% on the previous day's close. Psion fell 5.7%.The chips,   which IBM will make, are likely to challenge Intel's domination of the microprocessor market.Low power use will drive consumer take-up of a coming array of new mobile Internet devices. The Crusoe chips use 1.2 to 1.65 watts of power, a fraction of the 7 watts for comparable Intel Pentium III processors.  Photograph: Paul Sakuma
Engage Technologies, a US company which collects profiles of internet users, announced the purchase of two online advertising companies yesterday in a combined bid that was worth $2.9bn (&#163;1.8bn) by mid-morning.The acquisition of Adsmart and Flycast from CMGI, the internet investment group that owns a majority of Engage, is set to improve the group's position in the online advertising market.Forrester Research expects this market to almost double from $3.3bn in 1999 to $6.5bn this year. Just 2% of the total US corporate advertising budget is already spent online. The   merger creates a bigger online rival to Doubleclick, the established market leader in online advertising.Investors welcomed the deal yesterday. By midday in New York, shares in Engage had risen $13 to $90, adding more than $400m to the total value of the all-share deal based on Wednesday night's closing price.Engage will pay CMGI with 32m shares for the two companies, increasing CMGI's stake in Engage from 80% to 87%. CMGI, which holds large stakes in 60 internet companies including portal outfits AltaVista and Lycos, announced yesterday that if the acquisitions go ahead its investments in publicly listed companies   will be worth more than $11bn.David Wetherell, chairman and chief executive of CMGI, said: "Today we have begun to fulfil our larger vision for a single, highly integrated internet marketing company that represents the next generation in online marketing solutions."The combined company is expected to help companies target specific audiences with their advertising by pooling their resources.Adsmart has worked on more than 400 websites, while Flycast measures the effectiveness of online ads. CMGI only bought San Francisco-based Flycast last week.Engage has compiled profiles of 35m web users based on which sites they visit.The company has said that it does not store personal information such as credit card numbers, a privacy issue which has exercised American regulators.Kevin O'Connor, chief executive of Doubleclick, said in New York this week that the web-based ads could be more effective than television ones.The acquisitions, which are expected to close in the spring, pushed the market value of Engage to more than $4bn yesterday.Paul Schaut will remain as president and chief executive of the combined company, while the respective heads of Flycast and Adsmart will join the president's office to oversee strategic operations.
It is a rarity in the world of e-commerce: an internet business that is profitable. But yesterday Tesco announced that its online grocery shopping business was now the biggest in the world, with annualised sales of &#163;125m. It is poised for further expansion which should create 7,000 jobs - and is making money.Two thousand new shoppers are signing on withTesco Directevery week and it now has 250,000 registered users. By the end of this year, 90% of the population will have access to the service.The implications could be enormous. If shoppers mostly stay at home, there are question marks over the future of the vast out-of-town superstores into which the supermarket chains have ploughed millions.Equally, there is the potential for further erosion of high street retailing. A survey by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Research Foundation, to be published tomorrow, will warn that computer access and time pressures mean "the days of high street shopping could be numbered".But there are alternative suggestions that e-shopping could mean a new role for traditional retailers, as shoppers order only commodities - tinned food and toilet rolls - for delivery, and revert to small shops for pro duce which they traditionally like to see before buying, like cheeses, charcuterie, fresh meat, fruit and vegetables.Supermarket groupIceland, which started nationwide internet shopping last October and was overwhelmed with the response, has observed this trend. Malcolm Walke, its chairman, said its shoppers ordered mainly low-margin, bulk commodity goods - taking their custom for the more profitable purchases elsewhere.Tesco now offers web shopping to anyone who lives within a 25-minute drive of a selected 100 stores. But by the end of this year, the online service will be available from 300 of Tesco's 640 stores and expanded to offer non-food items like books clothing, gifts, furnishings and banking services."We are now the biggest on-line grocery business in the world, and that is fact", said a Tesco spokesman. Its nearest rival is Peapods, a US grocery business which has 100,000 e-customers.Tesco's approach is radically different from that of its main competitors. Its online business is based on its traditional stores. The staff manning the keyboards, trolleys and delivery vans for the stay-at-home shoppers are all store workers, although they work solely on the online service.The system is highly automated. Orders coming in are   fed through a computer which provides the least time-consuming route around the store for the pickers. The computer also calculates the best delivery route for the driver.But Asda and Sainsbury believe that Tesco has got it wrong. They are ploughing millions into constructing huge warehouses, or picking centres, which will service net shoppers only.Asda currently operates two, in Croydon and Watford, which can offer internet shopping to a potential one million shoppers. It will open two more depots inside the M25 by the end of this year and has plans for eleven more, nationwide, within the next three to five years.By the summer, Asda@ Home is also going on Open, the television shopping channel available to Sky Digital   subscribers, although the service will only be available to Londoners.Sainsbury, which is investing &#163;30m in e-commerce, is equally London-oriented, and a net laggard. Its first picking centres have yet to open, and it has no plans to open any outside the capital.But that may be about to   change. The Sainsbury strategy was devised by Dino Adriano, who was ousted last week and replaced by Sir Peter Davis, the e-wise boss of the Prudential insurance group, which revolutionised personal banking with Egg.Mr Adriano was insistent that his was the right plan, supported by evidence from the US that store-based e-shopping was not cost-effective. He reckoned stores should not be cluttered up with internet pickers and packers.Tesco, unsurprisingly, begs to differ. "There is no business model anywhere that proves picking centres can be profitable," said a spokesman. "By using our stores what we are doing is making the assets we already have work harder."We can increase our e-business three times before we start to reach capacity. The store-based model works well and we are a long way off changing it."
www.oneworld.org/euforicMy favourite website is called euforic - Europe's Forum on International Co-Operation - which gives an overview of development issues on debt, trade and a lot of emphasis on EU programmes. It provides, for instance, information on trade aid for African Caribbean and Pacific countries, and on the globalisation of trade. It's a very good site: user-friendly, speedy, topical, and written in a very accessible way. No matter what issue you're interested in, it crops up here.There are a number of complex issues with which it deals very well:, for example, the World Trade Organisation in Seattle. It didn't just concentrate on the streets but on the nature of negotiations, the positions of the main negotiations, the role of developing countries.It's not written simply from a northern perspective. You never feel they're giving any kind of spin.www.ft.com,www.guardian.co.ukNewspapers online are equally indispensable in terms of research. There was a story yesterday we were looking at - the South Africa trade agreement with the EU - and we were able to access three pieces the FT had done in the last week. We generally look at the Guardian and the FT. The FT has a global archive, which comes in useful for us - the way we work in this parliament we specialise in areas. I'm responsible for Wales and the FT's global archive helps me access news from Wales at the touch of a key. The newspaper itself does a lot of work on trade issues. Of course, that's an important element in the EU.In the work I do, the financial pages of Larry Elliott, Dan Atkinson, and a number of people at the Guardian who write on the issues with which I work would be natural to look at. On the other hand, it may be a feature piece - Polly Toynbee, for example - which I might refer to if I'm writing a speech. Newspapers online are useful because I can't read every paper from Caernarvon to Cardiff, but this way, I can quickly get the best of several.
What's in a name? On the world wide web, perhaps millions of pounds. As e-commerce burst into the public consciousness last year, the scramble to establish a web presence began to reach gold rush proportions. And like shovel sellers who made a fortune from the prospectors, vendors of domain names have flourished now that the latest must-have accessory is a snappy web address.Domain names are the unique part of the web address of a site, and as internet hype has snowballed, so has the rush to stake a claim in cyberspace. In the middle, in charge of this important part of the net's plumbing, is one US-based company:Network Solutions.This fact has upset many people online. Six years ago, when your life was complete without the words "e-commerce" and "MP3", the US government handed to NSI some obscure rights to domain name suffixes, including those to the all important ".com" ending. The problems for   NSI came when its obscure rights got the company placed right in the middle of one of the greatest revolutions of the 20th century.When other companies saw NSI sitting unchallenged on top the domains goldmine, they began to cry foul. The disagreements were resolved only recently, when the US Department of Commerce chaired an agreement between NSI and a non profit organisation called theInternet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann).Headed by Esther Dyson, "queen of the internet" and Online columnist, Icann won the right for approved companies to access the Whois database, where all .com, .org and .net info is listed.    "We've all kissed and made up," she explained. "It is now clear... that the Whois database is available to anybody."Agreement or not, NSI still hit the headlines several times recently.First it had to withdraw almost a thousand domains it issued by mistake. Then a hacker tapped into NSI's database and began redirecting addresses to a single site.   Netizens everywhere remain disgruntled.To get yourself that snappy website name requires either skill or cash. The skill comes not in thinking up a neat    name, but finding one that's available. Take a random choice such as, say, the unlikely "monkeyjuice", and you will quickly find that the name Monkeyjuice.com is   taken, as are so many of the precious .com domains. Head to the handy search tool at NSI's site and you'll find all the three letter domains are long gone, even com.com's been snapped up.But once you locate an available domain, follow the instructions (the "wizard" after the domain search), add your details then your credit card info and proceed to make your mark in cyberspace. One small step for man, one tiny but important drop in the virtual ocean for you.The British domains are controlled byNominet, a non-profit organisation given powers by NSI. Having recently lowered the cost of registering the co.uk domain, Nominet has seen an explosion of companies offering free, or practically free domains.Additional interactive features like email may cost more. To register a co.uk name yourself, you have to contact one of the many internet service providers (ISPs) listed at Nominet. The database, however, suffered a serious crash on January 12.   The website adds: "The full domain name index has been restored, but recovery of full registrant details continues."To register a co.uk domain go to, for example,www.usp.netand insert your domain of choice into the "check availability" box. Follow the instructions, filling in your details and then credit card numbers.If you don't have that skill or very good timing, then obtaining the perfect domain name will now cost you dearly. As the interest in the web has boomed, so has a lucrative cottage industry: playing the domain name game. For any company wanting to make an online impression, a memorable domain name is essential. And www.please/remember/this.sorrywhatdidyousay?simply won't cut it.Many websites are discovered by word of mouth, and in this world ".com" is king. There are hundreds of domain names other than the .org, .com and .net suffixes.These include the well known .co.uk, but vary to suit the colourful spectrum of nations whoch is now online &#91;seehttp://uninett.no/navn/domreg.htm&#93;, such as .is or .fm. And this week the Italian domain name ".it" became available throughout Europe, making humour along the lines ofwww.shut.itand www.slap.it possible. Any remaining domain names - they were being snapped up quickly as we went to press -are available fromVirtual Internet.But beware gold rush style claim-jumpers. The internet has spawned its own, known as cybersquatters. While others were just starting to explore the internet, they jumped in and registered the best domain names. Then offered to sell them at a vast profit.If you're in the spotlight, they're after your name. No one is safe, not even the world's richest man. Bill   Gates might have built Microsoft, but he never thought to register the name billgates.co.uk. That domain was registered by a British businessman, who attempted to auction it for more than &#163;2m. He now faces possible legal action from the software giant."We would object to anyone taking unfair advantage of the goodwill and recognition of Mr Gates' name and reputation," a Microsoft spokeswoman explained. The name has currently been withdrawn from sale.Corporations and superstars alike have been caught unawares by quick witted cybersquatters. Brad Pitt was offered bradpitt.com for &#163;16,000 and a 17-year-old boy registered the name of the global financial services firm Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, before they   announced any online plans . Legal proceedings commenced when the teenager reject a $10,000 offer and demanded $75,000.Registering trademarks as domain names can infringe copyright and invite legal action. But personal names like Faldo.com - currently up for auction at a price of &#163;2m - escape due to a grey area of the law.Other squatted domains seem aimed at specific companies, with www.ipcmags.com, freeserveonline.com and MTVBase.com perhaps more valuable to some than others.Action has been promised. NSI recently reclaimed domains from many suspected squatters and entrepreneurs, claiming unpaid bills as the reason.However, with the growing need for names, it will take much more than that to halt a healthy trade. Auction sites have sprung up for names such asgreatdomains.comandnames123.com. At greatdomains.com you could buy America.com - but bidding starts at $10m.On a more positive note, sites likewww.netnames.com, offer services to companies wishing to secure their trademarks beyond the   obvious .com and .co.uk realms.Taking an original approach iswww.funmail.co.uk. Like greatdomains.com, this company buys up domain names, but then offers a free email service with the most original of names. If you've ever fancied being zoeball@horrendous.co.uk or hounddog@elvislives.co.uk, then now is your chance."We have a database of 14,000 domains," explains funmail co-founder Graham Goodkind. "Despite over 50 requests a week, we never sell the names. "Goodkind emphasises the creativity that goes into the   process. "With up to 20 free email addresses per domain, you have more chance to express yourself online." Taking advantage of the UK's liberal domain laws, funmail has been able to build a healthy business, helping to add to the 300,000 names registered worldwide a week."You simply can't get good names anymore. The market has moved from a primary to a resale one," he concludes.Domain facts and figures1300,000 domains are registered every week.213 million domains are in use worldwide.3The BBC website tops the British sites with around 160 million page impressions a month.4The "big seven" banned swear words on US networks are withheld as domain names.5Originally, names were registered for two years, butRegister.comis now offering 1, 2, 5 or 10 years - and discounts.6Buying a .com domain from NSI can cost between $70 and $169 US.7The record bid for a site is $10m forYear2000.com. Placed on the auction siteeBay.com, it beat the last record of $7.5m for Business.com.8NSI looks set to expand domain names to up to 63 characters. Traditionally they could be only 26 characters.9There are more than 200 top level domains including .sh (St. Helena), .to (Tongo), .cd (Republic Of Congo).10Still confused about domain names and who runs the process? Check Studio24's clear guide:www.studio24.net/domainname.shtml
www.handbag.comLaunched in May 1999, its funky graphics, mix of news and features, trivia quizzes and free email make it appealing to younger women. Want to know how many calories are in half an avocado? This site is for you.www.CharlotteStreet.comFeels like a slightly older version of handbag.com. Updated daily, it has over 20 channels, from health and horoscopes to love and leisure. Strong on news.www.icircle.co.ukLaunched by Freeserve for its half a million women users, this multi-channel site offers lots of information and practical advice from the likes of agony aunt Anna Raeburn. From ISAs to Greek Islands, a no-nonsense site for working women.www.planetgrrl.comSet up in 1998 in response to what founder Jules calls the "dire lack" of UK sites for or by women and girls. Content ranges from a beginner's guide to the internet to animal welfare, clubbing and employment.www.cabinet-office.gov.uk/womens-unitIncludes downloadable factsheets on subjects like family friendly employment, plus info on women's ministers.http://www.gn.apc.org/wen/The Women's Environmental Network campaigns on issues that concern women. This site looks at activities ranging from calling for waste prevention to lobbying for pesticide-free food.www.newwomanonline.co.ukOnline version of Emap-owned mag New Woman, it features around 20 channels covering everything from careers to childcare. Editorial content and offers supplied by other Emap titles like Heat and Red.www.patient.co.ukUK-based site with a dedicated section on women's health, from anorexia to menopause. Set up to provide accessible medical information.www.womensaid.org.ukWomen's Aid is a national charity for women and children being physically, sexually or emotionally abused in their homes. An excellent site giving advice and info including National Domestic Violence campaign details.www.womenconnect.org.ukSet up in 1998, this site aims to create an electronic network of women's organisations. Offers training, support and information to groups and individuals.
Have you made the typical New Year's Resolutions: lose weight, quit smoking, drink less? How about one more for the hi-tech millennium? Learn to search the web better. Here's a search exercise plan to get you into shape.First, it helps to understand the basics of how search engines get their listings. There are two main ways: human beings or automated "crawlers".Yahoois a great example of a search engine that uses human beings. Its editors classify websites into different categories. So a search for "travel" reveals categories such as Travel Booksellers, Travel Companies and Hawaiian Travel. Click on a topic, and you'll be shown a list of sites that an editor has selected for that particular category.In contrast, a search engine likeAltaVistasends robot crawlers out across the web to read automatically a large number of pages. The text is stored in what you can think of as a big book. So when you search for "travel", AltaVista flips through its book to displays links to all the individual web pages it has found with those words.In general, use a human-powered search engine when looking for answers to something general. But for something specific, such as "places to stay in Fort William", a crawler-based search engine may be more helpful.It is also helpful to understand basic search engine   "maths". This means that by using symbols such as + or -, you can get better search results.For instance, say you were looking for "football" and kept getting answers about the NFL, the National Football League in the United States. Try searching again like this: football-nflThe minus symbol tells the search engine to look for pages that say football then to subtract any pages which contain the word NFL. That makes it more likely you'll get pages about Manchester United, rather than the Miami Dolphins!In fact, you can use the + symbol to get even closer to Man U. Try a search like this: football +manchester +unitedThat tells the search engine to find all the pages with football on them, then to show you only pages that also say "manchester" and "united".If you were seeking Manchester United information, then the best way would be to search like this: "manchester united".Using the quote marks around a series of words tells   the search engine to return only pages with that exact phrase on them, in that exact order which greatly increases the odds that they'll be about Manchester United.By searching in lower-case, you'll find both lower and upper-case versions of your words at all major search engines. So save your fingers and stay off the shift key!Another search tip is to always be specific. For instance, if you want to buy tickets for Manchester United matches online, then search that way, such as: Where can I buy tickets for Manchester United matches online?It's fine to use natural   language queries like this on any search engine - you don't need to use only Boolean commands or even the maths commands described above. Just start with a specific query, and you may find what you are looking for without having to resort to other attempts.Another way to get better results can be to use multiple search engines. No two search engines are exactly the same, and if you use only one, you might miss good results that another might have. Since they are all free, don't be afraid to try a couple when searching the web.You can even send your query to multiple search engines at the same time, using metasearch engines. Also called metacrawlers, these sites save you time by forwarding your query to several major search engines then bringing back the results to one place. There is even metasearch software that brings back answers from multiple places to sort through.Finally, have you every looked for something to do with Britain and come back with a load of results that made you feel like the entire web is American? Next time, try a British search engine. These services make an extra attempt to ensure the sites they list are either British or about Britain. Just be sure to use the UK option usually located near the search box.The best places to start lookingYahooYahoo.co.ukThe oldest major human-powered search engine on the web, and a great starting place for any search. Has UK or webwide search abilities.AltaVistawww.altavista.co.ukCrawler-based service that's an excellent choice for finding unusual or very specific information. Offers the ability to search within the UK or across the entire web.Googlewww.google.comCrawler-based service with a unique ranking system that finds great answers, even    when seeking general information.Excitewww.excite.co.ukCrawler-based service with UK or webwide abilities.AskJeeveswww.askjeeves.comMany like its unusual style of asking you questions to get you to the right website. Also a meta search engine.Northern Lightwww.northernlight.comCrawler-based service popular with researchers. Good place to look for hard-to-find information.UKMaxwww.ukmax.comCrawler-based search engine for both UK and worldwide.SearchUKwww.searchuk.comCrawler-based search engine specifically for the UK.UK Pluswww.ukplus.co.ukThe only major human- powered service produced for the UK, in the UK.LookSmartwww.looksmart.co.ukHuman-powered service that classifies sites into categories, helpful for finding general information. Search within the UK or across the world.Lycoswww.lycos.co.ukA crawler-based search   engine with UK or webwide search abilities.Virgin Netwww.virgin.netSearch the web with a special edition of the Google engine, with extra listings for the UK.FASTwww.alltheweb.comCrawler-based service with a large number of listings. Good for unusual information.Go2Netwww.go2net.comMeta search site that lets you query many popular search engines at once.SavvySearchwww.savvysearch.comAnother popular meta search site.
&#149; On edge Wall Street was skittish yesterday as it waited for some of America's largest companies to report their results late last night.The technology sector was particularly nervous ahead of announcements from bellwether companies such as IBM, the world's biggest computer hardware group, and Apple, the software company.The Nasdaq composite index was trading up just 16 points at midday after a weak morning. America Online , the internet service provider which announced the ground- breaking takeover of Time Warner last week, was also due to report earnings after markets closed in New York.IBM was expected to report a 14% drop in quarterly earnings largely because customers stopped buying large computers in the run-up to the end of the year.The company horrified Wall Street several months ago when it warned that fears over Y2K would hit sales.Some analysts now believe that sales of mainframe computers could be as much as 60% lower than the same time last year.
Eidos, the computer games maker which issued a profits warning on Tuesday after weak sales in the run up to Christmas, has been thrown a potential lifeline by a deal to distribute its Tomb Raider game onSega's new Dreamcast console.The agreement follows the end of a contract withSonyto format the series exclusively for the Playstation and PCs and could provide a fillip for the Eidos share price. Yesterday, shares in the company slipped another 2.5% to &#163;25.48 after losing a third of their value on the back of the warning."This will bail them out after   the last couple of weeks which have been a disaster," said one media analyst. "Tomb Raider is a pretty decent franchise and they could get away another half a million on the back of Dreamcast which would add perhaps &#163;5m to profits this year."Sega hopes that Dreamcast, which has a built-in modem for internet access and online playing, will enable it to get back into contention in a market which has been dominated in recent years by Sony. Sega claims to have sold 250,000 Dreamcast consoles in Britain alone since launch at the end of last year.Eidos made pre-tax profits of &#163;37.9m last year on sales of &#163;226.3m.
British Telecommunicationshas been forced to pay out &#163;130m to dampen a legal row triggered by its acquisition of Ireland's second largest telecoms business,Esat, last week.BT is using the cash to buy the Irish Electricity Supply Board out of Ocean, their fledgling, fixed-wire joint venture in the republic. The ESB was angered by BT's &#163;1.5bn acquisition of Esat, which it said broke agreements not to compete with Ocean.The deal hammered out over several days of talks will leave BT as the sole owner of Ocean and removes the final obstacles from its acquisition of Esat. A BT spokesman said the company is "happy to have brought a period of uncertainty to an end."Analysts, though, rounded on BT which has had to weave its way through a complex set of negotiations since emerging as a white knight to rescue Esat from the unwanted attentions of Norway's Telenor."They found themselves with their backs against the   wall and so have paid a pretty full price for the stake in Ocean," said one analyst. Shares in BT which had dropped 3% on the original deal fell another 32p to &#163;12.49.After last week's agreement BT had to offer Telenor around &#163;750m for its existing share in Esat's mobile phone network or else a third stake in the wider Esat group.ESB, which invested around IR&#163;22.5m (&#163;17.7m) in the business which was set up in 1998, said it was happy with the turn on its investment. "Our main objective was to ensure the value of our assets was protected and their value fully recognised" a spokesman said.&#149; Tim Samples, managing director of One2One, has quit the mobile phone network five months after it was acquired by Germany's Deutsche Telekom. Mr Samples is joining an unnamed London telecoms start-up business and said he had been lured partly by the promise of equity."One2One has become a massive business and I was anxious to go back to something much smaller and build from the ground up," he said.
Beaten trackTwice in the past month Online contributors have complained about buying music on the net. I suspect they are relying too much on the highly publicised sites. I start atwww.allmusic.comfor artist details especially discographies, catalogue numbers and track listings. Then I make tracks towww.boxman.co.ukorwww.101cd.comto check prices and availability. If they can't supply what I want for less than a tenner I may look atwww.cdzone.co.uk. Apart from the occasional delay, I have had no problems.Michael Youngmanm@youngman.orgBad tasteBeing a Guardian reader for longer than I care to remember (since '59) I was browsing through Online when I came across Jack Schofield's review of Medal of Honour. Am I so out of touch that I find it in the worst possible taste? I wonder who buys this type of "game"?Schofield comments solely about the technical details, not a word about the morality of it. My half dozen quite young German friends would cringe with embarrassment.PS: What chance European Unity?Alan Jennings(technical luddite!)Braunston, DaventryNo big thingYet again you suggest (January 6) that "the next big thing" will be sending and receiving emails on a mobile phone handset. But this service is already available - free - to all by creative use of the standard phone's inbuilt SMS text messaging facility.To send an email, send an SMS message in the format "EMAIL person@place.com your message goes here to phone number +393388641732.To give your phone its own email address for incoming    emails in the form yourname@sms.genie.co.uk , register as a user atwww.genie.co.uk. Both services are free.To avoid having to explain the limited capacity of your SMS email address all the time, you can register withwww.bigfoot.comfor a email address which can then be set up to "distribute" your incoming emails to both your phone and your usual email address.Apart from the charge imposed by your own phone company for sending messages, all of these services are free and available now.  Fringe benefits are knowing when an email has arrived, and being able to change internet service provider without having to change your email address.Email your thanks to my phone at the address below.Michael Hampsonmichael.hampson@bigfoot.comNarrow bandE-commerce, webwork, entertainment, communities (chat) and one section on news and views; a very narrow, mainstream, and rather commercial selection of the usual suspects.Where are the really interesting ones - fromFriends of the EarthandJubilee 2000toCommunities onlineandOneworld.As a long term Guardian reader I would expect you to look at the whole range of services provided via the internet and not just cave in to the hyped up consumption related sites. The net is a powerful political tool for activists, NGOs and communities which should be reflected in a list of websites of 1999.Marco KuntzeNew Economics  Foundationmarco.kuntze@neweconomics.orgStill hereGlad to see that Online is back to the old format, as a complete supplement. We were getting worried for a while that you thought there was no news to print regarding the Internet anymore. Keep up the excellent coverage.Steve Proctersteve@easily.co.uk
Hugo Isaac's face is a picture of concentration. He is driving a Volvo estate carefully through the Docklands in London. In the boot are two web servers worth more than &#163;70,000 and weighing about 100 kilos each. The internal systems manager is driving them to the high-security offices of a new ISP where he hopes they will soon be handling an enormous amount of cyber-based traffic.Back atMoonfruit.com'soffices on Oxford Street, Nick Young, known as the "bug man", groans as news of yet another computer bug is emailed to him. He adds it to the list to be checked. Tonight he will go to design agency Sixzeds in Soho to sort it out.It's late morning and Wendy Tan, chief executive of Moonfruit.com, is back in the office. She's been working from 8am to midnight most days as well as weekends. Full of flu and drinking Lemsip, she says her partner kicked her out of bed so she didn't miss her meeting with a group of venture capitalists. As she disappears down the corridor, someone shouts: "Go get us some cash, Wend!"Welcome to the real world of internet start-ups. This is no place for laid back wannabe e-tycoons. It's fast-paced, highly pressurised and at times exhilarating. The   hours are very long and it's impossible to predict some of the problems you have to face.This year thousands of UK internet start-ups will launch with the dream of joining the hallowed ranks of AOL/Time Warner, Yahoo and Microsoft. Whereas once it was said everyone had a book in them, now it appears everyone has a website in them. Already ad agencies are being deluged with demands for campaigns from fledgling dot.coms. By the end of 2000, there will be some successes but the virtual road to cyberspace is certain to be strewn with a large number of net casualties.One of the first start-ups to go boldly into cyberspace is the curiously-named Moonfruit. Barring any last minute unforeseen technical developments, Moonfruit  aims to go officially live on the net today. The company is offering free website building kits created using the latest Flash-based technology. Moonfruit hopes UK surfers will use these Flash 4-inspired kits to build and develop their own online communities.But nothing runs smoothly on the internet as most start-ups know to their cost, and   for Moonfruit the run up to launch has been immensely frustrating at times. Over the Christmas holiday, a number of technical difficulties were discovered while the service was being beta tested. Some pages were taking ages to download, bugs had surfaced affecting key functions, and the Moonfruit site could not always be accessed. Since then there has been a frenzied burst of activity.The technical team has been rigorously testing computers which meet the minimum specifications to see how well they support the product. Stopwatches have timed how quickly the average Freeserve user can get on to the site and use specific functions.The servers have been "stress-tested" to see if they can cope with hundreds of thousands of users, and as an additional safeguard, an idiot's guide to using the Moonfruit service has been produced and will be emailed out on request.The directors have brought in former British army captain and now start-up consultant Naunton Dickins to steady   nerves and provide strategic advice. "The directors are having to deal with everyone's feelings," he says. "It is going up and down like a roller coaster due to technology frustrations. They have to keep the optimism going and keep the team blinkered from the tricky technology issues."But remaining optimistic has occasionally been too difficult for some members of the Moonfruit launch team. There have been days when Julia Maeda, customer service project manager has broken down in tears in the office. "You think you know where you are going and then some feedback comes in and everything changes," she explains. "Something might have happened on the internet or we might have suddenly discovered the product cannot do something."The walls of Moonfruit's offices are plastered with posters setting out conditions to be met before the launch. Moonfruit hopes the product speed is now right across all ISPs and browsers in the UK and wants inexperienced users to be able to build a site within about 30 minutes. But, given the rich diversity of the UK internet user market, these are extremely ambitious targets. How, for example, can you anticipate accurately the number of emails from customers?Moonfruit's chief executive,   Wendy Tan was formerly e-commerce manager of Egg and she vividly remembers the lessons from its troublesome launch. "Egg taught me how to cope with a situation which is totally uncertain without giving up. Moonfruit is about to become external. People are going to have a view of us and that is going to be a difficult experience for the whole business. They will either love it or they won't and that is a bit scary. It's like jumping off a cliff."Last November I joined Moonfruit on a part-time basis as a freelance writer. I wanted to get as much experience at first hand of what it's really like being in a start-up. Mainly I have been writing on-screen guidance. But it's been difficult. Some people thought it was too risky and others have questioned my independence as a freelance internet writer. But despite these legitimate concerns, and the fact that nearly every day someone confidently tells you that the internet bubble is about to burst, I decided to follow my instincts and join them.So far, Moonfruit has managed successfully to secure backing from Bainlab, the internet investment arm of management consultancy, Bain&amp;Co. The next major investment deal is about to be closed and accountants and lawyers are crawling all over   the start-up, checking contracts and interviewing key staff. All this has been going on in the background as the launch date has crept closer.On the whole people appear to like the animated look and feel of the product but they are investing predominantly on potential. To date the company has no meaningful market share and has generated no profits. Like the development of the internet in general, no one really has a clue how far Moonfruit could actually go.But by and large the team at Moonfruit remains optimistic. The staff work on projects which can rapidly change and many say it makes a refreshing change to working in a traditional corporate environment where the roles are usually rigid. The chief executive and the chief technical officer of Moonfruit are both women and they say the new media industry   offers them greater opportunities.For many internet entrepreneurs, cyberspace seems to promise a new world, the chance to create a new kind of company from scratch. Moonfruit is no exception. There is a strong sense of idealism running through the organisation."I would like Moonfruit to be a company which is a key force in generating exciting online communities and I want as many people here as possible to have a job they love," says launch director, Judith Clegg, who was previously operational development manager for Pret A Manger. On the web there are no physical tills and she has found the idea of no face-to-  face contact with customers difficult.The hectic world of internet start-ups has a definite Alice in Wonderland-like feel. Moonfruit has backing, but no track record as a business and all the time it is burning cash. Chief financial officer David Stephens explains: "The whole start-up business is about consuming cash on the promise that one day the jam will come. It is very difficult to generate cash at this stage. It is not possible to have revenues exceeding your costs because the development costs are on-going."We are trying to build a brand and market share. It is not like a normal business. The whole process is about running out of money and trying to get some more. Investors just trust us to spend it well."Moonfruit is pinning hopes   of success on people using its new Flash 4 website kits to create large online communities in the UK which should in turn generate attractive amounts of traffic for potential advertisers. But when the company goes live, it is likely to be vigorously challenged by competitors like Homestead, FortuneCity and GeoCities - not to mention the many other leading portals which already have their own homepage building services. But Moonfruit believes its offering is more enjoyable and entertainment-orientated.At the back of their minds, the directors know that as soon as they launch on the net there is a risk that someone could copy them. Their success will also partly depend on how quickly they can respond to any customer demands for improvements. Already plans are being made for the next phase of the portal's development.The Moonfruit service has been designed in about six months by design agency Sixzeds which also works for the Big Issue and the London School of Economics. Visitors to the futuristic-looking Moonfruit portal enter an interactive online environment where they are met and guided by 3-D characters.Once registered, users can easily create and customise their own sites, selecting different coloured back grounds, typefaces and additional features such as databases by simply clicking with their mouse button. A range of quirky effects, including goldfish which make water-bubbling noises, are also available. Moonfruit's income from this venture will be generated through banner ads which will run at the foot of all the sites.As Moonfruit makes its final preparations before going live, the directors are trying hard to shake off the ghost of Boo.com's unsuccessful launch, which haunts every start-up these days. To avoid staff becoming too launch-centric, management strategy is to encourage people to look ahead to what they will be doing in February or March. But no one knows for certain. It depends largely where the customers and the product leads them."When UK web users get hold of a start-up's product, an awful lot of information floods in. There is always a risk that a company like Moonfruit will rock a bit," explains Dickins. "The Moonfruit team have no choice but to keep their heads, be disciplined and stick to the processes and procedures which are now in place."There are potentially enormous pots of treasure at the end of the cyber rainbow. But clearly there is no easy ticket to fame and fortune.
What system do you run?I'm Apple mad, despite the rest of the world being wrong! I have a G3 laptop and each of my kids has an Apple. I've also had to get a PC (a Dell laptop) because you can't use an Apple in the House of Commons. We try to be a virtual office and I have things like video conferencing - I'm the first MP to do video conferencing surgeries.Why do so few MPs seem to embracing IT?If you didn't come in in '97 you would never have got the internet. If you came in in '92 or '87 or '83 you'd still be on logarithms. To be honest I think that, even though Netscape was a '95 flotation, we're only really getting it now. Six of the eight major advertisers in the Rugby World Cup were .com companies - something's happening. Then you think we're only just having an e-commerce Bill and it feels like we're a bit slow to the dance floor as a nation.What's the idea behind the Associate Parliamentary Internet Group?I'd done the.tvcomputer channel at Sky. When I came to the house there was only PITCom (Parliamentary Information Technology Committee). It seemed sensible to form something more geared toward the internet so we did and now there are more than 100 members - although about six to 12 regulars.Is IT going to swamp all other communications mediums?I'm on the select committee for the digital stuff and I just think that the internet wins. OnOpen(Sky's interactive channel -  hardly anyone's gone to the Walled Garden but 300,000 people have sent email using the zapper pad. You see that they've just been using number 1 on the pad... how slow, but indicative that people just want to send email.Where do you see the net going?I founded theWorld Internet Forumand what I'm trying to do is create a portal for public services. What we have to do is to make sure that the public services are not left behind by the private use of the net. I'd like to see unmetered calls and BT broken up into a carrier and a dot com.Any gadgets you'd like?Virtual voting! Why should I be in the House of Commons at one o'clock in the morning when they could see me and I could say I'm voting? We're trying to modernise Britain but we're not prepared to modernise the systems of voting at the House of Commons - that doesn't add up to me.How does Labour plan to progress as regards IT?I think we've finally done well on the National Grid for Learning but we need to get computers linked into libraries. If I had one big wish it would be to digitise the British Library so it could become the hub for all schools and universities in the world.&#149; Derek Wyatt's homepage can be found at:www.derekwyattmp.co.uk
Smart moveFan clubs, theatre troupes, football teams and similar groups can get organised on the web using the free service atwww.SmartGroups.comThe main features include a message area, an event calendar, a simple database and a voting system. The service has been developed by Intracus, an intranet and internet consultancy, which hopes to attract 4 million users in two years. That may be a challenge because eGroups and similar offerings are already well established in the US. But SmartGroups may have an edge over here, because it's British.InsultoramaAnnoyed with someone? Send them an anonymous insult by email. TheInsulterwebsite lets you pick the victim's "crime" from a set of menus, then set a rudeness level for the insulting email. Unfortunately the rudeness level only goes up to four, where a proper flame would require a rating in double figures. Some of the insult lines are good enough to raise a smile, but if that's the intention, you could email your victim a joke certificate from the Center for the Easily Amused instead. The internet parking ticket, for people who have been sitting in front of their computers for far too long, is atwww.amused.com/parking.htmlSound ideaCompaq, the computer manufacturer, is experimenting with a search engine that uses speech recognition software to index the content of popular American radio shows.    When a search for a word or phrase is successful, the system fetches an audio clip - a sound file in RealPlayer format. The examples used will probably be of no use and even less interest to British websurfers. However, this kind of system will eventually become hugely important, so it's worth checking progress to date athttp://speechbot.research.compaq.comFilm funWallace and Gromit should soon be on the web in all their animated glory. Aardman and AtomFilms have already put Creature Comforts, Morph and Rex the Runt online atwww.atomfilms.comand, they say, new content will be added fortnightly. Excerpts from Nick Park's Oscar-winning Wallace and Gromit films will follow. The site also provides details about the films, and links to sites selling Aardman videos and DVDs. Aardman's site is atwww.aardman.comStrange daysToday is National Heroes Day in the Cape Verde Islands and Guinea Bissau, Foundation Day in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, and Inauguration Day in the USA. Those are not things you'll find in the average pocket diary, butEarth Calendarprovides a day-by-day guide that will entertain trivia buffs and might even help tourists and business travellers.Speed trapIs your net connection as fast as your modem claims, or as slow as it feels? The depressing answer is almost certainly the latter. Find out with a clever bit of programming on theMicrosoft Network, which will measure your connection speed at Microsoft has also launched a test version of itsonline calendar, but it doesn't yet synch with anything, not even Microsoft's Outlook 2000 personal information management program.Top linksHotLinks stores people's bookmarks (links to favourite sites) atwww.hotlinks.comso they can access them from anywhere with any computer. But there's a twist. Hotlinks has totted up the links from more than 100,000 users to create a small Yahoo-style guide. Sites with small numbers of "votes" may not be much good, but the ones most often linked to must be worth a visit.Tent cityA monstrous blancmange or the tourist attraction of the millennium? Dome visitors are invited to express their views via the unofficial site atwww.domevote.co.ukboth in the online chat room and by voting. And if the site takes off, it may even help the undecided.A dog's lifeThe first greyhounds have just been born on the web to Nikki Lee, winner of the Northern Oaks and other races. Now the plan is to follow the pups via webcams until they begin racing. You can check out their forms atwww.syndicate.co.ukDead stupidHuman stupidity knows no bounds, they say. The truth of this adage is shown by the stories of the 1999 Darwin Award Winners, posted atwww.DarwinAwards.comDarwins are given posthumously to stupid people who have eliminated themselves from the gene pool.Moving onYahoo, the internet's favourite search site, is now gearing up to support mobile phone and handheld computers. It's starting with 3Com's Palm machines: see the screenshots athttp://mobile.yahoo.com/sample.htmlif you want to know how it looks. For all mobile phone and pager users, the place to start ishttp://mobile.yahoo.comSix of the best:Brief livesHome of the biohttp://biography.comThe Internet Oraclewww.searchgateway.com/Search for a starwww.celebsites.comLives - the linkshttp://members.home.net/klanxner/livesBiographical dictionarywww.s9.com/biographySimple search centrewww.biography-center.com
When it's 64Some American software houses and retailers are writing off the Nintendo 64 games console: it looks like being killed in the marketplace by the success of Sega's Dreamcast. Nintendo of America's marketing man, Peter Main, has responded by telling analysts about the company's commitment to the platform, and by giving details of two new machines: Dolphin, and Game Boy Advance.Main listed some forthcoming N64 games with US launch dates. These included Mario Party 2 (January 24), Ridge Racer 64 (February 14), Pok&eacute;mon Stadium (March 6), Perfect Dark (April 10), and Kirby 64 (June 12). Also on the way this year are Banjo-Tooie, Conker's Bad Fur Day, and Pikachu VRS.Main promised more details on the next-generation Dolphin console in the next   two weeks: "We're going to be very very competitive, and we think that both Dreamcast and PlayStation are going to have their hands full."Advancing Game BoyWhat no one disputes is that Nintendo's Game Boy has been a huge success, thanks to the arrival of the colour screen version and Pok&eacute;mon games. Peter Main says that more than 100 new Game Boy games will appear this year, including Perfect Dark, Donkey Kong, and a new Pok&eacute;mon game, Pok&eacute;mon Attack. The next generation hardware, Game Boy Advance, could be launched in Japan in August, and Main said Nintendo of America had pencilled in November 1 for the US launch. GBA could also reach the UK before Christmas, but it is expected to cost at least &#163;90.Christmas salesThe UK market looks much like the US, according to Christmas sales figures published by trade magazine Computer Trade Weekly. CTW estimates that Sony shifted 506,000 PlayStations in December, compared with only 55,000 Nintendo 64s.   However, the Game Boy handhelds racked up 331,000 sales in December and 900,000 over the full year.Allegiance now openMicrosoft has just released a public beta test version of its forthcoming multiplayer online space combat game, Allegiance, atwww.microsoft.com/games/allegiance. The game includes 36 user- controllable spacecraft and a full 3D world. However, the download is roughly the size you'd expect - 55MB - which will be enough to deter casual gamers. The final release is expected in March.Konami topsKonami was the leading Japanese games publisher last year, according to a top 10 listing published by gamezineFGNon January 11. Square, creator of the Final Fantasy series, also beat the big names - Sony, Nintendo, Sega - by the number of units sold. The top 10 was: Konami (9.7m games sold), Square (7.7m), Nintendo (7.4m), Sony (6.2m), Capcom (3.3m), Namco (2.9m), D3 Publisher (2.4m), Bandai (2.2m), Sega (2m) and Enix (1.7m).
Have I got news for youThe lovely Ananova will soon be reading the news on the Press Association's website - and working 24 hours a day without any breaks for eating or sleeping or visiting the bathroom. She is a vactor (virtual actor) or "synthespian" created by Digital Animations, and uses text-to-speech software from Lernout &amp; Hauspie.We've yet to see her in action - so far herwebsitehas only still images - but she's claimed to have a limited amount of AI (artificial intelligence) and some human-like characteristics. Mike Hambly, managing director atDigital Animations, refuses to provide any details of the hardware and software used to create her."Everything is proprietary," he says, "but it's based on muscle algorithms." Given the success of earlier virtual characters, Hambly has other ambitions. "A virtual presenter is just the first step," he says. "You've seen what's happened with Lara Croft."High price of styleIf you're a "style-conscious business executive" then Toshiba would like to sell you an Equium 2000 computer, launched this week. It's a desktop PC based on Toshiba's skills as a notebook manufacturer, and it does look good.But style costs. With a 466MHz Intel Celeron (Pentium II) processor, 64MB of memory, 6GB hard drive, CD-rom and LCD screen it costs   &#163;1,775 plus VAT. Nor will Toshiba have the market to itself. Gateway has just announced the Profile II in the UK, an updated version of a similar PC launched in the US last year.Ice surpriseAn American company, CMi Worldwide, is preparing an Icebox for kitchen use. Nothing new about that, you might think, but in this case it's an   Information Communication Entertainment Box. "It doesn't get any cooler," puns the company.The Icebox combines a TV set with internet (web and email) access and a CD audio player, and comes with a separate waterproof wireless keyboard. It is expected to cost about $499 in US shops, though a version with a 12in LCD screen will be available for about $2,000.CMialso sells juice extractors and automatic breadmakers.Through the looking glassMore immersing than a deep bath are Sony's new Glasstron Audio/Video Glasses. The glasses surround the viewer, offering magnification as though watching a 52in television screen from around six feet away.Weighing only around 100g, the glasses connect easily to your VCR, DVD player, Camcorder or even your PlayStation. Inner earphones provide hifi stereo sound to put you right in the film or in the thick of gaming action. It runs on a lithium-ion battery and retails in the US for a cool $499.Pictures in your palmAnyone who carried around one of the early truck-sized VHS video cameras will appreciate Sharp's latest digital ViewCam. It's roughly palm-sized at 146mm by 96.5mm by 65mm,   and without batteries weighs only 560g. It's not short of performance, either: it has a 770,000 pixel CCD for capturing images, and a 10x optical zoom with up to 100x magnification, if you can accept the inevitable loss in quality.New readers start hereThere can no longer be any argument about whether or not personal computing has entered the mainstream: Reader's Digest has published a highly-illustrated step-by-step book about it.The new title, How To Do Just About Anything On A Computer (&#163;29.99, follows the format familiar from earlier Reader's Digest publications.But instead of explaining how to grow seeds, take a photo, bake a cake or rebuild your kitchen, it covers things like designing a letterhead and recording family history. This   section, Practical Home Projects, makes up the bulk of the book, but there's an introduction that starts with the basics, and there's a troubleshooting section at the end.The book comes with a CD-rom which provides access to the new Reader's Digest internet service, rdplus.net, launched on January 10; it also includes a 3D Landscape (garden design) program.The use of a PC running Microsoft Windows is assumed throughout the book. However, there is a credit-card sized panel that says, helpfully: "Apple Macintosh computers, or Macs, work in a similar way to PCs."More power per poundNEC has announced a 433MHz PC that costs &#163;433 plus VAT: not quite a quid per megahertz, but heading that way. The SE-533V has a somewhat limited specification: an Intel Celeron processor, only 32MB of memory, a 5GB hard drive and CD-rom, and comes with a 15in monitor. Unfortunately the company isn't selling 800MHz machines for &#163;800, but eventually someone will.
Toy Story 2Sony PlayStation &#163;34.99 Activision/Disney/PixarWell, what did you expect? Whereas in the good old days, circa 99 Mega Drive, every movie licence produced a sideways-scrolling platform game, today's conversions invariably lay out their obstacles in 3D. Toy Story 2 is no exception, with colourful environments to explore and numerous tasks to complete. In fact, the major shock is in the quality of the title itself.Bucking most celluloid-based precedents, Toy Story 2 is suprisingly good. You   get to control ex-Christmas pressie Buzz Lightyear in his quest to free cowboy Woody from another movie with Tom Hanks. Or at least from the clutches of an evil thief intent on dastardly doings.From the reflection in Buzz's space-helmet to the nicely realised interiors, the visuals are impressive with-out ever threatening the greatness of their source.The miniaturised landscapes are reminiscent of Micro Machines, and while not outshining the Dreamcast's beautiful Toy Commander, provide a good environment to leap around in. So while there   is nothing original here - collect coins, jump around, fire weapon - everything hangs together in a decently non-linear manner. In fact Toy Story 2 resembles some of Nintendo's finest, especially in the use of a level-access hub system and the inclusion of numerous mini-games.The all-pervasive Disney sheen and a permanently wobbly camera are the main flaws but this is that rarest of things - a half-decent licensed game.Whatever next? A flight sim with penetrable instructions? (GH)Party pieceSouth Park: Chef's Luv ShackSony PlayStation (&#163;29.99) Nintendo 64 (&#163;39.99) PC CD-Rom (&#163;24.99) Sega Dreamcast (&#163;29.99) Acclaim Entertainment"A big dumbass hippy piece of crap." That's roughly what you'd hear if you made Stan, Kyle, Kenny and Cartman play, of all things, a trivia game.Because Chef's Luv Shack is just that: a "party game" for one to four players. Two questions here: 1) what was   the last party you went to where everyone played computer games? And 2) what was the last party where you were the only one there?Admittedly, this being South Park, these are not the sort of posers you're likely to get on Who Wants To Be A Millionaire ("My fireman is burning! My fireman is burning! What's wrong with me?"). The fact remains, however, that this is essentially computerised Trivial Pursuit. Furthermore, with only 600 questions, many concerning what to UK gamers is abstruse American culture, its replay value is limited.The saving grace is the subgames. The 20 mini-   rounds, with names like Avalanche, Eat This and Frog Toss, are generally scatological reworkings of arcade classics, and as such are varied, mindless and frantic enough to make sitting through the questions worthwhile.South Park junkies needn't worry about authenticity, either. The graphics are spot on, the humour's straight out of the same toilet, and the voices are provided by Messrs Stone, Parker and Hayes. If anything, Chef's Luv Shack is too much like the show: foul-mouthed, puerile fun that lasts a little under 30 minutes.  (AB)Losing on pointsFootball World Manager 2000PC Caffeine/Ubi SoftIf you've just been playing Addictive's Football Manager II - a smash hit on the Sinclair Spectrum home computer - you'll be hugely impressed by Football World Manager 2000, endorsed by Leeds manager David O'Leary.It has a wider scope than any previous football game, and you can include 29,000 active players in 70 countries in the simulation. You can even manage teams in Australia, Nigeria, China and Japan (though, oddly, the English leagues were missing from the pre-production version supplied for review).FWM2000 also lets you watch game highlights displayed with an uncommon verisimilitude. Unfortunately, as with Football Manager II, the same sequences appear all too often- especially the ones where your high-priced forwards miss open goals from six yards.Another feature, touted as an improvement over the first version of the game, is that you can't get detailed stats for players outside your own league without sending a scout to watch them. This may be more realistic, but it's much less convenient.Technically the game's user interface has been improved, but it won't fill my 1024 by   768 screen, the type is too small, and panels still require unnecessary scrolling.Perhaps these are minor quibbles. Unfortunately for Ubi Soft, you have probably just been playing Eidos Interactive's Championship Manager 3, or the later   version for the 99/00 season. This has fewer teams but better stats, and if it doesn't look as slick, it's more legible and more accessible. FWM2000 is undoubtedly a good game, but Championship Manager 99/00 is better.  (JS)
Science has finally solved the problem of the old shoebox in the cupboard under the stairs stuffed with half-forgotten photographs. Instead of leaving them to moulder, you can put your prize snaps on the web where friends and family will be able to look at them immediately, no matter where in the world they are.Putting pictures on the web also means not having to say you're sorry for forgetting to send people copies of prints. You simply tell them the internet address, and possibly a password, instead.There are already more than a dozen websites designed to make it easy to put your photographs on the internet. They can be divided into two types. The first is aimed at people with digital cameras, and the second at the traditional photographic market. Sites aimed at digital camera users typically offer to convert image files into high quality prints, whereas sites aimed at film camera users convert prints and negatives into image files. In other respects they tend to overlap.There's nothing new about putting digital images on the net. People have been using the free web space at home-builder sites likeGeoCitiesfor years. However, "family album" sites such asPhotoPoint,PhotoLoft,GatherRound(owned and operated by Intel), Hewlett-Packard'sCartograandZingmake it easy to put pictures online without the effort of creating web pages or, usually, uploading things the hard way using the file transfer protocol, FTP.PhotoPoint accepts pictures sent by electronic mail, for example, whileShutterflyoffers "drag-and-drop image uploading". Photo Access has automated the process with its PhotoStreamer technology. "Just plug your camera into your PC. It's automatically detected, the   upload window pops up, and your pictures are extracted," it claims.You can then send the web address to friends and relations so that they can look at your pictures, usually by clicking on a link supplied. This is easier than emailing the same image to a dozen or more people, and avoids any problems in decoding and displaying the pictures.Once the pictures are online, the sites have the chance to make money. For a start, they can offer to make prints using large professional printers, which produce better results than cheap colour printers. And most don't stop at paper. For example, PhotoPoint will put your pictures on to greeting cards, photo cubes, puzzles, mouse mats, mugs, coasters, baseball caps, baby onesies and wall clocks, for a fee.PhotoLoft's chief executive officer, Jack Marshall, says: "a photo personalised item... is never a commodity. It can't be. It contains a picture that is, by definition, of high value to the purchaser."But what about the hundreds of millions of people who don't have a digital camera, or a scanner that can convert prints into image files? Film and photographic processing companies have been targeting this market for more than a decade with offers to deliver prints both on paper and on floppy disk or CD-rom. Now they're offering to post them on the web as well.Kodak'sPhotoNetservice does this in the US. Kodak has also been working with America Online and more than 40,000 retailers to roll out a system called You've Got Pictures, instead of You've Got Mail. Cross the box marked AOL on the photo processing envelope and Kodak will email a set of pictures to your AOL account for an extra $5.95. Seattle FilmWorks runs a similar operation with   AT&amp;T's internet service,WorldNet, and it has already scanned more than 70 million images. Seattle FilmWorks also offers an innovative service called WeddingWorks, which combines pre-loaded cameras with pre-paid film, processing, and online archiving.Putting pictures online does involve making one decision that wasn't a problem during photography's first hundred years. Do you want to keep your pictures private, or will you let anyone anywhere in   the world look at them?Some things must be public. Photo sites are often used to post pictures of things for sale in online auctions, for example, and could be used for missing persons . Others are just as obviously private.In fact, lots of people do make their pictures public, about 20%, according to PhotoPoint. Most online photo sites sort albums into categories and provide a Yahoo-like index to make them easier to access. PhotoPoint, for example, has sections for People (Reunions, Babies, Families), Attractions (Disney, Theme Parks, etc), For Sale &amp; eBay, and Destinations/Travel, among others.Most sites also allow visitors to add comments to a "guest book" attached to the photos, and these are often more interesting than the pictures themselves. Sad to say, the photographic quality of most online albums is dire.While online photo sites attract a few sad exhibitionists, they do not seem to have a problem with pornography. They do not have the time or the staff that would be needed to check all the things people put online, but they will look at anything that attracts an unusual amount of traffic, and remove it if they think it's unsuitable.Photo sitesAmerica Onlinehttps://pictures.aol.comClub Photowww.clubphoto.comEZPrintswww.ezprints.comFotoTime.comwww.fototime.comForoWire Print Servicewww.fotowire.comGatherRoundwww.gatherround.comHewlett-Packard Cartograwww.cartogra.comKodak PhotoNetwww.photonet.comPhoto Accesswww.photoaccess.comPhoto Loftwww.photoloft.comPhotoPointwww.photopoint.comPrint Roomwww.printroom.comSeattle Filmworkswww.filmworks.comShutterfly (JC)www.shutterfly.comWebshotswww.webshots.comZingwww.zing.comSee also:http://dir.yahoo.com/ Business_and_Economy/ Companies/Internet _Services/ Web_Services/Photo_Albums
No matter how spirited the press conference, or how high the combined worth of the resulting entity - upwards of     $300bn - the proposed merger of America Online and Time Warner is as desperate a measure for both partners as     it is intelligent.Each company bailed the other out, and just in time.      To be sure, celebrations are in order. A company that did not exist two decades ago, in an industry that did not     exist two decades ago, has succeeded in absorbing the century's biggest and most influential media     conglomerate.Despite widespread predictions to the contrary, America Online founder Steve Case proved that his     subscription-only, dumbed-down, parallel universe to the internet could do more than almost any web company: it     could be extremely profitable. Expanding on its philosophy that people will pay for good content, America Online     now has unlimited and exclusive access to the film, television, and print properties of Time Warner.Time Warner, for its part, gets to keep its name and its pride for at least a while longer. The company's online     ventures have failed miserably so far. Time Warner's first interactive television project died before it was     launched. An umbrella website for Time's magazines, called Pathfinder, was finally terminated last year due to lack     of interest. Then, Time Warner's long- promised online news and entertainment hubs never materialised. The     company's best chance for place at the e-table was to merge and merge quickly.Rather than buying into the new media revolution when they had the chance, traditional media companies like     Time Warner stood by and smirked while internet startups such as America Online went from being acquisition     targets to merger prospects to acquirers themselves. But no matter how long they waited for the prices of these     internet stocks to fall in line with their (mostly negative) earnings, the valuations of new media companies only     went higher.Meanwhile, old media company's stock prices remained stagnant, as shareholders moved to the     high-flying Nasdaq.      One by one, the old media companies gave in, accepting engagements with young suitors at increasingly absurd     exchange rates. Afraid to be left alone, and sinking under the weight of its own longstanding debt, Time Warner     finally cashed itself in for America Online's high-priced stock. (That'll teach Time magazine to make Jeff Bezos,     billionaire founder of yet-to-turn-a-profit Amazon.com, its Person of the Year.)      Because no matter how well camouflaged, and how much "synergy" is alluded to, this was not a marriage, but a     purchase.The way Steve Case dominated Time Warner chairman Gerald Levin in their bear-hug at the merger     announcement, burying the elder's face in his own shoulder, said it all. Case will be the chairman of the board, and     America Online will own 55% of America Online-Time-Warner. The 70% premium he paid for Time Warner's shares     was a way to preserve the integrity of the brand he was acquiring.But, ultimately, Time Warner wasn't purchased for anything as historically virtuous as its name or its content     companies. It was bought for its wire.      America Online, choking on its own success, has long suffered from inadequate bandwidth to service its     tremendous subscriber base. Since telephone and cable companies began to offer high-speed access to the     internet last year, America Online has once again been at a loss for how to secure its own fat pipeline for the     future.Steve Case has been engaged in a long, losing, and embarrassing battle with AT&amp;T over the phone giant's     reluctance to provide him and his customers with high speed connections. America Online's stock price may not     have withstood much more speculation about the company's inability to make the leap from modem to broadband.In addition to owning movie studios, television channels, and magazines, Time Warner just happens to own the     country's second-largest cable television system, and is in the process of upgrading to provide cable modem     service. America Online now has a guaranteed infrastructure for the future, through which it finally can begin to     offer convergence services and content.      Maybe that's the most striking aspect of this, the biggest business deal history: AOL, a new media company is     buying Time Warner, an old media company not for its content, but for its technology.
Last year, the world's biggest internet equipment maker Cisco ran a series of television advertisements with the slogan: "Are you ready?"Well, are we? As we enter the 21st century, e-commerce is rapidly moving out of the realm of speculation. Near-term forecasts are now in the trillions of dollars and invest ment in e-commerce systems is increasing exponentially.But we're not quite there yet. US retailers made billions from wired consumers last Christmas, but they also lost billions. One source estimated that poorly designed websites cost American retailers $6bn in potential sales. Most still haven't learnt to translate what they like to call the shopping "experience" from the real world to the virtual one.About 10% of people who ring call centres give up before ever reaching an operator. On the internet, the failure rate for transactions, based on the number of online forms started but never completed, could be as high as 90%. This is because suppliers are only now beginning to get to grips with the problem of integrating their e-commerce systems with the back-office systems responsible for accounting, fulfilment and administration.Most media coverage of e-commerce has centred on the .com companies, the supreme example of which is Amazon.com. Just as powerful a case can be made for applying e-commerce to conventional businesses, but the spin is different. Without   winning a single new client, companies can use e-commerce to cut the cost of doing business. Premises on the web have low rents, they don't need to be heated or lit and, most importantly, they need very few staff.Insurance firms like Direct Line have already shown how moving to a direct sales and servicing model can slash costs. A recent study of insurance companies showed that while it costs an average of $19 per year to administer a policy through a conventional agent/broker network, a call centre can halve the figure. But a call centre is still relatively expensive to run. The same research asked insurance firms to estimate the cost of servicing policies online. They put it at around 45 cents per policy, or roughly a fortieth of what it costs now.US credit card companies send out 6.9 billion letters, statements and other items of customer correspondence   every year. On the conservative assumption that each one costs a dollar to produce and deliver, that's nearly $7bn that could be saved by letting customers service their own accounts online.Similar calculations have been made in the travel industry. Commissions paid to travel agents eat up much of the profit in a business where margins are already pared to the bone. For the biggest operators, cutting out the agent could put tens, even hundreds of millions on the bottom line.Impressive as the figures are, most of these benefits are still theoretical. Suppliers have to tackle three issues.First they need to identify an appropriate e-commerce business model. This means addressing potential conflicts between their online activities and the rest, and answering difficult questions about how to run online businesses alongside traditional ones.   It means thinking about how much of the money saved needs to be re-invested in equipment and new forms of marketing to support the online venture. Ultimately it will come down to difficult and painful questions: how many staff are you prepared to lay off this year?The second issue is about how e-commerce is managed. Whose responsibility is it - the IT department, marketing, the board? Where can you get staff with experience of running this kind of business?The third is often regarded as most difficult issue of all: how do you build an e-commerce system? Most of the back-office systems required for e-commerce are in place, but were never designed to be used directly by customers.Building a website is the easy bit. Integrating it with existing business systems is harder. But technical difficulty is no longer a valid excuse. It might cost a million or two to solve, but the cost of doing nothing could be much higher and the potential rewards of acting early higher still.The real enemy is not technology but time. Egg did a great job of attracting customers for its new   internet-based credit card last year but went on to suffer a series of technical problems that damaged confidence in the service. Some of these problems can be blamed on pressure to rush the product to market ahead of the competition. Even so, customers will no longer forgive suppliers that use them as guinea pigs for half-finished products or provide an unreliable service. It's important to be first, but it's more important to get it right first time.Most businesses spent 1999 preoccupied with the Y2K problem. With that out of the way, retailers, travel companies, banks, insurance firms and others are putting e-commerce programmes into top gear. For established companies in these fields, the move to e-commerce carries risks as well as benefits, but for consumers the news is almost all good: more choice, lower prices, less hassle.Are we ready? Revved up by e-hype, we've been ready for a couple of years. It's just taken reality a while to catch up.&#149;  Roger Willcocks is chief executive ofiE, an e-commerce solutions provider.
&reg;TMarkThis site produces spoof versions of the enemy's websites. While retaining a graphic similarity, real information is given instead of the office propaganda of the organisation - but with a sense of humour, instead of dry politics. Subversive humour is about making corporations look ridiculous. There's an added advantage when those being subverted become apoplectic about these spoof sites, as they did before the World Trade Organisation's Seattle conference when its director-general called this site underhand.A similar thing took place with a spoof Shell website which was established at the beginning of '99. What's so good when you search for a company website, for example in Shell's case, is that our subverted website appears directly next to the official address.On the other hand, Etoys is a huge corporation that does mail order e-toys, and they took to court a European group dedicated to subversive art who used the same name. The corporation was getting very upset that its customers were getting diverted. That was quite interesting - the law, politics, virtual territory and how businesses colonised the net.www.oilcompanies.orgExposes the sophisticated green-wash employed by corporations with huge public relations budgets and returns the web to what it should be - access for all. It makes our message as accessible as that of the corporations, regardless of how powerful they are.agp.orgA very good way to find out about global resistance is by looking at Peoples' Global Action (PGA). It's a global network of groups and people resisting capitalism. Our ownReclaim the Streetssite is good for more local resistance. I think it explains a lot, and it's witty, and it gives information - where and when a particular event or action takes place. There tends to be a generic way websites are laid out and Reclaim The Streets breaks the mould.&#149; Interview by Andy Ajiz
Crime on the internet is driving the biggest growth area in illegal activity in England and Wales, fraud and forgery, which has risen by 29% or 70,000 offences in the past year, according to the latest official crime figures published yesterday.Apart from the 19% rise in street robberies in inner cities, the increasing volume of credit card fraud on the internet has pushed crime figures   up for the first time in six years.The head of home office research, Paul Wiles, said yesterday that although some of the 29% increase was due to increased reporting and changes in the counting rules, cyber-crime was increasing.This marked the first official acknowledgement that credit card fraud was a significant emerging problem after months in which the banks, credit companies and eletronic retailers have scorned media "scare stories" and insisted that fraud on the net was a minor problem.The banking industry's credit card research group has shown that although the internet was only responsible for 2% of all credit and debit card transactions it now generated 50% of all complaints.Most cover cases where people have ordered the wrong goods by accident or where retailers do not put their publicly recognised names on credit card statements, but they also involve genuine cases of fraud. They ranged from be ing charged for goods or services never received to the worst cases when credit card numbers are sold to other fraudsters.Anthony Abrahams of the Canadian-based Fraud Watch, said the problem was that credit cards were designed to be used for face to face transactions not for deals over the net or telephone.Safeguards - such as signatures, magnetic strips and holograms - were of little help in cyberspace. He suggested that their best virtue was probably the &#163;50 limit on an individual's liability if caught up in fraud.But the British banking industry is hoping that the introduction of "smart" credit cards with microchips over the next two years will go some way to solving this new crime problem.The Consumer's Association said it believed the use of credit cards on the internet was safe as long as strict guidelines were followed.
Nest eggThe online banking arm of Prudential, Egg, which launched in October 1998, increased its funds under management by more than five times last year. Yesterday it reported funds of &#163;7.6bn on its books against &#163;1.3bn in 1998. It now has more than 800,000 customers.The Pru also announced job cuts of up to 1,500 in its insurance sales teams.New homeThe worldwide web address sky.com has been bought by BSkyB from Sky Computers of Massachusetts for an undisclosed sum. The existing web addresses will default to the new location.Hard copyOnline travel company ebookers.com plans Britain's biggest outdoor advertising campaign with 3,200 posters and is planning similar campaigns in Germany, France and Scandinavia.
As opera fan Fred Harrop, of Stockport, Greater Manchester, approached his 80th birthday his friends clubbed together to buy him a special present: a book about a high-flying opera singer.They ordered through the internet a copy of Cinderella and Company: Backstage at the Opera with Cecilia Bartoli, and the parcel was despatched direct fromAmazon.com, complete with a message saying: "We hope you enjoy this book."Mr Harrop opened the package and was taken aback by the title, Nerve: Literate Smut, Fiction, Essay and Photographs by Genevieve Field, astonished by the chapter headings, Diary of a Nude Girl, A Day in the Life of a Sex Addict, Yuppie Sex and Snapshots of a Lusty Lady, and gobsmacked by the illustrations, 35 pictures of homosexual and heterosexual sex.Mr Harrop said: "I know the people who sent the present very well and I knew they wouldn't send me that kind of thing. I thought it could have been a joke but they are not the sort of people who would do that."In the last few years, I have had a couple of heart attacks so it's fortunate I'm broadminded. The photos are of a very explicit nature."The friends were mortified. But when they complained to Amazon, they were told: "Well, if you think Mr Harrop is disappointed, imagine how the guy who got the opera book feels."Amazon has since apologised for the "inappropriate" comment and the muddle and has sent Mr Harrop a &#163;10 voucher.
Serge Crasnianski, the Frenchman who turned the Photo-Me photo-booth business into a hot internet stock, yesterday banked more than &#163;28m by selling less than one tenth of his stake in the company.The Photo-Me chief executive sold 7m shares, equal to a 1.9% slice of the firm. A Photo-Me spokesman said he was using the cash to move house. "He has just moved from France to the UK and there are significant costs involved."Mr Crasnasiaski, who trained as a nuclear physicist and has patented more than 100 inventions, moved in at Photo-Me after the British company bought out his Grenoble-based KIS group, a   firm which had started life in the key-cutting business but evolved into digital technology for photo booths.His masterstroke came with a deal to convert booths into multimedia service centres - offering internet and email facilities. The machines were developed with BT. Photo-Me shares rose from 68p to 470p last year, adding &#163;250m to the value of Mr Crasnianski's 75m shares.The first 10 new machines, called PhotoPlanet, will be unveiled in London next month.Mr Crasnianski's move to cash in some of his shares came as Photo-Me unveiled half-year profits up 35.1% to &#163;20.5m. The dividend was hoisted 13.6% to 0.5p and the shares dipped 4p to 401p.
Shares in Eidos, the computer games publisher behind the Tomb Raider series, plunged by almost a third yesterday after the company warned of weak sales among some of its newer titles.Delays in release dates during the pre-Christmas period and the poor reception given to a number of games would cause full-year profits to be "significantly below" last year the company said. Eidos shares, which reached a high of &#163;66 at the end of last year continued their recent collapse, falling a further &#163;12.17 to &#163;27.08."We made the wrong call on a number of titles," admitted   Eidos chief executive Charles Cornwall.The business shipped 5.9m units in the three months to the end of December against 6.2m in 1998 and some of the biggest disappointments, including F1 World Grand Prix will be discontinued.The warning will raise fears that Eidos continues to be too dependent on the success of its Tomb Raider franchise featuring action hero Lara Croft. The company said that following the disappointment of its other titles, Tomb Raider would account for 40% of revenues this year."It would be great if we had half a dozen Tomb Raider lookalikes but we still believe we have a fantastic line up of games," Mr Cornwall said.
Microsoft came out fighting against judicial claims that it is a monopoly and abused its dominance of the personal computer industry last night in its first official response to the preliminary ruling of the landmark legal battle.The world's largest software company said the preliminary findings of Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson did not prove it had broken any law. The judge dealt Microsoft a severe blow in his first ruling two months ago, accusing it of harming consumers and stifling competition by bullying competitors and partners.Jim Cullinan, a Microsoft spokesman, said last night that this judgment did not necessarily warrant legal remedy. "Just because it was not the best picture painted of the company, that doesn't add up to a violation of the law," he said.The strength of Microsoft's denial confirms its uncompromising stance on the issue less than a week after Bill Gates, its founder, stepped back from the day-to-day running of the company. Mr Gates, the world's wealthiest man, was seen as instrumental in the group's almost intransigent approach to accusations brought by the US justice department and 19 US states.Unable to deny the findings of fact decreed by the judge in November, Microsoft's chief argument rests with its belief that the government has failed to prove that it broke the law. In the filing lodged last night, Microsoft stated: "Even accepting the court's findings of fact, plaintiffs still have not satisfied their burden under the governing law on any of their claims."The Seattle-based group    denied that its behaviour had prevented Netscape, a key competitor, from entering the market for internet browsers. It also claimed that the government's case ignored "many of the most serious competitive threats faced by Microsoft's operating systems". Finally, the company argued that controlling more than 90% of the world's operating   systems through its Windows service was not illegal. "Having an extremely popular product doesn't make a company a monopoly," it said.Legal experts were unsurprised at the group's tactics last night and said Microsoft could do little else in spite of the settlement talks currently being carried out.Ed Black, president of the   Computer and Communications Industry Association which has campaigned against Microsoft, said: "I expected nothing less than a full court press to try to argue their case. They are going to pick on any point they can quibble with."The independent mediator presiding over the talks has indicated that he wants to see some evidence of common   ground by the end of this month.But the talks could drag on until the next time Microsoft and the government are due to appear before Judge Jackson towards the end of February.Although Microsoft reported better than expected earnings and record revenues, traders took fright at a relatively pes simistic forecast for the future. Earnings jumped 22% to 44 cents a share in the last three months of the year, above market expectations of 42 cents in spite of an exceptional charge to settle a far smaller anti-trust case.Group revenues of $6.1bn benefited from strong demand for personal computers over the Christmas period.
It has been a typically hectic week in the life of Masayoshi Son, the Korean-Japanese tycoon who has his finger in more internet pies than anyone else on the planet.On January 11 he announced the establishment of a $100m fund to invest in start-up internet firms in Latin America. The next day came a $300m joint venture to establish Japan's first net supermarket.Then on Monday he held a press conference to tell the world that his company, Softbank, was hooking up with Vertical Net to create a $4m business-to-business portal.It is business as usual for Mr Son, who claims that Softbank holds more than 7% of the publicly listed value of the world's net firms. "If people say I have expanded too fast then I am delighted, and I hope it's true, because I've always been frustrated with myself for not moving fast enough. So many new players are coming in that we cannot stand still. This year we are going to accelerate rather than slow down," Mr Son told the Guardian.But the vast web he is spinning - Softbank has a capitalisation of one trillion yen (&#163;60bn) - has also threatened to unravel in the past week amid signs of resentment about his influence in South Korea and doubts elsewhere about his ability to manage a rapidly expanding empire.The unease in South Korea has been stirred up by newspaper advertisements placed by a local rival comparing Softbank, a Tokyo-based company, to the Japanese forces which tried to invade their far-eastern neighbour in the 16th century. They were placed in response to Softbank's plan to invest $100m in South Korean net start-ups.Competition is likely to come from a group of five Korean technology companies threatening to set up their own fund to lure local firms away from Mr Son's clutches.Softbank has responded by saying it would almost double its stake in a local investment unit. The move prompted speculation of disquiet among Softbank's Korean partners.The comparison with colonial oppressors is a bitter irony for Mr Son. Although he was born in Japan, he has emphasised his Korean background to the point of discarding the Japanese name his family adopted.This made him something of   an outsider in the conservative old Japanese economy. But in the United States - where he studied at Berkeley - it has given him the reputation of a rebel, which has gone down well in Silicon Valley.Since establishing Softbank in 1981, Mr Son's links - including the friendship of Bill Gates - have been his strongest suit in winning over a sceptical Japanese public. "No other Japanese venture capitalist has such connections. That is his strongest factor," says Hiroshi Yamashina of Goldman Sachs.Softbank took off as an internet company after taking a 30% stake in Yahoo for $105m in 1995. The stocks are now worth more than $8.5bn.Since then Mr Son has taken a slice of anything that might sell on the web. Softbank is a major shareholder in huge net groups such as GeoCities and E*Trade, and is reported to have stakes in about 120 other unlisted companies.It was Mr Son who is credited with Rupert Murdoch's conversion to the net. NewsCorp's chief had famously claimed that the net "would destroy more businesses than it would create". Six months after that Mr Murdoch had signed a deal with Softbank.Mr Son has also linked with the National Association of Security Dealers, who operate the Nasdaq, to set up similar markets in Japan and Europe.Despite its success Japanese opinion is divided over Softbank. For its fans, it is a revolutionary force for the change needed to bring the country   kicking and screaming into the information age.The most symbolic change may still be to come. Softbank is part of a consortium which has applied to take over the failed Nippon Credit Bank and   make it the hub of a new web finance company.Critics say Mr Son is merely pumping air into the net bubble. Analysts say it is hard to assess Softbank holdings as most are unlisted. "He's certainly a   big noise," says one sceptic, Ben Wedmore of HSBC. "But I wouldn't give Softbank 15p."The overall direction of Softbank shares, however, has been upward, and Mr Son seems in no mood to ease the pace.
Microsoft was expected to report strong second quarter results last night, despite recent turmoil at the company, after benefiting from heavy demand for software around the world.Shares were up more than 2% at noon as traders anticipated buoyant second quarter earnings to be published after New York markets closed.The group was also expected   to issue a strong defence of its business practices in its official rebuttal of the judge's preliminary findings in the anti-monopoly case brought by the United States government.Legal experts said yesterday that Microsoft was likely to argue that it had not breached competition law despite the criticism from Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson in his ruling two months ago.Professor William Kovacic,   of the George Washington University Law School, said: "I think we are going to see them say damn the torpedoes, full speed ahead. The substance of the document will be completely uncompromising."Microsoft is expected to continue its aggressive stance in spite of the settlement talks being conducted by an independent mediator and the decision by the software company's founder, Bill Gates, to   stand back from the day to day management of the company.However, lawyers argued yesterday that Microsoft's stance in public may not reflect its efforts to reach a settlement; one said he would be "shocked" if Microsoft seemed to kowtow to the judge's finding that it had abused its monopoly position and harmed consumers in spite of the fact that "everybody wants this case to settle".Prof Kovacic said the group was likely to argue that the law does not prohibit strong-arm tactics for a company, even if it is dominant in a sector.The dominant position of the software company in the world market has helped make it a stock market darling, and analysts yesterday were discounting the impact of this stage in the long-running legal battle.Michael Kwatinetz, head of   research at CSFB's technology group, said "solid" demand for PCs and the Office word processing package could mean that Microsoft would beat his $6.1bn revenue target for the second quarter.On average, analysts expected Microsoft's earnings to increase by about 17% from 36 cents a year ago to about 42c. Few had changed their earnings forecasts as a result of last week's management upheaval.
Sir Alan Sugar yesterday made a paper profit of more than &#163;100m when the value of shares in Viglen Technology, the computer software and hardware company he took over 15 months ago, almost doubled.The stock, worth 24p when Sir Alan bought it outright in October 1998, rose 185p to close at 366p after Viglen confirmed it was setting up a subsidiary to invest in e-commerce companies.The Spurs chairman, who was knighted in the new year's honours, owns 73% of Viglen's equity and calculated he had   made &#163;115m on the day. "Well, it was &#163;163m during one hour, but then I lost &#163;450m on one day in the October 1987 crash on that basis," he said. "You don't make any money until you crystallise it."Sir Alan - "Mr Sugar, I can't get used to being knighted" - said the purpose of the new unit was to take strategic shareholdings in existing e-commerce companies rather than to support start-ups.In the first year the new unit will invest anything from &#163;3m to &#163;20m in half a dozen such companies. But the founder and chairman of the consumer electronics group Amstrad said : "We are not to be viewed   in this initiative as being simply venture capitalists with too much money who will invest in anything with a dot.com."We will thoroughly scrutinise the companies which need our infrastructure expertise and the synergies to the technology businesses we are already in."One analyst said of Viglen's star performance among large numbers of fallers in the FTSE small cap index: "You just have to mention e-commerce with these stocks and off they go."Sir Alan said the aim could be to float off Viglen Internet as a separate entity but for now the goal was to build on the expertise developed by its   parent in expanding the business from making and directly selling PCs into offering services such as installation, networks and training.Viglen is now said to be knee-deep in applications to run the unit which was originally due to be unveiled with the half-year results on February 24.The subsidiary, according to Sir Alan, will put in cash to help new e-commerce and internet-related companies pay their staff and acquire equipment."About 15 or 20 years ago, investment in hi-tech, growing companies meant a massive spend on capital and now it's   in the salaries of employees who are developing and writing the systems," he said. Others would get help to buy capital equipment.Sir Alan added: "Viglen has the financial resources to deal with up to five or six of these in phase one - that is, the first year." He had no intention of taking control of the new companies but nurturing them to the point when they could go to market.Viglen, once worth &#163;17m after a disastrous year in the run-up to Sir Alan's assuming full control, last year declared &#163;4.3m pre-tax earnings while Amstrad surged back into the black with &#163;9.08m.Amstrad, which is 29% owned by Sir Alan, was dragged back into profit last year on the back of strong demand for digital television set-top boxes.Sir Alan bought Viglen through his private company, Amshold, last October when he topped a purchase of 10m shares for &#163;2.4m with an offer worth a further &#163;17m.Viglen was demerged from Amstrad in July last year after which shares fell to 14p.With Spurs back in the top flight of the Premiership - and his knighthood - Sir Alan, written off more than once in his career, says it has been a good new year. "So far."
The Italian businesswoman who had a furious argument with Rupert Murdoch and quit as head of his European media interests after only 10 months in the job has emerged as one of the major shareholders in a new London-based internet venture capital fund.Letizia Moratti, who is based in Milan, and theGuardian Media Group- owner of the Guardian newspaper - are the two largest shareholders in  Spectrum Venture Management, which completed its first round of financing two weeks ago and is on target to raise a total of &#163;35m by the end of the year.Ms Moratti, 50, is known as a consummate networker and was described by Mr Murdoch as "a distinguished citizen ... known throughout the broadcasting establishment in Europe" before their disagreement about the company's  strategic direction in September last year, when she resigned as president ofNews Corporation Europe.Prior to working for Mr Murdoch she was chairman of Italian public broadcaster RAI.Ms Moratti will act as an adviser to SVM, which hopes to invest in around eight net related start-ups each year and then help them devise strategies and business plans.The impetus behind the fund has come from London-basedSpectrum Strategy Consultants, which specialises in the internet and converging communication systems.Spectrum's board is chaired by Lord Puttnam; its deputy chairman is Don Cruickshank, who is overseeing the government review of the banking sector. The founders of the online travel and entertainment firm,Lastminute.com- Brent Hoberman and Martha-Lane Fox - both previously worked for Spectrum.Ross Fitzgerald, managing director of SVM, said: "As the first year marketing costs to successfully build internet businesses escalate beyond 10m, it is critical for entrepreneurs to rapidly create win-win marketing alliances with strategic corporates."SVM will provide its investee companies with access to Spectrum's worldwide network of corporate contacts to reduce marketing expenditure by up to a third."Bob Phillis, the chief executive of Guardian Media Group, said: "We are delighted to be one of the founder investors in Spectrums' new fund."We view our participation as being an important part of our group's ambitious internet growth strategy."Around 40% of the Spectrum group's investment is likely to be made in business to consumer start-ups, with the remainder in business to business companies.
QuackwatchA huge compendium of crackpot therapies and miracle cures debunked by US doctor and veteran fighter of quackery, Stephen Barrett.The Skeptic's DictionaryLambasts spurious remedies with savage humour. Learn why drinking your own urine or entrusting your illness to a crystal aren't necessarily paths to joy and vitality.Health In FocusWell-designed new site, backed by   health charities and the Patients Association to aid British internet users seeking healthcare information online. Plentiful pages of news, online discussions, and reference sources.Urban Legends and FolkloreAbout.com's urban legends pages - David Emery's regularly updated catalogue of hoaxes and frauds.Urban Legends Reference PagesHuge catalogue of urban myths.Medical World SearchA search engine that claims to link only to reputable health sites.
healthfinderUS government site. Useful gateway to respectable American health sites. Fun, easy-to-understand layout, and not squeamish about exciting headlines ("Monkeys cloned by splitting embryos").NHS DirectThe NHS site. Steady rather than exciting in the determination to be reliable and because it was put together at speed. But already popular. An updated version is on the way.National Electronic Library for HealthThe library will live here, but hasn't moved in yet. The site is taken up with an abstruse conversation between interested parties as to what it should contain.Patient UKProvides a long list of patient groups in the UK and abroad. Also lists telephone helplines and patient information leaflets that can be sent for.US National Library of Medicine: MedlineMedline, the biggest medical database in the world, was set up by the US National Library of Medicine, and is mostly free. Almost any study published by a reputable medical journal will be found here. Medline Plus is more consumer-friendly at same address.A Doctor in Your HouseCybersurgery - the new spectator sport for the non-squeamish. Watch an operation online if you can bear it.Contact a FamilyWell-presented support network for rare diseases. The charity holds information on 1000 rare disorders and diseases and will put families in touch with each other.Cancerhelp UKVery comprehensive cancer information and links on Birmingham University sites, incorporating much material from CancerBacup.Public Health Laboratory ServiceGet your official statistics on flu, meningitis and any other infectious disease you care to name, at the PHLS website.CyberDocsA taste of the future. US-trained physicians offer online consultation for $50 to $75 to anybody (almost) anywhere in the world. One of the few sites where doctors will diagnose and prescribe medicines - but they are bound to proliferate before long.
Football365I love this site. It updates me on all the latest football information. I know the people behind it; I've known Danny Kelly for 15 years. When they floated it, they cited an article I'd written about how the internet was going to revolutionise the music business. They used that article to help articulate the Football 365 philosophy. The site represents what I love about the web - the medium's speciality is information-flow, and this site has really current news about what's happening in football.ClickmusicI own a percentage of this site. Every five minutes, music news is updated on it from around the world. They trawl through all the music sites, like nme.com or Rolling Stone and at least 15 different music places, and post up the news instantly. It's a brilliant way for me to find out what all my proteg&#233;s are up to.april skies- an unofficial Jesus and Mary Chain siteThe Jesus and Mary Chain are the first band I managed, and I love to keep up with its ex-members and to see what people are saying - there's a chat forum that keeps me entertained. It's run by Jesus and Mary Chain fanatics, and there are a group of about 50 who're always there. I've got a link to this site from my own"McGee's List"on the Creation site, which I'm proud of, too, because I set it up against the prevailing anti-technology tide at the company a couple of years ago. It was recently voted Britain's second-best music site.www.malcolm4mayor.comWe're designing it this weekend. Malcolm McLaren is the only true independent candidate in the London mayoral election. We don't believe that the mayor should have any political allegiance. The site will be useful for anyone who wants to follow our campaign - there'll be newspaper articles up there, and bulletins about what Malcolm's up to and where he is at any given time.&#149; Alan McGee leaves his job as head of Creation records in June.
The thirst for share options fostered by the internet revolution yesterday prompted recruitment businessSpring Groupto begin offering equity to temporary information-technology workers registering with its website.The company, launching Spring.com, is offering options over 5,000 shares which can be subscribed to at 190p if workers sign up to the service before February 9.Workers registering after a shareholder meeting to ap prove the scheme on that day will be granted options at the price when they apply.Shares in the business yesterday climbed 24% to 356p. At that price, a tranche would be worth &#163;8,300 to anyone registering before the February 9 cut-off date. Spring has set aside 250m shares for the programme.The scheme is aimed at attracting the widest possible base of IT professionals to Spring and asks the workers to update their own information online at least once every six months.Karl Chapman, chief executive of Spring, said that the share options would be a "virtuous circle" with the company attracting more workers and commissions and the staff sharing in the growth.The share options will be granted to workers after they have completed at least 464 days employment through the company in the three years following February 9.Spring intends to introduce a similar scheme for permanent staff being placed through the business later this year.Mr Chapman conceded that some institutional investors  faced with the dilution of their own holdings needed pursuading."We had to walk some people through it but the basic premise is 'do you want a bigger percentage or do you want your share to be worth more because the company is bigger?"Spring.com will be integrated with the existing bricks and mortar business through a new call centre which will manage the scheme."We had built a jobs portal but wanted to go beyond that," said Mr Chapman."This is a real transition in our business.We were asking ourselves 'how can we go that extra mile?'It is easy to replicate a bulletin-board type service, but the share options provide another dimension to what we are doing."Spring claims to be the third largest IT recruitment consultancy behindDelphi, the chain owned byAdeccoandManpower.Spring has 13 branches and 95% of its placings are on a temporary basis. The wider Spring group employs 2,600 people at 190 locations.In the first half of the year   Spring's pre-exceptional profits grew from &#163;3.4m to &#163;6.3m on sales of &#163;206.6m.One-off costs included part of the &#163;12m investment being planned for the start up of the e-business. Up to &#163;4m had been set aside for marketing and advertising.Mr Chapman said that the internet enabled the company to maintain a far larger database of professionals than traditional businesses. "Our clients said they were using a number of different consultancies because no single source could provide a wide enough database."
My favourite site isarseweb. It's the original Arsenal website, before you get too excited. I would rather not think what my IT department makes of there being so many hits on a site of that name. Arseweb is the first and the best Arsenal website.I use it for its accurate, up-to-date calendar of fixtures - it's become a hugely important part of my life. It has also got the best chat forums of any football site, which is a good way to keep on top of current Arsenal controversies. I read the chat forums often, although I've not quite been tempted to take part - not yet.I admire its editorial line. It's harsh but fair, and jealous of its independence. I've seen the official Arsenal site, and I look at other sites sometimes and they can be a bit serious and straight. It's the same difference as that between official club programmes and fanzines - this is a fanzine website. A lot of football websites are springing up on the web these days, and that can only be a good thing.Arseweb often gives the Mirror a kicking for what we may have said about Arsenal, which I find hard to take. But I would never dream of going down to our sports editor and suggesting he make changes according to what arseweb has said.I do occasionally find news stories on the site that we haven't featured in the paper, too. The people who write the site are exposed to different sources, and what they hear on the terraces or in their own circles often crops up on the site. I also like it for the several anti-Tottenham Hotspur chants and jokes that appear. But I can't talk about them here - you can find them yourself if you go and have a look.I use the net almost every day, but there are no other specific sites I use as regularly as arseweb. The exception is the Mirror's own site,www.mirror.co.uk/, which doesn't really count. And besides, I don't use that from the same standpoint as a consumer at all.&#149; Piers Morgan is editor of the Mirror.
The internet has crowned the consumer king. Unrestricted by time or space, the wily shopper can search globally for goods and services, thereby eroding the pricing power of producers. The result? A brave new world of low inflation and unlimited consumer choice. Or so the techno-prophets would it.The reality may be somewhat different. For while the internet is undoubtedly exerting downward pressure on prices in the short term, it may ultimately stunt consumer choice and confer immense monopoly power on a handful of global corporations.In other words, far from being a liberating force for consumers, it may become a tool of economic oppression.The case for the internet being the consumer's friend has been persuasively put by DeAnne Julius, who sits on the Bank of England's monetary policy committee.She says that, not only does it allow shoppers to compare the prices of standard goods and services online and bypass the middleman to buy them directly or use that information to extract extra discounts from the local supplier, it has enormous potential to increase the efficiency with which capital and labour are combined in production."For many products ICT (information and communications technology) has reduced design times, increased quality control and shrunk the need for precautionary stocks in the production chain," she says."Improved information flows enable firms to respond more efficiently to shifts in consumer preferences, and to customise their products and services to their needs. The speed and low cost of information transfer has led to greater outsourcing by producers to the cheapest global supplier, spurring and speeding the globalisation process."The upshot of all this is a dramatic shift in market power from sellers of goods and services to their customers.With the hi-tech American economy growing rapidly without - so far - creating strong inflationary pressures, there is certainly plenty of evidence to support Ms Julius' thesis about the positive impact of new technology.The UK economy is not immune to these influences. Why else would Ford, which once told its customers they could have any colour Model T they wanted as long as it was black, now be grovelling to them by offering to refund the difference if competitive pressures force it to reduce the prices of its new V-registration cars?However, it may be that consumer power is no more than a passing phase and that producers will eventually regain the upper hand.In a new research paper, City   economist Peter Warburton, of Robert Fleming &amp; Co, argues that in a truly global market place, swarming with products and services, the only ones that will survive will be those which stand out among crowd.Producers have always known the value of branding, but in the wired world of the 21st century it will become even more important.Hence the vast expenditure on electronic advertising. "The logic behind the promotion of power brands is that of universal recognition," says Mr Warburton. "If there is only room for a tiny number of global brands, then the race to establish them is one of strategic importance. The potential rewards are so vast to justify colossal advertising expenditure for the brief interval during which the pecking order is decided."Amid all the turmoil which will accompany the introduction of e-commerce, the likelihood is that many old businesses will be replaced by dynamic new ones.But once the dust settles the businesses that triumph could be in a powerful position to reassert themselves against the   consumer, who may well face higher prices and less choice.Mr Warburton says that corporations such as Unilever are anticipating these developments. He points out that in September the company announced a strategic cull of its 1,600 brands in order to concentrate on 400 power brands.Mr Warburton says: "The shortening of the list of brands is a profoundly important development. Whenever a new means of product or service delivery is developed (eg telephone banking and telephone car insurance), the pioneers of the new medium target the most attractive segments of the consumer market and screen out the bad risk and low margin segments."A successful online retailer will concentrate on the product lines that are most popular. It has no incentive to offer 40 choices of marmalade."Surveys suggest the traditional high street had a good Christmas, with sales volumes the strongest for years. But retailers were not able to take advantage of strong demand by widening profit margins.This shows that consumers remain in the ascendant, but the question is for how long. Unless they refuse to give in to the likely attempts to nudge retail margins upwards once the initial phase of the e-revolution is over, the new economy could end up looking like the old one, with producers dictating the rules of the game.
The only purposeful site I go to isAsk Jeeves. It searches all the search engines, so you get the most comprehensive search. It's just very easy to use, very uncomplicated. In a normal engine you don't get what you want or you have to change the words you've typed in. What's great about jeeves is that it comes up with everything you've asked for. It's faster and less frustrating than some of the web can be.I have a lot of favourite websites, butwww.findadeath.combears revisiting many times. It's about celebrity deaths, and in the last few pages mentions their last meals before they died. The pictures are fantastic and the stories are funnily written. I didn't know Judy Garland died in London somewhere in a small mews. It's the sort of thing that's perfect for the web; I would never buy a book on it. It's linked towww.findagrave.com, of course, which has photographs of every celebrity's grave you could ever, ever, ever think of.Airport Sleeping Tipsis the budget traveller's guide to sleeping in airports. I have no idea who Donna McSherry is, but I guess she lives in California. People send in their descriptions of airports. The good thing about Gatwick is that it's silent - they don't make announcements. But the air conditioning is turned up very high so it's cold. Again, what I like about this is that it's very much the web. I'll read it because it's vaguely amusing.www.losers.org- well, basically, this is an index of sad home pages, people's own web pages. It's really funny for people who spend a lot of time on the web. It's broken up into categories: wannabes, freaks, dorks, goths, punks, rednecks, girls. Lots of hideous pics. It's so odd. These people have chosen these pics as how they want to be seen by the world. I don't mind the internet not being useful, and I do like the fact that anyone can be on the web.&#149; A new series of So Graham Norton begins on Friday on Channel 4
Many believe that last week's AOL-Time Warner mega-merger proves the importance of content in the new media age (hence AOL's desire to link with a "traditional" media company with leading consumer brands). Others point out that AOL, a leading internet portal, wanted to extend its broadband distribution, and will get privileged access to the cable franchises owned by Time Warner, America's second largest cable operator. Yet others saw the merger as proof that internet companies are more valuable than traditional ones, and that Time Warner needed to maximise distribution through an internet portal.But what does it mean for the UK? In the immediate aftermath of the announcement, media shares in London soared, led by Pearson and BSkyB. Some shares have settled back, but the expectation is that investors will continue to favour content-rich companies.This is proof, I believe, of a new orthodoxy in the public markets. A year ago, many big traditional media companies were thought to be threatened by the internet. Now, they are seen as major beneficiaries, owing to the value they can generate online with their expensively developed "offline" brands.A mini AOL-Time Warner had, in effect, already been created in the UK, in the form of the intended merger of Telewest and Flextech. That deal, set to be completed in the next six months, creates an integrated company offering distribution (through Telewest's franchised cable homes) and content (including Flextech's four wholly-owned channels, its joint-venture BBC channels and existing and planned interactive services).The combination is potent and timely, given the restructuring under way in the UK media sector, sparked by the intended merger of the two large ITV broadcasters United and Carlton, and the possibility that Granada will go for one or other of the merger partners. Media companies are seeking to leverage their existing brands and distribution windows, thereby tapping new revenue streams. Access to TV homes can fuel migration of consumers to new platforms such as the internet and interactive TV. Flextech's content and its pay-TV channels, supported by Telewest's broadband strategy, could be an opportunity to derive significant   profits from singular, branded content in the digital environment.The next wave of media expansion is likely to come from interactive TV and the internet, where Flextech has been focusing attention in the past 18 months. With Telewest's telephony offering, and its extensive cable TV franchises, the Flextech product is likely to have guaranteed long-term UK distribution. Moreover, the link with Telewest could provide a boost to distribution on other cable networks as well, where content is at a premium. Add to this the potential of new platforms, such as ADSL (digital lines offered by BT) and third-generation mobile telephony (offering internet access and short message services), and the combined group looks well-placed to distribute content to consumers.So, which other companies might follow, combining internet, content and networking strengths? In the UK, all eyes are on Pearson, owner of the Financial Times, Longman's, Addison Wesley and Penguin, and an obvious potential partner for a big internet company. Equally potent would be the combination of a big ITV player (Granada?) with the UK's leading internet service provider, Freeserve, 80% owned by Dixon's. That would allow Granada to distribute its extensive entertainment content through at least 1.6m Freeserve homes (more in the future) And Freeserve, which has been searching for new content to help retain and grow its user base, would derive immediate benefit.I magine, too, if Granada-Freeserve were joined by Carlton and Granada, once a single ITV company was a regulatory possibility. Still not AOL-Time Warner, but ITV-Freeserve looks a tantalising combination. There is a difference, however. Granada is worth &#163;10bn; Freeserve is trading at &#163;4.3bn. So, the relative sizes are reversed compared to AOL and Time Warner. But that shouldn't stop the logic of common ground.In truth, however, it is unclear how many real mergers will result from the model of AOL-Time Warner. Content deals (long-term and exclusive) might be as good as an equity relationship when it comes to uniting the internet and traditional, linear content. The key is to bring together bespoke content and guaranteed distribution. The very big money will be made by re-purposing content owned outright for distribution on as many platforms as possible: traditional TV, pay-TV, the internet, mobile phones, etc. But it isn't essential to own the platform, too. Content providers should be able to do distribution deals, provided the material on offer wins consumer favour.Final lesson, then, of the AOL-Time Warner merger. It really is all about content, content, content, after all.Mathew Horsman is a media analyst at the City firm of Investec Henderson Crosthwaite
It has to be said that Larry Kramer does not look like a media mogul. He is not huge. He is not smoking a cigar. His eyes do not look predatory. And he takes an endearingly self-deprecatory line on his own appearance.But then Kramer is about tomorrow's media rather than today's. And his enthusiasm and energy for what the internet offers both journalists and readers is everything that a sceptical European expects from a west coast American.Seated in an office in the elegant Financial Times building overlooking the Thames, Kramer is in London to explain his latest venture, a free internet service designed to bring financial news to Europe's fast-growing army of private investors.The service,www.FTMarketWatch.com, is a joint venture between the Financial Times, owned by the media group Pearson, and MarketWatch.com, operator of one of America's leading financial websites. In a deal typical of the intricate webbing that laces new media companies together, Market Watch is part-owned by the American broadcasting giant, CBS.The venture represents far more than just another online news service. It is an indication of just how seriously the big players in traditional media now take the new digital world. Faced with the arrival of rival internet services starting from scratch, the big media groups are coming together in an attempt to crush the upstarts.FTMarketWatch.com already exists in US form as CBSMarketWatch.com, America's biggest financial news site. Kramer, chairman, chief executive and co-founder of MarketWatch.com, hopes to replicate in Europe the success of the US service, where demand for financial news has surged on the back of investor enthusiasm for fast-rising share values in technology companies. "There are only two things that motivate people to go to a financial site: fear and greed," Kramer says. "They have been there throughout history. Greed is about people who want to get rich and make a lot of money, and they believe there are ways to do it now that weren't available to them before."Fear, on the other hand, has a broader impact. Individuals are having to take more responsibility for their own finances, a trend established in the US and becoming prevalent in Europe. The result is that people are fearful of being left behind: they see huge sums being made in the stock markets, and feel they must join the game.If Kramer is right, this powerful combination of fear and greed will drive people to internet sites rather than traditional media such as the Wall Street Journal or the FT. This necessitates a fundamental change in the way such newspapers do business.US experience with CBSMarketWatch.com has taught Kramer that the service has three key advantages over traditional media: it is free because it is funded by advertising; it is available on the internet and via partnerships with powerful new media players such as AOL and Yahoo; and it can offer very close to real-time news. When an investor has savings tied up in a volatile share, he or she clearly wants the most up-to-date information possible.Kramer says that as a result far more people now turn to CBSMarketWatch.com than read the Wall Street Journal. Traffic growth across CBSMarketWatch.com has been astronomical. One year ago what would have been a good day now covers about four hours of activity. Capacity has had to increase by 40% a month for the past four months. "It is just exploding," he said.This pedigree, coupled with the power of the FT brand, will make FTMarketWatch.com a formidable competitor for the fledgling services being started in Britain by companies such as TheStreet and BreakingViews, being set up by former FT journalists Hugo Dixon and Jonathan Ford. Already up and running in the US, TheStreet will be launching a British version of its service imminently at TheStreet.co.uk.Kramer says pointedly that CBSMarketwatch.com is four times the size of TheStreet.com in the US. But the reality of the internet is that a competitor can close the gap quickly on a rival if better content is provided: users have little brand loyalty to keep them faithful to one site. So the one sure outcome is that financial journalists are suddenly in big demand.FTMarketWatch.com will be edited by Thom Calandra, editor of the US site and a journalist with experience on the San Francisco Examiner and at the Bloomberg wire service. He will hire 35 journalists within six months, by which time the service will be up and running.Using the FT's affiliation to other European papers such as Les Echos in France, the service will offer national services to each major European market over the next year to 18 months.Kramer argues that the coverage FTMarketWatch.com will offer - market-driven news for the general public - has not existed before in Europe.News editing is crucial: in the US the service has five editors remaking the "front" page endlessly, giving users a fast glance at the most important stories of the minute and the day."A lot of other news organisations, especially TV and newspapers, that went to the web automated that process. We erred on the side of more news editors. We felt people wanted our assessment of what is important."This should be music to the ears of journalists. Ours is a site built by journalists and it understands the   value journalists bring to coverage, that you can't automate some things." Kramer argues that the news judgements are crucial given that investors will be making rapid decisions on the basis of what they read.Originally a reporter on the San Francisco Examiner, Kramer became a financial reporter on the Washington Post, then assistant to executive editor Ben Bradley, before returning as executive editor of the Examiner. He also has an MBA from Havard.Despite his enthusiasm for the internet, Kramer believes newspapers will survive. "A paper like the Financial Times has a long future because it is thought-provoking. It lets you take a deep breath and think about events and go at them. Newspapers have their own portability, and the written word still carries weight. Maybe they will be the second, not the first, draft of history. You will not see newspapers breaking news."Look at the newspaper business in the US. The newspapers that survived and flourished are the Washington Post and New York Times and LA Times which put things in context. The ones that died are the ones that survived on breaking news, afternoon papers and tabloids. The role just changes."Kramer argues that financial news occupies a special place in the news market. Sports fans, for example, will use the net for information but their first stop is the game itself, to see the action. Similarly on entertainment, where users will use the web to supplement the experience of reading a book or seeing a film by visiting related websites.But, he says, "In the financial world, we are the game. We are the entertainment as well as the coverage. You watch the game in real-time on our site. On top of that, every element of financial services is on the internet and they need a medium to advertise on in that world."Kramer says the potential for advertising revenue is huge as a result. Magazines in the US like Business Week and Fortune, he says, make $300m-$400m a year in revenue from advertisers who reach 1m people. CBSMarketWatch had 4.6m monthly visitors in the third quarter last year. Given that an internet service has fewer costs than a conventional publication, the prospects for huge profits are clear.Kramer finishes with a final piece of evangelical prophecy: "The internet is the medium of choice for financial news. It is better than television, it is better than radio, it is better than newspapers because financial news has a shelf life. This is the fastest way you can get information to people and if you can do it for free that is how they are going to get it."
Steve Outingwww.mediainfo.com"The newspaper digital kiosk may finally kill the traditional news-stand. Imagine not only being able to get a copy of any newspaper at the airport news-stand print-station kiosk, but also being able to get any printed newspaper from print stations in libraries, on demand.A long-term question about these services is whether news consumers - especially travellers - will still want to read the printed page. Won't we all be downloading our local newspaper and reading on screens rather than dead trees?James Cutie, CEO of PressPoint &#91;which will deliver papers - transmitted by the internet and locally printed - anywhere in the world&#93; believes that in certain markets, digital reading will largely supplant paper.News media futurist David Carlson, director of the Interactive Media Lab at the University of Florida-Gainesville's school of journalism, agrees that eventually paper will lose out to digital reading devices. Just spend a day watching an eight-year-old, he says, and you'll get an appreciation of how future adult generations will be perfectly comfortable meeting all their news and information needs sans paper."Jim Rutenbergwww.observer.com"After a run of roughly 50 years, the age of network television came to an end on Sunday, January 9 2000, with the merger of America Online Inc and Time Warner &#91;owner of HBO and CNN&#93;. The $183bn merger means an era in which the TV set and the computer will merge.'This means you may watch HBO on your Palm Pilot,' said Christopher Dixon, media analyst for Paine Webber.With this broadband alliance, it is conceivable that one day soon, AOL-Time Warner subscribers will be able to log on and pull up archived episodes of the Sopranos, Roswell or ER at will, thus creating their own TV schedules.Bressler said he believes many shows will be re-created for the internet with shorter running times for shorter attention spans. What about the commercials? Since online viewers would be inclined to skip through the commercials, careful product placement may tell you that Buffy the Vampire Slayer's pants are made by the Gap. If you're interested, you could click onscreen and buy a pair online."Howard Kurtzhttp://www.washingtonpost.com"At a more fundamental level, several analysts say, the creation of the world's largest media and cyberspace company seems to muddy the original dream of the internet as a democratising force that would enable thousands of individual voices to compete with major media organs. But the rapid expansion of newspaper, magazine and network sites on the web has given it a decidedly corporate cast."
