Google is reported to be getting rid of desktop PCs running Microsoft Windows across the corporation to eliminate a security risk.TheFinancial Times reportsthat the company, which has more than 20,000 staff worldwide, is now offering new recruits the choice of using computers running the free Linux operating system or Apple Macintosh computers.The company refused to confirm or deny the reports, issuing a brief comment saying that it would not discuss "operational issues".Microsoft, however, claimed that the move was simply part of Google's attempts to standardise on its new in-house operating system, called ChromeOS.The shift away from Windows is claimed to have begun in January, after Google realised that the operating system had been part of a chain of weaknesses that allowed adamaging attack against some of its core systems by Chinese hackersin December."Many people have been moved away from [Windows] PCs, mostly towards MacOS, following the China hacking attacks," the FT quoted one unnamed Google employee as saying.Another is quoted saying: "We're not doing any more Windows. It is a security effort."Being pushed out of Google would be a major PR blow to Microsoft – although the two companies have an intense rivalry in the search business, where Google dominates, and in the provision of online editing of documents, spreadsheets, email and calendars, where Google says that 1,000 small and medium businesses are taking up its Google Docs offering every day.Though the revenue implications are tiny for Microsoft, the suggestion that one of the largest online businesses is unable to secure Windows could have serious implications for its public standing.Microsoft's Windows, with at least 95% of the corporate computing market, is a constant target for attacks by criminals and hackers looking to gain access and control to machines. The intrusion into Google – which compromised some of its most sensitive systems, and almost gave the hackers oversight of its Google Mail system before the attack was discovered – is believed to have come via malware targeted at users of Microsoft's Internet Explorer 6 browser running on Windows in its China offices last year.However, Microsoft's head of PR, Frank Shaw, suggested that the FT had misinterpreted moves by Google to use its own new in-house PC operating system, Chrome. "Bad headline, wrong premise here. Google going google, okay, but free pass from FT on reason = bad reporting," hesaid on his Twitter account, before sarcasticallyadding: "News flash: Google bans Bing from its computers. Must credit FT. Picture on Bing home page is distracting to G[oogle] engineers."A large number of businesses offer anti-malware protection – including Google itself, through its Postini subsidiary. But with expert hackers targeting previously undiscovered security holes in Windows and Internet Explorer – because it will be present by default on every computer running Windows – it is impossible to protect against every attack.By contrast, there is little malware focussed on Linux desktop operating systems or Apple's Mac OS X. Both are Unix-based systems, but despite its being nine years old there are no viruses targeting Mac OS X. There are fewer than 100 viruses targeting Linux OSs, but the variety of "flavours" of the operating system means that a virus effective against one will not work on another.By contrast, there were more than 97,000 known viruses aimed at Windows, although modern malware targets individual applications such as Microsoft Word or Internet Explorer. Malware writers also target widely-used applications such as Adobe's Acrobat Reader, used to read PDF documents.Some reports suggest that Google is allowing staff to run Windows on their laptops, but removing it from desktop machines. Keeping Windows reportedly requires clearance from "quite senior levels" – by Ben Fried, a former Morgan-Stanley executive who is now the company's chief information officer, it is suggested.But Google staff are also increasingly worried about the potential for their systems to be attacked if they use Windows, the FT says. "Particularly since the China scare, a lot of people here are using Macs for security," it quoted an unnamed employee as saying.Google is also developing its own operating system, called ChromeOS, which is expected to preclude malware attacks by making it impossible to alter applications.A Google spokesperson declined to comment on the specifics of the company's moves, but did not deny any of the claims made. The spokesperson said: "We're always working to improve the efficiency of our business, but we do not comment on specific operational matters."Google has never confirmed the specific details of how its systems were hacked in China, but details have emerged through security companies which have followed up on parallel attacks made against a number of other non-Chinese companies.
I criticised several aspects of Intel's Classmate 2 netbook whenI looked at an early version in April 2009. The new model deals with many of my complaints, though the basic system has not changed.If you missed it,Classmate 2is a rugged convertible aimed at the schools market, particularly children aged 5-11. In normal use, it's a conventional Atom-powered netbook, but you can also swivel the screen around – handy for some classroom uses – and fold it over the keyboard, to form a tablet computer. You can then use a stylus to make notes, with the option of converting your handwriting into text.The latest Classmate 2 (PDF) has had its 1.6GHz Intel Atom N270 processor upgraded to a 1.66GHz N450, the Intel GMA 950 integrated graphics have been slightly improved to GMA3150, and the 60GB hard drive has expanded to 150GB. The 8.9in screen has grown to 10.1in, and the old Microsoft Windows XP has been replaced by Windows 7 Starter. All of these are worthwhile improvements to what is not, after all, intended to be a cutting-edge system.However, the screen still offers the same limited resolution of 1024 x 600 pixels, and the keyboard remains a little unpleasant for adult touch-typing, though it's now spill-resistant. The main memory (shared with the integrated graphics) has stuck at 1GB, though there's an empty slot so it can easily be expanded to 2GB.Netbook-watchers will recognise the specification as the Intel Pinetrail platform used in many of this year's netbooks, such as the Asus Eee 1005PE.The new Classmate 2 scores 2.3 on the Windows Experience Index, the same as the Asus 1005PE – which you'd expect, because they have the same processor. In other respects, the Classmate 2 is fractionally quicker, except for the 1005PE's better 250GB hard drive. But while you can measure the difference, it's not so large that any user could tell.The system is available with either a 4-cell battery lasting up to 4.8 hours or a 6-cell battery claimed to last 8.5 hours. As well as having two USB ports, an SD slot, Ethernet and other ports, the new model optionally supports WiMax networking, 3G and GPS.Another benefit for schools is the provision of a simple Blue Dolphin front end with a bundle of preloaded educational software. When you turn the Classmate 2 on, it tries to connect to your teacher's PC, so that you can receive assignments and hand them in (via a button that says Hand In). Programs such as Smart Notebook SE, MyScript Stylus and MyScript Studio look suitable for classroom use. There's also webcam and parental control software. However, the bundle includes some trialware that you would need to remove, and configuring Blue Dolphin for a specific school would take quite some time. You'd want Intel Education Administrator or a similar program to configure 30 or more.The new Classmate 2 is bulky and somewhat heavy (1.52kg or 1.74kg) in comparison to consumer-oriented designs such as the Asus Seashell and Acer Aspire. It doesn't look anything like as stylish as a Seashell or the silver Toshiba NB305. But it should be more likely to survive rough handling, or even being dropped.Classmate netbooks are developed and sold by manufacturers in many different countries. Previous versions have been sold in the UK by CMS under the Fizzbook Spin brand name, and the latest model will be distributed by Steljes in the UK and Ireland. It has been pilot tested at St Matthew Academy, Blackheath, London.Pros:Rugged design and construction; converts to tablet; stylus-operated touch screen; Blue Dolphin front end; Windows 7 Starter.Cons:Limited screen depth (600 pixels); keyboard; weight.Classmatepc.com
James Bond meets Mass Effect 2? On paper, Alpha Protocol sounds like a classic. Sadly, on screen the potential of an espionage based RPG is rarely fulfilled.It doesn't help that Alpha Protocol looks so dated. Yes, 2009's Dragon Age showed that excellent RPGs need not be pretty, but Alpha Protocol really is an ugly affair. Bland generic settings and 2006 vintage character graphics are all par for the course. Luckily then the story and general narrative do enough to get you at least semi-interested. Historically, most RPGs have been set in orc-filled fantasy lands; Alpha Protocol goes instead for government conspiracy and undercover espionage. The story is progressed by an excellent dialogue choice tool. Speak to a character and you can choose to be suave, professional or aggressive. Obviously what you choose influences how each character reacts to you – be careful who you flirt with, for example – and has a big impact on plot progression.Sadly, the combat and action fail to match up to the story and socialising. The camera is a mess for a start, regularly hindering your view. The Gears of War-style cover system too is frustratingly erratic too. More casual gamers will be put off by some of the RPG mechanics such as woefully underpowered weaponry that only gradually improves as you "level up". Experienced gamers – especially those who played the original Mass Effect — will be used to this though and there is definitely a challenge here.What will unite all players though is a hatred of the minigames that crop up whenever you want to disable an alarm or unlock a door. The most perverse sees you having to identify a code in a grid full of manically moving characters. Once found – not easy – you need to move a sluggish cursor over to it before time runs out and it gets moved to another part of the grid. Prepare to fling your controller across the room in anger at least 25 times.The most frustrating thing about Alpha Protocol is that there clearly is a decent game hidden away here. Choosing a specialisation for your agent and customising him with individual skills and looks is as gnawingly compulsive as in most RPGs. Possibly even more so here, given the real-world setting. But a general lack of visual polish, coupled with clunky gameplay mechanics, means Alpha Protocol is a missed opportunity.
The second add-on pack for Sims 3 takes a similar path to the Open For Business pack for Sims 2, namely expanding your career options, albeit in a great deal more detail. This time, you actually get to experience full working days, which leads to a few complications of its own – more on this in a moment.The new career paths are in addition to those featured in the main game and offer far more interesting and versatile daily routines. So now you can hone your skills as a firefighter, doctor, private investigator, architect, educator, ghosthunter and stylist. Each of these have added responsibilities, indicated by a sub-menu for each of your sims and giving you options as to how best to level up their skills. So as a PI you might find yourself tracking all across town to check out crime scenes or investigate suspects. Firefighters, meanwhile, head for the fire station where they can practice their pole slides or upgrade their engines before heading off to tackle fires, natural disasters and more bizarre events involving garden gnomes. All these career paths are undertaken in real time in and around your new neighbourhood, TwinBrook, which has a more leisurely Southern backwater look and feel to previous locations.There are also new skills, including sculpting, tattooing and inventing. Perhaps the most entertaining of these is inventing, where a visit to the junkyard yields the raw materials to turn into labour-saving tools such as hygiene sprays or even time machines. Once you've mastered these skills, your earning potential rises far faster than in a bog-standard profession, allowing Architects to improve their neighbourhoods, Doctors to make housecalls and Sculptors to model other Sims – although finding enough time when they're not busy on their own careers is another point.In fact, the biggest problem with many of these new jobs and skills is the time they consume. Find yourself in a multi-person household, for instance, and you'll find it almost impossible to follow more than one of them in anything like the detail to make them most of all the new options.Although Sims 3 never managed the global domination of its predecessors, there's still no other game quite like it and this expansion adds just enough to the original formula to make it well worth a look. If you're not a fan, this won't convince you – but if you have the time to invest, you'll get a lot more out of your virtual life than before.
Microsoft is to unveil a new-look MSN UK homepage later today that includes tie-ups with Facebook and Twitter and a new high-profile slot for its online TV service.A key element of the refresh, the first major overhaul since September 2007, is to simplify the design to reduce download time, which is considered a key factor in keeping users engaged for longer."The new homepage is much lighter, much whiter, much shorter [in overall length], much smaller," said Peter Bale, executive producer of MSN UK at Microsoft.MSN UK's new-look website, which is scheduled to go live from 8.30pm today, will also include social media integration with Facebook, Twitter and Windows Live. The website will also offer more news and larger images.Users will be able to access and update their social media accounts directly from the MSN homepage – although not if they are members of the second largest network, News Corporation-ownedMySpace."It is acknowledgment there are other services out there that people's lives also revolve around and it is important to making the MSN homepage indispensible," said Bale.Microsoft has also given video-on-demand service MSN Video Player, which has 1,000 hours of shows including Peep Show, Shameless and Midsomer Murders, a high-profile slot.Previously the service,which officially launched in March, was positioned below the "fold" in the lower half of the homepage; it is now near the top."We are meeting targets for streams, we are pretty happy about [MSN Video Player] at the moment," said Bale. "One of the difficulties was making it prominent enough for users. It is a very valuable product. We see video as front and centre of our revenue ambitions in the coming year."A huge amount of web traffic to the MSN UK homepage comes from when users log off from Microsoft-owned email service Hotmail. As such the new redesign features a much more prominent Hotmail service."There will be a much cleaner, crisper look and feel," said Chris Maples, the commercial director for Microsoft UK. "This will create greater engagement for users and for advertisers. It feels a bit more nimble, adds some verve."
Here is the former Old Street Magistrates Court in London, usually a rather dour building we suspect. Last week, however, video game publisher Activision decorated it with a huge mural to celebrate the launch of the fiesty urban racing sim,Blur. The image depicts two cars smashing through the wall and into a cartoon fantasy world. I'm not sure if the company intended this to be a damning indictment of the British justice system, but it looks cool.Created by UK artist Gavin Nolan (best known for hisfreakish portraits of historical figures), the work was inspired bythe excellent Blur TVad in which a Mario Kart-style cutesy character dreams of escaping his nice primary coloured world and competing in Blur.This is my favourite artsy marketing stunt since THQ encouraged London commuters tosledge hammer their way into a parked carto grab copies of Red Faction: Guerrilla. I also like the fact that there's a tyre leaned against the wall – I'm not sure if this was part of Gavin's work or wether some passing situationist prankster has got in on the fun.
I had planned to finally spend some serious time with Red Dead Redemption this weekend but the iPad ruined those plans. Apple's new toy ruled the roost at ours this weekend although games were a big part of it.Plants and Zombies HDhas gone done particularly well. But the simple to grasp touchscreen play of iPad gaming generally has been a hit with all ages too, especially non-gamers - is the iPad the Wii Sports of portable gaming?Less impressive as a game - it lacks variety - but hugely promising as a technical achievement was the Diablo/action RPG stylePocket Legends. Playing across iPhone/Touch and iPad, Legends gives a little glimpse into where portable gaming could be headed.Anyway, what about you? What did you play this weekend?
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Astrophotos (of Betelgeuse) ruined by light pollution. Photo bymakelessnoiseon Flickr.Some rights reservedWelcome back! Fabulous bank holiday? Here's a quick burst of 14 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team:The Coming Data Explosion &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWeb"..according to a presentation that Google VP Marissa Mayer made last August at Xerox PARC, this 'data explosion is bigger than Moore's law.'"Tips for HTML5, part 6: A look at CSS3 &gt;&gt; Mindy McAdamsJust another quick note on CSS3/HTML5. Remember, two million iPads out there are CSS3/HTML5-aware. And they're not Flash-aware.Open data for postcodes &gt;&gt; UK PostcodesIf you ever need to do a postcode -&gt; long/lat **or its reverse**, here's the place to feed your question.Betelgeuse may be about to go supernova &gt;&gt; UnixroninThis is bad news for the Betelgueseans, and for some Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy fans, as it may require an edit. But for us, new bright star in the sky some time soon?What your email address says about your computer skills &gt;&gt; The OatmealHave we mentioned how much we like The Oatmeal?In Search of Microsoft's Tablet Strategy &gt;&gt; TechnologizerThe idea of putting some version of Windows Mobile/Phone OS onto tablets actually sounds rather good. It worked for Apple, after all.Apple's iPad sales break the two million mark &gt;&gt; The GuardianThat's a billion dollars in revenues, in case you hadn't thought about the boost to the bottom line. Would Apple have sold as many netbooks, if it had made one?Android 2.2 OS Preview: Does Froyo deliver on Android 2.2? &gt;&gt; Intomobile.comMinutely detailed examination of what's coming up in the 'frozen yoghurt' release of Google's mobile operating system.Geeks and Nerds: the Venn diagram &gt;&gt; xkcdMake sure you roll over the image to get the alt text.Want to know why Symbian lost the app war? &gt;&gt; MobileMentalism"In what should be a huge wake up call to Steve Jobs and the increasingly totalitarian regime that he's creating around the walled garden that is everything i (iPhone, iPad, iTunes, iPod), Symbian insisted on approving each and every app that was written for the Symbian platform.&#10;&#10;"The only problem was that its approval process was even slower than Apple's. Whereas iPhone apps can take from a week to 2 months to be approved, a Symbian app still takes half a year before it's approved!"Letter to Government departments on opening up data &gt;&gt; Number10.gov.ukHistoric: Cameron writes to government departments telling them that they have to open up data. If only he'd called it "Read Me First" for the full geek factor.Experiments in delinkification &gt;&gt; Nicholas Carr"Links are great conveniences, as we all know (from clicking on them compulsively day in and day out). But they're also distractions. Sometimes, they're big distractions - we click on a link, then another, then another, and pretty soon we've forgotten what we'd started out to do or to read. Other times, they're tiny distractions, little textual gnats buzzing around your head. Even if you don't click on a link, your eyes notice it, and your frontal cortex has to fire up a bunch of neurons to decide whether to click or not. You may not notice the little extra cognitive load placed on your brain, but it's there and it matters. People who read hypertext comprehend and learn less, studies show, than those who read the same material in printed form. The more links in a piece of writing, the bigger the hit on comprehension." Thoughtful as always.Steve Ballmer IS the right man to turn around Microsoft mobile &gt;&gt; BetanewsJoe Wilcox makes a good case for Steve Ballmer being the right person to make the mobile side work: after all, he took over Windows from September 2008. Remember Vista? And now, compare Windows 7. Can he do the same with Windows Phone?Using styles in word processing: Apple's Pages vs. Microsoft Word &gt;&gt; BetalogueInteresting comparison, for those who apply a lot of styles to their text, of the usability of Apple's (rather low-priced) Pages v Microsoft's (often pricier) Word.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
As some of you will know (if you listened to last week'sTech podcast), I'm leaving the Guardian after 25 years, but the plan is that I will continue to answer one question each week on the Ask Jack blog. You can help by sending queries to my current personal email address, jack.schofield (at) gmail.com, in case my Guardian email stops working. (Which, of course, it should…)If you are on Twitter, you can also message me as@jackschofieldand@Ask_Jack-- and yes, you can @reply anyone you like without actually following them.In having a clear-out, I found a number of Ask Jack queries that had been diverted to my Guardian spam folder. Where the message was over a month old, I can no longer retrieve it. If you have a query that time has not rendered obsolete, feel free to resend it.And while this isn't really goodbye, I would like to say thanks to all the people who have asked questions -- many of which have not been published -- over the past decade, and all the people who have left helpful comments on the blog. It has been a privilege to help at least a few of you, and being able to help people is one of the most satisfying things we ever get to do.
If anyone's coming back from China, I hope they're bringing back aniPed, as reported on Japanese TV news. This looks like the first iPadalike to go on sale*, and a large part of its appeal is the low price ($105). However, I expect some rather more expensive devices will be shown at this week's Computex trade show in Taiwan, starting withMSI's Wind Pad 110, which has an ARM processor running Google's Android mobile phone operating system. Acer,Delland Lenovo are also tipped to enter the market at some point.According toThe Wall Street Journal: "Bob Morris, ARM's director of mobile computing, says his company is tracking about 40 tablet-style devices being designed with ARM-based chips, plus about 10 more e-reader devices for electronic books. He estimated that 'upwards of half' are based on Android."Apple's iPad is basically an iPod Touch XL, so I don't see any reason why Google's mobile phone software should not be similarly upscaled for the mid-sized tablet format. It might not have the polish of Apple's software, but polish isn't everything. There are other things in life, including diversity and freedom of choice, as well as price.The point is that where Apple's system is proprietary and closed, Google's is based on open source Linux, and you can license it. Instead of users being limited to one basic tablet from one supplier, and a single censored marketplace for approved apps, Android will enable thousands of manufacturers and software developers to compete for sales. Some people find freedom of choice is just too hard for them to handle, of course, but the (relatively) more open system could eventually triumph, as Microsoft MS DOS (aka IBM PC DOS) and Windows did over Apple's Mac OS in the 1980s and 1990s. And while no one knows if this will actually happen, it already seems likely that Android phones will outsell Apple iPhones.Either way,as the FT's Tech blog says: "Everyone's eager to capitalise on the iPad's technological shortcomings." Well, Apple has left lots of room for competition. For a start, there's the chance to provide cloud-based systems that don't demand to be attached to a personal computer running Apple's iTunes for synchronisation.The first version of the iPad also has lots of hardware and software limitations, including the annoying lack of multi-tasking for third-party apps, lack of Adobe Flash (not even as a user-selected option), the mysteriously missing webcam for Skype, the lack of a USB port or an SD card slot, and so on. Apple has probably left out some of these useful features in order to create a market for an upgraded iPad to be released in 18-24 months, but it means rivals can easily offer these things first.There are, of course, lots of alternatives to Android in the slate market. Some manufacturers already sell, or might sell, tablets that run different versions of Linux (including Nokia and Intel's MeeGo), Windows CE Embedded or Windows 7, or even Palm's WebOS, now owned by HP. Also, some tablets will be based on ARM chips such as Snapdragon or Tegra, and some on Intel Atom chips, depending on whether they're small versions of laptop computers or big versions of mobile phones.However, Google has alreadysingled out Appleas the dictatorial 1984-style enemy of freedom in the smartphone market (an amusing twist on Apple's attack on IBM), and this war looks likely to be continued in the "overgrown smartphone" part of the tablet market.One key problem is that Google specified Android forscreens up to about 7 inches, presumably thinking that the stripped-down web-oriented Chrome OS would be used on devices with bigger screens. But if Google isn't hammering out a new tablet "device profile" based on XGA (1024 x 768 pixel) screens, I'll be very disappointed.* Update: On Twitter,androidpadshas pointed to theMoonse e7001 aka iRobotas an earlier example.
The attack by Israel on a flotilla of ships approaching Gaza has, as you'd expect, generated a huge response on social media - and of course Twitter, with its real-time content, was quick to react.Many users began the morning by tagging their comments about it with "#flotilla" - a "hashtag" which gives a structure to a discussion or emerging event, as you can filter searches in applications such as Tweetdeck so that you only see those with that tag.But at around 11am, as #flotilla began "trending" - rising to the topmost-used hashtags on the service - it seemed to vanish.Was this censorship by Twitter?Quite a few asked the question.Certainly if you went to the standard URL for such a search -http://search.twitter.com/search?q=%23flotilla- you briefly got a result saying "Twitter error".However if you used the advanced search, youget the results as you'd expect.What also happened was that people started using a new hashtag: #freedomflotilla. That rapidly trended.The error in #flotilla search results quickly fixed itself, though. Possibly the rapid rise in the hashtag's visibility tripped an anti-spam filter at Twitter headquarters (where it was 3am in the morning, so we might assume that it's the machines, rather than the people, who are on duty - though then again, knowing the nocturnal habits of programmers, perhaps not).Update:Mike Butcher at Techcrunchpoints outthat this surely was a case of anti-spam filtering: there had already been a "flotilla" story in the past week - the anniversary of Dunkirk (for non-Britons: a dramatic rescue during the second world war of British and French troops from the Dunkirk beaches by small craft). And Gaza is frequently topical. (Thanks @vensa in the comments.)So Twitter's anti-spam algorithms - that is, the machines - likely decided that this was a spam attack trying to piggyback on old hashtags, and pushed the "#flotilla" hashtag out of the trending topics. Is it censorship if it's done by machines that think it's spam? Given that "#freedomflotilla" instead rapidly trended, clearly there's no human censorship against the story of the attack being made visible to other Twitter users.That's why Trendsmap, which is independent of Twitter and from which the screenshot is taken, looks as it does: it reflects what's on Twitter.Update 2:: Sean Garrett, who handles communications for Twitter, tweeted this morning tosaythat"We are investigating a technical issue that caused search errors for a short period of time this morning. Twitter facilitates the open exchange of info &amp; opinions -- when that is hampered by a bug, we take it very seriously." The bug has now been fixed, Twitter says.So: shock as Twitter not being used to censor news. But it does show the enormous sensitivity there now is about Twitter's impartiality that any suggestion that a world event might be pushed out of its "trending topics" (displayed on the right-hand column of every Twitter user's home page) can create such frustration.It doesn't, of course, help anyone on the convoy that was attacked. But getting information into public hands is a public good. Twitter is coming closer and closer to being viewed as a utility - certainly by those who use it. Perhaps we'd all feel more comfortable if it had a business model that had real, declared profits - because (to answer @Strummer) that would mean you could be confident of unmediated messages from everywhere in the world.
Ryan Gavin, Microsoft's senior director of Internet Explorer, is remarkably chirpy for a man whose product's market share has plunged from 90% to roughly 60%, but it seems things are not all bad."The future for IE is as bright as it's been any time over the past five years," he says. "IE8 is the fastest-growing browser in history: it's the number one browser on Windows, and the number one across all OSs. The simple truth comes down to: every single day, more users are choosing Internet Explorer 8 than any other modern browser out there."Gavin is also showing a platform preview of next year's IE9 – which, at least on his chosen demos, trounces Google Chrome for speed by making use of the PC's graphics processor.What's more, he's just as keen to see the back of the nine-year-old IE6 as anybody else. "IE6 was built for a very different web at a very different time," says Gavin. "A modern web does require a modern browser. My aim is to get IE6's market share to zero as fast as humanly possible. That's good for the web, good for developers, and good for us."IE6 is still around because companies standardised on it, and because it ships with Windows XP, which is still the most widely-used (and, arguably, most popular) operating system. The problem will shrink as Windows 7 takes off. However, IE9 won't run on XP: wouldn't it help kill IE6 if it did?"XP is a fantastic operating system, it was simply built for a different time. The security profile from nine years ago is not the security profile needed today," he says. IE9 has a strong focus on security – Gavin says it blocks far more malware than either Firefox or Google Chrome – but "you need security all the way through the operating system". That's obviously not XP….Gavin says the IE9 preview has been downloaded more than 1m times since 15 March, and developers are excited about it because it makes new kinds of web experience possible: experiences that are much more like applications than websites. This is using HTML5 and hardware acceleration, of course."We're all in on HTML5," he says. "We've been co-chairing the HTML5 working group, and we're actually leading the HTML5 testing group. With CSS 2.1, we've submitted 7,000 test cases to the W3C. We're actively participating with other browser vendors to get consistency across browsers. The goal is 'same markup'."Microsoft's Test Drive site shows that IE9 is implementing important HTML5 standards better than rival browsers, but it still lags on Acid3 test. Gavin says Microsoft is implementing the features most commonly used by popular websites, rather than targeting Acid3. "We're using real-world customer data to inform our vision [for IE9], but as we focus on standards and markup, as a by-product, our Acid3 scores go up."Gavin says Microsoft is taking a similar line with browser performance, testing against thousands of real-world sites rather than optimising for benchmark tests. "There are dozens of subsystems that make up the real-world performance of a browser – which is not just speed – and JavaScript can be as little as 5%," he says. "Rendering matters a ton. Layout matters a ton. It varies site by site. Looking at one specific test is a very narrow view of the web."But, I suggest, Microsoft could save itself the effort if it just used the open source WebKit rendering engine – as used by Google Chrome, Apple Safari, and most mobile browsers – instead of developing its own."Trident is actually a much bigger engine with many more components than WebKit," he says, "and I'm not even sure what WebKit is. There are a lot of different versions that get different results on the same tests."Of course, another factor is that Microsoft has to maintain compatibility with earlier versions of its browser that are still used by many corporate customers and government departments. I ask Gavin if Microsoft's focus on HTML5 means that ActiveX is on the way out."ActiveX continues to be a choice," he says, "along with HTML5 and various plug-ins. Choice is a good thing! Developers will continue to choose the right tools for the job."There's more choice in the browser space than ever in history. Choice is great for customers, it's great for developers, and it's great for Microsoft. I think we do some of our most innovative work in a healthy competitive environment, serving customers and partners."Those are fine sentiments – so we can only hope that IE9 actually delivers on them.
Wired magazine app on the iPad. Photo bycvanderon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 16 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIs This Really The Future of Magazines or Why Didn't They Just Use HTML 5? &gt;&gt; InterfacelabWhy choose the Wired iPad app over the physical magazine? "I'm starting to believe that the physical magazine's 'interface' is vastly superior to its iPad cousin.10 Outstanding Social Media Infographics &gt;&gt; @NowSourcing.ComPure visual fun.Google Reader ditches support for past browsers &gt;&gt; CNET News"Pop quiz: What company introduced a browser in September 2009 that Google now considers "antiquated"? Answer: Google itself. "Reading the iPad &gt;&gt; BBC - dot.RoryThe BBC's technology correspondent on the iPad's ebook capability: "...when it comes to adults, is the iPad really meant for books? I've been trying to read one on the device and I'm still torn about its attractions. It is great for reading in bed, especially if you want to turn off the light so as not to disturb your partner - but in bright sunshine, the reflective screen becomes almost unreadable.&#10;&#10;"And there is another great downside to books bought in Apple's iBook store. They are locked to the device, so you only own the book on the iPad and can't read it elsewhere. For me, and I expect plenty of others, passing books on to family and friends is part of the attraction."Steve Ballmer not speaking at Apple WWDC &gt;&gt; Microsoft on TwitterNor is he doing Dancing with the Stars. Disappointing. Though not even close to surprising.Google Confirms "Mayday" Update Impacts Long Tail Traffic &gt; SearchenginelandWhen Google's heads twitch a little, the long tail whiplashes; it made between 350 and 550 changes to its organic search algorithms in 2009. That's more than 1 every working day.Top 1000 sites &gt;&gt; DoubleClick Ad PlannerWhere Google is Number 0 - the ur-site. Notice number 9: ever heard of it?The next Apple TV revealed: cloud storage and iPhone OS on tap... and a $99 price tag &gt;&gt; EngadgetWell, perhaps. Cloud storage? More likely an index to the point where you were last watching, and to any programs you've chosen to watch. Does it compare with Google TV though?Client: "On that map of Maryland graphic..' &gt;&gt; Client From HellAh, the clients from hell. They're everywhere.Lenovo kills Skylight OS in favor of Android, U1 Hybrid and Skylight smartbook being shelved &gt;&gt; EngadgetMore upheaval in the tablet sector. Now there's WebOS, Android and of course Windows 7. Who's making stuff with Windows 7 now Dell and HP have dropped it?Windsor and Maidenhead 'goes further on transparency' &gt;&gt; ConservativeHomeWe don't often link to ConservativeHome, but this is interesting: it says it's got an online tool to turn its raw data about energy consumption into "meaningful headings". That's nice - but where's the raw data, in a machine-readable form?The Royal Borough of Windsor and Maidenhead &gt;&gt; Main siteNow find the "open data" that we're hearing about. And if you can find it in any format other than PDF... we'd like to know.How Open Data Applications are Improving Government &gt;&gt; MashableThe American experience, soon - yes? - to be mirrored by lots of British examples too. Though we can hope for better spelling - "help fight appathy"?Good news for people everywhere! (If they want support on Twitter, anyway) &gt;&gt; Twitter blogIt's really not that exciting, but worth noting if you often need Twitter support. No?How to generate the open data version of your local authority's website &gt;&gt; Tony HirstIt's a Google search - and not a very complicated one either.News apps on the iPad - my first impressions &gt;&gt; Martin BelamThe Guardian's information architect gets to grips with ways to read the news on some new gewgaw.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
From a quick glance atBluryou'd be forgiven for thinking developer Bizarre Creations has settled down and put together a safe, neat, ultra-traditional racer: lots of real-world settings, authentic cars and glossy visuals.But alongside that,Blur's gameplay is in fact firmly rooted in the fantastical. So while the handling of the featured vehicles does feel pretty accurate as you thunder down Brighton's seafront or Hackney's dishevelled streets, your aim in doing so isn't to win a simple time trial, but to scoop up power-ups and bombard your rivals with missiles and mines.Thanks to a well-rounded arsenal of offensive and defensive weapons, the end result is a surprisingly delicate balance of action and strategy – something to keep you thinking as you revel in the destruction. It might not exude innovation, but that's hardly the point: it's a very welcome and clever tweak to the familiar vehicle combat genre, and it makes for a magnificently playable game. With enough cars, tracks and challenges to keep players busy for hours,Blur's boundless energy delivers all you could want from a racer with a twist.
Some say 15- and 18-rated games don't belong on Wii, pointing to the low sales of titles likeDead Space: Extraction. But not only was the firstNo More Heroesgame the greatest success to date for maverick director Goichi Suda, it sold well enough to fund this bigger-budget sequel. Not bad for a niche title about a geeky wannabe assassin, whose ultraviolence was toned down dramatically for the European market.After the gleefully twisted comic-book gore ofMadWorld, developer Grasshopper has realised that older Wii owners are unlikely to be fazed by fountains of blood, and so the red stuff is sprayed liberally as unlikely hero Travis Touchdown gets to work with his "beam katana" weapon. Aware that waving the Wii remote around to dispatch dozens of enemies per battle is likely to tire most players, Suda has limited the gestural controls to wrestling moves and gory, limb-lopping finishers; the physical nature of the commands lends a tactile satisfaction to every successful kill. The weak of wrist are catered for with a "classic controller" option.Though Travis's motivation has changed, the central conceit is identical: he has to once again rise through the ranks of the United Assassins Association to reach top spot. Structural tweaks have reduced the rather empty open-world city of Santa Destroy to a basic map screen, from where Travis can access his next battle, a shop to buy new clothes or accessories, or odd jobs he can tackle for extra cash. These take the form of retro-styled 2D games, complete with authentic graphics and sound effects from the 8-bit era, and most are amusing little diversions.Unfortunately, they're all too brief and, coupled with the lack of exploration, there's precious little downtime between ranked battles. With a shorter build-up, the pay-off isn't as satisfying, and the repetition of the combat system is exacerbated. Suda and his team do their level best to mix things up, with the deliriously daft Darkside special moves – a generous fistful of inventive boss fights, and playable cameos for two returning characters. Yet while it's certainly more polished than the first game, it loses some of its slightly ramshackle charm; a more confident, revenge-driven Travis is harder to identify with than the scrawny loser of the original. Still, played in short bursts this is headily entertaining stuff in places, crafted with a clear affection for the medium it regularly satirises.
Nintendo's latest attempt to awaken the musician in us all arrives in Europe some five years later than planned. Touted as a DS launch title, the game never left Japan, where it received a substantial update in 2008. It's this latter version that's finally with us, and fortunately the wait has been worth it.Pressing buttons to play notes as a bar passes through them is certainly not a new idea, but even without a plastic instrument to hold, there's great satisfaction to be gleaned from a perfect performance; even more so when you successfully complete a song with every one of its instrumental parts. There are 50 songs, from pop through Nintendo game medleys to classical tunes, and 50 more can be downloaded via Wi-Fi.With a karaoke mode for the more recent numbers, there's more than enough here to keep lone players busy, but it's among friends thatJam with the Bandreally comes to life. Up to eight players can join in from just one copy of the game, and the happy derision provoked by bad playing makes failure every bit as enjoyable as success.
Price£15,275MPG34.8Top speed104mphLying limply on the dashboard is a neatly trimmed, circular piece of shag pile. It looks like a grey furry frisbee. What on earth is it? Suggestions from assorted passengers range from the plausible ("a lost carpet sample"; "a joke toupée") to the fanciful ("a flat pillow that sticks to your face when you sleep." My eight-year-old daughter demonstrates. She might be on to something). In fact, the tufted accessory is just one way that owners of the quirky Nissan Cube can personalise their car. It sits in a hollow on the dashboard and you can toss coins, keys, whatever on to it where they'll sit happily on the non-slip surface. You might also want to buy the Cube's "magic rubber bands" – colourful straps that slip into cutouts in the armrests and can be used to secure maps, photos, tickets and even, I suppose, small stuffed animals."It's all about the Cube conforming to the user's needs, rather than the other way around. You can put your favourite items anywhere you want, not where the vehicle tells you to," says Pierre Loing of Nissan. Fine, and what fun, but making you pay extra for two such flimsy pieces of whimsy seems a little tight for an owner already being asked to part with 15 grand.The Cube, which was launched in Japan more than a decade ago, has just been released on to our streets. Whether that proves Japan is 10 years ahead of us in terms of aesthetic sensibility or proof that we have finally lost our marbles, is a moot point. But the one incontrovertible fact is that the Cube is the most bizarre vehicle you'll see on our streets this year. Depending where you stand it looks like a muscled-up Popemobile, a deranged cartoon character or a domestic appliance. As the name suggests, it is cuboid. But what it loses in aerodynamic efficiency it more than makes up for with internal space. The vertical doors, short bonnet and wide setting of its wheels mean the car really is a Tardis. The sense of space inside is extraordinary and the headroom second to none. A Coldstream Guard could drive and keep his bearskin on.When creating the car's look, Nissan's designers worked with the idea of a "bulldog wearing sunglasses". Why? I have no idea. But it makes a change from the usual galloping horses and leaping cats. Maybe they're now hard at work on a "jellyfish in wellies" look for the next car?The outside may be all squares, but inside it's curves that rule. The designers wanted to create the idea of sitting in a Jacuzzi. The dashboard undulates, the roof has ripples on it and the instrument panel looks as if it's floating. There's also a water-drop pattern on the door panels.You couldn't accuse the Cube of being a great drive – it is woefully underpowered and the steering is vague – but it's roomy, practical and extremely easy to park.  Should you buy one? Only if you like hearing the same old jokes: "Oh look, here comes Postman Pat again…"Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in  one place
And now for something completely different: Google TV. Yes, you read that correctly: Google TV. Now I know what you're thinking. You already have enough TV channels, most of them runningFriends,Desperate Housewivesor reruns ofTop Gear. Why on earth would you want to watch a channel in which a T-shirted nerd with an IQ in the low thousands explains how to code an algorithm for complex linear programming in seven lines of Perl while behind him one of his more subversive colleagues is gleefully demonstrating on a whiteboard how it can be done in four?Relax. Google TV is not a channel, it's aplatform, iea base on which things can be built. In ordinary life, platforms are physical objects, such as the drilling rig that is causing BP such grief, but the Google guys don't do physical. They're geeks, so their idea of a platform is a large piece of software called an operating system. A while back, they created such a platform for mobile phones. It's called Android and handsets based on that platform have recently begun to outsell the Apple iPhone in what may or may not be a significant development.But then the question arose: after mobile phones, what? The Googlers' gaze alighted on the humble domestic television. Now, the thing about a TV set is that it's an exceedingly stupid device. In computational terms, it has the IQ of a nematode worm – and it shows. Take, for example, TV's idea of an EPG or "electronic programme guide": a crude grid plotting channels against times, through which one has to scroll endlessly like a lost zombie. In terms of user interface design, it predates the Pyramids.This kind of stupidity offends the delicate sensibilities of the Googlers. It's, like, so uncool. Why can't you just type in what you want to watch and have the TV set tune to it instantly? And if what you want to watch isn't available via traditional broadcast channels, it's probably available on the web somewhere, so why can't the TV find it and start displaying it?The answer is that the TV nematode can't do complicated things such as that because it is a Device of Very Little Brain. "No problem," say the Googlers, "we'll give it a cognitive transplant." So they signed deals with TV manufacturers such as Sony and set-top box makers such as Logitech to build TVs that will run the Android operating system. And soGoogle TV was born. In addition to receiving conventional television signals, the new TVs will have a web browser, will run Flash (nice snub for Steve Jobs, that) and connect to the web via your home wireless computer network. The first sets will be on the US market in the autumn.Neat, eh? The web and TV united via Google software. But note that Google won't be making the hardware. That will be left to Sony and co. So the model is similar to the situation with mobile phones, where Google makes the Android platform but anyone can make a handset to run it. And anyone can write and publish apps to run on them. So there are dozens of different Android phones on the market and many thousands of Android apps available in an open, unregulated ecosystem that contrasts sharply with Apple's tightly closed shop.All of which is fine and dandy, until something goes wrong. Remember that these new TVs will basically be computers with very large screens and a wireless connection to the net. And you know what happens with computers. So spool forward to the summer of 2012. You've just bought a 50-inch Sony GoogleBravia set to watch the Olympics. Family and friends have been invited to celebrate the occasion. Drinks and nibbles have been procured from M&amp;S. Uncle Fred is in his favourite chair. You "boot up" your new TV and are greeted by a Google search box into which you type (using your Android mobile phone, naturally) "Olympic opening ceremony".A browser window opens, inside which is a spinning beachball – and nothing else. After a while, it dawns on you that Flash has crashed the browser. But when you try to kill the application, you find that the entire set has frozen. The only thing to do is unplug it from the wall and start again. But the same thing happens again.So who do you call? John Lewis, which sold you the set? ("Sorry, sir, that's a Sony problem.") Sony? ("Sorry, sir, that's a software problem. We suggest you call Google.") Google? (Google doesn't do telephone support – it only does online forums.) And, to cap it all, Uncle Fred is grinning from ear to ear. "Told you it wouldn't work," he chuckles.The only consolation is that the guy two doors down is in even worse shape. He's bought a Microsoft TV and is coping with a stack overflow in Windows 9. Stay tuned – if you can.
With the winter gone and the first signs of what might just be, say the press, the hottest barbecue summer ever, one spectacle is guaranteed: at every splash of sunshine, Britain's parks will fill up with half-naked, beer-bellied men turning from pasty white to florid cerise.To combat this red menace, developers Live Once Play Hard have created a novel exercise app.Beer Gut Fitness(Android market, $0.99) doesn't just replicate the marketplace multitude; simply input either the type and duration of exercise performed, or the flavour and quantity of alcohol consumed, and it spits out the sweaty penance required to work off a boozy afternoon or the quantity of refreshing libation your panting has earned. In the summer months, the promise of a guilt-free pint or mojito may just be the best possible motivator for few extra hours in the gym.Obviously, just writing that first paragraph will have condemned Britain to a summer of rain and unseasonable chills, so take solace withAlexia(Apple app store, £0.59, Prometoys) – not a glamorous Mediterranean beauty, but a fiendishly clever word game well suited to an afternoon indoors. Combining elements from Bejeweled, Tetris and any number of word games, you must eliminate falling lettered orbs by creating words from them as quickly as possible, so that they don't back up and end the game. The idea is simple, but it is one that liftsAlexiaabove its competitors in the overcrowded word puzzle genre.
The iPad: the world's most expensive rectangle. The Guardian wanted me to write a first-impressions review on launch day – but how? I could borrow one from an early adopter, but that wouldn't be the same. I don't like poking round other people's computers. It's like snooping through their medicine cabinets: quite quickly you can stumble across something you wish you hadn't seen. I needed a new one, straight out of the packaging. A new one I could keep.But this being launch day, iPads were bound to be scarcer than cats' eggs, right? Disappointingly, the Guardian picked one up from the Tottenham Court Road branch of PC World without having to kill anyone.Typically for Apple, the packaging virtually places the device in your hands with the grace of a well-trained butler. The iPad itself is surprisingly heavy: about the same as a hardback book. It gave me mild arm ache almost immediately. Maybe there's an app that can tell you how many calories you're burning just by holding it. The best solution is to adopt a self-consciously casual crossed-legged sitting position, and prop it up with your thigh. Fanboys who wet themselves may cause a short circuit.The display is extremely glossy, so the first thing you'll see on your screen is a reflection of your face from an unflattering angle. It also doubles as a fingerprint collector, which means you'll spend the first hour obsessively wiping it clean on your T-shirt before giving up and ordering an adhesive screen protector from Amazon (which, if the iPhone equivalents are anything to go by, will be impossible to apply without contemplating suicide at least twice). At this price, Apple – nice, friendly Apply – could at least include a couple of free screen protectors and some kind of carry-case, no? Of course not.You're required to use iTunes during the setup process, which is like being forced to eat a handful of mud. iTunes is twice as awful as any software crime Microsoft ever inflicted on the world. Up popped a progress bar which turned out to be a work of satirical fiction – lodging fast at 7/8ths complete while making random claims about how long it was going to take to finish. It was impossible to tell if it had crashed or was just being sarcastic. I was scared to pull the sync cable out– and I'm a nerd. So much for Macs being easy to use. Eventually a nice man from MacFormat magazine saw me moaning about it on Twitter and gave me some personal assistance. Your experience may differ.Eventually it was up and running. And yes, if you've used an iPhone, it's a bit of an anticlimax, although toying with it is undeniably pleasant. The display is supernaturally crisp; the seamless, intuitive interface becomes second nature almost immediately. Once you've got used to the weight, it's perfect for browsing websites while lounging on the sofa. I don't mean that dismissively: it's quite an achievement – especially since "browsing websites while lounging on the sofa" is what the vast majority of laptops are currently used for.So websites look great on it. As does video. The BBC iPlayer is particularly impressive. But books? Here, I'm less convinced. Kindle owners can download a free app which lets them access their books on the iPad; Apple also has its own rival iBook service. In both cases the screen looks superb, and swiping a finger across the screen to flip the page gives you an undeniable futuristic thrill. But the display, luminously gorgeous when replaying video, is simply not suited for reading articles at length.Yes, you can adjust the brightness, but it's still firing light into your pupils, unlike an ebook screen, with its poncey "electronic ink".I doubt many readers will persevere to the final page of a novel, unless it's a book in which the lead character squints a lot, in which case you'll have a certain empathy.Magazines and newspapers, with their shorter read times, may be a different matter.The Guardian's Eyewitness app, a free interactive gallery of recent photojournalism, looks and feels like the future. If print media really wants to make the transition to devices like these, thinking long and hard about the visual, it needs to think long and hard about the full visual potential.So do you actually need one? Having used one for the past few hours, I can confidently state that you can safely wait until it's lighter and cheaper. At the very least, wait until they bring out an app that turns the iPad into a talking Lord Lucan mask which you can hold up in front of your own face and talk through. If there isn't one already.
Prince Of Persia: The Forgotten Sands, Nintendo DS, PC, PS3, PSP, Xbox 360 &amp; WiiWhen the Prince's brother foolishly releases King Solomon's skeleton army on his already besieged city, it's up  to the Prince to lend a fraternal hand in hacking them all to bits and resealing their magical tomb. Set immediately after Prince of Persia: Sands Of Time, this sees a return to that game's mechanics, favouring vertiginous architectural puzzles that need to be scaled using a repertoire of acrobatic jumps, swings, wall runs and the abilities to rewind time and solidify water, all punctuated by fights with increasingly large crowds of malefactors. The fluidity with which the Prince moves is once again a source of constant joy. A source of less joy is that this is effectively an extension of a game released in 2003, with few innovations to show for the intervening seven years, even if it's significantly more fun than moribund recent episodes of the series.Ubisoft, £24-£55Alpha Protocol, PC, PS3, Xbox 360Alpha Protocol.Made by the people who brought you Knights Of The Old Republic, a superb role-playing game set in the Star Wars universe, Alpha Protocol is set firmly on Earth, and sees you recruited by the usual clandestine spy organisation for whom the CIA is gauchely mainstream. Missions can be tackled through a combination of stealth, martial arts, guns and hacking skills, with the game's role-playing leanings making themselves known through the gradual drip feed of new skills and also in the game's conversations. These give you potential responses generally equating to suave, aggressive and neutral, all of which have an effect on your relationships with other characters and the events that play out later. The plot's hilariously twisty, stealth elements aren't as dreadful as they could be, but there is a slight ungainliness to the action that makes some boss fights a painful chore.SEGA, £25-£50Genesis, iPhone &amp; iPod TouchGenesis.In Genesis, you bend a stream of light to make it travel across a set of planets. Warp the beam using arrows – the bigger they are, the more effect they have – until you manage to direct the light through all the planets in each level. For synaesthesia fans, each celestial body you hit adds a new part to a pleasing trance-like melody, until everything's lit up and making music. Things quickly get more complex, with multiple light beams, colour-changing nebulae to guide them through, and planets that demand certain coloured light to activate them, but things never get overwhelming thanks to a hint system that gently offers you help in positioning, then re-sizing your arrows every 20 seconds. Choosing not to accept its assistance need only go on as long as you're still having fun. Mellow, pleasantly challenging entertainment that never  tests reaction time.EODSoft, 59p
Bowie Golden YearsFrom Thin White Duke to new romantic icon, the years between 1974 and 1980 were a creative peak in the life and times of Dame David Bowie. Rather than deal with his entire career this fansite celebrates those golden years in excellent detail. On top of the music he also made an iconic film (The Man Who Fell To Earth), starred as The Elephant Man on Broadway, relocated to Berlin and was involved in numerous controversies, including the alleged Nazi salute at Victoria Station. There are no video or audio clips, but you'll find an incredible number of photos, screengrabs and interviews; begin with his 1976 Playboy conversation for an example of how candid and ahead of his time he was.BBC ComedyBBC Comedy.The Beeb's comedy portal has recently been spruced up to compete for your laughter time against the likes of Funny Or Die, Adult Swim, The Onion and the almighty YouTube. Along with lots of exclusive content – like the extra bits you got if you were fleet-minded enough to press the red button after Outnumbered – are archive clips of everything from Big Train to Hancock, blogs and news. The Collections section includes themed playlists of videos, such as one chosen by Stephen Merchant that has some vintage Adam Buxton, Robin Cooper claiming his Spanish lottery prize and Tim Key and Mark Watson playing their thrilling memory game No More Women. Top timewasting.Blog roll: Bad moviesRazziesCounting down the 2010 Golden Raspberry Award contenders and bringing us the news that Eddie Murphy wants to make Nutty Professor 3.Worst Movie Trailers Of All TimeFrom the dire family fun of Gooby to schlock horror classic I Drink Your Blood, watch and rate bad trailers.Bad MoviesTeenage Catgirls In Heat and other crimes against cinema analysed with clips, quotes and stills.My God, It's Full Of Nerds!Wonderful blog about the golden age of terrible Japanese sci-fi.Where The Long Tail EndsReporting on the alarming rise of spoiler graffiti (sorry Marley &amp; Me fans) and the terror of Megan Fox's accent.He Shot CyrusHow Lethal Weapon begat two decades of rubbish buddy cop movies.What we learned on the web this weekPeter Serafinowicz.Why Peter Serafinowiczsteals movies – including ones he's inWhy Shreksucks365 WaysTo Live Happy is the most depressing book everWho youowe a drink toThe 50greatest hip-hop samplesWhere toa start a Twitter paradeThe terrifyingworld of competitive saunaThe physicsof FuturamaHow toenjoy a 3D movie in 2DWhat peopleare saying on Facebook
In a rental studio complex on Shepherds Bush Road in London, a few dozen games journalists are having their senses pulverised byTreyarchoperatives. With speakers cranked up to 11 and a gigantic screen, the developer is showing us Huey choppers strafing immense crowds of soldiers as buildings burn, gun fights rage and military installations explode.This is Activision's pre-E3 event and it feels like good training for next month's massive industry get-together. Indeed, it feels like having your synapses sucked out of your eyeballs.Call of Dutyis a lot of things, but what it is not, nor ever will be, is subtle.Set during the Cold War, CoD: Black Ops follows several covert operations groups, the secret units set up by the CIA to engage in deniable actions all over the world. Steeped in conspiracy theory and no doubt paying close heed to declassified government files, the game takes in the agency's anticommunist activities in Eastern Europe, in Vietnam and in Cuba. Treyarch won't be drawn on specific dates, but I'm thinking things will focus on the sixties and seventies, from the Bay of Pigs invasion right through to 'Nam and maybe even Watergate. The missile crisis and Kennedy assassination must surely figure, too."We met Major John Plaster who's the world's foremost authority on SOG (studies and observations group) operations," explains studio head Mark Lamia. "He came to the studio and told us about everything – about the training, the tactics, the weaponry, the missions. And he looked at what we were starting to create and gave us feedback. He'd say, 'yes, this is accurate, butthisis taking a lot of creative liberties, is that what you want to do?' And sometimes the answer was yes, and sometimes we'd ask, 'okay, how should it be?'"During the event, Treyarch plays through two levels, both set during 1968. In the first, named WMD, you begin the level in a Lockheed SR-71, flying over a covert Russian military base in some suitably frozen, mountainous wasteland. At first we're just watching a screen showing night vision footage of black ops soldiers approaching the compound. Then the PoV shifts and we're on the ground with the unit, preparing to attack. There's some lovely graphical detail here, with billows of snow wafting in the air, and great clumps of ice falling from trees.After waiting for a convoy of trucks to drive by, the player character and three other troopers are moving in, edging down a frosty mountain slope toward multiple enemies, blasting the place up. The squad reaches some railings beside a sheer drop, lobs their ropes over and start rappelling down, with the trigger buttons controlling speed in the standard CoD style. Finally, the squad reaches the window of an observation room cut into the mountain side – they swing out, shoot up the glass and smash their way in. As the camera shifts round, one of the squad is chucking an enemy over the ledge. Crude, but effective.From here, it's all about picking off enemy solders from behind rocky cover as the descent of the mountain continues. One of the game's new weapons, a powerful, super-silent scoped crossbow, looks like enormous fun. Hits are contextual, and at several points, soldiers are caught in the legs with bolts and just stagger about the place waiting to be finished off. The player character grabs an AK-47, cutting down multiple enemies before reaching a satellite station that has to be knocked out. The character kicks the hinges off a door, while a computer-controlled comrade lobs in a knife to silently take out a lone enemy inside. Next, it's just a case of ripping out some wires to switch off a communications relay, then everyone is legging it down the mountain, just as an avalanche begins. In a nod to the climax of Modern Warfare's Crew Expendable mission, it's about charging down the icy ravine as quickly as possible, avoiding obstacles while destruction and disaster follow.The next level we see, set in Hue City Vietnam, is enticingly named Slaughterhouse. It kicks off with a wonderfully apocalyptic twilight scene in which dozens of US choppers buzz like furious wasps over a burning mass of bombed-out buildings and incinerated palm trees. The player character is abseiling from one 'copter, when the craft is hit by anti-aircraft fire that sends it into a death spin. The character swings wildly onto an upper floor of a wrecked office block. Here we go.Now, it's all about blasting Viet Cong soldiers while desperately locating an exit, through destroyed furniture and terrified civilians. This time, our Treyarch demo chap is using a SPAS-12 shotgun equipped with dragon's breath shells, which send out horribly pyrotechnic blasts of flame. It's completely nasty stuff, but this devilish ammo is accompanied by some stunningly evocative graphics effects as charred enemies fly across the room. Dragon's breath shells are going to absolutely rock in multiplayer.Out on the street, and there are several mass battles with VC troops. In one sequence, the player calls in ordinance on a building where the enemy are locked down. Suddenly a shadowed chopper swoops in from above, like some awesome flying behemoth, and immediately spits thousands of rounds of .50 cal ammo into the building. Then the player is running through the street, dodging masses of enemy fire behind an armoured vehicle with 'bottom feeder' scrawled on its side – a sort of hellish revisit of the Exodus level in MW2.So, yes, this is Call of Duty alright. Intense, epic, mostly linear, intricately choreographed ... Lamia says the aim of Black Ops is to provide fans with a new and varied range of combat experiences – but then, variety has always been the aim of this series, and although there is plenty of that, I didn't see anything spectacularly fresh in these admittedly brief excerpts. It appears to be what this series has always been – hyper-polished FPS entertainment, jammed with breathless set-pieces and utterly, utterly relentless.So what exactly is the high concept behind Treyarch's first CoD game to take place outside of WW2? They're not saying much. What theyarepromising is a far-reaching narrative that takes in multiple conflicts within the period. As Lamia explains: "We're working very hard to create an epic story. It's the Cold War, the world is on the brink, you're going to be trying to save it." But save it from what? "I'm not going to tell you what it is, because finding that out exactly …" He pauses for a second before deciding on a different approach. "On the surface, it's that you don't want the Cuban Missile Crisis to happen, you don't want the nukes to go off. Well, there's more to it than that, and that's why the black operations are going on underneath the Cold War…"And, really, we're not even sure that the game plays out chronologically. Lamia is keen to hint that this might not be the case: "The time events, how it unravels, is actually part of what you're going to discover in the game. However, we've told you a great deal with the assets that are out there. If you look at those you'll get some idea of how we're doing our narrative, how we might unravel some of the events of the period."Once again, there will be multiplayer player characters as well as a large cast of supporting roles. Lamia tells us that some of these will crop up throughout the story, changing drastically as the years go by. Interestingly, he mentions that there will be alternative versions of some characters, suggesting that, later in the game they'll look different, depending on actions and decisions you make en route. A branching story line in CoD? Stranger things have happened, possibly.In a risky move, the team is giving the player character his own voice, a first for the series. They explain that this is because they want a rich, full story, and they need the lead character to take an active role in dialogue. To enhance plot scenes, they're also using full performance capture for the first time, simultaneously recording the movements, facial expressions and voices of actors to ensure more naturalistic, engaging performances. It all sounds intriguing, and lord help us, if there's one thing Modern Warfare 2 could have done with it is a cogent narrative. But I'm not sure how convinced I am that a good story requires a voiced lead character – especially in the first-person shooter genre, where the player is uniquely immersed into the game world. Half Life managed just fine with an ever-silent Gordon Freeman at the helm.Lamia also dropped some strong hints about a radical new weapons customisation system, and this is something inspired by Black Ops lore. As he explains: "What we found really inspirational was, when the operatives got their mission from the CIA – sometimes it was reconnaissance, sometimes it was rescue, sometimes it was to capture someone alive – whatever it was, they'd get the lay of the situation from reconnaissance photos or whatever intelligence they had, then they'd go to an armoury and they could outfit themselves however they saw fit. Literally. They'd go, 'we'll take one of these, two of these, two Hueys'…"There was conventional weaponry, unconventional weaponry, experimental weaponry that hadn't yet been mass produced – these are the guys who'd try it first. They would modify weaponry, they would pack their own specialist ammo, they'd create their own weapons while out in the field. That sort of information couldn't be any better for us. It's ripe with gameplay possibilities. You can see how wonderfully that will tie in with what we can do in multiplayer. We're not talking about multiplayer yet, but I can tell you that customisation, allowing people to play the way they want to play – those are important pillars for us in our design."It seems then, that in the single-player campaign mode there will be a set range of weapons, but you'll be able to modify them – perhaps in a similar way to Modern Warfare, with its multiple options for scopes, ammo clips, etc. In multiplayer, however, I get the feeling they're thinking of something much more radical, maybe more along the lines of Borderlands, with complete weapon construction. "Customisation and personalisation will be huge," adds Treyarch community manager Josh Olin. "Then there's socialisation, the way players interact with each other, play with their friends, play with their clans, the way they surround themselves with the Call of Duty world, even when they're not at their console or their PC – that's another focal point for our multiplayer design …"Hmm, so does that mean interacting with the game or other players in social networking sites, or via your mobile? Who knows. One thing is certain, Treyarch is quietly hinting at some revolutionary new multiplayer features; they've confirmed co-op for up to four players (and split-screen two-player action), but you get the feeling this is the very least of what they're about to offer. Of course, generating hype is a key element of the E3 run-up, but these guys are confident and clearly, genuinely feel they have a significant announcement to make. We'll soon see.Elsewhere, it sounds like squad AI will be heavily based on genuine black ops tactics – and that's not just on the player's side. Treyarch also spoke with Sonny Puzikas, a former operative in Spetsnaz, the Russian equivalent of an SOG. "They were trained in how to be lethal without weapons," says Lamia."From day one they were being shot at by their supervisors to desensitise them. That's the sort of mindset they were in," interrupts Olin, gleefully. "Sonny came in to give us a presentation, and it started off as a briefing, but then it quickly became, 'how many ways can Sonny kill you?'. He showed us some crazy techniques; we just watched and thought, 'that's awesome, and we put them in the game!" Later on, Treyarch was able to mocap some of Sonny's moves. "His AI type will be very hard to play against in the game, it's very dynamic, very agile," says Lamia. Naturally, each force will have different combat styles then, the Spetnaz with their deadly melee techniques, the Viet Cong with their jungle-based guerrilla tactics. I wonder if these will be transposed into the multiplayer?Well, they've got me interested. While the brief single-player sections they showed us suggested lots more of the same (and if it ain't broke ...), but there are whispers of much more. Most telling perhaps was a sneaky little CGI sequence shown just before Mark Lamia began his presentation. It showed snippets of a prone soldier and a sinister voice-over saying, "let me give you something to assist ..." Is Treyarch referencing theories that the CIA experimented with narcotic augmentation during the Cold War and beyond? When I ask Lamia, he just smiles conspiratorially. As if Call of Duty couldn't get more insane, it may now have performance enhancing drugs. This didn't work for Haze, but it was always a neat idea. And neat ideas are what could lift this franchise in the post-Modern Warfare world.•Call of Duty: Black Ops is due to be released on 9 November
Blur has been heavily anticipated – created by the British developer Bizarre Creations, of Project Gotham Racing fame, it promised to create an entirely new genre of racing games. Which turns out to be easy to describe: Mario Kart's gameplay welded to the real-life cars and tracks from Project Gotham Racing. Which sounds fun but, unfortunately, proves disappointing.Despite the graphics (which go heavy on visual effects but have an unsatisfactory murkiness as a result), Blur clearly leans more towards Mario kart than PGR. It has tweaked versions of pretty much all of Mario Kart's power-ups (speed boost, homing missiles, mines, gun, car repair, lightning strike and temporary invulnerability among them), but you can carry three at a time, and must switch them strategically according to what is going on around you. You can use them inventively – for example, the shock-wave power-up, which affects nearby cars, can also be used to repel incoming homing missiles.There are straight races, checkpoint races (in which you have to pick up stopwatch and speed-boost power-ups in order to pass a specified number of checkpoints), destruction races (in which you must use triple-shot gun power-ups to acquire extra time by destroying rival cars) and one-on-one races. Each of the tracks has Fan Runs you can trigger, opening up a series of gates you have to steer through for bonus fans and lights (which are what you otherwise win by finishing in the top three).But there's a fundamental problem: the car handling is so appalling that it swiftly leads to frustration. Although you drive real, licensed cars, they are split into categories of "grippy", "all-round", "drifty" and "off-road", but those translate into "tail-happy", "wallowy", "American style" and "so slow as to be completely undriveable". You only really stand a chance of winning any of the races with the first car you're given during each tranche of races – the cars you unlock are hopeless. Very surprising from a developer that built a reputation on realistic virtual recreations of real cars.The checkpoint races, too, appear to have been designed to annoy you – they soon place you on twisty tracks, with the power-ups in positions that require you to crawl around and completely emasculate speed-boost, which is the only power-up on offer. At least when played online, the power-ups level the playing field, so that those normally intimidated by the high standard of online competition stand a chance of holding their own.Blur is by no means a bad game, but given its pedigree, it's nowhere near as good as you would expect, and if you compare it to recently released arcade-racing rival Split/Second: Velocity, it's both unprepossessing to look at and mundane to play. A promising idea hampered by poor execution.
The UK's largest internet service providers will start collecting the details of customers who unlawfully download films, music and TV programmes early next year, in order to send them warning letters under a code of practice proposed today by the media regulator Ofcom.The draft Ofcom code was immediately denounced by the UK's second largest ISP as a "bureaucratic dog's breakfast".Any internet user who receives three letters in the space of 12 months faces having their personal details handed over to the owner of the copyrighted material so they can be sued.The draft code of practice, which Ofcom was ordered to draw up by thecontroversial Digital Economy Act, was immediately attacked by TalkTalk, the UK's second largest ISP."Ofcom's draft code of practice is a valiant attempt to implement the Digital Economy Act's proposals, but we think it has the potential to turn into a bureaucratic dog's breakfast," said a TalkTalk spokesman. "As the code stands, millions of customers would be at risk of being falsely accused of copyright infringement, being falsely put on to an 'offenders' register' and so potentially taken to court. There is little in the draft code about protecting customers from receiving misleading or bullying letters."TalkTalk is also worried about the lack of consideration of data protection issues and there is little in the draft code about how the regulator will ensure customers can access fair and just appeals. "The draft code exempts smaller ISPs and mobile operators, which seems arbitrary and could lead to market distortion," the spokesman added. "Finally, the way Ofcom has designed the rules may kill off public Wi-Fi networks."Consumer and citizens' rights groups, meanwhile, called for the fair treatment of customers accused of copyright infringement using filesharing networks."Consumers face considerable confusion while Ofcom tries to work out how to implement new laws under the Digital Economy Act," said Robert Hammond, head of post and digital communications at Consumer Focus. "The aim should be to encourage suspected copyright infringers to use legal alternatives and achieving this rests on the process of notification being seen by consumers as fair and helpful."Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group warned that "letters being sent out could cause a lot of worry and fear". "People may feel they are under surveillance," Killock said."This is another extremely rushed process, forced by the Digital Economy Act's absurd timetables. There are huge unanswered questions, not least whether innocent people will have to pay to appeal," he added.The code of practice applies to ISPs with over 400,000 customers, meaning that it will initially apply to BT, TalkTalk, Virgin Media, Sky, Orange, O2 and the Post Office, who together control 96% of the market. Ofcom, however, will review unlawful filesharing activity on a quarterly basis and can extend the code to cover smaller ISPs and the mobile phone companies if it spreads.Those quarterly reports will also be used to see whether the letter writing campaign is leading to a reduction in illegal filesharing. If after a year it does not appear that the code is having any effect on the use of such services as peer-to-peer networks, the culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt, can demand the introduction of so-called technical measures including severing the broadband connections of persistent offenders.Sending letters to warn persistent unlawful file-sharers that they face the threat of court actionhas been tested in the UK before, but the code is designed to automate and standardize the process across all the major ISPs.The code, contained in a 74-page consultation document, sets out the evidence which the music and film companies must collect about individual infringements of their copyright when making a copyright infringement report to an ISP. Content companies must make their requests to ISPs within 10 working days of them gathering the information about a breach of copyright. It then covers how the ISP must then use that information to identify the specific customer involved and send them a letter warning them that their activities have been noticed and they are laying themselves open to court action. The letter will also name the copyright owner and give details of how they can appeal against the ruling that they have infringed copyright.The code allows for three notification letters – each at least a month apart – to be sent to a user, before their details are placed on a copyright infringement list. All three letters must be sent with a 12 month period, as ISPs are required to delete any notifications after a year.The copyright infringement list, which has anonymous details of individual users, can then be requested by the copyright owner and used to launch a court action to get the user's name and address in order to sue them. The three letters can be generated by copyright infringement reports from three different copyright owners. All three can then request access to the copyright infringement list held on that user, to be received within five days – though they will only see details of how that individual infringed their copyright.The draft code, which Ofcom is consulting on until 30 July, is one of three consultations the regulator is launching as a result of the Digital Economy Act. In July it will look at how the code will be enforced before looking at how the costs of the scheme will be shared in September.The regulator also has to set up an independent appeals body and decide how the costs of appeals should be apportioned. In its consultation document Ofcom said a successful appellant may get compensation and costs. It added "the costs of the appeals body, and the possibility that a subscriber may have to pay a fee, was raised in the government's consultation on the cost sharing arrangements" but then makes no suggestion that subscribers should pay if their appeal fails.On the issue of costs, TalkTalk said that "copyright owners are the only ones that will benefit from this system, so unless the government decides that these companies should fully reimburse ISPs' costs, broadband customers will in effect be forced to subsidise the profits of large music and film companies".Ofcom hopes to have the code, which needs European Commission clearance, in place by 8 January and is accepting responses to this consultation until 30 July.In response to the draft code, the Communications Consumer Panel, Consumer Focus, Which?, Citizens Advice and the Open Rights Group have banded together to produce a set of principles they believe will ensure that the new rules on online copyright infringement properly protect consumers.Their principles include that there should be sound evidence of wrongdoing before any action is taken against a consumer; that comprehensive and consistent information needs to be provided to all suspected repeat infringers and this should be written in plain English; that consumers must have the right to defend themselves; and that there is an independent and transparent appeals process is essential, at no cost to the customer.
The main problem with Clash of the Titans is that the combat mechanics – and there is nothing else to this game but combat, so you would expect it to at least make a decent attempt – are just not good enough.A fight is invariably the same every time. Button-bash for a while until prompted, then execute a quick time sequence, often several times in a row. If you do it right, your character executes a finishing move. You're not so much controlling the character as you are requesting that he attack on your behalf.Annoying the first time, this gets extremely repetitive, because you need to get a lot of seize points to upgrade weapons. This means you are forced to go through the same tedious quick-time sequence with practically every skeleton grunt you meet: and there is only one type of finishing move per class of enemy, and only one solitary generic cut scene to accompany it. This might be very cinematic for bosses, but it is just frustrating when fighting lesser creatures. As if all that wasn't bad enough, there are also some quests for which your sword is taken away, leaving quick-time as your only attack option.As in the recent dreadful Hollywood remake of the same name, the main character is Perseus, a young fisherman who discovers that he is the estranged son of Zeus and finds himself in the middle of a war between Man and the Gods. After this war claims his adoptive family, Perseus takes it upon himself to massacre everything in the world that isn't human in ascending order of size, pausing briefly to engage in stilted banter with some of the most hysterically two-dimensional personalities ever to grace a polygon. The NPC performances are as bad as you would expect from a tie-in with an awful movie, and to add insult to injury you sometimes have to re-watch the same awkwardly-written conversation several times because you can't skip past some of the cut scenes.The level design is lazy too. Minescule stages, 10-seconds small between loading screens in some cases, wouldn't test the processor on a Sega Saturn. They invariably fit into three categories: the Castle, the Mountain, and the Cave; within those, everything looks the same. This is the sort of design I'd expect from a four-year-old with only three different crayon colours. On top of all that, Clash of the Titans grades you after each level, a relatively common – and degrading – device designed to artificially ratchet up game-play time.This was never going to be a classic, but it could have been good fun. It is a pity that having put fighting centre stage and letting the work-experience kid design everything else, the combat mechanism was not given nearly enough attention – resulting in both a tepid spectacle and a frustrating player experience. The obvious elephant in the room is, of course, God of War 3, and Clash of the Titans simply doesn't come close.
The answering service 63336 (text a question, get an answer; note pricing) has been going where lots of people already were – the queue for the iPad outside Apple's Regent Street store in London. And there it carried out an exit poll to find out some salient facts. So:• When the doors opened at 7.55am, there were 451 people in the queue (rather higher than the five when I went there at 4pm on Thursday). Not long after the number grew to more than 1,000.• The most popular model was the 32GB 3G version (£599) – 33% opted for it. The average selling price, based on the preferences (see table below) is £580. (That compares to £559 if people were just buying iPad models at random evenly across the range.)• 3G models are outselling Wi-Fi models by 3-to-1 (74% to 26%).• 38% of queuers only used an Apple Mac; 37% had both a Mac and PC; 25% only used PCs. 17-year-old student Jake Lee, at the head of the queue, has a Dell Vostro and an ageing PowerMac G4.• Age and sex: 36% were in the 26-39 age group; 26% in the 18-25 range. 11% were older than Steve Jobs (55); 5% admitted having a pair of John Lennon circular glasses a la Jobs. (This leaves 27% either under 18 or in the 40-55 age range.) 92% were male (16% with beards; no mention of sandals) and, yes, 8% female.• 84% were buying for themselves, 16% for other people.• Surprisingly – given that the device has only been officially available in the US until now – 44% had already tried one before. The other 56% were buying based on reviews, perceived success or "blind faith in Apple products" (to quote 63336, which might have hit the spot there).• How long? Lee started the queue, at 1155am on Thursday. 52% queued overnight (so the queue must have grown dramatically from the afternoon..) - of whom 25% did it from 4am, 1% from 5am, 13% from 6am, and 9% from 7am.• Why? Why queue rather than order online? "For the atmosphere" and "to be there", according to 44%. However, 2% (only?) said they were "die-hard" Mac fans; 29% "couldn't admit" why. (This is puzzling.) Perhaps significantly, 25% thought that the Apple Store was the only place where it would be available. Wrong! It's also available nationwide from Currys, Dixons (aka Currys Digital) and PC World, where reports of queues have not been heard.• The nitty-gritty: what is the point of the iPad? 57% said they'd use it principally to browse the net; 27% for apps (12% for games alone); 9% for listening to music; 4% for reading books; 3% for watching films and TV.And finally, there's a table of who wanted what – though remember, it's only representative of the queue. Though that's quite an impressive queue. What double-dip recession?Which iPad did Regent St queuers buy?iPad modelWifi 16GBWifi 32 GBWifi 64GB3G 16GB3G 32GB3G 64GBTotals and averagesbuyers6.00%17.00%3.00%18.00%33.00%23.00%100.00%Price429499599529599699559Price x buyers25.7484.8317.9795.22197.67160.77582.2
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I have to say there's a new gadget that's called aDash[Personal Internet Viewer] – it's made by Sony, and it's kind of interesting because it's by your bed … basically it's like a futuristic clock radio. I can have everything from TMX to Twitter to Facebook right next to my bed, so I can wake up to my favourite music video. It's the coolest thing ever. I can see this thing being by my bed for the next 20 years. This has everything right at your fingertips.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Every morning when I wake up – I wake up differently every morning. I'm constantly being visually stimulated.What additional features would you add if you could?It's not a phone, so I would probably add that into it.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?All technology will be obsolete in 10 years – it keeps changing and evolving, and makes life exciting.What always frustrates you about technology in general?How fast it's changing – how I buy a new computer from Apple and in six months it's old. That's the sort of thing that pisses me off.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I hate the iPhone. I love the BlackBerry – BlackBerry wins in my opinion. The iPhone is a toy.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Simplicity. Find the simplest thing to use.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm definitely not a nerd …What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?When flatscreen TVs first came out, I paid $25,000 for one of them. And I recently boughta movie server called a Kaliedescape, and that cost $250,000. I store all my movies on it.Mac or PC, and why?PC if it's HP, and because of Windows – Windows 7 is the best. And the touchscreen HP computer is unbelievable. But the iPad is the most ingenious piece of technology I have ever come across – it's really the future.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I still by DVDs – I love the box, I love the artwork. That's the part that technology is killing – the design and packaging. When you download, you're miss that three-dimensionality. The last DVD I bought was a box set of The Ben Stiller Show.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I would love a robot butler. The problem with most butlers is that they steal shit out of your house – robots won't steal anything.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I hear there's a way I can type somebody's phone number into my phone and find where they are anywhere in the world – I can't wait for that to come out.•Brett Ratner's latest film, Kites: The Remix, is out now
The Apple iPad went on sale in Britain today – and there was blood on the streets of the company's flagship store in central London. Fortunately for the company's sizeable PR machine, the fluid was spilt by accident, rather than in anger."See that bloodstain there?," said Joe Woodcock, pointing to a sizeable red smear on the brass-edged door opening on to Regent Street. "That's where some man fell over at 2am and hit his head."It seems the stumble was caused by an excess of West End revelry rather than a fight to get to the front of the queue. "We called the ambulance but he got up and walked off before it arrived," he said.Woodcock, 17, a student from Theydon Bois in Essex, was not buying an iPad himself, but had been patiently queuing since midday yesterday with friend Jake Lee, also 17, an aspiring actor who became the first person in Britain to buy the device in a store today.Lee, who is studying a performing arts Btec at Epping Forest college in Essex, emerged from the shop having been hugged and hi-fived by enthusiastic Apple staff."Amazing," he said. "I've waited for so long and I've finally got it. Twenty-seven January, as soon as I saw it, I wanted to get it. The staff were so supportive, especially last night, they looked after us, gave us some food, gave us some umbrellas when it started to rain."Apple was forced to postpone its original British launch date of late April because of demand for the iPad in the US.The company's website is warning that iPad orders made now will not be sent out until 7 June. It sold more than 1m iPads in the US in the first 100 days after the April launch, making it a faster seller than the iPhone.Today in London, music blared from the Apple store long before it opened at 8am. When the doors finally parted, they did so to loud applause from staff members which was still continuing an hour and half later. While Lee appeared to enjoy the experience of being backslapped through a tunnel of link-armed, whooping Apple employees, others were less impressed."When you're walking in and everyone's roaring and cheering and high-fiving you and it's manic, it's a bit much," said Mike Lehnert, 35, who had been queueing since 7pm on Thursday and was ninth in line."It might just be excitement, it might just be hype, but then it definitely worked – I walked in there with the intention of buying a 32gb and came out with a 64."Lehnert, a lecturer in music at Leeds College of Music who lives in York, had travelled to London for five days on business. He'd decided to join the queue after being unable to book a hotel room on Thursday night."After a 13-hour wait, it's like giving birth," he said after emerging from the Apple store."You're in labour for 13 hours and you're tired and exhausted, you're hot one minute then you're cold the next, and you're in pain, but then there's the ecstacy when you have this little thing in your arms."Inevitably Stephen Fry, probably Apple's most famous fan, was there. He already owns an iPad but said he was "completing the circle", having been in San Francisco when Apple chief executive Steve Jobs announced the device in January, and present at the US launch last month."There's a camaraderie among Apple users, particularly long-serving ones – we remember in 1997 when we were being laughed at and told we would only get spare parts in hobby shops because the company was absolutely on the floor," Fry said, as he emerged sweating from the frenzied in-store atmosphere."I'm sure a lot of people will mock it as being some sort of pseudo-religious or cult atmosphere, but it's just genuine enthusiasm.""Just think of it as like if Lady Gaga were releasing a new album in a record store in New York and the frenzy there'd be – it's a cultural event rather than a technical one because the nature of the iPad is cultural rather than technological."Of course, it is a technological thing as a television set is a technological thing, but it's about what you get on the television, rather than the components."Meanwhile, Apple said today it would independently investigate a spate of apparent suicides at a Foxconn factory in China. Foxconn supplies electronic products for Apple, Dell and Hewlett-Packard. It said in a statement: "We are saddened and upset by the recent suicides at Foxconn. Apple is deeply committed to ensuring that conditions throughout our supply chain are safe and workers are treated with respect and dignity."
The long weekend (in the UK) is nearly upon us - hurrah - so what gaming are you planning? Red Dead Redemption will likely figure but what else? Maybe new racing game Blur? Or Split/Second Velocity? Perhaps you're - gasp - not planning, or able, to play anything? Assuming it's not the latter what are your Bank Holiday weekend weekend gaming plans?
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
People who've used the iPad for any time say "it's like a big iPhone, in the sense that a swimming pool is like a big bath". The difference: far more screen space to get involved with apps. Here's a selection of the ones that look and play the best.Scrabble– £5.99An old favourite dragged into the future. The iPad serves as the board; iPhones or iPod Touches become your tile racks, and you flick letters seamlessly from them on to the iPad in the middle with a twitch of your finger. It has been pointed out that there are more economical ways to play Scrabble – on a Scrabble board, for example – but this hasn't stopped this app being hailed as manna from gadget heaven.Marvel comics– Free; individual comics from £1.19Buy, download, and read comics on your iPad, and subscribe to keep up to date with new releases. Very simple, but important. This app comes closest to realising the iPad's immense potential as an e-reader, and makes the most compelling case so far for abandoning paper. Why buy a paperback – or, for that matter, a Kindle – when you can have such stunningly-rendered, full-colour comics and graphic novels at your fingertips?Etch– £1.79Turns your iPad into what an Etch-a-Sketch always should have been but could never quite be. Pick two colours, then use two dials to direct your cursor. If you make a mistake, simply give the iPad a vigorous shake to dissolve the image, and begin again. Seems simple, and it is, but this kind of app is the iPad's bread and butter: intuitive and engrossing, artfully designed and beautiful to look at.Flight Control HD– £2.99Flight Control on the iPhone was one of the best games on that platform, and its new, bigger brother is more of the wonderful, wonderful same.  If you're unfamiliar with the original, you shepherd an increasing volume of tiny planes to the ends of the runways. The original formula wasn't broke so they didn't try to fix it for iPad, just added more levels and bigger maps. Be warned: it's addictive.The Elements: a Visual Exploration– £7.99This may seem expensive for just a periodic table, but it is its luxurious feel that makes this flagship science app worthwhile. The digitised version of an equally luxurious hardback coffee-table book by Popular Science columnist and Wolfram Research co-founder Theodore Grey, it features an utterly gorgeous interface, high-resolution digital – and 3D – imagery, and a wealth of scientific data and trivia. It is perfect for showing off what your new baby can do.Mixr– not yet available; price TBACalling itself "the first professional DJ application for the iPad", this feature-packed turntable simulator wants to achieve that elusive binary of being both easy for amateurs to pick up, but sophisticated enough to satisfy more experienced DJs. It offers all the core functionalities, cross-fading and equalising, and an easy drag-and-drop track-finding system with a nifty music library interface to boot. It also has a "flanger", whatever that is.StumbleUpon– FreeIt was bound to happen someday soon: science has discovered a miracle-cure for boredom. The iPad version of a program that has been around for a fair while as a browser add-on, this find-me-random-cool-stuff-on-the-internet button is the modern equivalent of hours lost on lazy afternoons wandering a junk shop or second-hand bookstore. You click the stumble button and watch your time simply vanish in a haze of randomised wonderment, and know that never again need you suffer from an idle mind.
Day 143: The End. Photo bycrimsong19on Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamInstallable Web Apps &gt;&gt; Google CodeGoogle is thinking ahead to a time when you don't have web pages - you have web apps. Intriguing.Traffic to lostpedia.wikia.com &gt;&gt; Quantcast Audience ProfileThough in a parallel universe, they met up to resolve their differences.Adobe Mobile Showcase &gt;&gt; Google cacheLook at the page (a showcase of Flash sites that can be viewed with Flash 10.1 on mobiles). Then look atthe page now. Where's the original gone? And why?ChartsBin.comIn case you need a chart of the world some time - worldwide oil production, worldwide uranium production..HTML5 Video Player &gt;&gt; Video JS"Video JS is a javascript-based video player that uses the HTML5 video functionality built into advanced browsers. In general, the benefit of using an HTML5 player is a consistent look between browsers." Supports H.264, Ogg Theora, WebM.HTML5 Watch &gt;&gt; Tumblr.comCollecting examples of creative, innovative, and unexpected use of emerging web technologies such as HTML5 and CSS3.Submit a link!&#10;&#10;And whatever you do, don't confuse HTML5 and CSS3. Tch.StreetMuseum iPhone app &gt;&gt; Creative ReviewA brilliant idea: overlay old pictures on modern places in an augmented reality app.HP kicks Windows 7 to the curb, will use webOS in SlateJust in case you wondered what it's going to do with WebOS.Why Applications Are Like Fish and Data is Like Wine &gt;&gt; James Governor's MonkchipsAn enterprise analyst writes: "What am I talking about? Processes change, and need to change. Baking data into the application is a bad idea because the data can't then be extended in useful, and "unexpected ways". But not expecting corporate data to be used in new ways is kind of like not expecting the Spanish Inquisition. But… "NOBODY expects the Spanish Inquisition! Amongst our weaponry are such diverse elements as: fear, surprise, ruthless efficiency, an almost fanatical devotion to the Pope." (sounds like Enterprise Architecture to me). "Facebook announcement: a promising start but mainly a red herring &gt;&gt; Privacy International"Rather than being a bold step forward in the advancement of consumer rights, the latest changes merely correct some of the most unacceptable privacy settings on the site."Entire Facebook Staff Laughs As Man Tightens Privacy Settings &gt;&gt; The OnionFollowing the latest news: ""Look, he's clicking 'Friends Only' for his e-mail address. Like that's going to make a difference!" howled infrastructure manager Evan Hollingsworth, tears streaming down his face, to several of his doubled-over coworkers."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Jake Lee knew he would have a long, cold night ahead – but wasn't troubled: the 17-year-old from Theydon Bois, Essex had his father's thick coat – plus the assurance of being the first to buy an Apple iPad at the company's Regent Street store in London when it opens its doors at 8am tomorrow."I didn't order online because I wanted to get the experience of buying it, of being in the queue," said Lee, who has been saving from his part-time job after school "for months" to be able to afford the £429 low-end version.Yet judging by the length – or brevity – of the queue outside the store, which by mid-afternoon comprised just five people, Apple's latest offering – a 9-inch touchscreen tablet computer operated like its hit iPhone – is not drawing the crowds in the same way as previous product launches, which attracted scores of patient buyers.However, online demand has apparently been strong: Apple was this week warning people who ordered iPads through its website that delivery may be put back to 7 June. It has already delayed the international launch of the iPad, which Steve Jobs showed off in January, by a month after strong sales in the US used up production capacity. So far it has sold more than 1m of the machines, which means it is already the single largest maker of tablet computers this year – capturing a market that Bill Gates, of Microsoft, tried and failed to create and corner in 2001.Sales in the US have outstripped expectations, where the 1m mark was reached only 28 days after the 2 April launch, compared with 74 days for the iPhone.Peter Buckley, the British author of the Rough Guide to the iPad, who has been using a US-bought model for the past five weeks, says that while it cannot replace a laptop machine for producing content, it is an ideal machine for a new era of "sofa computing".Critics have focused on the price, which ranges from £429 to £699, and point out that "netbook" computers with full keyboards are available for about £350.There has also been criticism of Apple's use of the Chinese electronics manufacturer Foxconn, where10 people have apparently committed suicide this yeardue to work pressure. Simon Middleton, a brand expert, said: "I think we need to call on Apple to take the leadership role in its sector and to form a coalition of companies who would specify, monitor and maintain the highest standards of worker conditions: and to insist that the suppliers they deal with comply." Foxconn workers claim that they have to work up to 15-hour shifts, and that the company has put up a huge safety net around the factory to prevent roof suicides.Rival companies are also looking to build on Apple's lead by launching their own tablet machines: the Joojoo, made by the Thailand-based Fusion Garage, launched in April, while HP is expected to launch models later this year using Palm's WebOS software, having acquired the company last month. Other companies including Archos are also expected to launch tablets built on Google's Android or Chrome software.Buckley says that the success of the rivals "will depend on how quickly software developers feel compelled to develop apps for it. The draw of the iPad is partly to do with Apple's design – but also that developers are working to write software for the platform."The success of the iPhone has accelerated as its App Store, opened in July 2008, has grown to offer more than 180,000 third-party applications, which have had more than 4bn downloads.For the iPad, many have been rewritten to take advantage of its larger screen – including magazines such as Condé Nast's Wired and GQ magazines, which have special £2.99 iPad electronic editions. The US version of the iPad Wired sold 24,000 copies in its first day, generating $120,000.While those figures were being announced, Chris Thompson, a motor racing memorabilia dealer from Epsom, was taking his place at the end of the iPad queue. Why wait? "Well, patience is a virtue," he replied. "I've come for the atmosphere. It's more fun being outside here than sitting at home looking out the window waiting for a van to come."
Taking in elements from the first four reasonably well-known novels, Lego Harry Potter looks set to continue the tradition of Traveller's Tales'hugely entertaining Lego games, mixing recognisable characters and scenes with humour-filled action adventure gameplay.I went up to get a behind-the-scenes look at the development studio last week, and we'll be putting up a video of that visit soon. But for now, here's the latest trailer. As ever, let us know what you think in the comments section.
It is starting to become a common sight. Just like iPhones and Kindles before it, the stylish and sleek iPad is becoming increasingly easy to spot in subway cars or on park benches across New York.And the rest of America too. After what seemed like a shaky unveiling – with mockery of its name and disappointment at its lack of certain functions – Apple's iPad has become a roaring success in the US, selling more than a million devices.What at first seemed like a "for-Apple-geeks-only" machine has been bought up by millions of Americans at a faster clip than the iPhone. In fact, the iPad took just 28 days to shift a million units, compared with 74 days for the iPhone. iPad sales are now outpacing sales of Macs.One study showed that one in five American consumers planned to buy an iPad and estimates of total yearly iPad sales now go as high as 6m.On a recent conference call Tim Cook, Apple's chief operating officer, said: "[The launch] far exceeded our expectations. We were shocked by US demand."That demand last week saw Apple's market valuation nudge ahead of software giant Microsoft in one of the most remarkable turnarounds in business history. Just a decade ago Microsoft was worth 35 times more than its tiny rival. Now the stockmarket has Apple slightly ahead at $227bn (£157bn) compared with $226bn at Microsoft.But does the iPad's sales success mean it will follow through on some of the more revolutionary claims made for the device? Many have hailed the iPad as a potential saviour that will usher in a brave new world where consumers will happily pay for downloading digital versions of newspapers and magazines. Among them is Rupert Murdoch. "It may well be the saving of the newspaper industry," the once notoriously technophobic media mogul said during a recent interview at Washington DC's National Press Club.The jury is likely to be out on that claim for some years to come. But the fact that the iPad is becoming commonplace will only strengthen claims that it is a gamechanger. As will the fact that rival companies, such as Dell, are planning similar devices. If imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, the summer launch of Dell's Streak tablet shows that the iPad has already proved itself.
The US justice department is making preliminary inquiries into Apple's activities in the digital music market, according to reports.The New York Times and Wall Street Journal reported that the justice department contacted music labels and digital music providers earlier this month to ask them about Apple's conduct in the market."It was a very preliminary conversation," one source involved told Reuters.Given Apple's leading market share the broad questions involved iTunes, these people said.Billboard magazine reported in March that Apple had used its market dominance to prevent labels from agreeing to let Amazon.com exclusively debut new songs.Spokespeople for Apple, Amazon and the justice department declined to comment.It was reported yesterday thatApple's market value had overtaken Microsoftat $222.1bn (£155bn). Analysts suggested that the fact that the former underdog is now attracting attention from US regulators is a sign of its strength in the technology market.
Consoles usually take a while to get into their stride, but the Wii, as befits its disruptive nature, seemed to have reversed that trend. The compelling games with which it was furnished when new dried up in recent months to a trickle of dross, and one suspects many Wiis began to gather dust in the back of toy-cupboards. The arrival, then, of Super Mario Galaxy 2 could not be more timely.The problem isn't likely to resolve itself until medical technology allows us to clone several copies of Nintendo's in-house development genius, Shigeru Miyamoto. At least Miyamoto-san saves his best efforts for games featuring Mario, as Super Mario Galaxy 2 amply demonstrates.Structurally, it is near-indistinguishable from its predecessor, with several worlds to navigate, each split into seven or so galaxies (the last of which presents you with a boss to be defeated before you're awarded a Grand Star). This time around, you can opt to play as Luigi as you enter each galaxy. As in the first Super Mario Galaxy, you have to reach stars to open new galaxies, by executing deft platform moves and solving all manner of puzzles, often involving delicious mischief with the laws of gravity. Those puzzles are invariably so good that they will make you chuckle and nod in appreciation of their sheer cleverness.The key to reaching what often appear to be unreachable stars is Mario's array of power-ups and special abilities, and Super Mario Galaxy 2 has two new ones. The first  is a drill attachment, which Mario carries above his head; shake the Wiimote, and he will burrow straight through the centre of whatever planet he is on. This clever mechanic can be used for puzzle-solving by, for instance, burrowing to the top of pillars too high for Mario's jumping abilities, or for boss-battles, in which you have to time and position your burrowing to hit creatures' vulnerable parts.But the undoubted star of Super Mario Galaxy 2 is Mario's old mate, Yoshi. He appears in many galaxies, bringing a range of abilities when Mario jumps on his back. With his lizard-like tongue (the direction of which you can control with the Wiimote), he can gobble up and spit out enemies, and swing from designated points. Feed him Blimp Fruit and he will float for a while. And when he swallows a chilli pepper, he gains the ability to run like Forrest Gump (complete with boggle-eyed expression and siren sound effect), enabling him to temporarily escape the normal restrictions of gravity (although he becomes tricky to steer).All of Mario's existing power-ups appear, too, including Bee Mario and Fire Mario (one clever ice world can be reshaped by Mario's fireballs and by rolling snowballs into melted areas). There are underwater worlds and a flying sequence in which Mario is suspended from a Fluzzard, and at one point, he can power-up into a rolling boulder. His ground-pound move also features heavily.As the above suggests, the surreal nature that characterises Mario's games is to the fore. Mated with the game's irresistible sweetness, the outcome is a game-world which is truly universal in its appeal – the youngest children and grizzliest hardcore gamers alike will be held equally rapt by its charms. A long-overdue reminder of what the Wii is all about.
Privacy groups gave a half-hearted welcome to Facebook's announcement on Wednesday night thatit would roll out new, simplified privacy settingsto its 450 million users in the next few weeks.The UK group Privacy International reacted with "disappointment and frustration", saying that "the latest changes merely correct some of the most unacceptable privacy settings on the site. Very little has changed in terms of the overall privacy challenge that Facebook and its users need to navigate."Instead it said that the changing of the settings – which previously required users to navigate through up to 150 different settings to control who could see their data, to a simpler four-tiered version plus a "customise" option – was "merely a red herring".The problem, it said, is that "Facebook operates on a business model that requires it to monetise the data harvested from customers."But Mark Zuckerberg, the Facebook founder, was insistent yesterday that the company does not sell any personal data to advertisers or marketers, and that people misunderstood how its targeted advertising system worked.Facebook's adverts will still target individuals even if they share absolutely no data with anyone, he explained: "The principle is that we don't give any information to advertisers. None. They come to us and say that they want to hit a certain group of people, and we target the ads ourselves. We take the ads, and show them to the person that we think is interested. So it doesn't matter who you're showing your information to. It doesn't matter if you share it at all. It makes no difference to the advertising or the advertisers."The reason why Facebook recommends that people share some of their information, such as "status updates" about their mood, or details about where they live, he said, is so that other people on the service can find former friends or people they want to befriend. "It does by definition make sense to share [those] with everyone," Zuckerberg said as he launched the new settings at Facebook's headquarters in Silicon Valley. "But for photos and videos, it makes sense to restrict them."He insisted that the changes made in December, which spread status updates and other personal identification around the internet by default, were not done to please advertisers. "Anyone who knows me knows that that's crazy."The American Civil Liberties Union, which had collected more than 80,000 signatures on petitions demanding that Facebook should give users control over all the information, and not share it with third parties without opt-in consent, said that the company deserved "a lot of credit" for the changes it had introduced. "These changes address several of the most serious privacy problems with [Facebook's] service."But it said that Facebook needed to roll back the sharing of basic information to the situation of a year ago, where most information was private by default.Meanwhile, Facebook users have suggested their own way to make Zuckerberg more sensitive to how his site's privacy settings work – with the creation of a new Facebook group. Its title: "Whatever the default privacy settings are Mark Zuckerberg should be on them". Its self-description: "If he expects us to have them by default then Mark Zuckerberg should be using them! If he's not prepared to use what he calls the defaults then why should we tolerate them."Although it only began early on Thursday, created by London-based web designer Jeff Sutton, the group is growing rapidly. It is not presently known whether Zuckerberg uses Facebook's "recommended" settings – though the Guardian is trying to establish this.Update:: Facebook has replied, and says that Zuckerberg has privacy settings that are slightly more open than the recommended settings.In a statement, a spokesperson said: "Mark shares most information about himself and what he's up to with anyone who visits his profile.  Some of these settings are more open than the recommended settings. At the same time, he's somewhat of a public figure and so he limits friend requests and messages on his personal page and, instead, uses his public page to interact with everyone (http://www.facebook.com/markzuckerberg).  You can see what he shares on his personal page by having a look at his profile:http://www.facebook.com/zuck."So now you know...
Facebook claims itsnew privacy settingswill make it much easier for users to control information, with fewer separate pages of options (eight, instead of 13) and fewer options needed to make all your information private: 15, instead of 50. It's also made many of the settings visible at a glance.Here's the old first page of the privacy settings. It looks simple and friendly, but it doesn't tell you what your settings currently are, and you need to click through further to change anything:Once you did click through, you were immediately plunged into a thicket of options:Facebook's previous privacy settings page. If you want to customise your settings, you'll still need to go hereThe new privacy settings page (accessed via the "Privacy settings" link on the top right of your wall) gives you what are considered the main options in a chart form, and makes it possible to shift 18 settings with one click on a preset. So while the default options – see the top of this story – remain pretty liberal, hitting "Friends only" closes a lot down quickly:Facebook now offers four templates for privacy settings - but you can customise them tooAnd this is what you get with the "friends of friends" preset – note that some more sensitive information remains "friends only":This would make a locked-down profileIt's also still possible to customise for yourself, of course:Note though that in order to customise your options (using the "Customise settings" link on the bottom left), you'll still have to plunge into that thicket of options - that hasn't changed.What has changed is that it's much easier to apply the four preset options Facebook offers, simply by clicking the "Apply these settings" button on the bottom right. Facebook expects that people will.We asked Facebook why it hadn't made it even simpler to customise these settings: many sites, for example, offer "radio buttons" where you would just click the one in the column you wanted. Chris Cox, VP of products, said that this wasn't offered because of the "customise" option.And there are going to be lots of people using this page, or at least looking at it. Facebook reckons that almost everyone has tweaked their privacy settings in one way or another at some time.Control of information that Facebook considers particularly important to make the site run smoothly is still separate – the "basic directory information" bit, at the top. But it has restored the ability to lock down your "connections" – your friends and "pages", the things that used to be called fan pages – which was one of the more hotly discussed issues in the recent privacy controversy. Your profile picture still has to be shared with everyone.The "applications and sites" menu – one click down from the first privacy page – includes the search visibility options that used to be on the first page, and specific control of the "instant personalisation" program that uses your Facebook profile to enhance the working of other sites – another key source of controversy. It also gives you the option to completely turn off Facebook Platform apps and websites.In future, applications will have less access to your personal information, Facebook saysA further level down is "info accessible through your friends", which offers an insight into why Facebook Connect applications might make one nervous...You might be surprised by how much is actually visible via your friends.
Following on yesterday's Crackdown 2 hands-on here is an interview I did with James Cope, lead developer at game creatorsRuffian. We talked about story, cranking everything up to 11 and why Crackdown 2 is the first true open world game.Crackdown 2 seems more manic?It is more manic! We wanted Crackdown 2 to have the core mechanics everyone enjoyed in the original but we wanted to turn it all up to 11. Bigger, better, more - basically. We fixed some of the issues we had with the original Crackdown, such as the repetive nature of some of the missions. And we've done a bit more with the story. But Crackdown 2 is a more manic game and that's the experience people enjoyed in the first one. In the original game we had a lot people play and lose interest in an hour so we wanted players to have a more engaging experience and see the cool stuff much quicker.Why did some players lose interest so quickly in the original game?We did a very bad job of introducing players to the original game. Players were just dumped into the middle of the city and you had no idea what to do. So now we've given people the option to be led through the initial parts of the game. But you don't need to follow this if you'd rather just get on with the go anywhere do anything experience.Does Crackdown 2 retain the fantastic verticality of the original game or is it all about the combat now?Absolutely yes. The 3D playground is still our world and everything is still there. We've gone to town on that.  We've got an even higher tower than the Agency Tower in the original game. Also the Agency Tower now evolves as the game progresses. The whole city is an evolving playground. Crackdown 2 is such a broad experience. You can forget that everyone finds fun in different aspects of the game. Some people like to chase orbs and enjoy that growing sense of progression as you can jump and climb longer distances. You get to do more and more exciting things. The verticality is the core Crackdown experience.How does the levelling up work?Basically it's skills for kills. We have tweaked it for Crackdown 2 though. In the original game hardly anyone got to level 5 driving skill so we have changed that for the sequel.  For the skills as a whole we have made it so that players get that sense of progression much earlier in the game. The Freaks exist largely so that driving skills can be increased easier by mowing them down. We used a lot of feedback and user stats from the original game to design a lot of the features in Crackdown 2.How much customisation is there?You can change faces and colours but we deliberately kept customisation to a minimum. The main reason for this was that we wanted online to be as close an experience to offline play as possible.  The campaign game is identical if you are playing with one or 4 players. In order to get that we had to sacrifice customisation, but we feel this enhances the gameplay.How does online work?Your character is your character so whatever skills or orbs you gain you take back to your own game. The only thing you don't take are game world saves. This stops someone coming into your word and griefing before leaving your game messed up. If you do a mission you get the xp but you don't migrate the mission complete status to your game. We really think the online will be fantastic though. Some people will play together and do missions while others will get distracted by something shiny and find themselves doing something totally different.How has game progression changed in Crackdown 2?With Crackdown 2 we really wanted to give a better idea of a game ending. In the original game we did a really horrible job of telling the player that the story had finished. People skipped cut scenes as well so we have removed those from the Crackdown 2. But people felt lost and didn't know what their ultimate objective was and often lost interest. So we've changed that for the sequel and made it more obvious that you are working towards an ultimate goal.What were the Avatar awards that popped up when playing?These will be linked to some achievements and will go towards some Crackdown 2 inspired clothing for your Xbox Live avatar. We wanted to do it because people always remembered the off-the-wall achievements in Crackdown. We wanted to have that memorable experience again and give users a real reward for experiments. We have landmark achievements for getting to certain parts in the game but the more interesting ones are the ones that encourage you to experiment and play in the world.What was the thinking behind the new visual design?We wanted to go a bit darker and more cohesive. We also wanted to really leverage the day/night cycle. We didn't just want the Freaks to emerge from the ground.  We definitely aimed for that graphic novel look and feel. Realism would break the credibility of the game but comic book made it feel more cohesive.You showed a helicopter in the demo. Isn't that a game-breaker?Yes, it is a game-breaker for Crackdown 2 but the helicopter is a reward for very late in the game. One of the interesting things about the original Crackdown was that the more you played the less you had to do. So now we wanted to reward players and give them the chance to truly go anywhere using the helicopter as they will have earned it. We've really sorted out the end game in Crackdown 2 and now feel we have made the game more approachable and welcoming in the first place. We do have a story now too, although it is non-linear and you can go anywhere. It is hard to marry these two but we feel that we have achieved this. In my opinion Crackdown 2 is the first really open world game and we can't wait for people to start playing.Crackdown 2 is released on July 9th for Xbox 360.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Waterloo: a popular place for FourSquare checkins. Photo bywhatleydudeon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 17 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhere people check in on FourSquare around London &gt;&gt; Alex Troll's PosterousInteresting infographic.ThirdPartyCode &gt;&gt; MozillaWikiThird party components in Mozilla. Quite a long list.Wired Coming to Apple's iPad — With Adobe &gt;&gt; Digits Blog@ WSJBut it required a rewrite when Apple changed the rules in the midst of development. And is it sustainable to build a completely new version month after month?Tulse Hill students create Android phone app to cover police stop and search strategy &gt;&gt; Streatham GuardianAn Android app created by a trio aged 23, 26 and 19 as part of a task to be useful to them and their community.Warner Bros. Sued for Pirating Anti-PiracyTechnology &gt;&gt; Switched.comFiled under 'irony'.GPL Enforcement in Apple's App Store &gt;&gt; Free Software FoundationGnuGo is a good implementation of the game - so get it while it's semi-legal. But the FSF points to the interesting collision of open software licences and Apple's licensing for the App Store.BBC iPlayer Gets a New Beta Release, plus Some Thoughts on My Changing TV Habits &gt;&gt; OUseful.Info, the blog…Tony Hirst of the Open University looks at the new iPlayer, and examines some of the statistics around it. He can't help it.Live from Steve Ballmer's CES 2010 keynote &gt;&gt; EngadgetGo to the 7.45pm mark and see who made the slate tablet he showed off running Windows 7. Turns out that's not going to reach the market. Is that why Entertainment and Devices needed a shakeup?Live Blogging Facebook's "Simpler Privacy Controls" Press Conference &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandDanny Sullivan's coverage of Facebook's event....The underlying flaw in Facebook's business model &gt;&gt; broadstuffA neat diagram to explain the Harvard Business Review piece (linked below)Facebook's Culture Problem May Be Fatal &gt;&gt; Harvard Business Review"This was the technology platform [students] were born into, built their friendships around, and expected to be with them as they grew up, got jobs, and had families. They just assumed Facebook would evolve as their lives shifted from adolescent to adult and their needs changed. Facebook's failure to recognize this culture change deeply threatens its future profits. At the moment, it has an audience that is at war with its advertisers. Not good."US Is Said to Scrutinize Apple's Online Music Tactics &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comThe Department of Justice's antitrust inquiry is in the early stages, but concerns "recent allegations that Apple used its dominant market position to persuade music labels to refuse to give the online retailer Amazon.com exclusive access to music about to be released".Mozilla hires open-standards guru Celik &gt;&gt; CNET News"iPhone apps are still way ahead (of Web apps) in terms of look and feel, elegance, polish," he said. "All of that is stuff we can potentially build into CSS3. And for things like drag and drop and access to the hardware, the built-in camera and GPS, that's where HTML5 APIs can make a difference."EU Says Search Engines Violate Rules on Personal Data &gt;&gt; New York TimesLetters going to Google, Microsoft Bing and Yahoo. "Considering Google's dominant position in almost every EU member state, with a market share of up to 95 percent in some national search engine markets, the company has a significant role in European citizens' daily lives," the European panel wrote. "The company's apparent lack of focus in data retention is concerning."10 Youtube URL Tricks You Should Know About &gt;&gt; Makeuseof.comParticularly interesting for how to tag to a particular time.European VAT Number Validation API &gt;&gt; Aral BalkanPlug in a VAT number, find out if it's valid. Won't tell you if it's part of a carousel, but...Twitternomics, Googlenomic and the perpetual money-making machine &gt;&gt; broadstuff"That claimed 8 fold impact is not on revenue, mind you - but on profit! Profit is what I have after I have deducted costs from my revenues. So adding $1 of Google Advertising COST generates 8 fold more PROFITS. Hell, that is a perpetual money making machine (or, as I strongly suspect, Googlenomics doesn't actually recognises costs and treats revenue as the same thing as profits)." Worrying if Hal Varian really can't do his sums - or thinks we can't.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
If, like me, you hear clip-clop noises wherever you go and keep trying to whistle for your car, you've probably been playing the new gameRed Dead Redemption. Constantly. At the expense of sleep, food and social life.Red Dead Redemption, or Grand Theft Horsey as some wags are calling it, is great: missions range from shooting outlaws to collecting wild herbs, the scenery is exquisite, the movement of the horses, armadillos and snakes beautiful and the history convincing.There's only one obvious flaw: the clunky writing. I'm not talking about the story, which is serviceable enough. It is the leaden, improbable dialogue. writing which would never pass muster on Unforgiven or High Noon. "I've never seen a ranch with its own store before," remarks supposedly taciturn John Marston. Of course you haven't, John. That's because you're in agame. "With your itchy trigger and my feminine intuition, we'll make a great team," says rancher Bonnie, cramming three cliches into one sentence.This is not a low-budget game that couldn't afford to employ good writers. It costs no more to animate and record great dialogue than this sub-Bonanza dullness. They could have brought in writers fromDeadwood.And the really sad thing is that RDR has some of the finest writing in games today: that's just not a very high standard. The problem is twofold. Games don't take writing as seriously as graphics, so it's often done at  the last minute, or by designers.  And screenwriters don't see games writing as a clever career move.  But to be taken seriously as a cultural medium, these games need to bring in real writers.
In January 2000, Steve Ballmer took over as head of Microsoft. It was a company that bestrode the technology world, with a market capitalisation of $556bn compared with its one-time deadly rival in personal computers, Apple, whose returning chief executive Steve Jobs was gradually nursing it back to health. Even so, Apple was a minnow: its market value was just $15.6bn.But today at 4pm New York time, the final step in the transformation was complete as Apple's market cap of $222.1bn (£155bn), and rising, passed Microsoft's $219.2bn, which has been on a slow downward path for months. Taking debt into account, Apple's business had already passed Microsoft's in value.That trend looks like continuing. This week sees the launch in Britain and eight other countries of Apple's iPad tablet computer, a format that Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates touted in 2001 but could never persuade manufacturers to make, or customers to buy. By contrast Apple has already become the biggest tablet computer company in the world since the iPad's launch in the US on 3 April. Next month Jobs will unveil the next generation of iPhone – the device that Ballmer dismissed back at its launch in 2007 as having "no chance". Since then sales of the iPhone have rocketed; it has become the gateway to the mobile internet and led to an explosion in downloadable mobile "apps".Digital musicDavid Yoffie, a Harvard Business School professor, told the Wall Street Journal that Microsoft has suffered in comparison with Apple because the consumer market, Apple's focus, has outpaced the growth of spending on technology by businesses, Microsoft's traditional area of strength. "Apple has had the wind at its back," said Yoffie. "Microsoft is playing catch-up."But as well as the astonishing success of Apple's products, Microsoft's downfall has been caused by Google. In Ballmer's 10 years, Google has gone from a loss-making startup to a huge company that dominates the online search industry. In January 2000, Google was just a search engine and did not have an advertising platform. Its AdWords product wasn't launched until October. AdSense, which lets publishers use Google to sell ad space on their sites and is the real money-spinner, only appeared in 2003. On Ballmer's watch, Google has gone from almost nothing to an open wound in Microsoft's profit stream.It is a substantial wound, too. Microsoft's online services division – encompassing search, Hotmail and its "Live" services – last made a profit at the end of 2005; since then it has lost almost $5bn. Google has been sucking up all the advertising revenue, and profit, from that sector. The division made a loss of $713m in its latest quarterly results published in April, up from $411m a year ago. Former Wall Street analyst Henry Blodget, now head of the Businessinsider.com site, was withering: "If this business [online] weren't hidden within the belly of a monstrous cash-generation engine, Windows and Office, shareholders would have long since revolted and shut it down."Microsoft still makes more profit than Apple or Google, but the question is, can it make profits from anything other than its Windows operating system and Office software suite? They still bring in the vast majority of those profits.Microsoft has other, internal, problems. This week it announced a radical shake-up in the entertainment and devices (E&amp;D) division which makes its Xbox 360 games console, Windows Mobile Phones and Zune music player. E&amp;D has been another frustration. First there is Microsoft's failure to catch the iPod, launched in 2001, whose success allowed Apple to dominate the market for digital music players and then make a grab for the online music market with the launch of iTunes in 2003. Its grip is so tight that the US justice department has recently been interviewing music labels and internet music companies with a view to possibly launching a competition inquiry. Second, there were problems with Microsoft's Xbox 360; manufacturing flaws meant a $1bn writedown and thousands of frustrated customers, as machines overheated and had to be swapped.The reorganisation of E&amp;D is expected to refocus on Windows Mobile, which has been hurt again by HP's decision to abandon Windows for its forthcoming tablet computer after buying ailing US smartphone company Palm. Tablet computers have also started to appear that use Google's rival Android operating system. Next month, mobile phone company O2 will start selling the Dell Streak, which runs Android, in the UK.Niche playerMatt Rosoff, of Directions on Microsoft, a private firm devoted to tracking the US company, said the shake-up at E&amp;D looked like Ballmer was "taking tighter reins over Microsoft's mobile strategy". He added: "You see press reports where it is Google v Apple, and Microsoft isn't even considered a player. It has got to be frustrating for them."In stark contrast, Apple's stock is expected to keep growing, especially with the iPad launch and then the release of the so-called iPhone 4G. The release of the latest version of Apple's phone will also present the Cupertino-based company with the same dilemma it had in the home computer market: whether to remain a fashionable, but lucrative, niche player or go mass-market. After a shaky start, Google's Android platform has become a real challenger as more handset manufacturers embrace it and create cheaper devices.When the iPhone appeared, Ballmer argued it would never be anything other than a niche player. And he could yet be right; but Microsoft has done no better. Sales of its Windows Mobile software for phones have slumped in the past three years, and the platform has been rapidly overtaken first by the iPhone and then by Android, which is given away free to handset manufacturers.For Microsoft, which depends on paid licences for its software, Android presents an even bigger potential problem than the iPhone. HTC, formerly Microsoft's biggest customer for Windows Mobile, is now one of the biggest for Android. In February, Dan Frommer, of Business Insider, called the idea that Microsoft could charge for Windows Mobile "joke of the week"."Microsoft is dead in the water in this business. If it wants to get moving again, it needs to do everything it can to help itself. And in mobile software, that means competing for 'free' with 'free'."Whether Ballmer will have the stomach to do that is not clear. But without a winning mobile or search strategy, the market is clearly continuing to write Microsoft down. If Ballmer cannot turn it around, shareholders may finally grow restless.
Facebook's founder Mark Zuckerberg unveiled a simplified method for controlling privacy on the giant social network tonight, acknowledging it had become too complicated but insisting his company was not trying to force people to share their data.The new controls – whereby a variety of different levels can be applied with a simple click of a button – will be rolled out across the 450m users of the worldwide network over the next few weeks, said Zuckerberg at a press conference at the company's headquarters.The controls will offer four basic settings: share data with everyone, with "friends of friends", "friends only" or "recommended" – which shares certain information, such as family information, with everyone but photos and videos only with friends of friends.However, Zuckerberg insisted privacy was still important and dismissed suggestions that Facebook relies on selling personal data to advertisers to grow."People think that we don't care about privacy, but that's not true," Zuckerberg said. "There's a balance. More and more people want to share information, and as long as they have good controls over that, I think that's where the world is going."He insisted that Facebook does not use data gleaned from users' pages to sell to advertisers – and that that means it does not matter what privacy settings are applied for Facebook to be able to sell adverts."The principle is that we don't give any information to advertisers. We target the ads to people ourselves. Advertisers come to us with adverts that they want shown to particular [demographic groups of] people, and we take the ad and show it to the person that we think will be interested in that information. So it doesn't matter who you're showing your data to. It doesn't matter whether you share it at all."Zuckerberg acknowledged the intense criticism of the site's privacy settings had meant it was "an intense few weeks".He also admitted that online criticism of the complexity of altering Facebook's privacy settings had hit home and that it had been changed as a result.He acknowledged the discomfort that has been expressed but said it has not had any noticeable effect on user numbers."We track what's called the promoters – the people who would recommend others join Facebook. They're a good indicator of whether we're going to grow. We find that whenever we change something – anything – for the whole network, the level of promoters goes down. But then over time it slowly comes back up until it goes above the level it was before," he said.
