Microsoft has unveiled a new beta test version of MSN Search using its own search technology. TheMercury Newsreports that it is "on par with what Google and Yahoo offer and demonstrates that the software maker is serious about competing in the Internet search field, experts said Wednesday."Owen Gibson's Guardian piece ishereThe UK beta ishere. Don't all go at once, unless you want it to fall over. It's very slow at the time of writing.....[Update]Whoops, too late! "This site is temporarily unavailable, please check back soon."
Google Desktop Search is wonderful, but it comes with a whole train of buts. The main points in its favour are that it's small, fast and free. Against that, it is very limited in what it searches, it does not offer users enough control, and, on a shared computer, it must be considered a huge risk to your privacy and security. That is one reason why you need to know about it, even if you don't plan to use it.Google Desktop Search (GDS) is an attractive idea. Why can't you find things on your own hard drive as easily as you can find them on the web? Well, install GDS and you can do that, using the same Google browser interface. Even within the limitations of the current beta test version, I think most people will prefer it to any of the free alternatives, including standalone products such as Copernic and Blinkx.Of course, desktop search is not a new idea, even on the web. AltaVista, the dominant search engine before Google, offered AltaVista Personal way back in 1998, and the HotBot search engine launched a toolbar with desktop search facilities in March. And soon Google will face competition from rivals such as - in alphabetical order - AOL, Ask Jeeves, Microsoft and Yahoo, which are working on desktop search tools.GDS will obviously appeal to people who already use Google, because it is integrated with the web search. It does not look like a separate application. If you are online, GDS is just another option on Google's search page. You can select Desktop in exactly the same way as Images, Groups or News.Of course, you are no longer connecting directly to Google: your web searches are being picked up by GDS on your hard drive then sent on to Google. This is necessary so that GDS can add local hits to the top of the results display. This does not mean your files are on Google, only that the Google web search page is being served from your PC.However, if you are not connected to the internet, click the swirly red and green GDS icon on your desktop. This loads the Desktop Search page in Internet Explorer and lets you run local searches on your C drive (network drives are not supported.)When you select the Desktop option, GDS produces results in four categories - files, emails, chats and web pages - and you can select results from each one separately. The files are typically plain texts and Microsoft Office files; at the moment, GDS cannot search inside, for example, Adobe PDF files. The emails are, again, from Microsoft applications, Outlook and Outlook Express, while chats are logs of conversations in AIM, AOL's Instant Messenger. The "Web history" option displays web pages on your hard drive, and it caches sites you visit in Internet Explorer. With web hits, you get useful thumbnails of the pages.As with Google on the web, there are two ways to view each hit. You can view a text file inside Notepad, for example, or view GDS's cached version of the file, with your search term highlighted in yellow.The limitations are obvious. Google has covered the most commonly used file types and applications, but clearly there are many more to add. For example, it would be useful if it   searched Outlook's contacts, calendar, and to-do list as well as email. Support for alternative browsers, email clients, instant messaging programs and other operating systems would be welcome. At the moment, GDS runs on Windows 2000 and XP only, and contrary to some reports, Google has not said it will support either the Mac or Linux.Another problem is that GDS gives users very little control. The Preferences page lets you tick what kinds of file you want it to search, so you can untick Excel or PowerPoint, for example. You can also stop it from searching a directory by entering it into a box on the Preferences page, eg C:\Documents and Settings\Private\.However, I can't see how to force it to index a file or directory it has ignored. GDS's indexing is not perfect and, for example, Copernic can find text files on my hard drive that GDS has missed.GDS also falls down badly when it comes to finding files by their names, rather than by their contents. You can use the filetype command to limit searches, for example by typing &#91;football filetype:doc&#93; or &#91;cricket filetype:email&#93;, where the square brackets represent the Google search box. But there does not seem to be the equivalent of Google's inurl command. If you have forgotten where you put Fantasy_football.txt, you might as well use Windows Explorer to find it - or download ESP (see links below).Finally, GDS needs an Advanced Search page, so that people can limit searches to particular types of file, dates, sizes, languages etc, without having to know about commands such as filetype. Since Google has an   Advanced Search page on its website, it would not be a surprise to find this added later.Many people may be more worried about what Google finds, rather than what it misses. This can include the contents of password-protected documents, passwords, web pages you might wish you had not visited, deleted emails and long-forgotten chats over AIM. (Deleting an email does not delete it from Google's index.) GDS has no password protection, so if you can find things, so can anyone else with access to your PC.You can run a search for words you might not want other people to find - password, sex, gambling or whatever - then click the Remove items   option in GDS. This brings up a tick list so you can exclude selected documents from the index. However, if you ever look at your Secretpasswords.txt file again, GDS will happily put it back in its index.GDS is therefore something to beware of when using a PC at a friend's house, or in a cybercafe. If you spot the swirly icon in the taskbar, right-click it and select Exit, unless you want your session added to the search index - including any visits to eBay and banking sites. Better still, call up the Windows Task List, click the tab marked Processes, and make sure the four files called things like GoogleDesktopIndex.exe are not running.&#183;Google Desktop Searchhttp://desktop.google.com&#183;ESPwww.espsw.comIf you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Vodafone finally took the wraps off its 3G services yesterday, just in time for Christmas. It vowed to attract 10 million customers across 12 European countries and Japan to the new technology with a mixture of music downloads, film clips, video calling and huge bundles of voice minutes.But for something which, in Britain at least, has been four years and &#163;7bn in the making, Vodafone's 3G service is an evolution of its existing Vodafone Live suite of services rather than the revolution promised when Europe's mobile phone operators shelled out billions to buy 3G licences in the dying days of the dotcom boom.Vodafone's chief executive, Arun Sarin, said the money spent on the technology would bear fruit in the long term, even if the industry is launching later than it would have liked. "This has been some time coming, &#91;but&#93; it's here now and it's here in earnest," he said. "Vodafone is leading the charge."Vodafone is backing the launch with a huge advertising campaign as it seeks to hit its 10 million-customer target by March 2006. About half the customers are forecast to be existing Vodafone users who will upgrade to the service.Vodafone expects about half its target to come from Japan, with the rest spread across Europe. Analysts said that the target is hardly a challenge, given that two years after launch Vodafone Live already has more than 10 million customers.Analysts at industry specialist Ovum gave the company four out of five for the launch, saying that introducing 3G as an extension of Vodafone Live avoided the industry's traditional pitfall of selling technology instead of services.In Britain Vodafone is looking for a couple of million 3G users and plans to spend up to &#163;15m on poster adverts and six TV slots, including an appearance by the England football captain, David Beckham, advertising Vodafone's range of Premiership and Uefa Champions League football clips.The new technology enables mobile phone devices to download far more data than possible at present, allowing for services such as video calling and fast download of games and stereo music tracks. Many of the new generation of phones include memory cards so customers can store content. With high-resolution cameras and screens, these new phones are a mix of personal organiser, phone and digital camera.Vodafone's chief marketing officer, Peter Bamford, said that there is no single service on Vodafone Live with 3G that will persuade customers to sign up. Instead, the company has signed deals with more than 100 content providers to provide a broad range of services."3G is ready, and hopefully what you will see here is a complete package," Mr Bamford said. "There is no single 'killer application'."While the first batch of 3G handsets - which new entrant 3 launched with more than a year ago - were cumbersome, heavy and tended to have poor battery life, the new generation of phones is slimmer and lightweight.Using its status as the largest mobile phone company in the world, Vodafone has secured 10 phones for the Christmas period, six of which it will be launching in Britain - with prices ranging from nothing to &#163;300, depending on what tariff a customer chooses.Each of Vodafone's individual markets will be able   to choose its own prices. Its UK business yesterday outlined two annual contract options, which cost &#163;40 and &#163;60 a month, much more expensive than similar bundles from 3. These packages will only be available in its chain of stores. It also plans a pre-pay option, but prices have yet to be announced. Vodafone Live with 3G is based around a "portal", through which customers can access content. They will be charged only for the content they actually use.Bob Fuller, the UK head of rival 3, which has 1.2 million 3G customers in Britain, welcomed Vodafone as its first competitor in the UK. "We are not quaking in our boots, we are happy that they are in at long last," he said.The company's chief operating officer, Gareth Jones, added: "From a PR point of view, Vodafone talking up 3G is a great benefit to us."I would rather have them talking it up than talking it down, which is what they have been doing recently."Whole world in your hand The 3G optionsWhat it will cost&#163;40 a month (12 months' contract):500 minutes100 texts50 minutes video callingFree browsingFootball/film/news clips3 free music downloads (until February 2005)&#163;60 a month (12 months' contract):All the above with 500 extra minutesHandsetsSix handsets will be available for Christmas from Nokia, Sharp, Samsung, SonyEricsson and Motorola.What you will getVideo callingSee the person you are talking to, with roaming across 12 European countries and Japan.MusicVodafone has signed up labels including Sony BMG, Universal, EMI and Warner Bros and has 3,000 full-length tracks from artists including Anastacia, Ben Folds, Destiny's Child and Muse. Outside the promotional period, tracks cost &#163;1.50.GamesVodafone has lined up 3D games including an exclusive version of console favourites.Film of the monthThe first clip will be the new Bridget Jones film with customers able to find local cinema listings.MobisodesVodafone has linked up with Fox to produce one-minute episodes of TV hit 24.News/magazine contentITN and SkySports are providing news clips, further content from lads' mag MaximSportHighlights from Premiership and Uefa Champions League. Vodafone will have clips from next year's Ashes tour.
BT today reported its strongest revenue growth in three years, as a sharp uptake in internet broadband offset a decline in its traditional fixed-line business.Pre-tax profit for the three months to September 30 rose to £549m from £528m a year earlier. Revenue rose 1% to £4.6bn.Revenues were boosted by a 36% rise in so-called new-wave revenues from areas such as broadband and business computing."The 36% growth of new wave revenues helped us deliver the best underlying revenue growth in almost three years," Ben Verwaayen, BT's chief executive, said in a statement, adding that in the last six months, the group was making a new broadband connection every 15 seconds.High-speed technology now accounts for 22% of group revenues as BT makes the move away from its old fixed-line business, where it is coming under pressure from new entrants such as Carphone Warehouse and Centrica Communications' OneTel.A record 607,000 customers were hooked up to broadband in the three months to September 30, boosting its total end user base to 3.3 million.BT's estimated consumer market share fell 1 percentage point compared with the preceding quarter to around 65%, while the estimated business market share declined by 0.5% to around 42%."The actual loss in market share was greater than what I had expected ... but certainly new wave is growing faster than anticipated, too. So on balance, it's satisfactory," Andrew Darley, an analyst for ING Financial Markets, told Reuters.Today's results followed this week's announcement that BT was acquiring Infonet of California, a supplier of internal communications systems for £520m.The City is taking a wary view of the deal as BT has come unstuck in the US before. BT took a £1.2bn loss when it disentangled itself from a loss-making US joint venture with AT&amp;T in 2001.Mr Verwaayen described the deal as "another step in BT's transformation into a leading provider of IT and networking services".BT disappointed investors in July with its first-quarter numbers and today said interim profits were 4% lower than a year ago at £983m.Half-year turnover was flat at £9.2bn after accounting for the cut in termination rates - the price that mobile firms charge each other and landline operators for putting calls through to their customers.As well as making the transition away from its fixed-lined business, BT is facing regulatory scrutiny. This month should see the first results of a review by regulator Ofcom, which is considering a break-up of the company as part of a strategic review of the telecoms sector.
The board of PeopleSoft last night rejected the latest $8.8bn (&#163;5bn) takeover offer from rival software group Oracle, leaving shareholders to decide whether the bid is worth accepting.In a statement, PeopleSoft chairman and chief executive Dave Duffield said the company is worth "substantially more" than the $24-a-share offer on the table.A deal had appeared more likely after PeopleSoft removed its former chief executive, Craig Conway, who had vehemently opposed the Oracle bid.Oracle chief Larry Ellison suggested the long-running and often bitter saga may now be nearing an end. He has previously said it will drop its offer if fewer than half PeopleSoft's shareholders accept."Beyond $24 a share, there are better uses of our capital including other acquisitions and repurchasing our own shares," he said. "Oracle has been at this for a year and a half and it is now time to bring this matter to a close."
Tuesday night onThe LockUpon Radio 1, Mike Davies introduced a song by saying, "This is a song from a new videogame that's coming out". That's a new one. While EA is happy to shout out about well-established bands that are making their games more accessible (Black Eyed Peas,Paul Oakenfold,Mark Mothersbaugh), I've never heard a DJ introduce a new band (doing a cover version for goodness sake) by linking it to a video game.The potential is surely there, if the much lauded soundtrack of the originalWipEoutis anything to go by. And in this day of Bemani-tastic music-based product, the door is wide open for serious marketing opportunities. EDGE was cunning in their extrapolation of SingStar's future - as a new merchandising avenue for unknowns off the back of well-known acts' CD extras, but haveyouever bought a band's release because it was in a game?
The chief executive of mobile phone company 3 has hit out at rival Vodafone for doing little to excite customers with its new 3G offering and warned it will face substantial teething troubles introducing the technology.Mobile veteran Bob Fuller, who alongside Hans Snook was heavily involved in the successful launch of Orange, warned the world's largest mobile operator not to be too over-confident about introducing 3G.Mr Fuller hit back at comments from the Vodafone chief executive, Arun Sarin, that the company would avoid the pitfalls faced by 3 in launching the technology."We've been very thorough, very careful, we're here today and we're launching. We're not expecting any roadblocks at all," said Mr Sarin, who added that Vodafone's 20 years of experience in the market meant it had planned for all eventualities.Mr Fuller replied: "For them to make a comment like that is silly. There's a whole raft of technical and customer issues they'll have to attend to. You can test a network as much as you want but it's different in a live situation."Hutchison-owned 3 was the first UK company to launch a 3G service last March and endured a troubled start as it battled to steal market share from established operators Vodafone, T-Mobile, Orange, O2 and Virgin Mobile.It suffered early on from a shortage of handsets and difficulties with dropped calls when customers moved from an area with 3G coverage to one without.But following a management shake-up, including the appointment of Mr Fisher, a series of price cuts, the introduction of new handsets and a shift of marketing emphasis, it has started to make headway. The newcomer now has 1.2 million customers in the UK.While welcoming the entrance of Vodafone into the 3G market as a means of raising the profile of the technology, Mr Fuller also claimed its initial pricing was "underwhelming" for consumers."When you get down do it, then what customers want is choice. From their point of view it's utterly uninspiring. It's clear they've got significant network issues in managing a 2G &#91;the existing network&#93; customer base while migrating them to 3G," he said.Like some analysts, Mr Fuller said he believed that Vodafone could find it difficult to balance the need to continue to make money from its existing customers while also convincing them to upgrade to 3G.In reply Vodafone chief marketing officer Tim Yates said  Vodafone had decided to launch a service based on what customers want and providing "value" rather than undercutting its existing prices.He described the company's UK network coverage as "deep pan" rather than "thin and crispy", saying that although it would  work for only 60% of the population rather than 3's 80%, it would be much more robust.The new 3G service aims to build on the success of Vodafone Live!, offering customers downloads of the latest film clips, video football goal updates, video calling and music downloads.News updates from ITN, the latest goal clips from the Premiership and Champions League, coverage of next summer's Ashes, a "film of the week" clip and other video content will be included in the packages of content included in bundles priced at £40 or £60.The new 3G service will also offer full-length music downloads for the first time as well as 3D games and specially commissioned video content from 20th Century Fox and MTV.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
It is great to see the success of open source software - rising market share and a Guardian leader (November 9). At the grassroots level, open source will be an enormous boon as funds are tight. In one of our community centres, where we run computer training for beginners, we have installed open source and the stability of the network has increased to 100%. Users have had no trouble converting to a different environment to access the internet and use other programmes. We will shortly publish a self-help guide for other community groups.Don MacdonaldNorth West London OnLine
3G grows musclesThe Symbian based A1000 - one of three Motorola 3G phones launched by 3 in time for the Christmas rush - takes 3G mobiles to a new level of power and compactness. It weighs more than twice as much (160g) as today's fashion phones but is very light considering its functions: a 1.2 megapixel camera, camcorder, two-way video conferencing, browser, MP3 player, large touch screen, stylus writing, Bluetooth, calendar and contacts, plus the ability to view Word, Excel and PowerPoint files etc.You can download video clips of a range of services, including news, football goals, location-based entertainment and music videos, at prices from 25p to &#163;2.50. It is the first standard phone I have come across with GPS technology installed. When I tried to find the nearest restaurant, the phone initially attempted to locate me through triangulation of cell phone base stations (and was more than three miles out), then it used satellite signals and was two miles out. On a fresh attempt, it located me exactly.The map was too small to be easily readable but gave written directions to the nearest restaurant on its (limited) subscribers' list. The camera was good but, despite its 1.2 megapixels, its resolution was not much better than my 2.5G smart phone, a Nokia 6600. It worked well as a camcorder and a two-way video conference phone (though I only knew one other person who had one).The browser worked OK, though it was not as fast as you would expect from the 3G hype. So far, 3 is restricting access to its own walled garden of paid-for products. This is understandable in terms of the need to get a return on the huge investment in licences and infrastructure - but it doesn't make sense to have the power of 3G but no access to a search engine such as Google.If the A1000 is at the top of the range, Motorola's sleek, black E1000 is aimed squarely at the youth entertainment market, with very good sound facilities (twin 3D stereo speakers), gaming, image editing and push-to-talk. At the bottom end is a pay-as-you-go C975 that also has two-way video calling.Music playersZen challengerCreative's homage to the iPod Mini, the Zen Micro, looks a worthy challenger to Apple's domination of festive music player sales. Taking a design cue from its rival, the Micro is a small and sleek, with 5GB memory, built-in recordable FM radio, 10 colours and an improved interface. It should sell for around &#163;190. The first 40,000 units in the UK also come with a spare battery, extending playing time to 24 hours. For those wanting functionality and form, it's a good bet.http://europe.creative.comWirelessKent trialWireless communications company Telabria is expected to win the race to be the first to offer a WiMax (IEEE 802.16) network in the UK. The service wirelessly delivers broadband-type web access to homes and offices within 30 miles of each WiMax transmitter. It is bring trialled in Kent in January with a view to a full launch across the country by mid-year. Consumers will pay around &#163;20 for a 1mbps connection, with faster data speeds offered to business customers. Telabria will supply a   small box to access the WiMax signals, which plugs in to a PC or wireless access point.www.telabria.comMobile phones3G paradeOrange has become the third UK network this month to unveil its 3G plans for consumers. Although it has not detailed rates, Orange is committed to launching up to five handsets by the end of the year. Several of the mobile phones, including the Nokia 6630 and Sony Ericsson Z10101, will be available from other networks. However, Orange has an exclusive on the Sanyo S750 a compact model with a slide-down keypad that sports a megapixel camera, a quarter-VGA screen and offers person-to-person video calling.www.orange.co.uk3 collectionThe 3G network 3 has bolstered its range of phones by introducing six new handsets. Three are Motorola mobiles, including the high-end A1000 (see review above), the youth-oriented E1000 and the entry level C975. All three feature 3's signature applications of person-to-person video calling and video downloads. Also available are a pair of clamshell handsets from LG, the U8130 and U8138, slightly different versions of 3's best-selling LG U8110 mobile, and the smallest 3G handset so far - NEC's e338. All three feature MP3 music players and email facilities.www.three.co.ukGadgetsA la modeThis year's 3GSM World Congress caused a stir with its catwalk modelling show, Cool and Connected. The showcase for wearable and mobile connected technologies was patronised by innovative niche firms as well as large manufacturers, and displayed mind-boggling applications of wireless   connectivity for public and professionals alike. Now the organiser, Ken Blakeslee, is looking for new blood for next year's event, in Cannes in February. Interested parties are encouraged to get in contact.http://masl.to/?E57931DB9CamerasVision onNikon is targeting serious and semi-professional photographers with a pair of eight megapixel digital cameras. On sale for around &#163;700, the Coolpix 8800 features a Nikkor ED lens with a 10x optical zoom. It is also the first Coolpixto include vibration reduction technology, which Nikon claims automatically detects and compensates for camera movements. The &#163;650 Coolpix 8400, below, features a wide-angle zoom capability (24-85mm) and a fast autofocus system. Other headline facilities include macro shooting from 3cm, video capture at 30 frames per second and 15-scene mode shooting settings.www.nikon.co.ukStat of the week: US presidential campaignGeorge Bush's victory over John Kerry in the US presidential race came down to a relatively narrow 34 electoral college votes, but his win on the web was resounding. On polling day, the official Bush campaign site registered almost 10m hits - nearly 20 times that of Kerry.
Family battlesI enjoyed the article describing Microsoft's vision of the PC multi-tasking for computer, video, audio and other functions via one box, and more importantly, one screen in the living room (Battle for the living room, November 4).In my house, my son is playing a game on one computer, my other son is doing some schoolwork on another, and my daughter is using a third to chat with her friends. I am using my laptop to write this mail. My wife is contemplating watching a programme on television. If all computer and TV functions are to be combined in one big screen, I think your article might need to be re-titled Battle in the living room. I think we shall keep our computers and televisions separate for the forseeable future.James BellringerWimbledonCanvas comedyBen Hammersley describes a clever trick employed in Florence's Palazzo Medici Riccardi to enable visitors to study paintings that are too high, too detailed and in rooms too full of people to be fully visible with the naked eye (State of the art, November 4). Yet isn't it far more interesting to speculate on why the artists made the details so invisible in the first place? Was it the medieval sense of humour?Peter LanyonNorfolkBest foot forwardReaders interested in the feature on the active wall in Florence may be    interested in the "iFloor" that I recently came across in the Danish Design Awards. This involved a display projected on to a floor with which one interacted with one's feet (www.interactivespaces.net/icom-floor/). Combining the two concepts would be very interesting.Jagdev PanesarLondonTied inDavid Parker (Feedback, November 4) stated that NTL will unbundle its service: this is only partly true. I have had analogue cable TV for a good number of years from NTL, but when I recently thought about having the NTL digital TV service, I was told I could only have it with the inclusion of its phone line (an additional &#163;9.50).This may be convenient for some people, but I do not want to change my existing phone line or pay for an additional line. This is because I am then forced to use its broadband service - which I am sure is adequate for the lay user, but limits me in my choices and is more expensive.Simon TournayHard informationI was looking at getting the Humax PVR 8000T hard-drive recorder (Feedback, November 4) and asked whether you can record from external sources via scart or RF cable, and you cannot. The Humax can only record from its own internal DVB-T tuner, so it is useless unless you only want Freeview (I have Telewest cable and wanted to record from that). I did find out from them, however, that you can put in up to a 120GB disk (invalidating the warranty) to replace the measly 80GB it comes with.Jamie KeddieLondonIverson's legacyI believe there should be some recognition in Online for Ken Iverson, who died in October. He invented programming language APL and subsequently J, and his pioneering ideas have been quietly adopted by other computer languages and packages (for example, Mathematica).Ewart ShawUniversity of WarwickBlogBack: What the web says about OnlineJack Schofield (November 4) gives  a critical view of AMD's "popular  computer" black box. I wonder if  that's the system Brazil is adopting; it  may be a mistake.saci.blogspot.comI'm quite keen on Scrum stuff (Taken to  extremes, November 4) and on any  form of programming or working that  minimises meetings. We used some of  this stuff in my last project in the BBC.plasticbag.orgI don't see why anyone would want a  first-generation Sony PSP handheld...  it's obviously been rushed. I'm sure in  12 months' time it might be worth looking  into, but cobbling them together  this fast and setting the price based on  an informal office poll seems insane.blogs.guardian.co.uk/gamesIronically, I think, the future of blog is  back office, for e-science research,  rather than for public use. I refer here  to old wine in new bottles; ideasharing,  theme-generation and internet-  mediated academic discourse.blogs.guardian.co.uk/onlineCreative Commons keeps making its  unstoppable stride into the mainstream  (Creative comfort, October 28).  The article concentrates on music but  it is a rather good attempt to explain  what the movement is all about.technollama.blogspot.comHow to get in touch with onlineemailonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.Press releasesonline@guardian.co.ukSnailmailOnline, the Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ERTelephone020 7278 2332Fax020 7713 4154Display advertisingGavin Andrews: 020 7713 4418gavin.andrews@guardian.co.ukClassified advertisingGaby Bavidge 020 7611 9111gaby.bavidge@guardian.co.uk
Could a comic such as Viz have started up in this internet age?I started Viz because I was obsessed with printed magazines - I started a football team in our street so I could make a programme for it! Apart from being a comic, Viz was taking the piss out of magazines. The equivalent these days would have to be doing a similar thing to websites. I still prefer comics on paper. Viewing them on a screen is so different as you can't scroll from one frame to the next.Is electronic publishing a threat to traditional print?Not really. A friend   has had books published on the internet and I don't count those as books. It's not a book unless somebody can put it on a shelf. I work in a bookshop and collectors come in to browse - something that only exists electronically is not the same.Do sites such as Amazon annoy the smaller bookshops?Not at all. The web's very handy for second-hand booksellers. The internet has revolutionised the business. A few years ago, you could spend a lifetime looking for a particular book, ringing people up like JR Hartley trying to find it. Nowadays, most second-hand bookshops have their stock listed onwww.abebooks.co.uk, which lets you get anything you want straight away.Is Rude Kids the result of lengthy spells at the computer?I spent about nine months for the first draft and   it was too long and not funny so I had to re-write it for another three months. I've been sitting in front of computers for a years now, though, so it wasn't new. In the mid-90s, in the Viz office, we had Apple Macs but I have got myself an HP Pavilion PC and I wrote the book on Microsoft Word. I had a little panic when I'd finished the book as I got a virus and couldn't get Word documents to open but I managed to get it sorted.Any personal favourite computer-related Viz top tips?There was one that suggested designers of internet porn sites should put the pictures upside down so the rude bits would be revealed first, thus preventing congestion of the web and saving on downloading time for dial-up users.Do you trust the net for banking, etc?I'm not very good with passwords so they won't let me do telephone    banking . I do a lot of shopping online and I'm forever sticking my card details in. I got phished once when I was starting out on eBay (www.ebay.co.uk) and I gave someone my account details and they sold an imaginary motorbike under my username. I sent him an email and he didn't get away with it, but it does show you the downside of it.&#183;Visit:www.viz.co.ukChris Donald's bookmarkswww.nufc.comwww.derbysulzers.comwww.viking-direct.co.ukwww.thebubbleburst.co.ukwww.abebooks.co.uk
Great warYou can now read about the origins of Remembrance Day and other first world war stories in a National Archives exhibition, The Great War, 1914-18, on the government's Learning Curve site. All this year, the National Archives has also been putting more than 5m first world war medal cards online, and they should be ready for Remembrance Sunday. Since everyone who served overseas in the army or the Royal Flying Corps would have qualified for a campaign medal, this provides the best available list of those involved. The records of the medals issued to more than 100,000 merchant seamen for service in the second world war are also now online. Searching the National Archives' index is free, but it costs &#163;3.50 to download a digital image of a document. However, the site is already under some strain, and it may be better to wait until after the rush.&#183;www.learningcurve.gov.uk/greatwar&#183;http://masl.to/?J11132DB9MSN searchToday, Microsoft is unveiling its all new home-grown MSN Search engine in 26 markets and 11 languages. It offers the biggest, freshest search index on the web - more than 5bn documents - and adds a few features Google lacks. One is Direct Answers, which covers a number of areas such as definitions, facts, calculations, conversions and solutions to equations. Another is the provision of cute sliders to let you emphasise your preferred search criteria such as "most recent" or "most popular". This is still an unfinished beta, but looks like being by far the most serious challenge Google has had.&#183;http://beta.search.msn.co.ukYet anotherAny web search technologist who looks at Google, Microsoft and Yahoo   could be forgiven for deciding to get into a different line of business. Clearly this is not happening, because there is a new search engine unveiled almost every week.One of the latest to launch a beta test version is Exalead, which has come out of the prestigious Ecole des Mines in Paris, and comes in two varieties: one for France and one for the rest of the world. Exalead is indexing 1bn pages, and promises that it has "many innovative features that will change the way you browse". One feature that is particularly useful is the clustering, where you get the option of selecting related terms and categories, by website location, and by document type. You can also view results with thumbnail images of pages, or have just the thumbnails. The advanced search offers unusual features, such as phonetic searches and searching with approximate spelling, and beta testers can ask to register for even more features, as yet unspecified. Exalead's main business is selling search software to companies, and it is about to launch a desktop search tool, which you can apply to download. All round, it shows promise.&#183;http://beta.exalead.com/searchBottle biologyPaul Williams, the creator of "bottle biology", has been filmed wearing a Get a Life necklace. According to the Bottle Biology site, "the challenge is to test whether an object is alive by creating life-sustaining conditions in small tubes that can be worn around the neck". Given the idea of bottle biology and a willingness to cut up and connect bottles, there are lots of other things you can do to explore the life sciences. The site is aimed at American schoolteachers but the applications are potentially universal.&#183;www.learner.org/channel/courses/essential/life/bottlebio/Movie shiftThis month, Japan's Shift magazine is holding its Dotmov digital film festival, co-organised with the Hokkaido Foundation For Cultural Activities. This year the competition attracted 385 works from 33 countries, and 36 have been selected for showing. There seems to be one clip from a UK organisation: spiro/nano/diatoms from Christian Hogue of Lost in Space.&#183;http://www.shift.jp.org&#183;http://tinyurl.com/4gv25&#183;www.shift.jp.org/soso/Remind meRemembering birthdays and anniversaries is one of those things easily consigned to a personal information manager or electronic organiser, and can't be particularly new to the web. Still, Wisegoblin Ltd launched its new memory-jogging site on November 5, and it's free, unless you want reminders by SMS.&#183;www.iremember.it
A former software marketeer based in Durham, who conned about 50 friends and family connections into putting &#163;4.25m into a bogus investment scheme, was sentenced yesterday to four years in jail.A judge at Newcastle crown court was told how Malcolm Varrick, 29, claimed to have developed options-trading software that would generate returns of up to 8% a month. Over a year, he promised to double investors' cash.Behind the scam, he was operating a Ponzi scheme - paying out "returns" to investors from other victims' funds. About &#163;2m was paid back to investors in Varrick's business, Oakhouse Trading, giving other investors confidence in the scheme.Varrick, who admits 20 counts of obtaining money by deception and of forgery, used his computer to forge documents from Berkeley Futures and Credit Suisse to add credibility to the scam.The fraud was stopped in 2001 after a complaint to the Financial Services Authority - but not before Varrick spent much of the invested funds on five Porsches, five BMWs, three Ferraris, three Aston Martins, a Maserati, a Jaguar and a Range Rover.The Serious Fraud Office, which brought the prosecution, said very little options trading had taken place.Varrick dreamed up the scam and began taking cash off his victims in 1999.
"Madonna's got one. Paris Hilton's is rhinestone studded," gasped Adam Turner in theSydney Morning Herald. "Research in Motion's BlackBerry is invading communications in much the same way as the iPod did music, and is turning remote communications upside down."Turner wasn't the only one drawing comparisons between the BlackBerry handheld and Apple's MP3 phenomenon. "For music lovers, the iPod is the gadget to carry and flaunt," said Chris Cobbs in theOrlando Sentinel. "For email addicts, the BlackBerry delivers the essence of the iPod experience." Little wonder, then, that it has "become the gadget of choice among celebrities and politicians", said Ian Austen in theNew York Times.BlackBerry is the star brand in the "portable powerhouse" market, explained Paul Taylor in theFinancial Times. "With one pocket-sized device, you can take calls, send and receive all your corporate and personal email, and store information."Inevitably, however, there are dissenters. "As instant email devices accelerate the cadence of work life," noted Yuki Noguchi in theWashington Post, "there are increasing complaints that they whittle away at time that people once used to give undivided attention to family or co-workers, or to find solitude on the beach or during the daily commute."The impact of the technology can be measured by the extent to which it has spawned its own vocabulary. To be "BlackBerrying", observed Roger Trapp in theIndependent on Sunday, now has nothing to do with "a traditional English late-summer activity". Then there are the buzzwords. "It's so addictive that it's been dubbed 'CrackBerry'," said Turner in the Morning Herald. The NY Times offered a couple more: "blirting" is a contraction of BlackBerry flirting; and "DrunkBerrying," of course, happens when emails are composed by intoxicated thumbs.You'll know you've been BlackBerried when an email arrives with the telling footnote: "Sent from my BlackBerry Wireless Handheld." In theDaily Telegraph, Sam Leith noted that "you can remove that default message if you choose, but many don't. What's the point of having a status symbol if you can't boast about it? Take off that little message, and you might as well be any old middle manager sitting in the office with sweat-stains spreading across the nylon of your shirt ... Leave that message on, and you are a Master of the Universe."
According to news site Gamesindustrybiz, Microsoft is expecting to raise $100m in retail revenue from the glitzy US launch of Halo 2. This would make it more successful than any motion picture opening day in history. From now on, no game launch will be considered complete without aTimes Square countdown.Luckily, the official Xbox website was on hand to help gamers through the excitement with this practical guide to running alaunch day party. Never before have so many merchandising messages been squeezed into such a short, seemingly benign feature...
As Halo 2launches worldwide, it looks like Microsoft have clamped down on users with "modded" Xboxes. It seems that owners of illegally modified consoles - which let users run pirated games - will belocked out of Xbox Live, the online gaming service. And this covers people who have replaced their Xbox hard-drive as well. A few months ago this would have possibly been a blessing, but releases like Star Wars Battlefront, Halo 2 and Pro Evolution Soccer have made Live a great place to play. Is piracy that much of a problem on Xbox?
Geek On Stunpicked up onthisstory from Japan where Capcom's platform gaming hero, Viewtiful Joe, has joined the country's pro-wrestling circuit. A man dressed as the cel-shaded star grapples with fellow fighters before giving out Viewtiful Joe 2 demos to clamouring wrestle fans. Take a look at the photos, they're genius.
1.Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas2.Fifa 20053.Football Manager 20054.Pro Evolution Soccer 45.Tiger Woods PGA Tour 20056.Burnout 3: Takedown7.Tony Hawk's Underground 28.Shark Tale9.The Sims 210.Sonic HeroesSource: Elspa, compiled by ChartTrackAll formats
Research out today conducted on behalf of BT says that people who play games are rejecting TV and other offline games in favour of online digital entertainment(fromGamesPressandgamesindustry.biz).While this has been predicted for a while by some of the leading thinkers of virtual worlds (see a gathering of them atTerra Nova), broadcasters shouldn't start pulling out their antennas yet. The study only asked people who already play online console games what they'd rather do. Funny that, they want to play Halo 2 instead of watching EastEnders. Now if they could only find a way to combine the two...
TV-B-Gone, featuredbelowon October 21, is a device that lets you turn off other people's annoying TV sets. Now The New York Times has a report on the inventor and his efforts to meet demand for the product,here.
"It takes a special kind of person to stay up all night and stand in a line nearly 250 people long just to buy a video game -- but for rabid fans of the first Halo on the Xbox video game console, it was well worth the wait to buy the new Halo 2," reportsReutersfrom Los Angeles.There are many similar reports of midnight queues for Halo in papers across the US and Canada, withNew Yorkgetting the most coverage.The Democrat and Chronicle, Rochester, says:"This is the biggest video game launch of all time," said Tim Cerny, assistant manager of Electronics Boutique at The Marketplace mall. "We've never had people willing to get here in the middle of the night and stand out in the cold for a game."But that's what they did. More than 300 people waited in line for hours for the alien-shoot-'em-up-video-game to go on sale a tick after midnight Tuesday morning. Fans started to line up outside the mall at 9:30pm Monday. The last customer received a copy about 3am Tuesday.There are also numerous reviews like these inThe Globe &amp; Mailand theNew York Post.For more press coverage, gohere
The European commission, which fined Microsoft a record &euro;497m (&#163;345) this year for abusing its dominant position, yesterday vowed to continue pursuing the US software group through the courts for anti-competitive behaviour.The comments came as Microsoft shareholders approved plans to hand back $32bn (&#163;17bn) to investors through a one-off special dividend of $3 a share. The dividend was approved a day after Microsoft for the first time put a figure on its outstanding legal liabilities from the monopoly abuse cases of the late 1990s, capping them at $950m.EC officials were scathing about Microsoft's alleged efforts to "buy the silence" of rivals. On Monday it reached a $536m settlement with software maker Novell, and a ceasefire with the US Computer and Communications Industry Association. As part of the settlements, both withdrew from the Brussels case.Sources said it was "insulting the intelligence" of the European court of justice to suggest, via Brad Smith, Microsoft's general counsel, that there was less need to pursue litigation when the group's rivals apart from RealNetworks had settled. "Competition rules don't exist to defend the interests of this or that competitor but to ensure there is genuine competition in the market-place which benefits consumers," they said. "With an estimated cash pile of $64bn, Microsoft will see the cost of these settlements as derisory."The European court of first instance is due this month to rule on Microsoft's request for a freeze on the EC's "remedies", which include ordering it to offer a version of its Windows operating system without MediaPlayer, following a fractious two-day hearing in September.Microsoft announced plans to hand back a large amount of cash to investors in July. It was   reluctant to commit its growing cash balance until the long running suits were resolved.It laid the US government case against it to rest in the agreement with the CCIA and has been steadily settling the remaining cases. The trade body was the only remaining interested party trying to force a supreme court review of Microsoft's settlement with the justice department.The special dividend will result in a $3bn payday for Microsoft chairman Bill Gates who owns 1bn shares. It was approved at Microsoft's annual meeting where chief executive Steve Ballmer said Microsoft expects to double revenue from advertising over the next five years as it ramps up its search services. "We will catch up, we will surpass" Google.In New York a senior Microsoft games executive said Halo 2, released yesterday, was likely to generate $100m in sales on its first day. One retailer opened all night and sold 200,000 by daybreak.
"Microsoft Corp., stepping up its efforts to compete with rival Google Inc., will offer consumers a preview of its technology for searching the Internet, beginning Thursday,"reportsAP."The preview that begins Thursday won't include technology to let people search their own computer desktops as well as the broader Internet. But the company has promised that desktop search functionality by year's end."
Yep, it's going live today with an explosion of publicity. 3G, the faster, sexier mobile network technology, which offers super fast music, video and game downloads as well as live video calls, has been the sole preserve of the Three network for the past two years, but now one of the four major UK operators is finally involved...Vodafone is launching its service with four handsets, including two exclusives. The feature-packedSony Ericsson V800offers a high resolution 262,000 colour screen, 1.3 mega pixel camera (complete with Sony's Motion Eye™ rotating lens) and intergral music player with Memory Stick compatibitily. This is probably the key games phone, supporting the latest version of Java for 3D graphics. The Motorola V980 is the sleek clamshell all-rounder with 65k colour screen, MP3 player, VGA digital camera and T-Flash card expansion slot. The non-exclusive launch handsets are the entertainment-orientatedMotorola E1000(boasting an MP3 player and MPEG4 support, backed up by stereo speakers and widescreen video playback), and the Samsung S107, another well specced clamshell. The Nokia 6630 and Sharp 902 (complete with two megapixel) camera will follow over the next few weeks.Okay, so enough about the technology, what about the games? Vodafone has commissioned several exclusive 3D titles to showcase its new service. Finnish developer Sumea has Ferrari Experience 2 3D, a slick F1-style racer, and Extreme Air Snowboarding, a visually impressive take on the downhill boarding genre. Then there's Wonderphone's 3G translation of console platformer, Crash Twinsanity, which offers lovely cartoon environments rendered in smooth 3D. I'll have a good look at these games when Vodafone hands me one of its shiny new handsets later this week.And on the horizon… Well, the excellent mobile conversions of Namco classicsRidge RacerandStarBladewould make perfect 3G fodder. These have been out in Japan for a while, and Vodafone, through its ownership of J-Phone, has its mitts on them. The Ridge Racer title is said to be closely comparable to the PlayStation version, but with fewer cars on the track and some of the extras carved out. We'll have more on that later too.So, 3G. At last the big boys are involved – and with some very nice handsets, too. Hopefully the need to encourage users to adopt this new technology will result in some heavily specialised gaming and entertainment models. A games phone with a dedicated 3D chipset and eight-way directional control would be a promising start…
Vodafone today unveiled its 3G mobile service, becoming the first of the "big four" operators to launch the next generation phones that will offer video calling, music downloads and television-style clips.Chief executive Arun Sarin today hailed the launch as a "new era for mobile communications", predicting that 10 million Vodafone customers around the world would have upgraded to 3G handsets by March 2006."Customers want communication, organisation, entertainment and information on the move and they will increasingly turn to one device to deliver these needs - their mobile phone," said Mr Sarin, who took over from Chris Gent last year.Among the content on offer to customers with the new 3G-enabled handsets will be a specially commissioned drama from Twentieth Century Fox, inspired by the hit television series 24.The Hollywood giant will produce a range of made-for-mobile TV series, broken up into one-minute clips and  designed to be viewed on a smaller screen. The first series on offer will track characters from the Kiefer Sutherland trhiller in a parallel plot across 24 one-minute "mobisodes".Through a worldwide deal with MTV, Vodafone will also stream clips of live performances, videos and clips of programmes including Dirty Sanchez and Cribs directly to their mobile.Aiming to build on the success of its Vodafone Live! portal, which introduced its customers to the idea of paying for video clips, pictures and news over their phones and boosted the company's data revenues, the new service will be branded Vodafone Live! with 3G.As such, Vodafone will heavily market the download and data services on offer through the Vodafone Live! with 3G portal, including games, video clips, music, screensavers, news updates and ringtones.It has also come up with a new pricing plan, making browsing the service virtually free, and is offering clear one-off charges for the various downloads.3G customers will also be able to access "in-game" video goal updates from Premiership and Champions League clashes, the latest video news from ITN, 3D games and near-CD quality downloads of full music tracks.It is also promising exclusive content through its sponsorship deals with Manchester United and Ferrari Formula One.Vodafone has signed deals with major labels Sony BMG, EMI and Warner Music to make full tracks from singers and bands such as Robbie Williams, Madonna and REM available for download directly to customers' handsets. As the technology develops, it is likely to put pressure on the likes of Apple's standalone iPod music player.To take advantage of the higher quality video downloads and full music tracks, all phones will come with larger internal memories as standard and higher resolution screens, with onboard cameras rivalling the quality of standalone digital cameras.The service, backed by a marketing budget running into tens of millions, will launch today across 13 countries, including the UK. The success of the new service is seen as crucial for Vodafone, which spent billions around the world acquiring 3G licences.In the UK alone, operators poured a mammoth £22.5bn into Treasury coffers after bidding against one another for 3G licences at the height of the dotcom boom.Only new entrant 3 has launched in the UK to date and, after initial problems with the technology and availability of handsets, has latterly started to build a substantial customer base by slashing call prices and shifting its focus from video calling to a range of attractive download services.Hutchison Whampoa's 3 now has 1.1 million UK customers but is bracing itself for competition from Vodafone and the other big three operators, T-Mobile, O2 and Orange, all of which are expected to launch consumer 3G offerings by early next year.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
A credit card company with more than 1 million customers has closed an online security loophole that could have allowed people to access account holders' details and move money about.Yesterday it emerged that the Morgan Stanley website had allowed users to access their credit card information after entering just the first digit of their credit card number.The incident comes four days after internet bank Cahoot closed down its website for 10 hours following a tip-off that users could view other customers' private details.Cyber crime experts said banks and other companies must take more responsibility for providing their online customers with security or run the risk that people will steer clear of these services.Morgan Stanley had permitted customers to let their PC "remember" their password so they only had to enter the first digit of their card number before the "autocomplete" facility provided the rest.This meant that someone using the same computer could potentially access another's accounts. The Association for Payment Clearing Services (Apacs) recommends that companies disable the auto function to remove the risk of this happening.The problem was reported to Morgan Stanley by the BBC after a viewer contacted a programme about the flaw.A Morgan Stanley spokeswoman said it had "taken immediate steps to turn off the auto function to ensure there are no possible security issues"."Morgan Stanley has received no customer complaints or calls on this issue to date, and to our knowledge no accounts have been accessed improperly," she said.But Philippsohn Crawfords Berwald, a city law firm, said the loophole "potentially enabled users to shift money across accounts with incredible ease".
Strong demand for residential broadband is having an impact at last on the market for communications equipment, according to Marconi.The equipment manufacturer, which almost went under two years ago, reported operating profit of &#163;2m for the second quarter compared with a &#163;20m loss last year. In the three months to end September it had sales of &#163;305m, flat on the previous year.It aims for gross profit margins of 34% for the year despite only 33.1% for the quarter. It will need to increase sales of high margin products such as optical network equipment which telecom operators are having to buy to increase capacity for residential broadband.BT, which accounts for 32% of Marconi's revenues and plans to revamp its network in the next five years, has hinted investment could be halted if Ofcom is unsupportive in next week's industry review. Marconi chief executive Mike Parton said: "The regulator has to create an environment in which those who have deep enough pockets to invest in a network feel they can do it."
Europeans spend nearly twice as much time on the internet as they do reading newspapers, a survey claimed today.The research found that time spent online accounts for 20% of total media consumption, nearly twice the 11% consumers said they devoted to reading newspapers.This has doubled from last year's 10%, while time spent reading newspapers has declined from 13% in 2003.Consumers now spend almost 11 hours a week online on average, compared with five hours spent reading newspapers, according to the European Internet Advertising Association."Due to the rise in broadband penetration people are spending more time online to the detriment of other media," said the EIAA executive director, Alison Fennah."Now that European consumers are spending 20% of their media time online, we're finding their doing a lot less offline."This year's survey was based on interviews with 1,500 people across Europe, 42% of whom said they used the internet every day. One in 10 claimed to spend more than 25 hours a week on the web.Broadcasters have also been hit by the rise in internet usage. Television viewing now accounts for just 31% of time spent consuming media, down from 41% last year.Although 96% of respondents said they owned television sets, more than a third of Europeans said they were now watching less TV as a result of increased internet use.Email is the most popular reason for going online, used by 88% of internet users.Some 61% of those surveyed said they used the web for news while over half of all users said it was their favourite source of information.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Cisco Systems, the technology group, last night reported a 29% increase in first quarter profits on the back of improving conditions in its traditional routing business as well as emerging markets such as internet telephony.The firm posted profits of $1.4bn (&#163;777m) on sales of $6bn. The figures were roughly in line with Wall Street forecasts but its shares fell slightly in after-hours trade on disappointment it had not beaten expectations.Cisco has continued to grow in the face of an otherwise faltering technology market. It has bet on a handful of new technologies including internet telephony, home networking and security.John Chambers, Cisco's chief executive, said the firm's execution had remained solid across all its businesses. He expected revenues in the current quarter to grow a further 1% to 3% year-on-year.The company said it had authorised a further $10bn in share repurchases.
Today marks a milestone in the history of the "open source" movement, the extraordinary unpaid community of volunteers all over the world who work together to produce software which is placed in the public domain without commercial gain. Today sees the official launch of Firefox (www.getfirefox.com), a free internet browser that is daring to take on Internet Explorer, owned by Microsoft, which until recently had a market share of over 95%. It roundly beat Netscape (originally known as Mosaic) during the late 1990s in what became known as the browser war.Well, the second browser war is about to begin and the signs are it will be very interesting. Microsoft has an embedded advantage, not just because of its $50bn-plus cash reserves, but because Windows has a near-monopoly of the operating system inside personal computers. It comes pre-loaded with Explorer - so users need a good reason to overcome inertia and switch to something else.Firefox believes it has that reason, a nimble, easy-to-install browser that has   new features, keeps out irritating "pop-up" advertisements and claims much more security against most of the bugs and viruses that have riddled Explorer. It aims to take 10% of the browser market during the next eight months and says that 7 million people have already downloaded it from the web. As a result Firefox has come from nowhere to 3% of the market before being officially released and Explorer has lost market share for five months to just under 93%. In response to an appeal to buy an advertisement in the New York Times, more than 10,000 Firefox users donated more than $250,000, much more than asked for.Firefox deserves to succeed, but even if it does not it will have highlighted the astonishing success of open source, well known inside the web community but not outside. Among other services, it has its own operating system (Linux), an acclaimed alternative to Microsoft Office (OpenOffice), and its own encyclopedia (Wikipedia) with a million entries. The open source movement has become one of globalisation's unexpected treasures.
In some kind of insane attempt to break every single computer games record known to man (or woman),Grand Theft Auto: San Andreashas become the fourth-fastest selling PlayStation game ever with a clock count of 1 million lighter wallets in only nine days. According toGamesindustry.biz, the game is in line to become the number one selling game ever released in the UK.And this withHalo 2around the corner. Whatever will happen next?When faced with the choice last night when I got home from a whirlwind trip to the States, I have to say I picked up Halo 2 first. That's primarily, however, because I've already been left behind on GTA with no chance of ever catching up with the weekend's worth of gameplay under a certain gamer's belt.
Digital music service Napster is hoping that people will pick up songs alongside their stamps after agreeing a deal with the Post Office to sell download vouchers.The online company, which resurrected the Napster brand earlier this year after it went bust in its original illegal incarnation, is believed to have signed a deal with 16,000 Post Office branches to stock the vouchers.The move is part of a wider effort by Napster, owned by US software firm Roxio, to take on the marketing might of Apple's iTunes in the run-up to Christmas.It has already signed a deal to make pre-paid download cards available in Dixons Group stores, including its eponymous high street electrical stores and PC World.The idea is that customers who are less au fait with technology, or too young to have a credit card, will buy the new pre-paid cards and vouchers as gifts or for themselves as a means of dipping their toes into the world of digital downloads.Post Office customers, who will be able to pick up the new vouchers in any branch, will take their choice to the counter where it will be redeemed for a receipt with a code number that can be redeemed on the Napster website.The colour-coded vouchers will be available in two types. Green vouchers will provide access to Napster's subscription service, allowing users to listen to any of the 1 million songs available for the duration of their subscription.A two-month subscription will cost £20 and a four-month subscription £35. Blue vouchers will allow the recipient to buy permanent downloads, that can be burned to CD or transferred to a portable player, in bundles of 10, 22 and 33 tracks and will cost £10, £20 or £30.Ordinarily, tracks downloaded from Napster cost £1.09 each to non-subscribers and 99p each for subscribers.The company is gearing up for a pre-Christmas battle with Apple, with digital music players expected to be among the most popular gifts of the season.Apple's iPod, compatible with its iTunes digital music store, remains by far the most popular digital player. But Napster hopes to pick up sales by virtue of the fact that its store works with a wide range of rival players while iPod owners are restricted to Apple's own offering to download music.The digital download market is gathering momentum following the launch of the official download chart earlier this year.With UK record companies taking court action against illicit file sharing and making large swathes of their catalogue available to legal download sites, they believe the carrot and stick approach to the problem is starting to pay off.On Monday, The Darkness became the first major league band to release a new single exclusively on the web while Irish super group U2 have also agreed a deal with Apple to make their new album available on iTunes before it appears in the shops.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Teachers' unions today attacked a plan that would see staff answering email queries from their GCSE pupils outside school hours.The government is to pilot its "e-mentoring" idea next year as an alternative to traditional study leave, which ministers want abolished.But teachers' unions said the scheme was "completely unreasonable" and would open the way for pupils to harass staff at home with abusive emails.Chris Keates, the general secretary of the National Association of Schoolmasters/Union of Women Teachers (NASUWT), called for an urgent meeting with officials to discuss the idea.She said she was "extremely concerned" by the plan, which seemed to run against government promises to cut teachers' workload."It is completely unreasonable to expect teachers to be on-call, online out of hours."However, the most serious aspect of this proposal is its potential to leave teachers vulnerable to email harassment and abuse."NASUWT will be seeking an urgent meeting with the Department for Education and Skills (DfES) to discuss these issues before the trials on this proposal begin next year."Steve Sinnott, the general secretary of the National Union of Teachers, said the idea could threaten teachers' privacy.He said ministers would need to be "very careful" that their liking for new technology did not "blind them to the problems" it could cause.The schools minister, David Miliband, said on Monday that study leave had become "video-game leave" for too many teenagers and alternatives should be found.The DfES said one idea that will undergo trials next year will be the "e-mentoring scheme"."Schools will use the opportunities provided by ICT to support students and answer revision queries by email out of hours," the DfES said."School 'clusters' will also be developed where teachers and sixth-formers can support Year 11 students with their revision, particularly out of school hours."A DfES spokesman added later: "The pilot scheme will be limited to around 15 schools and designed so that it does not add to teacher workloads or expose them to potential email abuses.
 
"We are arranging to meet with NASUWT to reassure them of our intentions and reflect their views in development of the scheme."He stressed that taking part in the trials would be "entirely voluntary". 
Teachers should be given time off in lieu or paid overtime for the extra work, he said.
In a marketing stunt surely inspired byDavid Blaine, last October a Dutch family lived in a glass box for four days in order topromotethe EA release of The Sims 2. The Sturkenbooms (no, really) - a family of four - were put on display 25 miles outside Amsterdam and webcast online, forced to perform pointless stunts that would putBig Brother's antics to shame. Everything was kept clean, however, with a curtain drawn to protect their privacy from 10pm.This surely was one of the more bizarre promotional attempts in computer gaming history, eclipsingDonkey Konga's recent ape-gone-astray event in Trafalgar Square or the takeover of Oxford Street by kids dressed up as Cartman, Stan, Kenny and Kyle for the release of the N64'sSouth Park Rally. Getting the public to pay attention to a product is difficult, to say the least. What's worked the best for you?
Today's Wall Street Journal offers a view on the importance of new video game release Halo 2 to Microsoft."Starting today, millions of videogame players will dive into a world that pits a genetically enhanced super-soldier against the Covenant, a mysterious alien species. The fate of Earth rests on the outcome. So does Microsoft Corp's videogame business.""Since Microsoft entered the videogame-console business in November 2001, it has lost buckets of money, largely due to the costs of producing the Xbox. Videogame console makers - led by Sony - usually lose money on consoles, but make profit on their games.""However, Microsoft has had a tough time building a pipeline of hits for the Xbox, putting the burden on Halo and its sequel to carry the load."
This week is the "2004 top 50" for the Financial Times'Creative Businesssupplement (which isunder threataccording to a report in today's Guardian)... and there's space for a few stars of the technology industry:Ron Festejo, the developer of the Sony EyeToy (which has shifted 3.5m units in a little over a year); Emma Sommerville, head of the BBC's interactive TV programming; Peter Gabriel, the musician and founder of OD2 ... and, of course, Jonathan Ive, Apple's VP of Industrial Design who is credited with leading the charge to forge "the company's most revolutionary designs"."When Bono took to the stage last month to launch Apple Computer's newest iPod digital music player - a U2-branded black and red special edition unit - the lead singer of the band made a point of praising the quiet and self-effacing designer who helped make it all happen.""Jonathan Ive, the 37-year-old British-born designer who leads Apple Computer's industrial design team, must be used to the praise."(the list proclaims itself as "not a list of the powerful, as measured by titles on the nation's corporate nameplates... [but] a celebration of... the power of individuals... to take an idea and turn it into a cash-generating business")
Microsoft said yesterday that it had finally laid to rest the anti-trust case against it in the United States when it reached an agreement with the Computer &amp; Communications Industry Association, the final group seeking to overturn itssettlement with the department of justice.It has also reached a $536m (&#163;290m) settlement with Novell, the software firm behind WordPerfect. However, that settlement only partially resolves legal issues between the two and Novell intends to file another suit this week.Microsoft said it could for the first time put a figure, up to $950m, on its remaining liabilities stemming from the monopoly abuse cases of the late-90s.The CCIA has agreed not to seek a review of the government's anti-trust case. Both it and Novell will also withdraw from the European anti-trust case.Microsoft will pay an unspecified amount to cover CCIA's legal costs and will join the organisation.
The cost to consumers of converting Britain to digital TV is likely to be &#163;1bn, a third more than estimated, Freeview will tell the government today.The cost of digital terrestrial TV more than doubles for nearly a third of those who buy Freeview set top boxes, according to research commissioned by Freeview.Of 1,000 people interviewed by TNS Research in August and September, 29% said they had to spend an extra &#163;80 to &#163;100 to have their TV aerial upgraded after they bought their Freeview box.This figure contrasts sharply with the figure of 10% published in the draft report of the Digital TV Project. The project is a partnership of government departments, TV equipment manufacturers and broadcasters; its final report is due to be delivered to ministers at the Department of Trade and the Department of Culture, Media and Sport at the end of this month."This 29% figure is significant because it implies that converting to digital is not going to be as straightforward or as cheap as the government thought," said a Freeview spokeswoman.The research comes at the same time that the government says it will announce a new cost-benefit analysis for the digital switchover that will show a greater benefit to UK plc than forecast last year."The net benefit of digital switchover will be higher than we said last year and importantly we think that if you de lay digital switchover &#91;this benefit&#93; could fall," Lord McIntosh, minister for media and heritage, told a New Media Markets conference yesterday.He would not name the new benefit figure, but industry insiders say it could be as high as &#163;2.8bn, up from the forecast of &#163;1.5bn to &#163;2bn.Allan Williams, senior policy adviser for the Consumers' Association, commented: "Consumers benefit the most from digital TV but they also have to carry most of the cost."
BBC new media chief Ashley Highfield has vowed to work more closely with the commercial sector, pointing internet users towards rival websites and sharing corporation's online content more freely.The relationship between BBC's online and interactive divisions, which spend more than £100m a year, and the rest of the industry has always been rocky.Advertising-funded rivals, many struggling to make ends meet, have complained that the BBC has distorted the online market by using licence-fee payers' money to compete in areas already well served by the commercial sector.The BBC has pointed to the success of its online service - the most popular in the UK - and the need to deliver content to licence-fee payers through a variety of distribution points as justification for the huge outlay.Following yesterday's response by the board of governors to Philip Graf's government-commissioned review of the BBC's online activities, Mr Highfield said he wanted to form a more collaborative partnership with independent content producers and rival sites."I've always wanted to widen the relationship with the industry. We were both circling around each other. The market has matured to the point where we can engage a lot more straightforwardly," he added.The BBC governors have ordered the new media division to work more closely with commercial rivals and establish a "more systematic and comprehensive" links policy to promote other sites. Specifically, the BBC will begin working with local newspapers to produce local listings sites.Mr Highfield has also been asked by the governors to introduce a 25% quota for independent production of new media content by 2007, mirroring the BBC television commitment to external programming suppliers.Advances in technology mean it is now easier for the BBC to syndicate its content to other sites, said Mr Highfield.He also pointed to a new service on the BBC news site linking to third party sites, including Guardian.co.uk, that offer a different view on the day's news.Mr Highfield said that, because of the rise of broadband, BBC new media would increasingly focus on the web as an audiovisual rather than a static medium. This would put "clear blue water" between the corporation's online operation and newspaper-based sites."We don't want to become a bulletin board for BBC programmes. We ought to do original broadband content. In the independent sector it's one of the areas where we can make the most difference."Content for children and young teenagers would also be a priority, said Mr Highfield, as the BBC sought to focus on areas under-served by the commercial sector.BBC new media has agreed to shut its Fantasy Football, surfing, listings, games and soap opera web operations in the wake of the Graf report and will now add several other sites to the list.Cutbacks have also been made in music, gardening, science and nature, antiques and motoring sites, while lifestyle content has been "refocused" to link more closely to programmes. Further cuts will be announced before Christmas."Once the BBC programming genre review is complete, we will be able to announce our areas of focus and which other sites we'll be cutting back," Mr Highfield said.He added that the focus would be as much on the redistribution and packaging of existing programmes as the creation of new content."The ubiquity of access, and creating the BBC on demand, is a central part of delivering public value. If that's where our audience is, we have to provide for them," Mr Highfield said.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Universal Music, the world's largest record company, is to offer digital distribution deals to independent labels in the UK.The package will include website hosting and online ticket sales for independent outfits and unsigned acts that struggle to get tracks on services such as Apple's iTunes.Rob Wells, head of Universal's new media operation in the UK, said each deal will be negotiated on a label-by-label basis although a revenue-sharing model may be used for larger record outfits."We believe they'll be earning more money from us than they would be from doing it independently. We are taking the headache out of putting their repertoire on a digital service."The first company to sign a digital record deal with Universal is Blackburn-based dance label All Around the World, which already has a physical distribution deal with the major."We have a lot of existing partnerships that we will offer the service to," Mr Wells said.Labels and artists who sign with Universal will have their music included in the group's weekly upload of Universal tracks to services such as Napster and iTunes. A spokesperson for AIM, a trade group for independent labels in the UK, said the sector already had a successful digital strategy."Digital distribution is a whole new opportunity for the independents. Our whole perspective since 2000 has been to license as proactively as possible, to get our product on as many digital products, services and platforms as possible."
MSN's Slate site has an interesting article by Stephen Totilo entitledWhy aren't videogames funny?. His argument is that the inherent difficulty of shoe-horning comic moments into an interactive experience, together with modern gaming's obsession with graphics rather than story-telling, mean that designers rarely bother with humour (or if they do, it's relegated to the odd action movie-style quip in the cut-scenes).I sort of agree with him, but he misses out on the humour that players create for themselves by subverting the game universe. This can mean anything from simply running over pedestrians in GTA to creating hilarious stunt and blooper movies out of in-game footage (there are some great Battlefield 1942 exampleshere).And he completely overlooks the likes of Dance Dance Revolution and EyeToy: Play which make comic stars out of all of us. I also think Metal Slug is a very funny game. What do you reckon? Is humourreallydead?
"Queen sell pirate music to fans," saysBBC News.(that's Queen the band, not Queen Elizabeth II, as I originally thought. Now imagine that!)"Queen have decided to tackle musical piracy by offering fans the chance to legally download up to 100 pirate recordings currently in circulation. Using expert advice, the band has selected the best illegal Queen recordings and will make them available to download on their official website."Appropriately enough, 21st century Queen tribute actThe Darknessare releasing their first download-only single.Coincidence? I think not.
Supermarket group Tesco is launching itself into the world of digital music with an online download service designed to take on the might of Apple's iTunes.But to power the service, which is launched today, the supermarket has picked technology from Microsoft - meaning owners of Apple's very popular iPod player will not be able to buy, download and listen to music from Tesco.com.The tracks and albums Tesco will be selling will be available to owners of a wide range of digital music players, some of which are considerably cheaper than an iPod."When you buy a DVD you wouldn't expect the retailer to dictate what player you played it on would you?" said Tesco.com chief executive Laura Wade Gery. "And yet that is exactly what is happening in this market. As the price of portable digital music players falls, customers will demand more choice. That is what we are delivering."It is also digitising music at a higher standard than some other competing music services which Tesco hopes will attract a more discerning - and wealthy - segment of the market."Music buying is changing," she added. "We know that for the first time dads are spending more on music each week than their teenage sons and they're more likely to be attracted to music players and downloads because of quality of sound." Tesco is the latest entrant into the digital music market to pick Microsoft's Windows Media Audio format. Services such as Virgin Direct, Napster and MSN Music all use it and it includes digital rights management (DRM) software which means tracks cannot be illegally shared or endlessly copied.Tesco will offer shoppers a choice of more than 500,000 tracks at a flat rate of 79p each and albums at &#163;7.99 - a similar price to that charged by iTunes and Virgin.The network behind the service, which has been put together by Cable &amp; Wireless, remembers what an individual customer has bought in the past. Anyone who breaks their player or computer or has it stolen will be given a free download of their back catalogue up to three times.Once downloaded the DRM technology contained within the track will allow customers to "burn" that song or album on to a CD up to three times and transfer it on to up to three players.From today Tesco will be selling 13 digital music players through its website, all of which can use the new download service. Ranging in price from &#163;49.99 to &#163;300, the models include players from iRivers and Creative. Tesco will also be selling a selection of iPods in the run-up to Christmas.Legal downloads remain a fledgling, if growing, part of the $32bn (&#163;17.3bn) global record market. Download revenues are expected to reach $150m this year.
Multiplayer online shooter Counter-Strike has been linked with the murder of a Sydney man two years ago. The Australian Daily Telegraph made the connection on its front page last Thursday, and you can find details of the storyhere.However, the paper's observations have been disputed by tech site, The Inquirer, whichassertsthat the videogame's involvement has been taken entirely out of context.The story is highly reminiscent of the Manhuntcontroversyearlier this year, where several newspapers explicitly connected Rockstar's game to the murder of teenager Stefan Pakeerah, even though the police investigating the incident played down the product's role in the crime.
"Software group Autonomy will today launch one of the first anti "phishing" programs in a bid to protect bank customers from e-mail fraudsters," reports theDaily Telegraph."The launch comes as a mounting number of online bank customers are targeted by phishing scams. The scams usually involve an e-mail containing a link to a fake website that invites customers to input personal details. A wide range of banks have been targeted, including Lloyds TSB, Barclays and Citigroup, the world's biggest bank.""Autonomy is usually employed by governments to monitor telephone calls, video, e-mail and instant messaging services in a bid to gather intelligence on terrorists. Phishing is estimated to cost online UK banks in the region of £66m a year."
I feel snotty and terrible, but have managed to haul myself to the sofa to playHalo 2this weekend. Blimey - what a visceral experience this game is. My eyes hurt after a 3hr session yesterday and it's easy to get totally sucked in. Won't spoil theOnlinereview on Thursday, but I think now is the time to use a cliché usually only found onstodgy US review sites- if you liked the original Halo, you will love this one. Right, back to the sick-bed now...
Toby Young has just exploded. A tiny cloud of smoke hangs over his empty chair. He's gone. There is an awkward silence. Matthew Norman, Jon Ronson and Caitlin Moran are all delighted to see him go, but the method was a little shocking. Eventually, Ronson says: "That's a brutal way to die."Poker is a cruel game, but computer graphics are crueller. This is the first Paradise Poker Newspaper Challenge, an online tournament taking place at www.paradisepoker.com, in which national newspaper columnists do battle over a virtual card table for the glory of their respective publications. Nobody wanted to be the first player knocked out, hence their relief at the unfortunate exit of Young (playing for the Mail On Sunday), but nobody expected to see the man immolated in his very seat. This is not to say that there is any pity on this table. In the days preceding the tournament, bristling emails have flown back and forth between the players. Ronson (playing for the Guardian) and Carol Sarler (Daily Express) stated their certainty that Matthew Norman (Sunday Telegraph) was the man to beat. Moran (The Times) warned: "I don't want to scare or unsettle any of you unnecessarily, but you should know that I'm sitting astride a chair in a Stetson, I've just knocked back two whiskies, and I have a gun."Meanwhile, Phil Hogan (the Observer), true to the rather hapless persona of his brilliant weekly column, failed to grasp the principle of one-upmanship. His pre-match email read simply: "I not only don't have the slightest clue what I'm doing, but am also the least technically equipped, until about five seconds before we start when a man is coming round with a computer that can get the right channel &#91;sic&#93;. I confidently predict I'll be back at my day job, if I still have one, within ten minutes."Once the tournament began, the verbal sparring continued in the on-screen chat box, accompanied by regular drinks from the Paradise Poker cocktail menu. Journalists can never say no to a free martini, even if it's only in cartoon form. When Moran was knocked out in ninth place, she claimed it was only the drinks she'd miss."It was like a virtual hacks' pub," she explained. "Like Popbitch used to be, when everyone on it was a journalist using a pseudonym - back when Julie Burchill thought I wouldn't know it was her saying terrible things about me as long as she wrote in an odd Cockney accent to disguise her 'inimitable style'. I used to love it, and this was similar - all of us chatting and drinking. The kind of place you want to pop into every day to visit your fellow cyber-pissed hacks, and say 'Quick, I'm writing a piece and I need the names of three blonde coke addicts ...'."But how did we get there in the first place? It began as a profile-raising exercise for Paradise Poker, who hired me a few months ago to be "creative consultant"; a sort of variation on corporate sponsorship.As the various poker websites fight it out to be top dog in a booming market, sponsorship of players is a key method of promoting themselves to the target audience. With live poker tournaments getting bigger all the time, and dozens of poker-themed TV shows being made here and in America (some of which allow the wearing of logos), sponsorship is a vital part of any site's advertising budget.Some websites sponsor famous US players, assuming they will spread the word across the poker-playing world. Some websites sponsor smaller-time local players to boost sign-ups in immediate poker communities. PrimaPoker.com signed top UK foursome The Hendon Mob in a sponsorship deal so big (worth around &#163;1m) that the package itself became a story, like those novels which are famous for the advance money.What the websites get for their investment varies from deal to deal: some are purely concerned with the public wearing of the logo, others with "poker diaries" written for the site. Mine is a fiddly proposition, being part-sponsorship (a non-exclusive deal where Paradise pays my entry fee or travel expenses for a few major poker tournaments, and I wear their logo), part-content (where I write poker tips and stories on the site) and part-consultancy, where I advise on brand awareness as a simple waged position.Cannily, Paradise Poker has also hired Freud Communications to raise the brand profile, and the model Caprice for promotional work. She knows how to play cards and looks fantastic in their "tropical theme" posters; I don't think anybody wants to see me or Matthew Freud in a bikini. Other websites are sponsoring whole TV programmes. PartyPoker.com put its name on a recent tournament for Five, PacificPoker.com is making a series for Challenge TV, and LadbrokesPoker.com has got one on Sky. Not to be outdone, the giant PokerStars.com has sponsored the entire European Poker Tour, which involves several tournaments played all over Europe and broadcast on Eurosport along with a terrestrial channel yet to be confirmed.All of this involves enormous outlay, of course. (Except Paradise's deal with me - I come cheap). But this is big business - &#163;40m is gambled every day on poker websites, backed up by constant TV exposure. In a couple of years we will have reached saturation point; television will have moved on, and no new online cardrooms will be launched. So now is the time when all the sites are jostling for position, aiming to be the one which gets on top and stays there.It's like the period just before Directory Inquiries lost its monopoly, when all the 118 numbers were fighting to be the one which stuck in people's heads. (118118 won that battle, those moustachioed twin joggers increasing the company revenue by &#163;44m). If you get it right, you hit the jackpot. Paradise Poker, started in 1999 by a trio of impoverished American students who had an idea for a computer program and gradually cornered the new market with pleasing graphics, simple download and good value poker games, was taken over by Sporting Bet last week for $297.5 m (&#163;162.5m).Where to go from there? Paradise is the third biggest online poker brand (which means there are two horses still to beat, PartyPoker and PokerStars), and 79% of its business is done in the US (which means that Europe is still to be conquered.)The hard core of regular daily internet poker players will always go with the brand which offers the best value - the biggest tournaments, the smallest hosting charge, the highest security, the easiest opponents. These punters can be spoken to via the subscription poker magazines and online poker forums, but they'll do most of the research themselves. The ripest market for the expanding sites is the one which includes TV viewers, social gamblers, and people who have never played but caught wind of the poker trend.They will be drawn to the easiest sites to understand, the nicest-looking graphics, the sexiest ads, and (as with any product) the brand image which speaks to them most directly. PR will reach those people, and I'm there as something of a go-between with a foot in each camp. The idea of the columnists' tournament was to introduce the site to a few key "opinion-formers" in the press. Besides, I thought it would be fun. And it was: I was delighted when the tournament and &#163;1,000 charity prize was won by Sarler - one of only two women among the nine invited players - who had learned the rules of poker only five days before. Second prize went to Hogan, playing poker for the very first time. I genuinely revelled in their triumph, although I suspect Hogan still doesn't know what the hell he did to manage it. Will my contribution make any difference to the Paradise brand? I have no idea. Does it help when I wear their logo, or advise on a press release? Who knows, but (at risk of jeopardising my contract renewal), here is a salutary tale for all the corporations out there. I recently wrote an article about the European Poker Tour, where I was "wearing a sponsor's logo for www.paradisepoker.com like David Beckham wears Nike". I thought the piece was fine. The commissioning editor was happy, the subs had no problems, I received no complaining readers' letters. Great. But there is one unhappy company out there which has spent tens of millions of pounds to give the world one simple message: Beckham wears Adidas.
When the latest UK releases of Harry Potter and Lord of the Rings pulled in &#163;10m to &#163;12m each at the box office during their first few days, it was headline news. But the latest version of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is reckoned to have grossed &#163;24m over the weekend without attracting such huge publicity. The explanation is quite simple: Grand Theft Auto (GTA) is a computer game not a film (though the two genres are converging so fast that it will soon be difficult to tell them apart). Computer games are still regarded as a sub-art, not something to be taken too seriously, even though the global takings of the industry have been bigger than Hollywood's for some years. Most of the publicity around the 18-plus rated GTA has been directed at its undoubted violent content, though there was an animated conversation on the Guardian's gamesblog last week about the junk-food habits of the lead character who has to eat to stay alive.GTA's sales achievement is all the more remarkable because the game plays on only one of the various consoles (PlayStation 2) available. It is as if Lord of the Rings could not be shown in all cinemas. It is likely to repeat its success all over the world. Like another equally impressive though violent game published last week, The Getaway: Black Monday (set in amazingly realistic reproductions of London streets), GTA is a British success story, having been developed by the Edinburgh-based Rockstar. The UK has a thriving development industry, but most of the games publishers (with exceptions such as Eidos, of Lara Croft fame, and SCI) are foreign.If there is a moral from all this, it is that it is time the highly successful industry matured with the people who buy its products. If gaming were judged like ice dancing, then these two releases would get 10 out of 10 for technical merit but barely seven for artistic impression. If the industry is to fulfil its huge potential, it ought to take more risks with mature games that break out of the role-playing/first-person shooters mould that has proved such a winning formula. In other words, it is time to grow up.
InterconnectedViral advertising sites are getting increasingly clever. First Burger King brought uswww.subserviantchicken.comnow they've enlisted Harry Hill to portray an evangelical TV doctor (catchphrase "waaaaaytago") atwww.angusdiet.comencouraging us to eat burgers in order to live life to the full.Meanwhile, Ikea has managed to quell online rants and its reputation as a place where couples go to argue with Elite Designers Against Ikea (elitedesigners.org),in which pretentious fop Van Den Poop rails against the affordable goods. Smarter still iswww.hank-makes-it-flat.com, a site about a Scottish construction worker who flattens everyday objects with his excavator.After such stealth tacticswww.horlicks.co.ukis a pleasant change - full of calming sounds and advice on falling asleep, some of which involves drinking a certain warm milky beverage.
Metal Slug 3XBOXMetal Slug 3 is the newest in a line of strictly 2D side-scrolling, old school shmups (that's shoot-'em-ups). Running into battle, you're alone against an army of beautifully-themed monsters, vehicles and spectacular bosses that come at you with comic zeal in what is one of the most hectic videogame experiences of the year.With only five levels, difficulty is provided by the hordes that descend on you, including members of the undead, a robotic tank and giant moray eels. Honed, often hilarious and featuring innumerable touches of genius, at &#163;20 this is superb value for anyone with the cahones to take on such a brutal challenge.&#183;SNK Playmore, &#163;20Mobile gamingAs a species, humans are becoming increasingly intolerant of time spent without customised personal entertainment. The horror scenario of getting stuck on public transport with a flat iPod battery, no Game Boy and a newspaper you've just finished reading is enough to instil fear in the stoutest heart. Fortunately, mobile phone games are here to provide protection from exposure to brief moments of quiet contemplation.3D PoolForget the j-j-jerky animation and simplistic-looking table; if it's a very small game of pool you're looking for, this plays a damn fine one. Cushion shots, spin and power are all taken care of with its consistent physics and neatly simple interface. Hustling has never been so compact.Galleon DuskAfter the flawed but inventive console release from the man who brought you Tomb Raider, the pared-down mobile version suffers from desperately glitchy graphics and a difficulty level almost entirely derived from the cack-handedness of its controls. A hopeless mess.Colin McRae Rally 2005Real-time car damage, varying weather conditions and two-player mode (albeit turn-based rather than via Bluetooth) are all features that have made it into the mobile edition. Clever automatic acceleration and perceptibly different handling on various road surfaces make up for out-of-step sound effects.PlatoonPlay as your favourite characters from 1980s Vietnam-a-thon Platoon, from bad Sgt Barnes to nice but doomed Elias, then wrestle with the laborious controls and absurd collision detection, in which you fire anywhere in the vicinity of an enemy and watch them jerkily teleport into the supine position.GauntletRun around shooting ghosts, trolls and other nasties while picking up treasure and hunks of meat, handily strewn around corridors. It looks and plays like a slightly easier-to-control ZX Spectrum game, which is in every way a good thing. Sadly, there's no four-player mode.Big Boss BashBouncing bubbles off obstacles to hit political figures, from our own revered leader to Bush and Saddam, produces a peculiar mix of action-based puzzle game and schoolyard satire. A very playable and addictive result from the talents at developer Mobobo.&#183;All games approximately &#163;4.50 each
