American chief executive officers have an annual scorecard: the Fortune 500 list of America's biggest companies, published by Fortune magazine since 1954. For the rest of us, it provides a useful snapshot of their progress, or lack thereof. This is important when users can be left in the lurch by the commercial failure of any company that supplies proprietary hardware or software not available from alternative sources.This year's 500 issue reckons  it has been "a year to remember fondly", with total revenues up  by 10.5% to a record-breaking  $8.2 trillion, and profits up 15.2% to $513.5bn. Wal-Mart had the biggest revenues &mdash; $288bn &mdash; but second-placed Exxon Mobil made the most money, with profits of $25.3bn on a turnover of $271bn.It was also a good year for computer companies, with five firms making the top 50. In the lead, as always, was IBM, which appeared in 10th place with a turnover of $96.3bn and profits  of $8.4bn. It was followed by Hewlett-Packard with $79.9bn (11th); Dell, $49.2bn (28th); Microsoft, $36.8bn (41st) and  Intel, $34.2bn (50th).For comparison, Dell came behind Procter &amp; Gamble but ahead of Johnson &amp; Johnson, Microsoft just pipped UPS, and Intel was narrowly behind Motorola.A year is a long time for most chief executives, so I had a look at my 1996 issue of Fortune (1995 being unaccountably missing). This showed the same companies in the top four places &mdash; General Motors, Ford, Exxon and Wal-Mart &mdash; but in a different order. However, computer companies have generally either boomed or busted.In 1996, IBM was in sixth place with a turnover of $71.9bn and profits of $4.2bn. It was followed by Hewlett-Packard, $31.5bn (20th); Intel, $16.2bn (60th); Microsoft, $5.9bn (219th) and  Dell, $5.3bn (250th). So while IBM increased its sales by a third and Intel has doubled in nine years,  Microsoft has grown sixfold and Dell more than nine times over.Cisco has done even better. Its $2bn turnover was too small to make the 1996 list, but now it is  in 91st place with revenues of $22bn &mdash; an increase of 11 times.Many technology companies have fared worse. For example, Apple's $11.1bn turnover put it  in 114th place in 1996, and it was twice Dell's size. This year, following the huge success of the iPod, Apple's revenues grew by 33.4% to $8.3bn and it climbed back to 263rd place &mdash; but it is now only a sixth of Dell's size.The 1996 Fortune 500 also included giants such as Compaq ($14.8bn) and Digital Equipment Corp ($13.8bn), both now part of Hewlett-Packard.But hi-tech's wooden spoon must surely go to America's phone company AT&amp;T, which used to be one of the world's most powerful companies. In 1996 it was fifth in the Fortune 500 with revenues of $79.6bn, and the issue carried a six-page feature about its plans to grow to $132bn by 2005. Instead it came 56th on the list with sales of $30.1bn and a loss of $6.5bn. And having just been taken over by SBC for $16bn, it won't make next year's list at all.Fortune 500 (not free)&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.
Customer serviceKeith Dugmore misses the point (Feedback, April 14) about the status of Ordnance Survey. We are supported by receipts and licensing from customers and partners, rather than the public purse. This forces us to be responsive to market requirements. If geospatial data were made freely available, there would be no incentive to maintain and update it to the quality required for the national infrastructure. Other parts of government pay for all kinds of products and services &mdash; from postage stamps to computers &mdash; and Ordnance Survey is just another supplier. By choosing what they want to buy, government customers dictate demand. This keeps us on our toes and is the reason we are a public sector trading fund.Scott SinclairOrdnance SurveyA taxing issueThank you for the entertaining read on BitTorrent and your resulting letters page. Is it OK if I steal my copy of the Guardian from my newsagent? Can I also steal copies from every newsagent I can find, and hand them out to anyone who wants one?The Guardian sells a time-sensitive product, which means the theft and free distribution of your product would only have an impact if the version distributed was the latest edition and it happened every day.You may want to balance the debate by looking at the economic cost of copyright theft. It appears to be OK to steal copyrighted material. However, the loss to the economy for UK-sourced products is significant &mdash; less VAT and corporation tax, lower salaries, and so on. That means less money for services. Now is it a victimless crime?Patrick HarrisonTringPay as you goIt is unfair for Jed Benedict and others to blame BitTorrent for music piracy &mdash; there is nothing more to blame than the internet itself. There are many good legal uses for BitTorrent. That some people use it for illegal purposes is beside the point.When I was a child, I bought music on tapes. As a student, I upgraded to CDs, buying the same music again. Recently, I bought an iPod and copied all my CDs to it, apart from the copy-protected ones. That's what got me into music downloading &mdash; I tried iTunes first, but why should I pay &pound;8 to buy the same music again?Ben CooperGlasgowMistaken beliefsJed Benedict's argument that to publish details of file sharing methods is as morally reprehensible as it would be to publish details of housebreaking methods is specious. First, filesharing itself is not illegal. It only becomes illegal if the material being shared infringes copyright. Second, filesharing (both legal and illegal) is a major issue, and is therefore legitimate material to include in a supplement about computing.Third, copyright infringement, while illegal and morally wrong, is not morally equivalent to theft, because theft requires the victim to be permanently deprived of the article stolen. The huge losses quoted by record companies are projections based on the fallacious idea that everyone who illegally downloads a song would have otherwise bought it.Joe RabaiottiPenarth, South WalesTune into the timesStealing a car means its owner cannot drive it. Sharing music doesn't stop someone else listening to it. The issue is how artists should be rewarded for being popular, not preserving an archaic business model for the benefit of the music industry cartel. When a song is played on the radio, a flat fee is charged. Record companies support this compulsory licensing as it formalises their role as broadcast gatekeepers. It wasn't so long ago that radio stations were stopped from playing "too many" records a day. Harvard University Professor Terry Fisher's detailed examination of licensing models (www.tfisher.org/PTK.htm) proposed extending compulsory flat-rate licensing to domestic use. Record companies oppose this as it threatens their control of music distribution.Philip CunninghamLondonVoluntary funds gapAs admirable as it is that the government is earmarking &pound;6m for enabling public service improvements as a result of better use of IT, what about the voluntary sector? We provide a range of valuable services to communities. We are also being encouraged by central government (not necessarily acknowledged in town halls) to play an increasingly vital role in delivering alternatives to traditional public services. Yet &mdash; and please correct me if I am wrong &mdash; we have no funding opportunity for e-development.Lawrence JacksonNottinghamBlogbackIt was an excellent article on Fifa Street as a microcosm of EA itself (Gamesblog, April 21). I have made my feelings clear about EA on many occasions. It possibly shows how the reviewers of games might not have as much influence over whether a game succeeds as we like to think we do.www.nekofever.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
If you're a small business there's still a slightly higher than average chance you don't use a website in your business.Naturally this depends on how you define "small business"; there are organisations to whom companies with 250 employees are "small to medium", while to many Business Solutions readers those companies will look colossal. E-payment provider PayPal regards an SME as being in the retail industry but with fewer than five outlets. It conducted research for a week last month, and among the findings were:&#183;49% of SMEs have a business website&#183;25% of SMEs have a site that handles e-commerce&#183;13% of SMEs with business websites believe the site has accounted for over 50% of their annual sales.Clearly there are cases in which there's no requirement to accept payments over the web; PayPal found that of the businesses that don't have websites, 17% of them had decided not to go for it because they are already busy enough dealing with sales enquiries. Leaving aside the possibility that they'll fall behind when their competition acquires a website they don't have, for the moment they're making a sensible decision. A company that falls behind in dealing with internet orders, after all, will only damage its reputation.Assuming you've gone through your business with a spreadsheet in front of you, and you want to add e-commerce, then there are two basic means of getting this into your business. The first is to go to your bank directly; the second is to go through a third party - PayPal being among the best known, although other examples such as Nochex continue to thrive.Julie Sands, head of cardholder-not-present sales for payment processing company Datacash, says her business serves mostly the blue chip businesses, approaching the SME through partnerships with other companies. At the smaller end she's often struck by how low-tech the system on offer actually is; they get people to email their credit card details (or capture the details in an online form and print them off), and enter them into a PDQ machine. She does not believe this is secure."Potentially it means they're going to have to print off an email which has card details that could be left lying around on a desk, whereas on a system such as ours the data comes in, it's encrypted within a system, none of the merchant's staff would see a card number and it's very secure."This is fine if you can get the accreditation without too much hassle. But that's not always the case, as one company - custom uniform retailer LookFly - discovered. Despite trading for three years, it still opts to use PayPal as an intermediary rather than opting for a straightforward account with the bank.There were a number of reasons for this at the outset, says director Allison Baron. "As a very small company it was difficult to get the credit rating we needed to qualify for a credit card account," she explains. "And all of the other e-commerce accounts at the time had a charge for the account whether you were selling or not, while PayPal charges per transaction so if we didn't sell anything we didn't have to pay."The site did well and they could probably save money by using an alternative route, but this hasn't happened yet. "It's difficult when there are only two people in the business to focus on that - and with PayPal being very international we can accept payments in five currencies and handle international orders."Actually opening a payment is relatively simple - go to the website of your chosen provider and click through for details of becoming a trader. The application is straightforward, and most will offer your customers some sort of assurance of a refund in the event of difficulty with a purchase. You or your web developer will then be offered codes to put into your website and add to your online catalogue.There are drawbacks to using every intermediary, of course. PayPal, as the market leader, has attracted a number of scare stories over the years, as have the alternatives like WorldPay and Kaji. These tend to be in the minority and stories that say "the system works and satisfies loads of customers" tend not to hit the headlines in the same way, even though they outnumber the bad stories.The other thing that can hit a website using an intermediary is customer reluctance. "Ninety-five per cent of customers are happy with PayPal," says Baron. "The other five send a cheque through the post - sometimes they don't like to have to follow instructions on screen to open an account. In the early days, certainly, it wasn't easy to open an account if you were in the UK, which has changed now. It really depends on how IT literate they are."
If you have followed e-commerce since the dawn of the web, you'll know - perhaps to your cost - that fashions have changed over the years. Once it was all about "virtual malls" and portal placement. Then content was king. And then many businesses discovered that, in fact, a straightforward site, properly set up to appeal to search engines, would do their businesses just fine.Of course, many businesses have no website at all, and may still be nervously eyeing the prospect. But the good news is that while the rules may have changed, it's not too late to catch up. First, they're not alone: according to PayPal, 51% of small retailers don't actually have a website at all. Of those that do, 35% have them simply to match the competition.If you have a website, or want to set one up, there are a number of ground rules and even a couple of obligations to bear in mind. David Needham, consultant for business internet company Datanet, is clear: "The first step for an SME is to ensure that its site meets with the Disability Discrimination Act 1995. It's also imperative that the site has been written to standards approved by the World Wide Web Consortium, and has good grammar so that it can be translated without a problem, whether into a foreign language or by a reading aid for the blind."Why? Because most of your visitors will likely come via a search engine - and they will usually look for sites that have been coded in line with these guidelines, too, he says. To check a site, log on tovalidator.w3.org/and type the full web address you want to check into the address field.This kind of compliance, done properly, is not cheap - either it costs a lot of money to do, or you end up spending a lot of time on it yourself. Once you've done so and your site is legal and standard, assuming it's clear enough and the design is relatively easy to look at, many companies would consider their site a prime asset.It's surprising, then, to talk to people who have their own website with full e-commerce catered for (meaning a shopping cart, encryption for credit cards and an automated payment into a bank account) who are also using eBay as part of their online presence. Some use it to sell end-of-line stock and cut their loses, for instance.Alex Bosch, however, ownstropicalfish4u.co.uk- fully specced up with a web "shop" from Actinic - but sells 80% of his goods, including live fish, through the auction route. "Basically a lot of people trust eBay more than they'd trust a site they haven't heard of," he says. "And a lot of people go to eBay - the sheer volume of traffic of people looking for a particular item works in your favour."Once he had his own site established, that served as much to validate the eBay sales as to generate sales in its own right, he says. "Obviously once people saw that they could bid for the same goods on eBay and get them more cheaply, they did so. The cost of selling on eBay is greater than selling direct but the volumes and the trust are good - and people often have a PayPal account with money in it, so it's like having spare money they wouldn't otherwise spend."Using a service such as eBay in this way is perhaps a surprising thing to do as many people would expect a "serious" business not to go through a consumer site, but it clearly works wonders in this case.There are other new technical tricks that can help your business look bigger than it actually is, if that matters particularly to your customers. Alison Baron, director of custom uniform manufacturer Lookfly, regards the blogging site atlookflynews.comas an excellent source of customer goodwill. The business sells specialist sports equipment in the Ultimate Frisbee line, and the news site reports on what's happening in the sport. It gives the same sort of effect as a major sponsorship, she reckons. And, moreover, customers come back to your site not just to buy things but also for information - the site becomes "sticky", to use a net retail cliche.But just as there are lots of tools to use on or around your site, there are lots of ways to come unstuck. This is why companies such as WebTrends offer analytical tools to show you exactly what's happening on your site. They stress the basics; your site should feel as though it's come from your company and nowhere else. "The idea that it can be changed by someone else is like logging on to the Guardian and finding news from the Daily Mail and The Sun," says Conrad Bennett, technical services manager for EMEA at WebTrends.His company urges people to use tools such as Web Analytics and usability testing - you may not have any partially sighted customers at the moment, for example, but you won't want to exclude them inadvertently if they arrive. As much as anything, it's illegal.Bennett warns against third parties designing and updating sites without a good brief. Everything a good analytical tool can do has to be backed up by the in-depth knowledge of the site's owner, he says."The danger with third-party or end-user customisation of the experience is that site owners may find themselves unable to answer questions using just their knowledge of the site," he says. "For example, bottlenecks in a purchasing process can be resolved by examining the page concerned then designing and testing alternatives. However, if you don't know what the customer actually experienced, this becomes significantly more difficult."Essentially the best advice on websites is to start by disregarding many of the thoughts that were around when the web first became popular, at which point many of the "dotcom boom" companies assumed that standard business rules didn't apply to the internet. They do, and the kiss principle - Keep It Simple and Straightforward - applies to even the biggest sites. Just look at Amazon, where you can buy whatever you want in whichever category and the checkout page will look the same in whichever country you're buying from.Other useful rules include staying in control, complying with the regulations and maintaining a look that is in line with the rest of your business. And don't discount ideas because some people think they won't look professional - selling through eBay, for instance, brackets you alongside home-based sellers of old clothes and furry collectables, but it's doing a lot of businesses a lot of good too.'You've got to be clear about what you want the customer to do to make you lots of money'Mark Chapman is managing director of Photobox, which sells prints at a low cost (10p each) of files sent from your digital camera. It started as a classic small business working from someone's bedroom, which was possible because Chapman had a technical background in the first place. "We figured out what the service should offer and what it should look like, designed it on the back of an envelope and contracted out. We were funded by 25 individuals we knew and to whom we'd put the proposition, so we were in the fortunate position of being able to contract some of the work out."He says there are two key elements to a successful website. "There's the customer proposition  - you've got to be clear about what you want the customer to do to make you lots of money, and what's going to bring them back, and the next thing is about choosing an appropriate toolset. It's a matter of working out which bits of it are cost-effective to implement and which aren't."Cost-effectiveness works in any business area, but a lot of people forget it when it comes to the internet. The other element they often overlook is the flexibility the internet offers. "Be prepared to change things," he says. "The great thing about the internet is that you get feedback in buckets, much more than any other retailer could hope for."The other thing to look at is timing. Chapman started in 2000 but it took two years to pull into profit because the business relies on broadband, which took its time to get implemented fully in the UK.
The collapse earlier this month of MG Rover came as a cruel blow to the 5,000-strong workforce at the car manufacturer's Longbridge, Birmingham plant. But beyond the front line casualties lie a string of companies, large and small, that have also been caught up in the crisis.Immediately after Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation severed the famous British marque's lifeline, workers at hundreds of businesses supplying components to MG Rover and its Powertrain engine division began to lose their jobs. Between them, these companies employ between 15,000 and 20,000 staff in South Wales and the Midlands alone and the total debt owed to suppliers runs into tens of millions of pounds.A range of emergency aid measures have been made available. A task force has to date saved 700 jobs, with more than &pound;300,000 in grants paid out to 34 supply companies. In addition, the government has released &pound;40m in contingency funding, of which &pound;185,900 has so far been allocated. Financial and business advice is also available.When a big company implodes there is a domino effect all the way down the supply chain, from the biggest engineers to relatively small concerns in sectors such as catering. Many of the biggest players in the chain will have no option but to delay or cancel payment to second- and third-tier suppliers, threatening not just jobs but entire businesses. But not all business failures are as high profile as Rover's. Not all business failures have &pound;40m aid packages to cushion the blow. How can smaller companies avoid being dragged down in the wake of a customer's downfall?In terms of short-term protection of cashflow, there are several options. The first is to anticipate any future problems by taking out credit insurance to cover debts owed to you if the unthinkable happens. If the unthinkable has come to pass, businesses can buy themselves breathing space with a business loan, or turn to factoring. An estimated 10,000 businesses fold in the UK each year because of lost payments. Factoring is one way to deal with this problem quickly. Factors effectively buy your debt and pay you a portion of what you are owed in advance of collecting the full amount themselves. For a detailed breakdown of the charges involved and providers, check the Factors and Discounters Association website (factors.org.uk).Before you go down any of these avenues, it is essential that you inform your bank of the situation.Stephen Alambritis, chief spokesman at the Federation of Small Businesses, says: "You must talk to the bank manager. If a customer is having difficulties, this is an external problem that is out of your control."Alambritis says a sympathetic view can also come from a more unexpected source: the taxman. "If a big name customer folds, you will usually be able to negotiate with the VAT man and the Inland Revenue to see whether you can defer VAT and PAYE, especially where the failure is a large, well-known concern."The Enterprise Act has removed some of the stigma of being bankrupt and the government is now following the American 'Chapter 11' ethos, where you are seen as being in doctor's hands rather than being punished. The insolvency profession has been asked to back off as well - the Inland Revenue and Customs and Excise learned a salient lesson from the foot and mouth crisis &#91;that hit UK farming in 2001&#93; by realising that by deferring tax payments, they saved a lot of businesses from going to the wall."It is difficult when 60%-70% of your business is with one client and you're a good, well-run company. But it is in the interest of the taxman that you don't go under. You might be able to enjoin aggressive agencies that normally chase their money and persuade them to defer and to postpone rather than cancel out those kinds of payments."Alambritis says it is also important that you show you are dealing with the situation rationally. He suggests reducing the amount of money you take out of the company through PAYE, salary or expenses. "Lessening your take shows your commitment to the business," he says. "It'll be tough, but what the financial advisers, the shareholders and the bank will want to see is that you are not only reacting in a measured way, but also that you're not carrying on as normal."Once the cashflow is under control, your survival will depend on how pro-active your approach is. Devoting more money to marketing and research is, if possible, advisable. There are two ways businesses grow - through new products and by diversifying into new markets, so a feasibility study on finding new clients or exporting is money well spent. You could also reassess previous pitches that you lost or turned down because your hands were full.Companies that previously operated solely in the private sector could also explore life in the public sector. After the Gershwin Report recommended that the government open up the tendering process for public sector opportunities, there are now &pound;117bn worth of contracts up for grabs.Easy though it may be to be wise after the fact, the MG Rover collapse highlights an age-old business axiom: don't put all your eggs in one basket.Alambritis says: "Eighty per cent of all small businesses have all their customers within a 50-mile radius. It doesn't really have to be that way any more, especially with the advent of the internet. There are 450 million customers in the EU. Nowadays it should be as easy to trade between London and Madrid as it is between Birmingham and Doncaster."
These days, a statement of corporate social responsibility (CSR) is the must-have accessory no large company wants to be without: Tesco, Shell and Barclays bank are among the many corporates with CSR statements. But although 99% of all UK businesses employ fewer than 50 people, much less is written - or known - about the ethical standpoint of small companies. Has the trend towards social responsibility passed small businesses by? Or is increasing consumer demand for ethically-sourced products driving a greater awareness among SMEs?It partly depends, of course, what you mean by "ethical" or "socially responsible". According to Dr Laura Spence, reader in business ethics at Brunel University, small businesses are often more ethical in their attitudes than corporates.Spence's report for the Institute of Business Ethics, Priorities, Practice and Ethics in Small Firms, found that small business owners were often motivated by social considerations as much as profit ones, and many felt strong moral obligations towards their employees. "SMEs are not bound to maximise profit in the way that managing directors are," says Spence. "And very few SMEs will be even consciously thinking that they are maximising profit - it's not one of their primary motives. They're in it for the challenge of what they're doing and for the love of what they do."Small businesses often cite trust as an important component of their relationships with customers and suppliers - and some even have good, friendly relationships with competitors, which is almost unheard of in the corporate sector. This is particularly true in a "battered sector" such as engineering, says Spence: "There's a feeling that 'we've got to protect our industry', and that means helping each other. There's very often subcontracting and borrowing machines from each other and sending staff over, and when you get down to the nuts and bolts of it, there's a lot of swapping around between companies to help each other out."Ethical business behaviour covers a wide range of practices, however. It can include adopting environmentally-friendly practices such as recycling, minimising waste and using energy more efficiently. It can also mean sourcing goods from suppliers that treat their employees fairly (by paying decent wages and allowing trade unions, for example), not using products tested on animals or helping out with projects in the local community.A small but growing number of SMEs are starting to make ethics central to their business. Charlotte V&oslash;htz created Green People, a company selling organically-based beauty products, after her daughter Sandra suffered strong allergic reactions to everyday skincare products. V&oslash;htz, a qualified nurse who had worked in the pharmaceutical industry, was horrified when she realised that even products claiming to be "natural" usually contained chemicals.After two years' work sourcing and testing organic materials, V&oslash;htz launched Green People in 1997, and has seen steady growth ever since. The firm, which now has 12 staff, extends the ethical perspective to every area of the organisation: recyclable packaging is used, desks are made from sustainable wood imported from Finland, and 10% of profits are donated every year to an environmental charity. The approach has attracted customers, says V&oslash;htz: "We get letters and emails on a daily basis saying 'I'm so pleased I've found your product. I've been allergic to x, y or z for the last 20 or 30 years and finally I've found the range that suits my skin'." Her commitment to the business, she says, extends far beyond making money: "I believe I'm on a mission. I'm meant to do this."V&oslash;htz's passion is matched by Martin Hugi, a trained chemist who was inspired by a quote from Gandhi ("We must be the change we see in the world") to leave his job at a pharmaceutical company and train to be a tree surgeon. Three years ago, he set up Eco Tree Care &amp; Conservation, a tree surgery and woodland management business based in Hertfordshire. "I feel responsibility for environmental and social issues comes from personal responsibility, from living by what you believe is right," says Hugi.In an industry where a lot of damage can be done by irresponsible operators, Hugi takes care to protect the trees and minimise environmental damage, recycling waste and using biodegradable chain oil. He and his colleagues work as a loose co-operative, helping each other out on jobs and sharing equipment. Now, he says, he gets more work than he can handle.Demand among consumers for ethical products is certainly growing. The Co-operative's Ethical Purchasing Index, which measures the amount of money spent on "ethical" products, such as Fairtrade goods and energy-efficient household appliances, shows an increase of 16% in such spending in 2003 over the previous year - an extra &pound;1bn. The trend is confirmed by Will Sankey, editorial and research director at the Ethical Company Organisation, which produces The Good Shopping Guide. The organisation offers accreditation to businesses that can show they meet certain ethical criteria, under the headings of human rights, animal welfare and the environment. "We've just experienced a massive step change in terms of our company accreditation scheme, both from companies who've made ethical credentials the core of their business and those who just want the box ticked, who want to be seen as having no negatives  in the area," says Sankey.He says small businesses that can show a commitment to ethical principles have an immediate competitive edge over one that doesn't, not just with consumers but with government organisations and other businesses. "There's a whole chain of companies that only want to work with ethically certified companies."There's a noticeable difference between the approach to ethical products now and, say, 10 or 20 years ago, when only the most committed consumer would buy Fairtrade coffee or sorry-looking organic vegetables. Now ethical companies want to appeal to a much wider market. Natural Discovery, for example, is a relatively new company offering sustainable short breaks in the UK. "The whole idea behind Natural Discovery is to show people that they can live in a more sustainable manner without going to live in a yurt in the woods. They can be comfortable, they can be chic, they can be trendy but still have a low-adverse impact on the environment," says James Little, the company's operations director.Evidence suggests, however, that an explicit commitment to ethical issues is still low among most SME owners. Spence found that, although many SMEs had a strong sense of responsibility for the well-being of their employees, they didn't tend to think in terms of "ethics". One study she carried out showed a "disappointing" level of awareness of environmental issues, well below that of their Dutch counterparts. This is confirmed by the a recent report from the parliamentary Environmental Audit Committee, which says that although SMEs are responsible for 60% of industrial and commercial waste in England and Wales, 75% are unaware of their legal environmental obligations.Yet becoming an ethical business isn't as difficult as it sounds, and there is plenty of help available. The government-funded programme Envirowise offers information and support to SMEs on environmental issues, and on pertinent legislation, such as the forthcoming directives on electrical and electronic waste. The National Business Consortium, set up to encourage ethical practices among SMEs, has a website that enables you to carry out an ethical audit of your own business, while the local Business Links can carry out an environmental audit for you.Where can you begin? "First and foremost is how you treat your staff. If that is all taken care of, in terms of wages and salaries paid, that's a building block for everything else," says Andy Griffiths, development manager at Business Link for London. "You can then look at your business in terms of its sustainability: recycling, energy conservation, purchasing green-powered electricity, all the environmental considerations. Then there's the question of who supplies your business, where you get your materials from." As Griffiths points out, retailers increasingly experience demand from customers for organic and Fairtrade products: "If your customers are demanding products that are ethically sourced, then you are going to have to do something about it."To protect the environment, says Sankey, businesses should be guided by the hierarchy of reduce, reuse and recycle. "Why not set up your printer to print on both sides of paper? Why not buy recycled paper in the first place? Why not recycle or reuse your ink cartridges?" It's not just a question of protecting the environment; the Environment Agency says that by using techniques to minimise waste, businesses can make savings equivalent to  4-5% of turnover.It may initially seem like a huge task, but it's one that can be approached in bite-sized chunks. You don't need a grand statement of social responsibility to tell the world what you're doing. Eventually a combination of legislation, government pressure and consumer demand will force smaller businesses to focus on their ethical practices - so why not get ahead of the game and start now?&#183;Green People:www.greenpeople.co.uk&#183;Natural Discovery:www.naturaldiscovery.co.uk&#183;Envirowise:www.envirowise.co.uk&#183;Business Link for London:www.businesslink4london.com&#183;Eco Tree Care &amp; Conservation:www.ecotreecare.co.uk
&#183;Online selling continuesto grow according to affiliation site TradeDoubler. The company publishes quarterly figures for overall online sales and found that in the first quarter of 2005 sales were only 3% down on the previous quarter, which includes the busy Christmas selling period. Year on year findings suggest that online sales during March have been some 50% higher than for the same period in 2004 and the company sees no reason the trend should falter.&#183;Security specialist Sophoshas revealed the top 12 countries for producing spam  - unwanted commercial emails - and although predictably enough America  is the top, the UK is only 9th. The US accounts for some 35.7% of spam, with Korea taking second place with 24.98%. China accounts for 9.71% (as long as you include Hong Kong), while further down the chart the UK produces only 1.57%. Below  us are Germany, Austria and Poland. It's worth stressing that in spite of the US retaining the lead, its anti-spamming efforts have led to  a reduction in this lead - its spam production has fallen 12% compared to that of other countries since the beginning of the year. Of most concern to both home and business users will be the fact that  50% of spam comes from  so-called "zombie computers" - a system that has been compromised in some way and which is sending mail unseen by the owner. The lastest guidelines on spam from Sophos are available atwww.sophos.com/spaminfo/bestpractice/spam.html.&#183;There's another threat tosecurity in the headlines this month: iPods! A report onsilicon.comcommissioned by Centennial Software found that 87% of companies have yet to implement any measure against iPods being taken into the workplace and connected to computers, with 51% conceding that they were aware of the risks. These risks, which also apply to USB keys, range from the introduction of copyright material into an office network (and for which the office would then be responsible) to the introduction of a virus in the worst case. The report also points out that with MP3 players having large capacities, their owners could be walking out of the office carrying up to 60GB of sensitive company data in their pocket if these devices are allowed unregulated.&#183;Organisations looking tothe future may be interested in a survey from Tesco Computers for Schools and the Future Foundation, which has highlighted which groups of people know most about IT. Called the TQ (instead of IQ) index, it measures not only people's efficiency with computers but also digital appliances such as mobile phones, digital cameras and even microwave ovens. The best abilities were found in males aged 18-24, and people in the South West had the highest TQ as opposed to people in Wales, who averaged the lowest. Predictably enough, children from well-off households had greater technological competence than those from families without the money to spend on the gadgets.&#183;On a similar subject, a survey from MediaLogic suggests that one third of staff in the UK believe they are inadequately trained for the jobs they are doing. Although UK employers spend &pound;20bn per annum on staff training, and the small to medium enterprise sector spends &pound;2,000 per head on it (those figures are from MORI), it's clear from the employee perceptions that the expenditure isn't having the desired effect. MediaLogic found that staff felt the personal touch was essential but that the future was in online training and is therefore using the figures to push its iSeeStudio online tutorial communications system, but the results indicate that people with no intention of buying extra software should also evaluate the effectiveness of their training spend.&#183;The British Chamber ofCommerce (BCC) is calling for UK businesses to enter this year's Chamber awards. The awards are now in their second year and there are seven categories: Innovation through Technology; Entrepreneur of the Year; Award for Skill and Workforce Development; Business Commitment to the Community; Export Business of the Year; Export Communicator of the Year; Most Promising New Business; and an overall award called the Microsoft Award for Outstanding Business Achievement. For details on how to enter (and with a top prize of &pound;25,000 it's got to be worth looking at) go towww.chamberawards.co.uk.The closing date for entries is June 27.&#183;Any businesses usingFilemaker's eponymous database will be interested in a new website to be found through the mainwww.filemaker.co.uksite, called the Filemaker Marketplace. Here you'll find around 50 products from third parties using the database technology in Filemaker 7.0. The site includes add-ons, books, training programs and tools. Initially the site is available across Europe and has sections in English, French, Italian, Dutch, German and Spanish, and the company hopes to boost these with further languages as the project progresses.
Microsoft Office, better known through its component applications Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook, is familiar to most Windows users. But it has a rival, OpenOffice, available as a free download.The price might suggest a significant reduction in quality, but that would be misleading. I started using OpenOffice 1.1.0 full-time more than a year ago; rather than eating my archive of Microsoft Office files, it handled them well and worked at least as reliably as paid-for software.It did have rough edges, such as adding odd characters to the start of word-processed files, but this and others have been smoothed away with the latest release, Version 1.1.4 for Windows.Here, we compare this version with Microsoft Office 2003. OpenOffice version 2 can be downloaded as a beta, meaning it is currently suitable only for testing.&#183;Cost and registrationOpenOffice is free if downloaded - all 64 megabytes of it. This should take less than 20 minutes on a 512kbps broadband connection but more like three hours on dial-up: alternatively, CD-roms cost around &pound;5. You can install OpenOffice on as many computers as you like, and upgrades will be free.Microsoft Office 2003's Basic edition, including Word, Excel and Outlook, is available only when bought pre-installed with a computer: Dell charges an extra &pound;129.The Standard edition, which is purchased separately and also includes PowerPoint, has a recommended cost of &pound;370, although Amazon charges &pound;316. The listed upgrade price is &pound;220. Students, parents of students and teachers can buy it for &pound;90, but this is meant for educational use only.The Small Business edition, which adds Publisher and Business Contact Manager, is listed as &pound;400 but can be purchased new for &pound;339, for &pound;235 when pre-installed by Dell or for &pound;177 as an upgrade.Both packages are straightforward to install, although Microsoft requires more work: you need to enter an activation code on the packaging, and then register online or through a free telephone number during one of the first 50 times the software is used, or else some features will be disabled. OpenOffice's registration is voluntary.&#183;First impressionsBoth suites have a common design, and Microsoft's is smarter, with a pleasing metallic look. More importantly, its default toolbar at the top of the page is thinner, with two lines of menus and options. OpenOffice's has three lines: it shows the location of the current file in the style of a web-browser, and displays more options, with yet more icons taking up space on the screen's left-hand side. The result is that Microsoft Office displays more of the open document (although in both cases you can alter what is in the toolbars). Microsoft does initially undermine its space advantage: when first opened, a fifth of the screen is filled with a help box (although this is easy to close).Some of the extra icons displayed by OpenOffice are rather useful, such as conversion to Adobe's Portable Document File (PDF) format, a facility surprisingly not available at all within Microsoft Office. Microsoft wins points with its help search box in the top-right corner, which accepts real-language questions in the manner of Ask Jeeves.Microsoft Office and OpenOffice are both well-integrated software suites, although this integration is tighter within OpenOffice: all applications are available when it is open, allowing you, for example, to generate any kind of new document from the file menu. With Microsoft, you open applications such as Excel when required.&#183;Word-processorBoth Microsoft Word and OpenOffice can check your spelling as you type with red underlining for the mistakes, although it is easier to turn this on and off in OpenOffice, through one of those left-hand side icons.Both applications have autocompletion turned on by default - automatically correcting common mistakes such as "recieve", for example - but Microsoft Word does more. This can sometimes be irritating, rather than helpful: if you start typing "yours", Word suggests "yours truly", despite being set to UK English, instead of "yours sincerely" or "yours faithfully".Word has other facilities, although some seem gimmicky. The research icon on the toolbar offers online access to sources including Microsoft's Encarta encyclopedia, a thesaurus and company profiles: so can a web-browser, but the feature is at least convenient.One definite advantage of Microsoft Word is that it can count the words in a highlighted area, whereas OpenOffice can only count the words in the whole document (using the statistics tab on the properties option on the file menu). You can get round this by copying and pasting a section into a blank document.OpenOffice opens Word's default ".doc" format, but Word will not open the default ".sdw" format for OpenOffice. If files are to be shared, OpenOffice users should choose a neutral format such as Rich Text Format (ending ".rtf") or use ".doc". Both Word and OpenOffice will only open password-protected files in their native format, however, and OpenOffice may display a ".doc" file differently to Word: you are likely to notice this with longer documents, when the number of pages may change. Overall, the similarities outnumber the differences.&#183;SpreadsheetWhat is true for word-processing is also true of spreadsheets: the two applications are very similar. Again, OpenOffice can open and save in Excel's ".xls" format, but Excel does not recognise OpenOffice's format.Excel's default cells are smaller, meaning that (along with the smaller control bars) it fits 15 columns and 35 rows on a 1,024 by 768 pixel screen, against 11 columns and 32 rows with OpenOffice. In both, these sizes can be adjusted.Usefully, when the contents of an OpenOffice cell are overlapped by those in an adjacent one, it displays a small red arrow to show something is hidden; Excel just hides it. Excel makes different use of a similar sign: a red corner shows someone has commented on the cell, without altering its contents. The comment appears if you place the cursor over the red corner: a useful feature for collaborative work.Both spreadsheets allow "Autosum" checks on highlighted cells, such as providing a total of their contents. In both, you can highlight non-adjacent cells by mouse-clicking with the control key, but in OpenOffice this only works if you have first highlighted an adjacent cell. You can always highlight a blank adjacent cell, but it is a glitch.&#183;Presentations, email and moreOpenOffice's presentation software and PowerPoint start differently: OpenOffice takes users through dialogue boxes of options, whereas PowerPoint opens straight into a templated presentation. However, as with its other elements, OpenOffice has the ability to save its presentations in PowerPoint format, and to run PowerPoint slideshows.OpenOffice does not include an equivalent to Microsoft Outlook, which handles email, contact and diary management. If you don't want to computerise your appointments, or use another device for this, you might prefer to leave your email and contacts online through the likes of Google's Gmail or Yahoo! Mail. Or you can use free packages such as the open source Thunderbird (from Mozilla, which also distributes the Firefox web browser atwww.mozilla.org) and Eudora (which has a full-function free version which displays a small advert, atwww.eudora.com).The Small Business edition of Microsoft Office provides functionality well beyond OpenOffice's, with Publisher, which can design paper documents, web pages and email, and Business Contact Manager, which extends Outlook towards customer relationship management (CRM), tracking interaction with customers and providing easy access to their documents. In both fields, there are widely-used commercial alternatives, but having such functions within Office's familiar surroundings may be convenient.&#183;ConclusionFor the beginner, Microsoft Office is more friendly; for the experienced user, it is sometimes too eager to help. OpenOffice still has a few of those rough edges, but also has a handful of advantages, beyond being free.If you use Microsoft Office to the full, particularly the higher end versions, it may be worth its price. But if you use word processing, spreadsheets and the odd presentation in a fairly basic fashion, you could move to OpenOffice and notice few differences - and some of those would be improvements.Moving office suite need not be painful. Microsoft provides free viewer software for Word, Excel and PowerPoint documents, and OpenOffice can open and save in Microsoft formats. This allows you to move back from OpenOffice to Microsoft if you wish.You could test the water by moving one employee (or yourself) to OpenOffice, a few months before you plan to upgrade your computers or Microsoft software, to see if spending money on Microsoft Office is justified.Product historyOpenOffice started life as a commercial product called StarOffice. This is still available, with big users including Bristol city council and Allied Irish Bank. Version 8 is due out in the next few weeks, costing around &pound;50.Its current owner, Sun Microsystems, decided to make the core of StarOffice available as open source software, meaning the lines of programming can be read by anyone: this is not true of proprietary software such as Microsoft Office. OpenOffice lacks some of StarOffice's features, specifically database software, some fonts and a printed manual.It has benefits, too: open source software can be more secure, as anyone can see how it works and suggest improvements if they find flaws, but the main benefit is that programmers co-operate on making improvements to the software for the benefit of all.&#183;Microsoft Office product information:www.microsoft.com/uk/office/prodinfo/ default.mspx&#183;Free Microsoft viewer software:office.microsoft.com&#183;OpenOffice version 1.1.4:download.openoffice.org&#183;OpenOffice CD-roms:distribution.openoffice.org&#183;Preview of OpenOffice version 2.0:software.newsforge.com
How does a recruitment company get a message to people about new job opportunities when they're busy at work? That's the problem that faced the Key Personnel Group in the East Midlands. Guy Clapperton spoke to general manager Sherrine Swallow about how they worked around it by applying technology in an innovative way.GC: Tell me about the company.SS:We've been established for about 20 years and what we do is supply temporary and permanent staff across the East Midlands. We've got four recruitment offices dealing with specific regions and we've got about 35 staff. We find people work within different areas, so it's commercial office up to senior management, HR professionals, accountancy, finance, sales and marketing, those sorts of areas.GC: That sounds very straightforward. So you had a problem; what happened?SS:Basically what's happened in the last few years is that the permanent side of recruitment has grown very rapidly. Because of the skills shortage out there, companies are more inclined to take on permanent staff - if someone's got a skill set requirement, the demand is there for permanent rather than temporary staff. What we were finding was that because candidates are at a premium, it was sometimes very difficult to get hold of them - because they would be in permanent employment at the moment - to talk about new opportunities. Obviously if they were at work it's very difficult to get through to them. So a guy from Purple Circle, our design company, told us about this business text messaging system from Esendex and we thought, "OK, that will help  us out".GC: Did he tell you this because you were actively looking for something and evaluating alternatives at the time?SS:We weren't actually, no, not at the time. It was something we'd talked about but we didn't know anything about it, and because we trusted the design guy and took on board the things that he'd said, we thought we'd go and see them and find out a bit more about it. When we actually had a meeting with Esendex we thought "wow, that's great". It's enabled us to text people who are in work and we get a reply back, so if we have a vacancy we can ask them to give us a call or send their CV over, and we're getting very prompt responses, whereas before we were having to ring their home phone number or leave a message. People have got easier access to their mobiles and text messages.GC: Let's take a step back for a second - I know nothing about this system. What is it, how does it work and what does it do?SS:Basically we've got teams of consultants in here and on our other sites. What happens is they log on to the Esendex site through the web, type in the mobile number they want or call it up from a list they've put in already, and just type the message and hit "send".GC: So wasn't there a way around texting before?SS:What we were finding is a lot of the consultants were thinking, "oh, I'll just text  that over", and then using their own mobile phones. This happened because a lot of people who came in to register with us were saying, "you can't ring me at work; if you want to get hold of me, text me", so staff were using their own phones. So the new system has helped quite a lot, and it's saved us quite a lot of money. It's a lot cheaper than actually making a phone call, but there are other benefits, for example in terms of candidates for temporary employment, who have lots of different placements, we can send out messages to lots of users at the same time and ask whether they're available for a week's work or whatever, so we know who's around at a given time.GC: So in terms of implementing it throughout your company - what did it cost to set up, and how long did it take to get going?SS:It's a monthly charge of &pound;130 and that covers all of the offices, and it was very quick to set up - I think it was something like one day. We set up passwords and log-on by email so it was very, very simple.GC: OK. You've said it saves money - is that because of refunding staff for sending texts from their personal phones, for example?SS:I think it's more because ringing mobiles is very expensive, so you're cutting down the cost of time spent and also when we text people they're ringing us rather than us ringing them, so obviously it costs us less.GC: You sound as though you're a satisfied customer - have there been any other benefits apart from savings on phone calls?SS:Yes, it seems very beneficial and everybody has got into the swing of utilising the system. Sometimes it's all very well having a technology, but if people aren't using it then obviously it doesn't work. Our consultants have seen the benefit and are using it on a daily basis so it's very beneficial from our point of view, and not only because of the phone bill. We've seen an increase in our permanent recruitment business and I think the system's contributed to that. Candidates will register with more than one agency, they'll register with a few, so if that agency has the same vacancy as us but we talk to that person first because we've been able to text, we've got that competitive edge.GC: Is there any scope for increasing your use of this system?SS:It's basically serving its purpose at the moment. I don't know whether Esendex has got any plans to develop the system at all, but as a tool at the moment it seems to be working very well for us as it is.
The ornate halls of the Palais du Luxembourg in Paris - once at the heart the French Revolution - were echoing to talk of another revolution this week.More than 200 people, guests of the French Senate drawn from around the world, were discussing weblogs, and the myriad technologies that have sprung up around these diary-like websites.Once regarded by some as little more than the playthings of geeks and teenage girls, blogs are now being seen more widely as something much more significant. Popular political bloggers have gained huge visibility - especially in the United States - since the 9/11 terrorist attacks, highlighting political and journalistic scandals and racking up multi-million audiences that many a traditional media site would envy.Blogs lie at the heart of a movement that many of its participants hope will open up previously closed processes in politics, the media, and the wider business world. And while the fevered American enthusiasm for them has yet to be replicated elsewhere, the prestigious setting for this week's conference demonstrates how far weblogs have moved in the last few years.No longer is every blog operation run on a shoestring. Some sites, powered by the same free or ultra low-cost software as the amateurs', are raking in six-figure sums from advertisers keen to reach the large niche audiences they serve.The blog bandwagon is also rolling into the business communication arena with conviction, with early adopters warning the impact here will be just as keenly felt as in politics and journalism. Microsoft chairman Bill Gates recently told US technology magazine AlwaysOn: "Eventually most businesses will use blogs to communicate with customers, suppliers and employees, because it's two-way and more satisfying." Another ringing endorsement has come from Jonathan Schwartz, chief operating officer of computing giant Sun Microsystems, who told Business Week last year: "It'll be no more mandatory that they have blogs than that they have a phone and an email account. If they don't, they're going to look foolish."So why are they getting so excited? Blogs are, after all, merely another form of website, albeit one with easy-to-use software sitting behind it.The key lies in the impact of this software. Because it's easy to use, you tend to write less formally, and more often. Blogs lend themselves to a more confessional style of writing, and early business bloggers say these unfiltered, unspun voices will make business communication more transparent and, ultimately, possibly even make the businesses themselves more profitable. Ultimately, honesty and transparency will be demanded by customers, they say, and the demand will be fulfilled by this kind of site.That's the experience of Paul Woodhouse, one of Britain's earliest and best business bloggers. Woodhouse runs the Tinbasher blog, a site about Planters Direct - a supplier of stainless steel planters - and its parent company, Butler Sheetmetal. The site was named small business blog of the year in a worldwide poll.After launching the blog, he says he "saw an immediate increase in traffic" to the company's websites. "Whereas the existing Butler Sheetmetal site saw maybe 10-20 visitors a day, I soon found this had quadrupled in the first week with the blog stats as well. I also saw an increase in bookmarks."But Woodhouse will quickly tell you that running a blog is not like running any other kind of business website: "I'd say that you have to unlearn any technical writing skills you might have and then learn how to blog. Don't get me wrong, it's not the trickiest thing in the world, but you do need to find your personality. Blog posts aren't technical or business reports. Nor are they ad copy. This is the transparency angle. You're trying to present yourself as the company you are as opposed to the company you want other people to think you are."Six Apart, one of the companies behind Monday's Paris soiree, makes two of the most popular packages for weblogging - Movable Type and TypePad - and Alistair Shrimpton, UK manager for the company, says demand for its services has been "incredible" in the last six months."Nearly all these enterprises in the UK are using Movable Type as an inward facing knowledge management tool, although the indications are that we will soon see big UK firms replicating the success of corporate giants like General Motors," says Shrimpton.The implication is that it might take time for British businesses to follow in the footsteps of American counterparts, and start turning traditional notions of marketing on their head. But when the day comes, one thing you shouldn't worry about, says Woodhouse, is boring your customers. Really, they do want to learn more about your business. "After all, how more dull can you get than sheet metal?" he asks.Blogging for beginnersWhat is a blog?A blog is a diary-like website produced by easy-to-use software. The software makes it easy to quickly put snippets of information, links to websites and pictures up on the web.Why do blogs matter?Because blogs are so easy to create, they've led to millions of people using them to create websites for the first time. The software makes it much easier than before to keep your site up to date - in most cases, you just load up a webpage, type some words, and click "save" - and the software takes care of presentation, putting the new material live and archiving the old stuff.  Up-to-date websites are much more interesting than static ones - meaning visitors will tend to come back more often.Where do I start?You'll need to sign up for a blog service, unless you're technically inclined and fancy setting up your own blog tools using, say, Movable Type. Guardian Unlimited has a guide to blog systems atwww.guardian.co..Which system should I use?The top free system is Blogger.com, owned by search giant Google, which offers both a web-based system to maintain your blog, and some space to host it, atblogspot.com. The top paid-for system is Typepad, with a UK version attypepad.co.uk. Prices start at &pound;2.59 a month, rising to &pound;7.59 for the fully featured version. Typepad offers more features and flexibility than Blogger, including the ability to more easily use your own domain name for your new site.The Tinbasher blog:butlersheetmetal.com/tinbasherblogBlogthenticity (a blog about business blogging):blogthenticity.comSix Apart:www.sixapart.comMovable Type:/www.sixapart.com/movabletype/
Virtualisation - a way of dividing up the resources of a computer to run multiple execution environments, such as different operating systems - has been around since the dawn of commercial IT, running the mainframes that were the backbone of business. It is only recently that virtualisation technologies have moved on to the x86 servers that fill today's machine rooms, but it looks like becoming one of the most important and useful technologies of the next decade.The first x86 virtualisation tools had quite a task, creating virtual machine images that could run on processors designed to only work with one operating system and one set of applications. These were applications that had to work  around the processor rather than with it, committing unnatural acts  to keep their images virtual.But soon, virtualisation will be an entirely natural act, with both Intel and AMD developing processor-level virtualisation support. Intel's VT (originally codenamed Vanderpool) will add virtualisation support to processors for desktop PCs and servers, while AMD's Pacifica will add it to all its processors - for everything from notebooks to servers. Both vendors expect to deliver silicon next year.Processor-level virtualisation is intended to support the next generation of virtualisation applications, giving virtual machine monitors (VMM) - sometimes referred to as Hypervisors - control over hosted operating system access to key processor instructions and resources. New processor instructions add a new privilege level for the VMM, allowing hosted OSs to run at their normal privilege levels. There is also support for improved memory protection and for hardware-based transitions between VMMs and OSs. Pacifica and VT take a similar approach, as both have been developed in conjunction with existing VMM vendors, such as VMware.Processor support isn't the only way chipset development is helping VMM developers. New processor support chipsets are adding higher bandwidth connections to memory, while added security functions will help system managers lock down and control their virtual machines, reducing the risk of applications and data crossing out of hosted environments.Today's processors may run hot enough to heat a server room, but they don't actually do very much. Applications don't stress servers much, with server-load often below 5% most of the time. However, while it is possible to put more applications on a single server, performance can be significantly reduced as applications negotiate for shared server resources. Virtual machine technologies partition these servers into multiple virtual machines, each with independent resources. Applications can be run in independent virtual machines without fear of conflict, as physical resources are managed by a single controller. Independent partitions also mean that if one application fails, the others will continue to run.Businesses that use virtual machines to consolidate processing resources can see a considerable reduction in the number of servers needed. Richard Garsthagen, technical marketing manager for VMware in Europe, has seen some large consolidation ratios, and says that "20:1 on a 4-way box isn't exceptional".Virtualisation tools like VMware can also help with security. Consultants often use their systems on your networks, with tools that haven't been through your testing processes. VMware's ACE, the Assured Computing Environment, is one way of dealing with this problem, by installing a controlled virtual machine image on a consultant's PC. This image can be encrypted to make it more secure. With ACE, system managers can quarantine a machine, while still letting the ACE-controlled image connect to the network.It is not just processors that can be virtualised. Network storage vendor EMC's vision is one of storage virtualisation. The vision is a grand one: document management systems folding into storage platforms. Content management and information life-cycle rules can be applied at a low level, with complicated arrays of storage systems - from network attached disks to tape and optical disk libraries - looking like a single file system to the applications accessing stored information.Putting content management at a low level means that compliance rules can be built into the storage fabric, with file content and metadata determining just how it will be stored. Application developers won't need to develop elaborate storage rules to ensure financial records are kept for the appropriate amount of time. Instead, system managers will configure storage rules, making legacy applications compliant alongside new services.With virtual machine technologies such as VMware and Microsoft's Virtual Server, network storage is a powerful tool. Server images can be held on network drives, and can then be loaded on demand. VMware's VMotion migration tools take advantage of storage networks to move server images from one set of processing resources to another without stopping applications and with minimal disruption to operations. System managers can move images between servers for maintenance purposes, or to more powerful systems to cope with load. Fresh server images can also be loaded to help with load balancing.Dave Everitt, European product and platforms manager at AMD, describes virtualisation as "a reset button for your business". It's a good image, but it's not the whole story. Virtual machines offer business the tools for rethinking the way enterprise architectures are developed. Oracle recently launched the latest edition of its Grid Index, a report into how businesses are mixing virtualised and service-oriented architectures. It painted an encouraging picture of infrastructure consolidation and standardisation, where early adopters are starting to see benefits of abstracted, componentised service-based computing. However, there is still a long way to go before these approaches become mainstream.Server and storage virtualisation aren't really new ideas: they are a logical extension of the way the IT industry abstracts problems. Application development has gone from machine code to high-level languages to virtual machine-based technologies such as Java and Microsoft.net, and now it is the turn of the operations department. With virtualisation tools, storage fabrics can be updated and upgraded without affecting applications, while applications can be load-bal&shy;anced across CPUs to meet demand. Infrastructure can finally be separated from application architectures.There is a conflict facing IT departments today. Consolidation programmes and new application development philosophies have given them the tools to deliver flexible service-based platforms that are ready to support changing business processes and meet the demands of the market. Meanwhile, compliance regimes have led to a demand for fixed processes that can be easily controlled. It is difficult for IT to do both at the same time.Virtualisation could come to the rescue. The trend to increased virtualisation of applications and storage will help IT departments to deliver flexible services and on-demand computing resources, while at the same time giving compliance teams the tools they need to effectively manage business information. Resources can be assigned to deal with changes in the business environment, while compliance rules can  be written in to the storage fabric.New applications can also be developed to take advantage of this virtual infrastructure, in conjunction with new management tools. The system architecture tools in Microsoft's Visual Studio Team System will allow developers to partition deployment on target specific infrastructures - an approach that will work well when targeting Virtual Server images.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.
Was Stanley Kubrick ambivalent towards computers?He was a big fan of computers and was an early adopter. In 1970, he acquired an IBM time-sharing terminal connected to an IBM 360 computer. Within a few years, he'd purchased a Wang word processor (www.answers.com/topic/wang) and later got a Philips model. In the early 1980s, he bought IBM "green screen" desktops for employees. He would always upgrade his equipment as new technologies became available.Did he not complete the movie AI because he was waiting on computer advances?Yes. Part of the reason he kept putting off the project was that he felt special effects technology weren't advanced enough to produce realistic-looking results. He would have embraced computer graphics imagery were he making such a project today.Will the coffee table book be usurped by the coffee table screen?That would be a sad day for books, and I don't think it will happen. The experience and feel of a book aren't replaceable by electronics.How has the explosion in desktop publishing affected publishing houses?Computer programs such as Quark (www.quark.com) and InDesign (Adobe InDesign), have been adopted across the publishing industry. I believe such software has made the industry much more efficient. I mostly use Word and the image managing program iView Media Pro (www.iview-multimedia.com). I don't know how I would have managed to archive without it. I used categories, keywords, and colour labels to keep track of it all.Do you use broadband?I've had broadband since 1999. I couldn't live without it. It has changed the way I use the net. I can exchange large files and spend as much time as I need on the web without worrying about the line and the cost. As for gadgets, I have a PalmOne Treo (PalmOne Treo) so I can check email when travelling. I also used a Canon PowerShot S45 and a Leica Digilux 2 to document the material in the Kubrick archives. With the Leica we were able to use some of my photos directly in the book.Was Kubrick interested in the internet?He died before it became really huge. And living in the countryside, he would only have had a slow dial-up connection. But the internet would have been ideal for someone like him, who sought knowledge wherever it could be found.Was the net a vital tool in researching the book?It was extremely useful, as it is for any project. Kubrick's legacy is alive and well on the net, with the newsgroup alt.movies.kubrick and sites such aswww.kubrick.com.www.taschen.comwww.imdb.comwww.nytimes.comwww.merriam-webster.comwww.bartleby.comwww.ebay.comwww.amazon.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.
Wider WindowsVersions of Windows XP and Windows 2003 that take advantage of the 64-bit extensions in AMD and Intel chips are now available from Microsoft. AMD Opteron and Athlon and Intel Pentium 4 and P4 Extreme Edition 64-bit processors can run existing 32-bit versions of Windows, but these cannot address 16 terabytes of memory, only 4GB, which is a constraint on some database servers in particular. Several software companies, mainly in the graphics and music sectors, have rushed to support the new Windows platform, but it is the hardware drivers that will be crucial, because 64-bit Windows will not run 32-bit drivers. Generic drivers are supplied, but these will not support manufacturers' special features.Windows x64Spam guaranteeMessageLabs is introducing a service level agreement (SLA) for its spam blocking. The company is guaranteeing that its Anti-Spam service will detect at least 95% of spam emails and will only incorrectly quarantine 0.0004% of acceptable emails (false positives). The SLA is based on independent tests by VeriTest. In six 24-hour periods, using a flow of email that contained approximately 70% spam and 30% legitimate email, VeriTest recorded a high capture rate even for untuned, or "out of the box" blocking. The MessageLabs service combines its Skeptic predictive technology with Symantec Brightmail and additional anti-spam detection techniques.MessageLabs anti-spamWelcome extensionWith most of their e-government projects deployed, councils are trying to improve their services. Hertfordshire's Dacorum Borough Council is testing a "virtual telephone operator" system based on ContactPortal from Telephonetics. The speech recognition software understands natural language so staff simply say the name of the person, company or department they want to speak to and get connected automatically. The system can also answer, transfer and route calls. In Newcastle, the city council is using Trapeze Networks and Telindus to improve its wireless network. This will allow the council to create a hotspot that visitors can use to access council services.Telephonetics ContactPortalTrapeze Networks news on Newcastle CCGrowing epidemicAn analysis of 10m mailboxes guarded by CipherTrust's IronMail appliances shows that about 157,000 new zombie computers appear each day. CipherTrust says that more than 20% of these worm-infected computers are based in China, an indication of the number of unprotected new internet users in that region. The company also reckons that although 56% of spam originates in the US, this figure is down from 86% last year. Unfortunately, countries such as South Korea are adding to the volume of spam and overall traffic is increasing rapidly. The most common Trojan virus is Netsky.CiperTrust zombie articleRugged ArubaWith so many companies and local authorities keen to spread Wi-Fi wireless access, Aruba has launched a hardened dual-band 802.11a/b/g hub designed for outdoor use in all types of weather. The Aruba 80 also offers Power over Ethernet (PoE) support and has a built-in heater. Up to 16 Aruba 80s can be connected for extended wireless coverage. The Aruba 80 is expected in the summer, priced at about $2,000. Bristol Airport is the first announced user.Bad stationeryMicrosoft has launched a campaign against old-fashioned and unreliable office practices such as scribbling unreadable notes on scraps of paper and then losing them. It thinks we should be making notes using its OneNote note-taking software, preferably in unreadable scribble on the screen of a Windows-based Tablet PC. "On a lighter note," Microsoft adds, stationery is a threat to workers' well-being, because of the risk of paper cuts. It has launched a website, Stationery Is Bad, to get the message across. Unfortunately, this fails to account for the fact that making legible notes and not losing them would increase the average office worker's workload by, according to in-depth research by Inside IT's Department of Made-up Statistics, approximately 98.4%.www.stationeryisbad.comOneNote demo pageOne-chip Wi-FiCambridge-based CSR has demonstrated its first single-chip Wi-Fi wireless system, the UniFi-1, plugged into an O2 XDA II smartphone and a notebook PC. The single-band 802.11b/g version should make it easy to provide mobile phones with Wi-Fi functionality, with a dual-band a/b/g version being available for notebook PCs and similar systems. CSR plc (Cambridge Silicon Radio) developed the BlueCore chip used to add Bluetooth support to Nokia, Motorola and many other brands of mobile phone.Contributions from Eric Doyle and Jack Schofield.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.
Over the past few months, the mobile industry has been buzzing with talk of how the music-playing phone will become the new iPod, with users listening to tunes on their handset instead of a separate music device.It has largely been just talk, with none of the key models, such as Sony Ericsson's W800 Walkman phone, boasting the looks or the storage capacity of Apple, Creative, and Rio. But all that changed yesterday, when Nokia took the wraps off the N91, its first serious crack at a music-playing phone.Nokia has all the basics right: the N91 features MP3 and AAC playback (though it won't play copy-protected songs downloaded from Apple's iTunes Music Store), an FM tuner and a remote control in its accompanying earphones. Battery life is reasonable, with the phone running for 12.5 hours as a music player.Its trump card is a 4GB shockproof hard disk. Nokia claims this is enough to store 3,000 tunes, much more than rival phones. Also, unlike the more youth-oriented Motorola iTunes handset and Sony Ericsson W800, the 91 sports a stylish design that should appeal to gadget lovers and business users. They will also appreciate the integrated Wi-Fi and excellent web browsing facilities.The 91 is the first in a new series of high-end N series handsets from Nokia. "Positioned very much at the top of the market, the N series will have minimum specification that includes a music player, at least a two megapixel camera and web browsing facilities," says UK communications director Mark Squires. The phones will be 3G-compatible and use Nokia's Series 60 interface.Two other N series phones were unveiled yesterday. The N90, designed to appeal to serious photographers, is Nokia's first camera phone to include top-end Carl Zeiss optics. It also boasts traditional camera-style facilities, such as an autofocus, macro option, 20x digital zoom and flash. Completing the range is the N70, which has all the key N series features in a compact candy bar-style design. All three phones will be released in the autumn. So does Nokia think consumers will soon take just one gadget with them &mdash; their phone &mdash; leaving the music player and camera at home?"It will be different for different people," says Squires. "However, people used to take both a PDA and phone with them for a while, and when phones started featuring PDA-style facilities they went for just the phone. That could well happen again.  I think it is as much about not having to keep the batteries of two devices charged, as it is about anything else."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.
Gaming is officially good for you &mdash; in Sweden, at least. The Swedish National Institute of Public Health announced last week that playing video and computer games is not bad for children, after a growing number of anxious parents regularly turned to them for advice on its effects."Parents call because they are worried children are becoming increasingly violent, aggressive and overweight because of the amount of time they spend playing computer games," says Anton Lager, who, along with Sven Bremberg, investigated the effects of video and computer games on children.In recent years, there has been a sharp increase in the popularity of computer games in Sweden. Last year, 5.6m games were sold, an on-year increase of 19.5%: that is the equivalent of every other Swede buying a computer game last year.Kim Rydstedt, manager of Game in T&auml;by Centrum, says: "Business is very good. Top titles like Resident Evil are always pre-booked &#91;before their release&#93;. There's a roaring trade in second-hand games, too."Many parents are concerned that computer games are to blame for the escalating youth violence. Last year, two teenagers were charged with planning to gun down children at a school in the southern city of Malm&ouml;, and this month, a teenage girl and her boyfriend stabbed her parents to death for no apparent reason.Ebba Holmberg, a 14-year-old visiting Game to pre-order a copy of Jade Empire, doesn't believe games make you violent: "They're just for fun."Holmberg, a high-school student with plans to become a teacher, reckons games are popular "because you get involved. Anyone can be the hero, not just some Hollywood actor, like in a movie."Eva Karlsson, 15, agrees: "It's important to have something to do on long winter nights here."With almost 45% of Swedish homes having high-speed broadband, it is not surprising the fastest-growing sector is online gaming. A survey by Mediavision revealed 23% of Swedes used the net last month to play or download computer games.Lager and Bremberg reviewed 30 studies from around the world that explored what effect video and computer games had on children's intelligence, aggression and weight. "We looked at how games affected spatial abilities, reaction time, aggressive play, thoughts, feelings and behaviour," says Lager.They discovered strong evidence to suggest video and computer games are, in fact, good for you. "All the studies that looked at spatial thinking showed computer games have a positive effect," says Lager. "Playing also reduces children's reaction times."The study discounts the link between games and violent behaviour or aggressive feelings &mdash; although a child who has been playing a violent computer game is more likely to pick up a toy sword  or toy gun than a child who hasn't, according to the report.Many Swedes were concerned about the lack of a causal link between playing computer games and obesity, but Lager is sceptical. The research he looked at suggests children only spend on average  45 minutes a day playing computer games, but more than two hours watching television. "There's been little recent research on whether the emergence of broadband and online gaming has changed this," he says.In spite of the findings, Lager remains cautious: "Playing computer games may be good for you but too much might have an adverse affect. It's like broccoli is good for you, but 15 kilos a day probably isn't."But Kim Rydstedt, who makes his living selling computer games, says: "I don't care what the boffins say. Kids should spend more time playing outdoors."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.
Four years ago things looked pretty grim for cult game developer SNK. After a buy-out by pachinko manufacturer Aruze in January 2000, many of the key staff left and the future of classic series' such as King of Fighters, Art of Fighting and Samurai Shodown looked very grim indeed. But SNK founder Eikichi Kawasaki - like a battle-bruised veteran of one of his own complex, beautifully designed beat 'em ups - refused to give in. Forming Playmore in 2001 he set about buying his key brands back as well as re-recruiting his most talented staff and bringing in famed manga artists like Falcoon. It's a classic riches to rags to riches again story, except with chained combos and guard cancel blow-out attacks. It is also a quiet but firm reminder to the industry that there is a place for blisteringly demanding hardcore gameplay.Anyway, SNK Playmore announced yesterday that it would be releasing re-engineered versions of King of Fighters 02 and King of Fighters 03 in Europe this summer. Featuring the original character rosters from the arcade versions as well as lush new 3D backgrounds, the titles represent the pinnacle of SNK's singular fighting game philosophy. Three vs three combat, eyeball-assaulting special moves, eccentric yet well-balanced cast list... It's like the whole casual gaming revolution never happened. Both are Xbox Live enabled too. The only downside is, they'll be sold as separate games in Europe - they were packaged together in the US. Hmph.Other console titles on the way from SNK are Samurai Shodown 5, King of Fighters Maximum Impact (the scintillating 3D incaration of KoF), andKing of Fighters NEOWAVE, the latest arcade version of the series using Sammy'sAtomiswavecoin-op technology. Finally, the 3D version of legendary scrolling shooter, Metal Slug, will be present at E3 in robust playable form.So who wants a few bouts of KOF 02 when it hits Xbox Live? (rolls up sleeves...)
Yahoo! have this morning announced their new My Web product for theirUK search engine- essentially a way to save your searches and search history from within the Yahoo network.It's not a new idea - there are plenty of other personalised searches and search history applications out there (Jack mentioned Google'sjust last week) but there are a couple of features which could turn out to be interesting.Here's the blurb they're sending out, for what it's worth.My Web is a "personal search engine" that extends users' existing Yahoo! Search experience by providing a simple way to save, recall and share online information with friends and colleagues. My Web enables users to create their own personal online archive by saving their favourite pages, search results, and search history to My Web. In addition, users can share their information with friends and colleagues via integrated tools such as email, instant messenger, and personal networking provided by Yahoo!'s new Yahoo! 360 tool."Yahoo! Search is focused on providing innovative, useful technologies that enable people to find, use, share, and expand knowledge," said Salim Mitha, Director, Yahoo! Search, UK &amp; Ireland. "My Web is the next step in our vision of integrating search, personal search and community by providing users an easy way to have their own personal web search experience that incorporates the best of the Web and what matters most to them."The interesting aspect here is how it links into the other Yahoo tools - 360, messenger and the like - to enable you to share your search history.But has anyone given it a go?
Here's one fromWired Newsthat I spotted yesterday but just didn't have time to blog (we have jobs here too, you know).The US government is looking to introduceRFIDchips into passports - like the Oyster cards used on London Underground - to allow them to be scanned and information retrieved easily.But campaigners are unhappy about the idea that such data would not necessarily be secure, allowing anyone with a scanner to get delicate and private information.Following criticism from computer security professionals and civil libertarians about the privacy risks posed by new RFID passports the government plans to begin issuing, a State Department official said his office is reconsidering a privacy solution it rejected earlier that would help protect passport holders' data.The solution would require an RFID reader to provide a key or password before it could read data embedded on an RFID passport's chip. It would also encrypt data as it's transmitted from the chip to a reader so that no one could read the data if they intercepted it in transit.The argument carries over to the British plans for a national identity card, too. If all our identifying data gets digitally stored in one place, how do we protect it?
It's the Infosecurity Europe conference this week in London, and the most interesting story I've seen coming out of it is from security guruBruce Schneier.He's accused companies of using the term "cyberterrorism" to boost their profits and scare clients. Here's whatCNethas to say.The renowned author and cryptography expert called cyberterrorism a myth that has yet to become to a threat to human life."Nobody's getting blown to bits," Schneier said. "I don't think that cyberterrorism exists--if you add 'terrorism' to things, you get more budget. If you can't get e-mail for a day, you're not terrorized, you're inconvenienced.""We should save 'terror' for the things that deserve it, not things that piss us off," he added.This is happening everywhere, of course, not just in technology. Stick the word "terror" in there, and everything gets a little bit scarier.But on the other hand is he right to say that cyberterrorism is a myth?
An on-board system in the forthcoming Xbox 360 may solve years of bad press and concern over the effects of "mature" content on malleable young minds. The device will feature parental controls - thus re-placing the onus where it should be - which will disallow content that Mum or Dad deems Little Jimmy or Jane shouldn't be playing with.Details are vague at the minute, but the system is part of the extensive profiling capabilities of the machine, an ingenious protocol which sets up a unique identity for each player across all titles for the system - whether online or off. While some may shout Big Brother at these profiling capabilities, it should make the gamer's relationship with the apparatus more long-standing.The parental control software is similar to a product profiled onCBSNewscalled V-Wallfly, which does for games what Internet and TV digital nannies do for their domains. When a product is put into the machine that doesn't meet the parental criteria, the game doesn't load and the kid is left with more suitable entertainment. The Xbox 360's safety guard also allows parents to decide whether their little darling can chat to or play with strangers on Live.It makes sense that the Xbox 360 is the first machine to offer such a service; extensive scrutiny of their existing applications transfers nicely to a product such as this.
EA has announced its first eight titles as a mobile games publisher. As you'd expect, conversions of the company's major console brands make up a majority of the offerings with EA SPORTS FIFA Football 2006, The Sims 2, Need for Speed Underground 2, Tiger Woods PGA TOUR 2006 and Madden NFL 2006 all figuring. Alongside these, EA has also transferred three casual titles - Poppit!, Turbo 21, and Tri Peaks Solitaire - from its online gaming service,Pogo.From the screens I've seen, the console conversions look pretty impressive with sharp 3D visuals and, it seems, a few gameplay elements nicked from the latest PS2 and Xbox iterations. Bringing the Pogo stuff across to mobile is a smart idea - there are plenty of card and puzzle games available for Java handsets, but few will be as poslished and universally available as EA's.All the titles will be playable at E3, and EA is promising 12 more before the end of the year.
Welcome!!!!! posted by "Huff" on Mon May 9 2005 at 09:00 PDTHi everybody! Allow me to introduce my innovative new publishing venture, a groundbreaking "group blog", where over 250 creative minds from every corner of my Rolodex weigh in on topics ranging from the political to the personal, and anything in between! Well, that's enough from me - let's blog!comments 0 :: trackbacks 0 :: post a commentGreat New Experiment in Democracy, posted by "Huff" on Mon May 9 at 09:02 PDTThe "blogosphere" is the biggest leap forward in journalism since the days of Tom Paine, a unique opportunity to tap directly into the cultural bloodstream. But I'm not here to put words in anyone's mouth, I'm just providing the megaphone!comments 0 :: trackbacks 0 :: post a commentA New Kind of Communication, posted by "Huff" on Mon May 9 at 09:07 PDTInstant, interactive, intelligent, informed; reaching out across the political spectrum. What? Did everybody forget their passwords already?comments 0 :: trackbacks 0 :: post a commentI can't think of anything to say,posted by G Paltrow on Mon May 9 at 09:21 PDTArianna: its rlly uncool whn my cell rings during pilates. i said id post whn &amp; if i had something to say. rt now im just too busy. stop bugging me.Gwynniexcomments 0 :: trackbacks 0 :: post a commentAnother Cutting Edge Contribution,posted by "Huff" on Mon May 9 at 09:23 PDTCantankerous, unafraid and always outspoken, that's Gwyneth (Paltrow) to a tee! You can expect to be hearing a lot more from her on Huffingtonpost.com, on a whole variety of subjects!comments 0 :: trackbacks 0 :: post a commentDoes anyone know how to get red wine stains out of a wool carpet? posted by NORMAN MAILER on Mon May 9 at 10:14 PDTI'm screwed if my wife sees this. I'm not even supposed to drink in that room. I've been   scrubbing but that just seems to spread the stain around. A quick answer would be most appreciated.comments 0 :: trackbacks 0 :: post a commentI think I'm going to run for president, posted by WarrenBeatty on Mon May 9 at 10:39 PDTYou heard it here first, people. The official announcement will be on Jay Leno on Wednesday. Most of you know that I've been actively interested in politics for many years, but recent events in our country have finally made me realise that someone has got to take a stand. I know I can count on your support. Oh hang on, I've got a fridge being delivered that day. Forget about it.comments 0 :: trackbacks 0 :: post a commentThis is so blogciting, posted by Tina Brown on Mon May 9 at 11:04 PDTToday we are entering a new paradigm: the energy and passion that I see on this mega-blog will ensure that it becomes not just the premiere electro-salon of the liberal elite, but the soul-search engine for the entire Alter-net. In today's fast-moving, cross-pollinating media perfect storm we don't always want considered essays or spelled-out arguments. Sometimes we just want to say "Bush sucks". Although his wife is really sweet.comments 0 :: trackbacks 0 :: post a commentRe: Does anyone know how to get red wine stains out of a wool carpet? posted by BarryDillerCEO.IAC/InterActiveCrop on Mon May 9 at 11:17 PDTpour white wine over it &amp; then blot GENTLY with a clean cloth. Rinse with warm water &amp; repeat until gone. Whatever you do, don't rub. Who's got a good sourdough bread recipe, btw? The last loaf I made was like a paving stone.comments 0 :: trackbacks 0 :: post a commentI know I'm just providing the megaphone but. posted by "Huff" on Mon May 9 2005 at 11:34 PDTperhaps I could suggest a topic? The president's proposals for private investment accounts are aimed at improving the long-term solvency of social security, but does it come at too high a price, namely sacrificing the commitment to guarantied benefits?comments 0 :: trackbacks 0 :: post a commentDear hopeless liberals, Posted by David "Axis of Evil" Frum on Mon May 9 2005 at 11:45 PDTUnless you got to that stain right away, white wine ain't gonna do jack. You need BLEACH and plenty of it, and you need to rub hard. Hope this doesn't shatter your cosy little worldview.comments 0 :: trackbacks 0 :: post a commentOH MY GOD ARIANNA Posted by G Paltrow on Mon May 9 2005 at 12:22 PDTDid you just like take that text I sent you and post it on your stupid frigging blog? That was private! How dare you! Don't post this email either!comments 0 :: trackbacks 0 :: post a commentWhoops! The fridge is coming today! Posted by WarrenBeatty on Mon May 9 2005 at 13:09 PDTThey just called. So I guess I can announce my candidacy on wed after all, but now I don't really feel like it. Hi Gwynnie! Hi Norman! What's everyone having for lunch?comments 0 :: trackbacks 0 :: post a comment
Just in case you haven't seen this, New Zealand-born designer Grant Robinson has created a game namedGuess-The-Google, based around the Google image search function - you simply view a montage of images then - yes - guess the keyword that drew them together. It sort of combines TV's Catchphrase with those Excel games that get passed around via email where you have to, for example, guess the football teams from pictures of their badges, or identify cult toys of the seventies.The game, like Google Whacking, also formalises those absent-minded, bored moments we all have at work, where - faced with Google as our home page - we just start searching for the first thing that comes into our heads.ViaCollision Detection
I asked the man who dropped off the car if there was anything I ought to know. Anyone who has ever hired a car knows that an unfamiliar vehicle is destined to boast a novelty that can be absolutely confounding: a mysterious process for accessing the boot or opening the bonnet, a clever but not very obvious place to hide the jack, buttons with initials on them that could be for almost anything. "Nope," said the man. "It's pretty much a straightforward BMW."Perhaps I should have been more specific. Perhaps I should have asked him: "How do you turn it on?" Only after he'd left did I notice that the key fob he'd handed me had no key on it. Sometimes, I know, the key will flip out like a switchblade when you push a button, but I pushed the button, and the boot opened. A clamping truck pulled up and idled nearby, like a vulture.Inside the car, the mystery deepened: there was no place to put a key, even if I could find one. I sat there for a good 10 minutes, making little noises of exasperation, until I spied a small slot on the dash that looked like a place to store two-pound coins. The whole fob fitted in it snugly. A push button above it lit up. I pushed it, and the car started. The guy in the clamping truck moved off in search of someone dumber than me. Good luck to him.The "d" in 320d, stands, as you might have guessed, for diesel, and the 320d is a car with more than a few awards to its name. One cannot quite say that the 320d is in a class by itself, however, because it belongs to a rather large class of vehicle for which there is apparently no pithier term than "entry-level, 2-litre premium diesel upper-medium saloon". In short, it is a company car, and a nice one at that, though certainly not the nicest, aimed squarely at executives whose rank entitles them to a car exactly this good and no better. The diesel versions of the Audi A4, the Mercedes C220 and the Jaguar X-type confer equivalent status.So what does the BMW do better? For a start, it sells better. It is said that in the UK, in the guise of its predecessor the E46, it even outsold the Mondeo. Although its proportions are governed by a design principle that states that all cars in this class should be virtually indistinguishable at a distance of 20 paces, getting into the 320d is like being granted a last-minute upgrade.Everything is nicely appointed, comfortable if not glamorous, plain but well thought out. From in here, we can all pretend that this car is not a diesel: the sparkplugs begin to warm themselves the moment you open the door, the push button start is reliable and whisper-quiet. The engine may still have that distinctive throat-clearing gurgle at low speeds (in an underground car park I became convinced I was being followed by a ghost lorry), but on the motorway with the windows rolled up you'd never know. The six-speed gearbox keeps you busy, but it also eliminates most of the sluggishness one associates with a diesel engine. Had I needed to refuel, I'm sure I would have tried to put petrol in it.The BMW is also Euro IV compliant, which is to say that it meets new European emissions standards set for diesel vehicles, and is therefore tax-friendly from a "benefit in kind" standpoint. It's not very exciting to say that BMW have gone some way toward crafting the perfect entry-level premium diesel upper-medium fleet car, but that would seem to be their aim.Indeed, the 320d seems to have a bit of contrived bog-standardness about it, so as not to upset the delicate aspirational hierarchy of corporate perquisites (there is the 320d ES and the 320d SE, not to mention the 330i, waiting for you higher up the greasy pole), but I'm no judge of that sort of thing. For me, the difference between my own car and the 320d is like a huge promotion I don't deserve.Under those circumstances it would be churlish to make niggling complaints, but churlish is my middle name, so here are two: the key fob arrangement makes it not just possible, but rather likely, that you will accidentally open the boot as you start up the car, at least until you learn to keep your thumb off the button; and the car comes equipped with rear and side bleepers to aid in parking, both of which err on the side of total paranoia.I do not need to be electronically warned that I am about to hit the car behind, because I fully intend to hit the car behind. I once parked cars for a living, and my mentor, a seasoned valet known as the Ice Man, told me that Rule One of valet parking was: "It's OK to hit the car behind." Rule Two was, as I recall: "It's OK to steal marijuana from people's glove boxes." Cruising along the A303 in the 320d, however, my thoughts turned not to the past, but to the future: next year I'm going to make junior vice president, and then I'm finally gonna get me those alloy wheels.
Terra Novahas an interesting analysis of Nintendo GameCube titleAnimal Crossing, celebrating its unique blend of virtuality based in a real sense of reality. To paraphrase whatIGNsaid upon its release, it's the closest thing to an online game that offline players will get, thus the discussion on TN. Indeed it is (if only it wasn't so time-consuming). But author Nathan Combs brings up a good point about what it is that makes this game and others like it (online as well as off) so darn appealing:Places such as these speak to a world where solitary (or small group) experiences can be successfully blended into a world-sense of place. It suggests to me that places are experiences and journeys - not just destinationsSo what exactly is this sense of "place"? To find out, I turned to myEnvironmental Psychologynotes, and have elucidated a few key ideas which have wended their ways into some of the most forward-thinking games on release.Home versus HouseThe sense of place is most concisely summed up in the Anglo/Germanic linguistic distinction between "home" and "house". The latter is the physical environment in which one resides, while the former is overlaid with a more emotional canvas. Home is, effectively, where the heart is.Even in the digital sphere, ostensibly a platform which provides affect-less building blocks for communication, a virtual area can be made into a home; web homepages represent the personalisation often only so obviously expressed in a teenager's bedroom, festooned with portraits, photos and bad poetry. In games like Animal Crossing, a player's digital house can be decorated with objects and furniture, becoming a place to express identity, and a place to rest when necessary.Even more complex, it can be argued that an avatar, representing the player in an online game, can be a kind of home. There are well-documented examples of people using the characters to represent something about themselves, and often people hide inside them, feeling more comfortable in the digital skin than in their organic matter. Allowing for personalisation gives the players a sense of ownership in the digital domain, which ensures that they invest themselves in becoming a part of it, thus deriving a sense of place."At home"-nessImportantly, personalisation isn't the only aspect that makes a place a "home". You can give avatars and digital walls all manner of boob-sliders, hair colours and wallpapers, but that doesn't ensure that players will feel like their little virtual space is their own place. They have to feel a sense of being "at home", which calls forth a distinction between what goes on outside and what happens inside.The outside is what goes on in the world: the physical and sensory surroundings, other participants and the personalisation. The inside is"...grounded in the everyday experience of living in a particular environment; it involves processes and events normally unnoticed and unquestioned. The insider generally takes his or her place and region for granted, rarely conceiving of them as explicit entities that might be made objects of directed attention."(fromPhenomenology Online)That requires a seamlessly-developed and consistent environment which allows the player to become immersed in a familiar landscape with no out-of-place entities, dropped pixels or bugs slamming the fantasy back into reality. In the case of Animal Crossing and other games, this includes everything from the logical chat of the Non-Player Characters (NPCs) to the opening hours of the local shops. It's everything that allows players to suspend their disbelief and to expect things to happen as they should. It isn't relegated to feel-good titles either; multiplayer deathmatch arenas also have a sense of place, because they're used by a community of players with expectations of what's appropriate for that space.Social ImmersionSpeaking of suspending disbelief, it's also important for the actors in a space to have empathy for others in the environment, as well as for the environment itself.Sense of ConsequenceAlso related to "at home"-ness is a concept of consequence, or a belief that the actions that are taken will have logical ramifications in the world which players inhabit. Great examples of this offline are Animal Crossing, Fable and Black and White. Online, any of the MMOGs have it as default based upon the social norms which develop out of human social play (even if it is masked by a digital medium).This aspect is particularly important for the sense of place, especially in the sense that Combs suggests, because it allows the player to see him or herself as an entity with links to the larger socio-economic milieu, or as part of the fabric which constructs the coherent and cohesive game world. That players in Animal Crossing can leave messages for one another and for other characters and expect them to be received and dealt with means that this aspect contributes to the feeling that the player inhabits a living, breathing world with rules, social norms and boundaries of acceptable and unacceptable behaviour. So Defender did it on a small scale. Modern games are becoming much more attuned to the players' need for consequence, and therefore the game worlds are becoming richer and more habitable places.Place IdentityOf course, players don't come into a tabula rasa game world. The designers of the game spaces populate the imaginary vistas with objects, situations and other characters, all of which contribute to the place identity. The physical setting offers a template for what should happen in the world, the architecture influences actions and behaviours and the player learns to use the place to derive his or her satisfaction with the world. This goes beyond picking up a key and taking it to a door to enter into another discrete level of puzzles, a la Tomb Raider, although these aspects gave that game its own sense of its purpose. Place identity allows players to imbue their own self upon the objects in the world, and to associate them with that place.Perhaps game designers are architects of the new urbanist communities, laying out the landscape with physical features, architectural styles and open spaces. Offline research certainly points to these factors as essential in the development of community, and with that sense of belongingness comes an attachment to a place.
It's the story that's got bloggers fuming, spewing or simply scratching their heads in disbelief.The phrase "jumping the shark" gets aired a little too regularly in technology circles, but perhaps this is one time it could be worth it.Reporteth today'sGuardian:Arianna Huffington, commentator, one-time Republican and candidate for governor of California, has recruited a bevy of close friends to create an ber-blog that will offer a round-the-clock commentary on our life and times.Norman Mailer, David Mamet, Warren Beatty, Diane Keaton, Walter Cronkite, Gwyneth Paltrow, Harold Evans and Tina Brown are just a few of the 250-plus names recruited.While blogs were born to give a voice to the disenfranchised,huffingtonpost.comis somewhat different. Jay Rosen, who runs a blog calledPressthink, told the New York Times: "These aren't exactly people who lack voice or visibility in our culture. Gwyneth Paltrow has no incentive to speak candidly and alienate future ticket buyers."Huffington Post currently consists of a sign-up screen.I can't really see the revolutionary nature of a bunch of media-friendly blowhards getting yet another way to air their voice ("hello pot, I have a black kettle on line one"), but it's going to be one to watch. This could either be the moment blogs go really big, or the moment they wither and die under the embarrassment of Harold Evans saying "all your blog are belong to us".What famous person would you rather start a weblog?
Last week Online's Natalie Hanman wrote about the actual effects that includingdownload sales had on the Top 40. Apart from Gorillaz, who gamed the system a little and made it to No 22, the effect of digital sales was not necessarily obvious.On Sunday, however, these influences were hard to find, apart from a few subtle moves in the ladder of pop popularity. Oh My Gosh by Basement Jaxx, for example, would have been at No 45 if just physical format sales were counted, but instead made No 27. And Dakota by Stereophonics reached No 34 instead of No 46.This week, however, things are a little bit clearer. Thanks to figures supplied by theAssociation of Independent Music- who are lobbying for changes in the system to help independent labels - we can see who the winners and losers are. The same acts as last week did well in the top 40 (physical chart position first, followed by combined chart position):Gorillaz75&gt;21Basement Jaxx43&gt;28Stereophonics53&gt;31But some lost position because of a lack of download sales:Melanie C37&gt;42DJ Tiesto36&gt;44Elvis Presley38&gt;47Other acts making the most of downloading including Kaiser Chiefs, Chemical Brothers and Athlete, with Faithless and Elton John suffering.Update:Here's what Aim has to say, which to me says that although its a mixed bag for independent labels, as a whole they give as good as they get: "69% of indie singles in the top 75 are lower than they would have been without combining the two charts, and indie singles in the top 75 lose an average of 0.6 places through combination. If you exclude Beggars Group &amp; V2, they average 3 places lower. In the top 75, majors average 29.2% of sales in digital format, while independents average 26.1%."
Real Networks, one of the few serious rivals to Apple's iTunes, hopes to step up pressure on the market leader today by launching a portable subscription music service.Real, whose Rhapsody service lets users download as many tracks as they want to their computers for $9.95 a month, will make it available on a range of portable players similar to iPods.For $14.95 a month users will be able to access around 1 million tracks that they can then transfer to portable media players.The company will unveil the service in New York later today in a bid to make inroads into iTunes, which dominates the fledgling digital music market.The service will use new software from Microsoft, codenamed Janus, which wipes tracks if users stop subscribing.The software is also used on Napster to Go, the rival portable subscription service that launched in February backed by a $30m advertising campaign.Making digital music available to portable players is seen as the key to driving the wider take-up of online stores sucha as Napster and Rhapsody.While Napster and Rhapsody offer a download service that consumers can transfer to portable players, both are hoping that the subscription model wins new converts.But analysts say that subscription services face an uphill battle, given that users rent music tracks rather than own them outright and face the loss of their entire collections if they stop subscribing."The big issue here is persuading consumers of the value proposition of the subscription model and what it means to them," said Paul Brindley, the managing director of digital music consultancy Music Ally."There's still a strong commitment among music lovers to ownership and while there's immediate value in that you can fill a portable music player for just $15, it's going to be a few years down the line before the idea really takes off."Subscription music services currently lag behind download services such as iTunes, which analysts say controls around 75% of the online music market.The subscription market is expected to generate around $200m this year compared with $350m for download services.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Finally...Sony haveannouncedthe launch date of the PSP in Europe. It will debut on September 1st and cost 179 (249) including a 32mb memory card, case etc. It's likely that a copy of the movie Spider Man 2 will also be included, as it was in the first batch in the US. The September 1st launch means PSP is set to be a must-have gadget this Christmas, but you have to wonder own many of the core gaming audience will have already picked up a cheap and readily available import. Still, at least we have a date now. Roll on E3, where details of the rumoured PSP-PlayStation 3 connectivity will be announced.
Google, which last week reported a sixfold increase in first-quarter profits, yesterday detailed a series of moves to grab an even bigger share of the online advertising market.The internet search engine is planning to expand further beyond its core business of small, text-based advertising placed alongside search results and paid for on a click-through basis. It hopes to attract big name advertisers increasingly turning to the internet to create awareness, formerly the preserve of media such as television and print. Google is introducing different pricing methods and new technology allowing advertisers on partner sites to use animated graphics.According to TNS Media Intelligence, part of Taylor Nelson, US advertisers spent $140bn (&#163;73bn) last year, only $8.4bn of which went online. Google sells advertising that appears on other sites, including the New York Times and iVillage, but is pushing further into the business with new services. Analysts said the firm is looking increasingly like a conventional advertising business.The search engine will introduce animated display advertising to partner sites and allow advertisers for the first time to specify the sites they want to appear on, without the need for picking a keyword tied to the content on a page. At present it will only place ads on other websites that are directly relevant.It is also introducing new payment methods. Instead of advertisers paying according to how many users click on the ads, they can pay according to how many people see them.At present, advertisers identify key search terms. At first, Google presented the short text advertising alongside the search results. Recently it has placed ads on web pages related to the search words. Advertisers could pay to appear on search pages, or on search-pages plus other pages.Google said last week it had earned $369m on revenue of $1.26bn. It remains under intense pressure to find new revenue streams and stay ahead of rivals enviously eyeing the search market. Yesterday's changes will have no impact on Google's own search sites.
DoubleClick, a former star of the internet boom, yesterday said it had agreed to be bought for $1.1bn (&#163;574m) by two private equity firms.The price of $8.50 in cash per share is far from the $135 at which the company's stock was valued in the late 1990s, when internet shares were driven to extraordinary heights. It had a market capitalisation of more than $12bn at its peak.The company helps advertising agencies and marketing managers to plan, execute and analyse the effectiveness of online campaigns, as well as offering services such as database and email marketing.The market for online advertising has been growing rapidly again, with some estimates of 30% expansion in the past year. New York-based DoubleClick has failed to benefit from the growth, delivering a string of disappointing financial results. It hired investment bank Lazard Fr&#232;res in October to explore a sale.San Francisco buyout firm Hellman &amp; Friedman is acquiring DoubleClick and bringing in another venture capital business, JMI Equity, as a minority investor.The price represented a 10.6% premium on the average closing price of DoubleClick in the past 30 days. It had recently shot up on speculation of a deal and closed at $8.57 on Friday. Chief executive Kevin Ryan will step down after the deal is completed.DoubleClick fulfilled the internet fantasy of the 1990s. Two entrepreneurs founded the company in a basement in 1996. Two years later, it went public on Nasdaq as one of the   huge numbers of internet firms joining the rush to grab a piece of the online market.It made a series of acquisitions in an attempt to offer a full range of marketing services and today employs 1,500 people in 22 offices worldwide.Revenues began to decline sharply as the market imploded and many of its clients disappeared. Last year, sales fell to $301m from a peak of $506m in 2000. First-quarter figures last week showed revenues growing again, from $68m a year ago to $76m. DoubleClick recorded a loss of $917,000 against a profit of $7.7m in the previous year. Phil Hammarskjold, Hellman's managing director, said it had "significant opportunities for growth".The rise in online advertising was clearly in evidence last week when Yahoo! reported a more than doubling of first-quarter profits to $204m. Its revenues jumped 55% to almost $1.2bn.Hellman, founded in 1984, has a history of investing in advertising-related firms. It had a stake in Young &amp; Rubicam, which went public in 1998 before being acquired by WPP. It took the internet marketing company Digitas public in 2000 and was among bidders for the Grey Global advertising network, another firm bought by WPP this year. Hellman is the biggest single investor in the Nasdaq stock market and last week said it would increase its stake to 20%.DoubleClick has two main divisions. TechSolutions includes the company's advertising management software for advertisers and online publishers and its marketing automation products and services. The service is increasingly coming under price pressure and viewed as a commodity business.Data Solutions includes the data management businesses providing services to direct marketers. It bought the Abacus database marketing company for $900m in 1999.
The Takeover Panel yesterday took the unusual step of rebuking stockbroker Teather &amp; Greenwood because of its conduct in the takeover battle for internet auction site QXL.The panel, which polices takeover bids, rarely makes public statements about breaches of its codes and does not have the power to levy fines. Yesterday the panel issued a "statement of criticism" to Teather &amp; Greenwood as a result of its actions while it was broker to Dutch company Florissant during its offer for QXL. The offer lapsed this month when there were not enough acceptances.Florissant had been fighting for control of QXL with Tiger Acquisition, a management buyout team that raised its own offer three times before this too lapsed in March.Teather &amp; Greenwood, which was taken over by Iceland's Landsbanki in February, was found to have made "serious breaches of the code" after it was slow to disclose its involvement in the QXL takeover.The broker began acting for Florissant in February but did not notify the panel until March 18. This is important because Teather &amp; Greenwood is an "exempt market maker" which means it must not deal as principal for any bidder for a company during an offer period.When it started to work with Florissant, it broke City rules that prevent it from dealing on behalf of its clients. The panel said Teather &amp; Greenwood breached this rule by buying QXL shares to sell to Florissant and then compounded the situation by selling shares it did not own - that is by selling short - to Florissant."Teather &amp; Greenwood was exposed to the risk of having to fill its short position at above the Florissant offer price and, on two occasions, did so," the panel said.The panel said it had been assured that there were no such agreements in place under which Florissant might compensate Teather &amp; Greenwood for any loss it might incur. While the panel said it did not believe Teather &amp; Greenwood had "deliberately flouted the rule" it had not thought about how to comply with it.Teather &amp; Greenwood refused to disclose if anyone had been reprimanded for the affair but said it had "reviewed and improved its procedures since".
In an article today actress June Brown, who plays Dot Branning in Eastenders,admitted she used to play Myst. "It was absolutely fascinating", she said. For those who don't remember, Myst was a slow-paced puzzle game that involved solving mysteries rather than mastering the mouse. Stunning graphics, for its time, bought it huge attention, with many people buying new PC's to play it on. While traditional gamers regard the likes of Myst as a joke, it's clear there is a sizeable market for more cerebral titles, especially if gaming is going to become truly mass-market. Brains, not brawn then - the future of gaming?
So, I - along with quite a few other hacks - went out to a press demo of Apple's OS XTigeras promisedearlier. Brian Croll, senior director of software product marketing, was over from Cupertino to show us all what to expect.And he started off with a strong statement of belief: "We think it's the most innovative and secure operating system ever built."Well, I'll take that with a pinch of salt, but first impressions are good. Macheads will most likely be very familiar with the enhancements, and there wasn't much that I hadn't seen when Steve Jobs did hiskeynote speechat Macworld in January.Essentially, the big hitters areSpotlight(desktop search) andDashboard(desktop widgets), which both promise a lot. Spotlight does searching simply and easily, and Dashboard could be handy for normal users - though I suspect some of the functionality might be cranky if you're not on a good web connection.Brian also extolled the virtues of iChat's four-way video conferencing and the system's High Definition support, but one of the demos that interested me most wasAutomator, which essentially looks like a very user-friendly way to build macros and automate boring workflow processes.As usual, there's been a lot of attention paid to how things look, and some of the flourishes are certainly there to help carry a bit of a wow factor.There's a certain Apple evangelism that grates on the weary enthusiast (for example if I heard the phrase "it's super simple!" again, I think I'd explode) and there are some big claims in there too - "Anyone who can create a website will be able to create a Dashboard widget"...But the proof of this pudding will be in the eating.
Linus Torvalds has solved the problem of not being able to continue with the proprietary BitKeeper software he used to manage Linux kernel development without supporting his colleague Andrew Tridgell's efforts to reverse-engineer a comaptible open source alternative: he's invented his own system, amusingly called Git.eWeek talked to Torvalds, who explains what Git is abouthere.If you have been following this spat for the past couple of weeks, I wonder if it has made you think worse of the saintly Torvalds? It's certainly not obvious why Tridgell's reverse-engineering of Microsoft protocols for Samba should be good while doing it for BitKeeper's is bad: it just looks like hypocrisy.Andrew Orlowski, who has been covering the story in The Register, quotes open source guru Bruce Perenshereas saying: "There are times when Linus Torvalds can be a real idiot, and this is one of these times."Open source makes you free, of course. Free enough not to switch to Git?
For a broadcaster looking to invest &#163;2m in a new music website, the online home of Celebrity Deathwatch and an unlikely campaign to resurrect Noel Edmonds' TV career does not sound like the obvious place to start. But celebrity gossip site Holy Moly is one of the coolest web brands around, and Channel 4 is hoping its creator will be able to work his magic on its new music website, the channel's most significant online investment for five years.Unlike other C4 sites such as Big Brother and The Salon, which were created to support existing TV programmes, channel4.com/music is planned by station bosses to be a standalone entity with a spinoff series of its own, Slash Music, to come in the autumn. In a welcome reversal of the normal roles, the internet tail is wagging the TV dog.The new site, which will enable unsigned bands to create their own home pages complete with uploads of their songs, is a further sign of chief executive Andy Duncan's enthusiasm for new media. The website might not make money - at least not in the short term - but Duncan is banking on it to earn the broadcaster valuable public service brownie points."We used to be a department stuck away in the corner of C4, but now we have become a focus for Andy Duncan and the channel as a whole," says Paul Whitehead, head of business development at C4 New Media."We are spending in the region of &#163;1m, double that when you include marketing and everything else. This is new media making a statement, that we are serious about creating destinations that can stand up in their own right."The music website, which launches early next month, is part of a new phase in C4's new media activities - including mobile and broadband - which is likely to run into tens of millions of pounds of investment over the next few years. Several more standalone websites are expected to launch later this year, while the sixth series of Big Brother will herald the most ambitious use yet of new broadcast platforms such as 3G."Broadband and mobile are the next big growth areas, and we are also looking at expanding our games presence," says C4 new media producer Janine Smith. "It's like a pincer movement, with us pushing up from the bottom and Andy Duncan supporting us from the top."Holy Moly won the contract to provide the C4 site with content in a joint bid with Peter Robinson, creator of popjustice.com, a music and gossip website that is just as irreverent as Holy Moly, but rather less likely to get libel lawyers in a sweat. The site's concept and design is down to digital design experts Holler."About 60 companies applied for the original tender," reveals Smith. "We knew it was a risk to go with a small company but Holy Moly made us laugh. &#91;Their plan&#93; was innovative and different to everyone else's. By supporting independent producers and being creative and innovative and a little bit edgy with some of the content, it also ticked all the right boxes."Mr Holy Moly - who prefers to remain anonymous - says he wants to make the site the biggest online music destination in the country. "It is a chance to use some of the kudos and a little bit of the cool factor that Holy Moly created and bleed that into something legitimate." He also saw an opportunity to turn a profit: "There's no money in a free Holy Moly newsletter. Sponsorship and advertising don't pay the mortgage."C4 lawyers can rest assured that the site will not be using any Holy Moly content. Only the attitude will be the same. "We'll be using Peter's words and ideas and my ability to flog a fridge to an Eskimo," says Mr Moly. "I want my son and my mother to be able to read it. We both believe music is the most important thing in the world, and we want everyone else to think that."With around half a dozen perma nent staff under editor Rob Fitzpatrick (NME, Ministry, Word), the site will feature two guest columnists a week, beginning with Nitin Sawhney. News and gossip will be updated four or five times a day, with bespoke video clips and behind-the-scenes footage from C4, which broadcasts around 750 hours of music programmes a year, including festivals such as V.The site will offer a full music download service, contracted out to Cable and Wireless, and users will also be able to identify and download music featured in any C4 or E4 show in a database going back two years. "If you want to find out what was playing in the background at Central Perk at the beginning of a particular episode of Friends, then you can," explains Smith. The site will also feature an extensive reviews and live music section."We want to be as inclusive as possible," says Robinson. "Record buyers don't just like one type of music, they are open to anything as long as it is good. Look at Scissor Sisters - they were a band which you could never focus group yet became the biggest selling album of the year and played on Radio 1, Radio 2, Kiss and Xfm."The vast majority of the content will be free, although Whitehead does not rule out charging "if we felt a piece of content was worth a premium and you couldn't get it anywhere else".The new initiative comes amid a flurry of new media activity at C4. Duncan has already announced plans for a dedicated broadband documentary channel, FourDocs, while the channel has joined forces with the BBC, the British Film Institute and the Open University to build the creative archive licence, a bid to open up access to thousands of hours of archive footage online.In the meantime, it is looking at launching several new entertainment and lifestyle sites during the remainder of the year, with the spinoff music show, Slash Music, set to launch on the channel's weekend T4 strand in the autumn."We want to drive viewers from T4 and our other music shows to the website, and vice versa," says Whitehead. "C4 has such a strong heritage in music programming, but there has never been a tie-in like this between programming and new media."Research showed that viewers wanted a "trusted guide" to new music, a digital John Peel. "They understand digital technology but they are not immersed in it," says Whitehead. "There was one classic response from someone who said they wanted to have a virtual boyfriend to guide them through the digital arena."C4 will be hoping it turns into a long-term relationship.
With (from our point of view) impecable timing, the New York Times has published an outstanding article by former FEED man -- and former Online contributor -- Steven Johnson entitledWatching TV Makes You Smarter. After looking at an episode of 24,he says:For decades, we've worked under the assumption that mass culture follows a path declining steadily toward lowest-common-denominator standards, presumably because the ''masses'' want dumb, simple pleasures and big media companies try to give the masses what they want. But as that ''24'' episode suggests, the exact opposite is happening: the culture is getting more cognitively demanding, not less. To make sense of an episode of ''24,'' you have to integrate far more information than you would have a few decades ago watching a comparable show. Beneath the violence and the ethnic stereotypes, another trend appears: to keep up with entertainment like ''24,'' you have to pay attention, make inferences, track shifting social relationships. This is what I call the Sleeper Curve: the most debased forms of mass diversion -- video games and violent television dramas and juvenile sitcoms -- turn out to be nutritional after all.I believe that the Sleeper Curve is the single most important new force altering the mental development of young people today, and I believe it is largely a force for good: enhancing our cognitive faculties, not dumbing them down. And yet you almost never hear this story in popular accounts of today's media. Instead, you hear dire tales of addiction, violence, mindless escapism.The article has been adapted from Johnson's next book, Everything Bad Is Good for You: How Today's Popular Culture Is Actually Making Us Smarter, which will be published next month.
I've often marvelled at the huge differences between mobile use in Asia, Europe and the US. It's one of the most interesting technological divides out there, which in fact shows a lot more about how cultures are different (since the technology is actually broadly similar).That subject is tackled today in a piece in theWall Street Journal- unfortunately it's subscription only. But here's an excerpt:Asia's cellphone edge is cultural, not technological. The Philippines, a nation of insatiable text-message senders, uses cellphone technology that is behind that of the US. And cellphones have become such important status symbols that at Chinese funeral rites, relatives burn paper cellphone effigies so the dead will have their mobile phones in the afterlife.The article gets on to talking about mobile-specific advertising, including a stat that will make marketers salivate - "Cellphone campaigns, on average, generate about 10 times more response than the internet web viewed on personal computers".But here in Europe - where we have an SMS culture, but not quite the insane penetration of Japan - it's interesting to watch how the American and Asian mobile users perceive each other.
There's a daftarticleon Wired today looking at two experiments testing the limits of the DS and PSP Wi-FI capabilities. The photos of skydivers using Nintendo's handheld are more or less unmissable. Surely that would invalidate the warranty?
It's a good while since Onlineblog reported onreportedon telly turn-off gadgetTV-B-Gone, but today the Guardian is running a piece on anti-television guerrillas who are advocatingTV-Turnoff week. My job was to have a chat with the inventor of TV-B-Gone,Mitch Altman, and find out a little more about his motivations.This man's about as typical a Silicon Valley veteran as you can get: heading for 50, coloured hair, worked at a whole bunch of Valley companies and started a few himself. And there was the distinct sense of MANA (middle aged new ager) about him."I haven't had a TV since 1980," he told me from his home in San Francisco. "And in that time, my life's improved immeasurably. I've got way more time and energy and I'm free to do what I truly love."He says ditching TV, and using TV-B-Gone, helps people broaden their minds and think for themselves."I don't believe we're a world of idiots, which is what I used to think."Interestingly, he told me he'd never had a bad experience using TV-B-Gone - mainly because he'd never turned off a television that somebody was actually watching."The only guys who do that are the reporters," he said. "I'd never been into a sports bar until reporters started wanting to see TV-B-Gone. Then they'd turn off the screens and write that I'd done it."Talking to Mitch made me wonder whether I could live without a TV set. I still haven't made my mind up.
Apple's new version of OSX, Tiger, arrives later this week - and there's no surprise that the claws are out from Microsoft (and the media).Macworld UKcribs a piece from Newsweek:Microsoft's Windows Vice President Jim Allchin has dismissed Mac OS X 10.4 as "a peripheral to the iPod" while admitting that the constant delay in shipping Longhorn (the code-name for the next Microsoft OS) is "a problem," Newsweek reports in a look at the intensification of competition between Apple and Microsoft regarding operating systems.Allchin also suggested features such as Tiger's Dashboard feature were inspired by Longhorn - a charge Apple CEO Steve Jobs rejects: "We've been showing pieces of Tiger for 18 months," Jobs says, insisting that all of Apple's ideas came from within Apple. "And you can be assured all these things have plenty of patent protection," he added.Jobs added: "Microsoft has followed our taillights for a long time. Maybe [in the '90s] we stopped innovating for a while, but now they've been copying OS X the same way they copied Mac."If there's anything less tedious than the constant releases of operating systems, it's the constant rehashes of old argument between the system creators. Guys, listen to me... I Don't Care. If it's good, people buy it, people copy it, people come up with new ideas. There's nothing that enthuses me less about a new system than listening to the whining from all concerned.That said, Tiger does look like it has some interesting features. I'm off to have a meeting with Apple this afternoon, so I'll report back when I return.
E3 organiser,ESA(Entertainment Software Association) has announced that, according to 'exhibitor survey data', over 1,000 new videogames ('and related products') will make their debut at this year's exhibition.Well, that's not much of a surprise as they announce that pretty much every year. What amuses me is this quote from ESA president Douglas Lowenstein, which can be found in the second paragraph of the company's self-congratulatory press release:"The more than one thousand products debuting at E3Expo 2005 are examples of the innovation and creativity that will drive industry growth in the coming year."I have one simple question: has Mr Lowenstein ever actuallybeento E3?At a conservative guess, I would suggest that, of those 1,000 products, perhaps 5-10% will exhibit anything that could be credibly described as innovation. I'm immediately discounting any subtle little gameplay additions, or fresh variations on last year's innovations - when Mr Lowenstein mentions innovations 'that will drive industry growth' he must surely be referring toreally big and exciting new ideas, like a new genre, a new way of interacting with a game, or a new hardware platform that introduces radical concepts in console architecture.He can't surely mean, say, a new way of passing the ball in the latest annual soccer sim, or a new set of weapons in the latest FPS sequel, or a fun new character starring in a fun new third person action adventure?Perhaps he has incredible faith in his exhibitors. 'This is the year,' he may have thought to himself while dictating his quote to some poor sap in the press office, 'that the world's videogame publisherswon'tturn up with armfuls of sequels, film tie-ins, endorsed extreme sports games, GTA clones, Halo clones, Super Mario 64 clones, Rainbow Six clones, Everquest clones, Burnout clones, Burnout clones with magazine endorsements, Gran Turismo clones, Resident Evil clones, Metal Gear Solid clones, poor competitors to Pro Evo with licenses no-one has heard of or cares about, Sonic clones, Tetris clones or porn games'Creativity and innovation: these are not words to be casually bandied about in the latest corporate press release. Theymeansomething. They should be reserved for the tiny minority of games that are actually going to push things forward. And there will be a few at E3, lurking behind the mammoth speakers that vomit useless teen punk into the air all day, perhaps on single screens as opposed to gratuitous banks of monitors. There will be no booth babes draped nearby, posing awkwardly with men whose fierce BO should qualify as a human rights abuse. They may be revealed behind close doors, or to one or two discerning gamers who happen to walk past and notice something unusual.I've been to E3 three times. I remember every game I saw that showedrealinnovation and creativity. Believe me, the number is nowhere near 1,000. Let's just be realistic about this industry, eh? It's not kids coding in their bedrooms anymore, we don't have to be proud that we're - you know - still here and still making money. It's taken for granted. Let's just get on with things. Let's face the ugly truth.
When Rupert Murdoch made his speech about the impact of the web on newspapers, he said that at the age of 74 he was a digital migrant, probably too old to become a "true digital native".Clearly, Rupert is able to do his emails and much more on his computer. But what about most other 74-year-olds, retired, living on modest incomes, not in New York, but perhaps, a small town in rural Britain.When it comes to keeping cheaply in touch with a dispersed family or friends, as opposed to running a global empire, the web ought to be a great resource for everyone. It has commercial applications and great social consequences too.But this is the fly in the ointment of the great internet boom. During this election campaign we're not hearing anything much about that last-century anxiety, the digital divide. But it exists right under our noses: it's just that nobody in media land talks about it.The penetration of the internet has stalled. The Oxford Internet Institute this month rushed out findings from its latest survey, for a public sector seminar. Professor Bill Dutton, the Institute's director, said the headline finding is that internet access in Britain has plateaued, at 60%, barely moving from 59% in 2003, and that we are a long way behind the US and parts of Scandinavia. These findings are broadly supported by Ofcom - which intends to investigate this summer - and BT.Mike Hughes, BT's corporate and social responsibility head, says: "Internet growth has not changed in three years. People who had the drive to get on the internet have done so. The hard core don't want to get engaged. It is not improving, in 20 years' time we could still have a significant digital divide."Yet there are trusted brands, including the BBC, constructing tempting online services, such as the opportunity to catch up on The Archers. Is it having any effect, beyond preaching to the converted? The BBC's latest statements of programme policy, published last week, at least said the corporation would participate in a campaign "to increase awareness of the internet and how to get connected", but it is older people who need care and attention, not children.The Oxford research shows that of those householders with the internet at home, 82% earn more than &#163;37,000 a year. Almost everyone of school age uses a computer. But usage drops off the cliff after the age of, yes, 74 - and the decline accelerates from the mid 50s (though of course there are plenty of exceptions).And there is this hefty core of refuseniks, 36%, higher now than digital TV refuseniks, supplemented by churners who don't want to be reconnected. (I felt like this about five years ago when AOL served up hardcore porn to my children's computer.)The reasons people don't have a computer include the fact that they remain expensive. Second, they are not simple plug in and play, and they have a habit of going wrong. Refuseniks tell researchers they are "not for people of my age".Among the drop outs, 13% said they were too difficult, but 11% cite a bad experience, spam, viruses, offensive material. A culture of fear, newspaper stories about chatroom paedophiles and net fraud don't help, while computer terms such as "firewall" bewilder.Meanwhile broadband connections, driven by BT's cut- pricing, are largely comprised of people upgrading from narrowband; it is as if the entire online world is preaching to the converted. It's worth contrasting these findings with the easy familiarity that people have with mobile telephones - &#163;100 buys you a pretty good handset. But in the commercial world, the young guns simply don't recognise this digital divide. They just see gold.This plateau was certainly not on anyone's mind at the recent presentation by the Interactive Advertising Bureau, which trumpeted a 60% growth in audited online advertising in Britain during 2004 - explosive growth for sure. But then, advertisers are not bothered about selling to the over-50s, let alone pensioners.This is all rather depressing, because many of the people who would benefit greatly from internet services are precisely in this age group. Surely a medium wishing to be the equal of television or radio, and to trounce direct mail, needs to aspire to be in every home?
TS Eliot once said that "television is a medium of entertainment which permits millions of people to listen to the same joke at the same time, and yet remain lonesome". He is not the only one who thinks so.From today, a group of anti-TV guerrillas, as scathing as the poet about the influence of the small screen on society, plans to liberate people from its irresistible grip. They will be using a recently launched gizmo called TV-B-Gone to take direct action against television sets in public places.The glorified remote control, about the size of a key ring, will switch off most television sets within a 45ft radius within 60 seconds.The device will form the focus of TV-Turnoff Week, an annual protest against television's all-pervasive influence, which began in the US 11 years ago. Organised by the TV-Turnoff Network, White Dot and anti-consumerism group AdBusters, the protest has steadily spread to other countries including Canada and the UK.The protesters plan to identify restaurants, pubs, bars and other public places they believe are ruined by the presence of a television.They will then pay each one a visit and forcibly turn off their sets, leaving behind spoof menus and posters protesting about how the background hum of the television has replaced the art of conversation.So doing, they hope to spark debate about the extent to which television has permeated our social lives."For most people, TV has become a default activity. If you're not doing anything else you tend to watch TV. People become very defensive when you challenge them about it. If you sleep for eight hours and work for eight hours, people give half the rest to TV," said David Burke, the founder of the UK arm of White Dot which is organising the protest on this side of the Atlantic.The group - named after the light circle that appears on a screen just before it goes blank - has the motto: "Turn off that TV set, go outside and live!"Mr Burke points to the rise in the last few years of so-called "ambient" forms of television advertising as evidence of a spreading epidemic.Supermarkets, petrol stations and even hand dryers feature televisions, he says, so you can't ignore them even if you want to."Television companies are facing a real problem. You go to these conferences and they're terrified about losing 'eyeballs'. The language is actually of 'capturing eyeballs'. We're offering people the chance of liberation," he says.Uphill battleMr Burke concedes that he's facing an uphill battle, given the extent to which television dominates conversation, the printed media and culture in general. However, despite the ongoing explosion in the number of channels available, the number of hours that the average adult spends watching television has actually gone down in recent years, partly due to the internet.Mr Burke is keen to stress that White Dot is making no judgment about the quality of television, merely about the extent to which it has come to dominate homes, offices, restaurants and bars, and its detrimental effect on our lives."They're all minutes of our lives. You're devoting 10 to 12 years of your life to watching TV. What would you be doing with those 10 years otherwise? You would be talking to your kids or your partner. It's not a small thing," he says.Mitch Altman, who spent two years inventing the TV-B-Gone device and distributes it through his own Cornfield Electronics company in San Francisco, said he came up with the idea on a night out with friends.Typically, the group became entranced by a silent television in the corner of the restaurant they were in and he resolved to do something about it."I've been overwhelmed by the response. It's just amazing how many people have taken it up. It gave voice to a frustration that people didn't even realise they had."I see the TV being on or off as a personal choice," adds the 48-year-old, who is a self-confessed hater of "ambient TV", the kind of visual muzak often blasted over the airwaves in airport lounges, shops and waiting rooms. "I don't ever turn off TV that people are choosing to watch."In the US, the movement has gained considerable momentum over the past 10 years. Embracing an unusual coalition of rightwing moralisers convinced that television leads to violence among children, health campaigners concerned about obesity and anti-globalisation protesters trying to temper the influence of media conglomerates, the campaign has become a well-organised fixture in the calendar.Groups visit schools to encourage pupils to take part, volunteers leaflet establishments with televisions and the website includes academic studies purporting to show how television encourages violence and stunts academic achievement among children.Mr Burke retains a sense of humour about the enterprise, but insists that he's deadly serious in his mission."I don't have as much pre-packaged fun as I used to," he says of giving up television. "But it turns out ordinary life is OK."
Some say it is more likely to give you a black eye than a black screen, but those supporting TV-Turnoff week have been snapping up TV-B-Gone devices in their droves since they were launched in America last year.Campaigners can use the keyring-sized gizmo to turn off nearly any television set from a safe distance."Of course, there will be some people who will misuse any tool," says its inventor, Mitch Altman. "But there have been no horror stories. When you misuse some tools - like a gun -   there are horrible consequences. When you turn off a TV, people can just switch it back on."The system works much like a universal remote control, beaming a series of infrared codes giving the "sleep" command to the target TV set until it finds the one that works. In extreme cases it can take more than a minute for the correct code to be located, but Mr Altman claims 90% of sets will be switched off within 17 seconds.Response to the contraption has varied from the very good to the disastrous. Some telly addicts have reacted vociferously to the possibility of losing valuable TV time. "In sports bars, there are 12 or 20 screens," says Altman. "If one gets turned off, people just turn their eyeballs to the next screen. Sometimes they even start talking."Initial interest in the &#163;9 device was so great that the company website crashed. Original stocks sold out within two days, and Mr Altman still struggles to keep up with demand. People are now picking up the gadgets from eBay, where they sometimes sell for more than double the usual retail price. But fans say any price is worth it simply for the look of confusion on the faces of innocent bystanders.
What is it?Broadband for under a tenner.Wow, that's cheapHard to imagine that less than a year ago if you wanted to go online from home at more than dial-up speed you would be looking at shelling out at least &#163;25 a month. On top of that, you might have been charged anything up to a &#163;100 for a broadband modem or hit with a ludicrous "activation fee" for a few tenners more. Now, thanks to Broadband 500 from UK Online, you can get a high-speed connection from just &#163;9.99 a month.What's the catch?UK Online can discount so aggressively because it has its own equipment in BT's local exchanges. Known as local loop unbundling, it effectively means that UK Online - via parent EasyNet - owns its own network. The only snag, of course, is you have to live near one of the BT exchanges that UK Online has converted. If you don't, tough. The company says it can still "deliver your services using BT's network", but you pay extra, currently a not very competitive &#163;19.99 for a standard 512kbps connection.Stylish package?Just over 500kbps isn't going to get you to the moon and back, but then neither is &#163;9.99. But getting an always-on fast-ish internet connection for the price of three beers or a trip to the movies seems like pretty good value for money, providing of course you live in one of the 4.4m homes that can get it.Wow or ugh?Since neither Early Adopter's north London villa, the Guardian EC1 headquarters nor mum's house is near a UK Online-enabled exchange, we will have to reserve judgement. One good thing, even if you can't get it, is that the &#163;10 price point is going to put pressure on rival providers to match it or come near, which should be a boon to most of the UK's 6 million broadband users.When can I get it?Anytime you like, as long as your postcode comes up trumps when you type it intowww.ukonline.net
Olivier Creze has one of the most frustrating jobs in Britain; not since Tantalus has a mortal had to deal with as much temptation on a daily basis. You see, Olivier is the parking attendant at the Waterside Inn, the Roux brothers' multi-starred gastrodome on the banks of the Thames, and he spends his days driving Porsches, Maseratis, Lamborghinis, Bentleys, Astons ... at an average speed of about 4mph.Today, Olivier is lucky enough to be parking my Ferrari 575M Maranello, top speed 203mph - he may use its immense 5.7-litre V12 engine to break the 5mph barrier. Of course, when I say 'my', I'm using the word in its loosest sense. The Ferrari has been loaned to me by P1 - a performance-car club for members started by Damon Hill in 1996. And, like all the best things in life, it goes back on Monday. Until then, though, I'm living a parallel life. A life which I am so immediately at one with that I have begun to suspect I have been the victim of some cruel mix-up at birth which has denied me my rightful heritage. But then, wouldn't everyone be happy with a &#163;200 lunch at the stunning Waterside Inn and a beautiful &#163;156,700 car? I'd better explain ...There's an old motoring adage. If you are going to buy a Ferrari, don't buy a red one - because everyone will know it's your first. To update the maxim, I'd say you'd be better off not buying one at all. Instead, sign up to a car club. No one wants the hassle and expense of maintenance, storage and insurance, yet we all want to sample the perfection of a car that looks like Sophia Loren and handles like Jake LaMotta. And this is where P1 steps in.P1 members pay a fee to gain points to be exchanged for one of its 45 or so supercars. Top flight models (Lamborghini Murcielago, Aston Martin Vanquish, Ferrari F430, Ford GT) and popular dates will deplete your store of credits quicker than a less elite car on a rainy weekday. It's worth noting that at P1 a 'less elite car' is something like a Lotus Exige S2, Noble M400 or AC Cobra.It's not cheap - there's a joining fee of &#163;2,500 and then an annual sub of &#163;11,750. But for that you get between 50 and 70 driving days depending on how you play your points. P1's argument is that the depreciation alone on any one car in its fleet is likely to be more than the cost of annual membership. On top of that, you get drive any/all of the cars you fancy. Had I the 12 grand to play with, I'd join for one year and tick off all dream cars I've ever wanted to get my hands on.At the moment there're about 230 members on P1's books - of whom just two are women. One of the men, luckily for me, is Michel Roux, who graciously, invited me to lunch over at his place by the river ...A few hours and nine sublime courses later, we stumble out of the Waterside into the sunshine. Olivier hands me my keys. Then, as I fire up the Ferrari's colossal engine, he leans into the window and says: 'And now for ze pudding ...'&#183;For more information on P1: 01372 374 400;www.p1international.com. For the Waterside Inn: 01628 620 691;www.waterside-inn.co.uk
"Elwood 'Woody' Norris pointed a metal frequency emitter at one of perhaps 30 people who had come to see his invention. The emitter  an aluminum square  was hooked up by a wire to a CD player. Norris switched on the CD player," reportsAP."There's no speaker, but when I point this pad at you, you will hear the waterfall," said the 63-year-old Californian.And one by one, each person in the audience did, and smiled widely.Norris' HyperSonic Sound system has won him an award coveted by inventors  the $500,000 annual Lemelson-MIT Prize. It works by sending a focused beam of sound above the range of human hearing. When it lands on you, it seems like sound is coming from inside your head.Comment:The story says he's also invented anAirScooter.
"A copy of the original Electronics magazine in which Moore's Law was first published has turned up under the floorboards of a Surrey engineer. David Clark had kept copies of the magazine for years, despite pleas from his wife to throw them away," reportsBBC News."Now the couple are celebrating after collecting the $10,000 (5,281) reward which was offered by chip maker Intel."Comment:Intel posted a wanted ad on eBay, seebelow.
Poor celebrities, they can't blink without someone taking their picture and scoffing at how weird they look with their eyes closed. Visitblinkorama.blogspot.comfor the evidence. Meanwhilecelebrities-eating.comhas added more pictures of famous folk wrestling with bad food. Fans of photos of drunk stars falling out of taxis - who isn't? - should head towww.befuddle.co.uk, a high-end version ofwww.beerandugby.com/Pages/mateinastate.htmbut with Paris Hilton. Calmer people paparazzi can be found atwww.notundoom.com/whileyouweresleeping.html. Whilewww.hanasiana.com/sptfeatures photos of people taking photos. Finally for some Japanese photo fun why not pay Miss McDonald a visit atwww.livejournal.com/- just don't mention Hamburgler.
