"I think of cyberspace as very womb-like," said the lecturer at the Women and the internet information day. "Men don't know what to do with technology - look at Frankenstein."Thus was I initiated some five years ago into the mysteries of the internet and other cyber breakthroughs, surrounded by similarly perplexed women wondering what was so advanced about standing in front of a console with a bucket on your head (all right, a virtual reality   headset) offering a shaky perspective of an airport runway.Organisers of the event, at a progressive northern university, seemed undecided as to whether women needed extra coaxing to risk trying technology, or whether - to our amusement - we were all actually biologically in tune with the cybersphere.I came away with a sheaf of notes I never looked at again and a faint sense that, once we got over the nonsense of jargon and fancy graphics, women might begin to discover the internet as an   invaluable tool for exchanging information and experiences unvalued in other media.Half a decade on, I am still seeking that kind of forum - at least in the UK. Just as the feminist debate remains vibrant across the Atlantic while generally muffled here, so the vast majority of sites aimed at women originate in the United States.While the US originates a string of cheery, gossipy (and free) subscription services offering competitions, health advice, consumer information, academic research and links    to an ever-expanding database of specially-selected sites, in Britain we are steered to the austere homepage of the government's Women's Unitwww.open.gov.uk/womens-unit/index.htm. Find out about the continuing pay gender gap, the problem of teenage pregnancies and try to spot the word feminism (clue - it's missing), but don't expect many laughs.Across the pond, women are busy conjuring sites that are accessible and magazine-like in feel. A free subscription will send a couple of fresh emails bouncing into your in-tray each week. Go towww.women.com, for example, and sign up toBeatrice's Web Guidefor a regular newsletter promising "Only the good stuff". One edition this week boasted a chance to chat (at midnight UK time, admittedly) with an expert on disaster-proofing your life against the millennium bug; an invitation to visit and contribute to a digest of travel recommendations by and for women; shopping "Deal of the Week"; and - pleasingly eccentric, this - a web address for avirtual roller coaster ride.I looked up chocolate and found a plethora of links, including a women-run company selling products, including the sweet stuff, from the Basque country. A comprehensive index runs from adoption via lingerie to witchcraft. There's also the Cybergrrl Town Hall where you can chat or join discussion forums. (Don't be put off by the daft spelling: a friend sought advice about the joys and pitfalls of inviting an elderly relative to live in her family home and was rewarded with a host of experiences and tips.)This week's featured Femina site, a celebration of women writers, comes close to describing the woolly hopes I had for the web. "We all walk around with all kinds of information in our heads, about things that we're interested in, whether it be football, or turkish drums, or stories our grandmother told us, or anything!... If we were lucky we knew other people who collected similar scraps, but most of the time, no one else could benefit from all we knew. Now, we can put information that we've carefully gathered on a webpage, and suddenly hundreds, maybe thousands of other people, can benefit from our knowledge and experience."Again, you can subscribe - look for FeminaMail (listserv@lists.cgim.com). And yes, says the site reassuringly, "guys are welcome too".For a still more serious    women's site, urging you to "Get informed, get organised and get connected with other activists", visitWomensNet, for links to Serbian feminist organisations or reports on family-friendly working.A more historical perspective is on offer at the Fawcett Library, the UK's much underrated national library for women, to be found viaLondon Guidlhall University's site. The FAQs (frequently asked questions) are particularly handy - find out about the meaning of suffragette colours, the origin of the term feminism, and even, disappointingly, that bra-burning "almost certainly never happened".Lest we get too serious, one more recommendation. Seek outThe Virtual Woman- yet another excellent "Women's Weekly Guide to Cyberspace" - and discover a link to a TV theme tunes site atwww.classic-tv.com. Then click on the theme to Wonderwoman, and play at maximum volume.&#149;  Lucy Ward is the Guardian's political correspondent
iMac to goApple is expected to unveil a portable and probably colourful Macintosh computer aimed at consumers at the MacWorld show in New York later this month (July 20-23). The P1, which may be called the WebMate, is being made in Taiwan by Alpha Top, and is expected to start shipping in August, though an unconfirmed report has suggested further delays.Apple's interim chief executive Steve Jobs killed the company's last effort in this area, the curvaceous Newton-based eMate, and the new machine will fulfil his strategy of providing Macs in four basic categories: consumer desktop, consumer portable, business desktop, business portable. Apple may also unveil an improved version of the iMac, code-named C2, with 366MHz processor, 64 megabytes of memory and an almost-17in screen.LookalikeEver since the iMac came out, Taiwanese PC manufacturers have talked about producing lookalikes running Microsoft Windows 98. Future Power, a Californian start-up, seems to have beaten them to it with its E-Power all-in-one machine, (right) shown at last week's New York Expo computer exhibition. The E-Power has a 400MHz Intel Celeron (Pentium II) chip, 64MB of memory and a 6.4G hard drive in a translucent coloured case. It looks like an iMac but at $799 costs a third less. It even has a floppy disk drive. Seewww.futurepowerusa.comLinux loses It's official:Microsoft's Windows NT operating system really is better than the GNU/Linux clone of Unix, but not by as much as Microsoft would like you to believe. In a five-day showdown conducted by PC Week Labs in the US, NT beat GNU/Linux in every test.However, to take but one example, the NT/Web server proved only 225% faster than GNU/Linux/Apache, not 400%. The larger difference was claimed earlier this year following benchmark tests   conducted independently by Mindcraft Inc but paid for by Microsoft.Linux fans cried foul and demanded a rematch. For the PC Labs tests, the Linux supporters - represented by Red Hat, the leading GNU/Linux distributor -    were able to make all the tweaks they could think of, but were unable to match NT even on low-end hardware. In fact, a single-processor NT system performed as well as a four-processor Linux box, which is exactly the reverse of the Linux movement's propaganda.Free SEMicrosoft is giving Windows 98 users in the UK and Ireland free upgrades to the new Windows 98 Second Edition (ie Windows 4.10.2222A), which compares with the US price of $20, if they can produce a receipt. SE doesn't have many improvements    over the first version except for replacing Internet Explorer 4 with IE5, but does include a utility to preven t websites reading the serial number Intel has built into Pentium III processors. The best way to apply for SE is via the website atwww.microsoft.com/uk/but Microsoft Connections is handling telephone applications on 0345 002000.Hot buttonsPress this blue key for your favourite website. Microsoft is planning to launch a range of keyboards that can be programmed to work with a web browser - Internet Explorer, Netscape or AOL 4. The $29.95 model has only two blue keys, while the $54.95 Internet Keyboard Pro has eight, plus extra keys to play music CDs and PC audio and video. There will also be an ergonomic Natural Keyboard Pro version priced at $74.95. The new keyboards should be out in the US in October.Rio grandS3, maker of the Savage family of graphics chips, is taking over Diamond Multimedia Systems, which makes graphics cards and home networking products, for $180m in    shares. Diamond - best known for its pocket-sized Rio MP3 music player - is almost three times the size of S3.  Jack SchofieldEMI for MP3Signs that the British music industry has learned to stop worrying and love MP3 sound files emerged last week with a deal between EMI, owner of Capital and Virgin, and Liquid Audio to start encoding the record company's back catalogue. Also, on Monday the British music industry accepted the Secure Digital Music Initiative (STMI), aimed at providing a secure copy-protection system for delivering digital music. An EMI spokesman said the deal with Liquid Audio - in which EMI will receive a shareholding - showed the company was now looking to "deliver music in any way that anyone wants as long as we can ensure that our rights are protected". EMI expects to be selling downloadable MP3s in time for Christmas.  Sean Dodson
Virgin cutsVirgin Megastores has slashed the price of Sony PlayStation games to &#163;29.99 "for a limited time only". The street price of most new games is now around &#163;35- &#163;40, down from &#163;45-&#163;50 two or three years ago. Full-price games have been put under pressure by the success of Sony's Platinum range, which recycles full-price hits at &#163;19.99. The average selling price of PC games has also been put under pressure by "classic" and "budget" ranges, including the Sold Out range at only &#163;9.99. It now looks as though the only way is down.BA (Games)Students who spend most of their time at university playing games could soon get degrees and good jobs... as long as they're at the University of Teesside, which is introducing a four-year course in computer games design. Course leader Matthew Holton says: "The course has been compiled with a great deal of input from experts in the games industry... and some of the lecturing staff are former computer games designers and technicians."Not-Final FantasyThe English-language version of Final Fantasy VIII, the next in famed Japanese developer Square's series of fantasy role-playing games, has been delayed: it is now expected to ship in the US on September   7, just after Tiberian Sun. The development of Final Fantasy IX is already under way; so is a Final Fantasy Anthology of the best loved songs from episodes V and VI.Meanwhile, Square Pictures, in Honolulu, is working on a $70m computer-animated version, Final Fantasy: The Movie, which will be distributed by Columbia Pictures some time after the millennium. Donald Sutherland is one of the actors signed up to provide voices.Salty ballsSouth Park: Chef's Luv Shack is being developed by Acclaim in the US to follow up last year's TV cartoon-inspired success. Luv Shack will be a multiplayer trivia-style game - apparently something like Nintendo's Mario Party - for the PC, Sony PlayStation and Nintendo 64. Up to four players will be able to compete as Cartman, Kenny, Kyle, or Stan while the chef himself, Isaac Hayes, provides tasty soundbites.Vote now, vote oftenNominations for The Official PlayStation Magazine games awards will be published in the next issue, on sale July 12, and gamers will also be able to vote for their favourites in Electronics Boutique shops. The awards ceremony will be held in London on August 12, compered by Denise Van Outen. And you won't get long odds on Gran Turismo or Metal Gear Solid.
Big draw revisitedOrganic Art DeluxePC CD-ROM Mindscape &#163;14.99Attention, screensaver fans! OK, so it may be a select group, but it's one that appears to be the target of this release. The follow-up to 1995's Organic Art, an image   generator based on the work of computer artist William Latham, OAD has been souped up to make use of the Pentium III chip and 3-D graphics acceleration.And yes, you can create some truly mind-boggling screenscapes: steel tetrahedra bouncing all over an Escher drawing, caffeine-crazed nautili turning pirouettes, pregnant eyeballs exploding.But like its spiritual predecessor, Spirograph, it's very much a matter of trial and error. The truly disappointing aspect is the lack of a facility to create or even modify the program's basic building blocks - the ability to design (or import) your own shapes and backgrounds would have given it a crucial extra shot of interactivity. As it is, what you've got is a slightly more psychedelic lava lamp.Trading placesAliens V PredatorPC CD Rom Fox Interactive &#163;34.99Just who do you choose? The manoeuvrable alien, the predator, who can become invisible or the well-armed but vulnerable marine?The choice is yours in Aliens V Predator, a first person shooter that pitches the stars of the aforementioned movies in a three-race free for all. Each species has their own attributes. Playing as the predator allows you to hunt using an all-seeing tracking mode before finishing the job with an array of techno-weaponry.The marine, while being a vulnerable human, offers all the gadgets and firepower you'd expect.Most gratifying of all is the alien. This Gigeresque speed-merchant may be unarmed but its wide-eyed vision and ability to crawl on ceilings mean that you can silently dispatch your victims from above. It's a good job that space is oblivious to your   screams as the howls of frustration when playing Aliens V Predator would cause major galactic discomfort.Death is a more than regular occurrence, and the lack of in-level save points mean nearly completed sections have to be restarted.Foxhas belatedly rectified  this.Half-Life is the current king of the genre, and while Aliens V Predator is genuinely scary, it doesn't spin nearly as interesting a yarn as Valve's classic.That said, each species has distinct missions that offer a   varied challenge, although it is the multiplayer capability that ensures longevity.Sci-fi groupies will lap up the film references while the more fortunate will relish this atmospheric and violent romp.Decided on your species yet?Little fightTotal Annihilation: KingdomsWindows 95/98 GT Interactive &#163;39.99To be fair, the box has Total Annihilation in very small letters and Kingdoms in large ones. However, one has to wonder if there's any real connection between the 1997 RTS (real-time strategy) megahit and this new fantasy title, except the very similar control systems and the fact that both have been produced by Cavedog Entertainment.TA fans who liked fighting futuristic battles and blasting rival players to bits may not necessarily like poncing about with a sword in what's really a single-player serial saga, though there are enough lightning bolts flying around to make King Arthur green about the gills.Of course, some would    argue that all RTS games are basically the same, even those with magic spells, and Kingdoms is a luscious example of the genre. The animations are beautifully done, and very smooth on a 450MHz Pentium III with 128 megs of memory and a 3-D graphics card (minimum 233MHz Pentium and 32MB, it claims:   your mileage may vary).There must be at least a hundred units, because the four sides - representing earth, air, fire and water - have different forces. The 3-D terrain isn't bad, and the player's limited vision (the "fog of war" means you can only see where you are) is well   implemented. The gameplay also offers lots of variety, because in adventure mode you have to play all the different sides, male and female, good and evil, to complete the 48 missions.Alternatively you can just fight the computer or a human player, and if you don't have any enemies to play, there are lots in Boneyard, the online gaming section of Cavedog's website.All in all, Kingdoms is a complex and challenging game that could well appeal to people who liked Warcraft II or Heroes of Might &amp; Magic or even Civilization.But if you're a kick-ass TA player who wants a souped-up sequel, this isn't it.
You probably know the old joke about the three bricklayers encountered by an inquisitive passing stranger. The first, a techy, says simply: "I'm laying bricks". The second, managing by objectives, says: "I'm building a cathedral". The third, a visionary, proclaims: "I'm honouring God".Too much discussion of the net is at the laying-bricks level. How many hours a day do you spend doing email? the pollsters ask. "Two    hours?" Goodness, what a waste of time! Imagine what you could be doing instead: meeting customers, counselling subordinates, analysing competitors, hanging out with the kids, or taking in a good play. I spend three hours a day going through 300 emails, but that's not what I am doing at all. I am doing all of the above - except for the play. I'd like to deconstruct the use of email.It is not an activity in itself but a medium for activity. Let me tell you what I did in half an hour, while sat in a San Francisco hotel one morning waiting for the swimming pool to open:Advance - web-based:I forwarded a query from a PR guy trying to set up a meeting to someone else in my office. First of all, email is a good medium for delegating tasks. I don't need to explain the details; I just forward the original message.Meeting:I wrote to several people in a company trying to get to the bottom of who cancelled a meeting and why. This one will probably end up in a phone call, but first I want to see everyone's version of the story.  Second, email is a great management tool. What I don't want is lots of private conversations with different    versions of the truth diverging further and further. By copying everyone, I try to get at a single version of what happened, even though the people are separated by place and time zones. But good email can calm things down, slow the build-up of accusations and tensions that might occur in a phone call, and give everyone a chance to be heard.Market analysis:I responded to an analysis of a certain marketplace with a copy to all, so we can all collect and share our information perspectives. Email is a great way to share information within a group; in this case, we're trying to understand a group of people we'll be meeting with later next month. Joe knows something; I know something; the next few people in the cc list will have other things to add.In-store internet and interested in learning more about globalisation?:I said no thanks to another PR guy about another meeting. Two of them, actually.July 2:I thanked my assistant for her vain attempts to get someone to call me. Thanking people is a nice thing to do. It takes about 10 seconds in an email.July 22:I suggested some people to invite to a dinner    being organised for an important person on July 22. Now we'll have to take that list and annotate as it goes back and forth. What does the guest of honour think of the suggestions? If we have Juan do we also want Alice?July 6-7:I confirmed a meeting with a Washington think tank to talk about the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) on July 7.Name withheld:I traded stroking with someone interested in buying one of the start-ups I have invested in. This was a private note, between us. But I may forward a copy to the manager on my side, to keep him posted.Re: URGENT:I asked my assistant for more information about a meeting I'm going to this Friday. A gentle reminder! Some emails can be slightly annoying; on the other hand, they do provoke people into action.Tried to register for September 13:I sent an email to register for a conference in Paris.And the answer:I arranged to see a friend Sunday afternoon in London. We're close friends, and we've been having a running email conversation about my personal life. It will be good to see her in person!Next weekend:I tried to    appease a disgruntled colleague, and offered to meet with him on Tuesday. A soft answer turneth away wrath.Name withheld website:I happened to come across a relevant item about a certain company expanding into Mexico, so I copied it into a short email and simply sent it along with an FYI. Message delivered: The content itself, plus the subtext: "Yes, I'm interested in you and this deal. Keep in touch. Ready to talk when you are."New topic - with schedule:I asked an old friend what he's up to these days. This is someone I've worked with in the past and like a lot. Now I may have just the right new project for him. In this message, I included my alt&#91;ernate&#93; sig file, with a listing of my travel plans over the next few months. I invited him to see if there's a city where our paths might cross.Anne, meet Susan!:Anne's looking for a job; Susan may    have one. I took Susan's message, saying sure she'd be interested in someone like Anne, deleted some other private stuff (indicating I had done so) and replied to her with a copy to Anne. Now they can communicate directly. That all took half an hour - half an hour well-spent. It was half an hour of my own choosing: I did not need to coordinate with anyone, plan for it, or figure out anyone else's schedule .Of course, I know almost all the people I send email to. Most of the mail happens in the context of some existing relationship; I use it in context as part of a web of various kinds of communications: phone calls, actual meetings, reports from third parties. It extends and maintains relationships more than it creates them. Indeed, it's not  the web, but it's part of  a  web of relationships that includes meetings, phone calls, purchase orders, voice mails, third-party gossip - all the ways people communicate with one another.This is quite a variety of things! A techy would say I was doing email. A manager would list all the items above, and the objectives each email accomplished, as I have done. And the visionary would say: I'm building businesses. Email is just a tool.
When Malaysia's deputy prime minister, Anwar Ibrahim, was arrested on September 2 last year on what were widely regarded as political charges, his supporters didn't just take to the streets - they hit the net.Denied access to the traditional media, which was widely seen as toeing the government line, protesters turned to newsgroups, mailing lists and pro-Anwar websites, to access information and organise countless protests.Within a few weeks, several of these sites had recorded more than a million hits, as they vociferously attacked the established order and called for political reform.Ironically, it was the prime minister Mahathir Mohamad who had promoted the wider use of the internet through his Multimedia Super Corridor project ("wiring" up the country), and his campaign to develop "smart schools" producing technology-savvy students.This also led to the creation of numerous cyber- cafes, where many of the pro-democracy students now gather, to access foreign news, human rights and campaign sites critical of the ruling regime.With close to 500,000 people online (expected to double by next year) among a population of 22 million, the internet has proved a relatively cheap way for people to criticise their government. It is one of the few places where Malaysians can participate in no-holds-barred debate, or access uncensored information. Opposition parties and activists have been quick to launch websites, as has the prime minister (who has his own site) and his allies.Many of the newsgroup messages deal with how to avoid detection by the authorities. Users often adopt aliases, although this didn't prevent the arrest of four people last August. They were charged with spreading rumours of rioting, via their newsgroup, which caused widespread panic at the time.Towards the end of last year, police set up an internet unit to monitor sites and newsgroups protesting against the regime. The government is now looking to mount a legal offensive against critical sites, claiming that many have been funded by "foreign" elements.A government spokesman said that more than 3,000 pages had been downloaded from the net containing "defamatory" material against the government and the ruling party, Umno.Human rights sources have suggested that Mahathir's officials are obviously worried that the internet may be eroding the ruling coalition's support base, especially among the urban, educated Malays who have web access.Mahathir is not happy with the situation. "The dirty use of the internet is most depressing," he has said. He claims it is a tool for imparting knowledge,not a medium through which to "convey all the dirt in our heart".Useful linksGeneralAmnesty Internationalwww.amnesty.orgHuman Rights Watchwww.hrw.orgOneworld.netwww.oneworld.orgMalaysiaPrime Minister's officewww.smpke.jpm.myThe Star newspaperhttp://thestar.com.myAnwar Onlinehttp://members.tripod.com/ Anwar_IbrahimSingapore &amp; Malaysia Human Rights Associationwww.pactok.net/docs/singapore
Typewriters, roneo machines and a loudhailer used to be the standard tool kit of the campaigner. For the generation that fought apartheid, getting the message across involved direct communication: flyers, stirring speeches at public meetings and a dog-eared petition.These days campaigning has gone virtual. When Bono went online last month to talk about third world debt, 36,000 people from around the world entered the chatroom. By the end of the day almost two million people had read the transcript of thesession, a record for the Microsoft Network which hosted the event.Bono was clearly a little uncertain at first about his   invisible internet audience. "I'd like to say firstly that I am used to speaking to people in their bodies," he typed. By the end of the session he was leading an online singalong and was being bombarded with cyberflowers.The campaign to drop the debt illustrates how the internet has become a central organising tool for nongovernmental organisations.This month has been a busy one for Jubilee 2000www.jubilee2000uk.org) the coalition of charities, trade unions and churches which has co-ordinated the debt campaign. Three weekends ago, they organised a huge rally in Trafalgar Square on debt, followed by a human chain of 50,000 people along the banks of the Thames. The following weekend, their Ger man counterpart organised a similar number people from all over the world to lobby G7 leaders meeting in Cologne.The task would have been impossible without email, according to Nick Buxton, communications and networks manager for Jubilee 2000. "It's absolutely crucial because our campaign is global," he says. "So many of our contacts have been built up on email."Once, information crossed national boundaries only by phone, fax or post. Just like multinational businesses, campaigners on international issues found getting information disseminated throughout their network was a seriously time-consuming business.Email has made campaigners sometimes quicker at responding to international   political developments than governments. In the run-up to Cologne, western leaders were issuing statements almost daily about debt. With partners across the world alerting them to news, Jubilee 2000 sometimes reacted to other countries' initiatives before the treasury did.Even petitions have moved into cyberspace. Jubilee 2000 collected 150,000 signatures online for the petition it presented to G7 leaders at Cologne. Out of a global total of 17 million, the cyber contribution was small, however, dwarfed by the two million signatures collected in Peru alone, where most people don't have access to a computer, let alone the net.Four years ago, most UK charities barely knew what the internet was, says Sara Chamberlain, web manager for Christian Aid. She came toOxfam UKat the start of 1996 after designing web pages for a San Francisco environmental charity. While American NGOs (non-governmental   organisation) had already latched onto the potential of the web, "only three people in Oxfam had access to the net and interest in it was very low". If charities used the net at all, it was as a cheap way of publishing. "Typically they would whack their annual report up onto their web site," she says.Click on any NGO site now and the contrast is dramatic. OnChristian Aid'ssite, you can send an email postcard to the chancellor Gordon Brown, urging him to get a better deal on debt for the world's poorest countries, find out if your local supermarket gives the Brazilians who pick your coffee beans a fair deal, or download a report on genetically- modified organisms."Charities have jumped onto the internet because it is so cheap and you can access the whole world," says Chamberlain. Once upon a time, distributing information on GMOs would have involved an expensive publishing operation and, because charitable budgets are stretched, the end   result "would not exactly have been the Face magazine."Now, with the advice of internet service providers who specialise in hosting NGOs, even the smallest charity can produce an online document with nearcommerical production values. Chamberlain says the internet gives them the space to explain complicated issues like debt. "It's all quite bite sized and easily digestible."One of the first charities to see the possibilities for NGOs on the net was theOneWorld Broadcasting Trust. Established in 1987 to encourage the mainstream media to cover development issues, OneWorld set up an on line presence in 1995. It now provides a news service on development issues through links to over 500 NGO sites.Mark Lynas, the UK editor for OneWorld Online says the net has made a huge difference. "It has enabled NGOs to form global networks to mobilise opinion," he says. "They can bypass the   traditional gatekeepers to information - government censorship and the mainstream media - and access people directly."Of course at the moment most of the people they are addressing are in the West. Internet access in the developing world, where computers are still are a rarity, is minimal. But with assistance and training from organisations like OneWorld, grassroots groups in the developing world are starting to click onto its possibilities.The net could potentially give the powerless a voice in international affairs, Lynas says. Indian farmers protesting against genetically modified crops have been liaising recently with landless Latin American peasants as part of a world-wide campaign against the onward march of globalisation. "That kind of south to south support hasn't been possible before."The net can put global campaigning within the reach of even the smallest charity or organisation. But Chamber lain wonders how much of its current appeal is just that sending a postcard online is sexier than writing a proper letter to a minister. "The ease with which you can take action is very appealing," she says. Politicians know that as well and are less likely to be influenced by cyber communications.Internet petitions and postcards are no substitute for the old fashioned public rally when it comes to demonstrating political commitment. Jubilee 2000 has succeeded precisely because it was able to attract 100,000 people out onto the streets in support of its campaign, the kind of audience politicians can't afford to ignore. The net may be changing the face of campaigning, but it's not time yet to mothball the loudhailer and the rousing speech.    &149; Additional research by Tamsin Snow
There are lies, damn lies and millennium bug crises. Statistically, almost a third of Britain's top 1,000 companies are heading for the virtual rocks, their computer programs unable to cope with the century change and posing a threat to the entire economy.Or, again statistically, the overwhelming bulk of large firms are pretty well on track   to be bug-free by the end of the year, and the likelihood of disruption to the economy, including crucial public services, is diminishing by the week.Robin Guenier, head of Taskforce 2000, the body appointed by the last government to help make Britain Y2K-compliant, seized on the latest survey to accuse 300 of the top 1,000 firms of playing Russian roulette with the bug and ministers of being arrogantly complacent. But Action 2000, the new organisation chosen by Labour to head the campaign, ridiculed Mr Guenier's interpretation of what it claimed was a statistically unreliable survey of corporate readiness for the millennial shift.Mr Guenier, a constant scourge of ministers over the bug issue, drew on a telephone survey of 174 firms employing more than 500 to extrapolate   the "fact" that 30% were most unlikely to achieve adequate compliance on time, according to key criteria.The survey was carried out by consultants Business Strategies for law firm Dibb Lupton Alsop, and Adam Swash, survey manager, said the 17% response rate gave it unusual credibility.But Action 2000 said it had surveyed up to 12,000 firms, with responsible personnel   subjected to detailed 30-minute questionnaires, a much more reliable and in-depth assessment.Its latest survey - of 1,500 small and medium-sized firms and 306 larger companies - is due out in early August. Its last one, published in May, showed 82% of large firms and 62% of smaller firms ready for the century-change.The problem, as Mr Guenier pointed out, was one of defin ition. Action 2000 classified large firms as those employing 250 people or more; Taskforce 2000 as those with 500 or more staff.Mr Guenier said: "I believe the raw data they are getting &#91;are&#93; probably exactly the same as ours. The interpretation of that information is different...If you apply our criteria to their data you'll get the same findings; their criteria are weak and woolly."
What do you drive?Last October there was quite a bit of press when I broke the British motorcycle land-speed record on the Gillette Mac 3 Challenge. It's a 26 foot, purpose-built missile, powered by three hybrid rocket motors.  We achieved the British record of an average of 216.5 mph using just over 28% of the vehicle's power.What happens when you put the next 72% on?We need five miles of flat to reach that speed, which is why we're going to Bonneville Salt Flats in Utah this September.What does it feel like?Well, I'm in a capsule, so not much. It has two wheels, so it qualifies as a bike, but basically, I'm strapped inside a 26-foot long, land-bound missile, just like a fighter pilot.Did you want to be a fighter pilot when you were a kid?Everyone does, don't they? The greatest passion for me is the rocket propulsion. I designed and built the entire vehicle. Rocket engineering is my forte, as is the land speed record, so it kind of all made sense.Does wanting to go so fast turn you into an impatient person? Do you gobble your food?I do everything fairly quickly. Er, I'll rephrase that - not everything. But on a serious note, it's over 60 years since the UK held the record; the Americans have simply dominated the field. It would be nice to return the record to this country and to take it from the Americans on their own soil.So what are you like as a normal driver on the road. Mad, I'll bet.I'm just a normal road-user, no different. I drive a Nissan Patrol. If anything I'm the first to shout "mad bastard" when some hooligan overtakes me, music pumping out, round a blind corner, with a school nearby.Have you ever had sex in a car?Numerous times. Not something I bother with now, though...&#149;  Richard "Rocketman" Brown will attempt the motorbiking world land speed record in September, and thanks all his sponsors.
It's one of the worst possible driving sensations - pulling out into the fast lane only to find there's a huge truck bearing down from your blind spot. So how about a car that could warn you a split second before you make a dangerous move and help avoid disaster? And one, say its Massachusetts Institute of Technology inventors, which will also help you drive with more style and safety?It works via a virtual "backseat driver" - a computer programme attached to the steering wheel and electronically connected to the transmission, brake, accelerator and tiny sensors that track the environment outside the car. These connections observe your behaviour while driving and can   predict within a few seconds what driving manoeuvre you're about to carry out and whether you and the car are in the best position for it.The system relies on the fact that driving behaviour can be broken down into sequences of simpler preparatory actions, says Professor Alex Pentland, head of MIT's media unit, whose focus is improving relations between humans and machines. "When you go to turn left, for example, you get the car in a certain place in the lane, you look over your shoulder, you adjust your speed a certain way. So by looking at what you're doing, the car can say 'Hey, they do this every time they turn left, so we must be about to turn left'. Sometimes, the car might   decide what you're about to do is not a good idea, and warn you. But sometimes, it may just decide to help. If you're going to pass, it would get the transmission in the right gear and the fuel injector set up, so that when you do pass, you do it real quick." It may sound a little like an automatic but Pentland says it's quite different.The system is primed in a brief training session during which the driver is asked to perform certain manoeuvres. Back on the road, it monitors behaviour continually and when a recognised pattern crops up, it acts to prepare the car, or in the case of the juggernaut, warn the driver of impending threat to life.Tests in a driving simulator have shown the system to be 95% accurate in predicting drivers' moves three to four seconds in advance. Now, says Pentland, a tooled-up Volvo is about to be put through its strides in real life.T he team has also developed a car seat that can sense body movement, and if there's too little, indicating perhaps a drop in alertness, it encourages a shift in position. Other development work is focused on assessing driver emotions, with the aim of warning if driving is not a good idea.David Rogers, road safety adviser, royal society for the prevention of   accidents, is not totally convinced of the benefits of a back-seat driver. "If the machinery provides information to make better driving decisions, that's fine but if it takes the place of the driver, then there's research evidence that this is not beneficial."Nevertheless, if road tests fulfil current promise, new cars could come with the virtual back-seat driver as standard within two years, says Pentland. Installing it involves little more than adding a little piece of software to the computers now generally fitted in modern cars. Whether this ease of installation is reflected in the cost will be another matter.
The new royal runabout is a Volkswagen Golf, but if you're not quite up to the &#163;12,250 that even the cheapest one will cost, then how can you choose a car for your own youngster which will be safe, reliable, cheap to run and not too expensive to buy?Safety is the top priority for all parents. And Steve Fowler, deputy editor of What Car? magazine, has some especially pertinent views on the subject because his magazine publishes the results of the independent Euro NCAP new car crash-tests. And Fowler's initial comments are far from encouraging. "At the budget end of the used-car market there have to be worries about safety," he said, pointing to the very poor crash-test performance of the Rover 100, formerly the Metro.The Metro is still a popular and cheap first car, so the Rover's showing is certainly disturbing, but Fowler warns against assuming that other small hatchbacks from the 80s or early 90s would perform any better. Most of the Metro's competitors, from the 80s, like the chic little Renault 5, were out of production by the time the NCAP tests were first undertaken, so we simply can't know if they'd have done any better.But one thing is for certain: Fowler isn't optimistic about their chances. "Safety was simply less of an issue then, and the recent fall in the road-accident casualty figures show how far new cars have come in terms of safety." So choosing a more recent model is a good idea, which in turn   means that buying a 40-year-old design like the Mini probably isn't.And Fowler says modern cars have better "active safety" features too - things that help prevent an accident in the first place. He is especially keen on anti-lock (ABS) brakes, a feature which Kevin Delaney, the RAC's safety chief, also puts at the top of his wish-list. Fowler adds that the key "passive safety" features - devices that protect you if you do crash - are a driver's airbag, side-impact beams and seat-belt pre-tensioners.However Fowler concedes that if you have a small budget, these days anything up to &#163;3,000, you're unlikely to get all the modern safety aids because the car will probably be at least five years old. He advises budget buyers to go for good basic design and engineering.He picks out the VW Polo and Golf as his best buys. "Those two cars combine an appropriate lack of performance with an element of street-cred, which is what young drivers want. There's no point in buying a Nissan Micra, even though it is actually one of the most reliable superminis around, because the average 17 year old will just turn up their nose at it." Delaney, who recently bought a car for his daughter, echoes that view. "Get them to scale-down their own ambitions but then involve them in the buying process - because that will give them a sense of ownership in the car." He says the terrifying letters he's   read from RAC members who were duped into buying death-traps convinced him of the absolute necessity for independent inspection before he bought.Since the RAC offers just this service he probably would say that. But he points out: "It's when people are buying cheaper cars that &#163;100 or so for an inspection seems like a lot of money." He adds that cheap cars actually need an inspection most. If the check reveals minor defects then you can always use them as negotiating points. If the vendor gets nervous when you first mention inspection, then walk away because there's bound to be something wrong with the car.If you've got a bit more money, let's say &#163;5,000, then Fowler picks out the current model Ford Fiesta 1.3 as a best buy, because it's new enough to have plenty of safety equipment - supported by a good NCAP crash test result - while at the same time fun to drive and cheap to run. And although there's no absolute guarantee that the Ford Ka would do as well as the Fiesta in the crash tests it is almost identical under the skin, suggesting that the trendy little Ka would be a good choice for the style-conscious student.Moving up towards the Prince William end of the market, Fowler suggests the Renault M&eacute;gane range, which he says "did brilliantly in the NCAP tests, won the Safety Award in the What Car? 1999 Car of the Year Awards, and is a pretty little car too". If money were no object, this would be my choice too, and if you shop around at the big car supermarkets   you'll be able to pick up a nearly new M&eacute;gane for under &#163;8,000 - an absolute bargain.In the end, shelling out on a safe car might still not be enough, because the statistics show that young drivers are seven times more likely than their parents to have a serious accident. That's why Delaney is a big supporter of the Pass Plus scheme, which involves new drivers undertaking further training after they've passed their test. The course costs around &#163;100 and lasts for six hours, but it does cover the all-important motorway and night driving. And Pass Plus offers a carrot to the young driver too - a one-year no-claim discount (NCD) when they come to take out their own insurance.AXA Direct's insurance director Peter Longstaff says motor premi ums, which are currently rising by 1-1.5% a month and will continue to rise, are often higher for young drivers. He advises them to take out insurance in their own name to begin earning NCDs as soon as possible.Follow that advice and most youngsters will see they can only afford a very modest, small-engined car, because insurance costs for anything remotely sporty are prohibitive. Always get insurance quotes before agreeing to buy. But whatever the costs, the young are always going to want wheels of their own, because nothing makes you feel "I'm independent" like your own car keys jangling away in your pocket. Just ask Prince William.Jeffrey ArcherHis first car was a yellow ochre MGB GT. It Cost around &#163;730  Archer bought it himself when he was 21 and working as a teacher. It was a very 'swinging' car, the only complaint being that it kept running out of petrol even though in those days petrol cost about 10p a gallon.Nicole Appletonof All SaintsHer first car was a Black Jeep Cherokee - her dream car.  She bought it last summer (aged 23) with the profits from their best-selling album.Dame Barbara CartlandShe got her first Rolls Royce when she was about 26.  It was a wedding present from her husband's parents. He drove her around in it on honeymoon - newlyweds in the front; servants in the back.Steve Howey(Newcastle United)His first car was a Mini Metro which  cost aroujnd &#163;800. He was 17 when he bought it, and it was stolen two weeks later - on Boxing DayMichael WinnerIt was an Austin 35, black with red upholstery which cost about &#163;190.  He bought it himself, aged 18, with money from his bar mitzvah. To be allowed a car in Cambridge, he had to convince the authorities he needed one - so he joined the sailing club.&#149; The Pass Plus helpline is on 0115 901 2633&#149;  Compiled by Elizabeth Cripps
The courtroom phase of the Microsoft trial ended as it began, with the government delivering a jab at chairman Bill Gates.The government introduced an email from Mr Gates that appeared to contradict a central Microsoft argument, that America Online was in a position to challenge Microsoft's dominance of operating systems for personal computers.That has been the pattern of the eight-month courtroom drama - Microsoft embarrassed by its own emails and its own witnesses under one of the most effective inquisitions seen in a courtroom. Most of those attending the trial thought the government's legal team had roundly trounced Microsoft's lawyers, who must be heaving sighs of relief that they will no longer be tormented by David Boies, the government's lead lawyer.But only one opinion really counts: that of judge Thomas Penfield Jackson, who will rule without a jury. With the courtroom phase over, both Microsoft and the government will make further written and oral arguments over the summer and autumn. Judge Jackson must then sift through mountains of evidence and deliver his verdict.The consensus is that he will side with the government and find Microsoft guilty of abusing its monopoly power against Netscape, the internet browser company, and of trying to intimidate companies such as Apple, Intel and IBM.The judge's body language and his comments all point to a decision against Microsoft. He openly questioned the testimony of some of Microsoft's witnesses, showed impatience with Microsoft's lawyers and voiced scepticism at some of Mr Gates's video testimony. The real question is what remedies Judge Jackson will recommend.The government says it is too early to discuss sanctions publicly and no one really expects the ultimate penalty - a breakup of one of the world's most successful companies. But many options exist short of that. The proposals being studied include limiting the contract restraints Microsoft can place on PC makers and forcing the software giant to publish the price it charges PC makers for Windows. The aim would be to shift the balance of power in the computer industry away from Microsoft to smaller firms and to encourage innovation.Microsoft is prepared for an unfavourable ruling from Judge Jackson but is banking on a reversal on appeal. "The thing to remember is that we're engaged in a legal decathlon and we're still at an early stage," said Bill Neukom, Microsoft's general counsel. Unless the two sides reach a settlement, Judge Jackson's decision, expected by the end of the year, will certainly be reviewed by a federal appeals court and possibly by the supreme court as well. It the case does reach the supreme court, a final verdict may not be reached until 2002.Microsoft can cling to some straws although it has been battered in these past months. Judge Jackson was receptive to the argument that Microsoft faces competition from myriad sources including the America Online-Netscape combination and Linux, a new entrant in the software market. Franklin Fisher, the government's economic witness, also made a key admission, saying that Microsoft's behaviour had not hurt consumers.Most tangibly, an appeals court last year reversed Judge Jackson's ruling that Microsoft had illegally bundled its Internet Explorer operating system with Windows. That was a crucial victory for Microsoft, which has consistently argued that it should be free to innovate as it sees fit.Whatever Judge Jackson decides, the signs are that the trial itself has curbed Microsoft's ultra-aggressive behaviour and emboldened some of its competitors.Compaq Computer and Dell Computer, which have long sold only PCs equipped with Windows, recently decided to offer machines running the rival Linux system. Compaq, which testified that it was threatened in 1996 with the loss of its all-important licence to sell Windows if it did not agree to promote Microsoft's Internet Explorer, now offers Netscape's browser on all of its consumer PCs.Microsoft is giving more leeway to customers. It is allowing Gateway 2000, the computer maker, to modify the Windows start-up process so that Gateway can promote its own internet access service, something previously denied to PC makers. Microsoft even allowed Dell to delete the symbol for Microsoft's browser from the electronic desktop of Windows 98 in computers Dells sells to businesses.Judge Jackson will have to take into account the changes in Microsoft's behaviour when he considers what remedies should be taken against the software giant. For the US government and the 19 states that took Microsoft to court, the danger will be that Judge Jackson takes too lenient a line and Microsoft revert to its former behaviour.Although the Microsoft case concerns a hi-tech company, the issues are not substantially different from other historic anti-trust cases such Rockefeller's Standard Oil monopoly. Now - as then - the issue revolves around the extent to which a company with dominant control in one market can use that power to its advantage in new markets. Even if Judge Jackson rules against Microsoft, Mr Gates should remember that companies - like IBM - which win their antitrust cases are often the ones which seem to lose their way and fall out of favour with investors for years on end.End
"That was more fun than being poked by a sharp stick," said professor Richard Schmalensee, Microsoft's key economic witness, as he left the courtroom yesterday after being grilled by David Boies, the government's lead attorney.Mr Schmalensee certainly received some barbed questioning, on how much money he had received from Microsoft, on his dodgy charts and on the lack of hard data to back up some of his assertions.After some prodding Mr Schmalensee admitted billing Microsoft for at least $250,000 in consulting services over the last two years - at $800 an hour. It was a cheap shot, a familiar courtroom tactic to shred a witness' credibility. After all, it is natural for experts to be paid for their time. But Mr Boies was responding to Microsoft's similar ploy.A Microsoft attorney earlier had argued that the government's chief economic expert, Franklin Fisher, a colleague of Mr Schmalensee at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, stands to profit if the government wins the case because several private firms considering suing Microsoft have retained him as a consultant."If there is an incentive to &#91;tailor&#93; testimony because of payments, this witness has a lot more incentive than Professor Fisher," (who was paid $500 an hour by the government), Mr Boies said outside the courthouse.Mr Boies hit home on more substantive grounds. Mr Schmalensee had pointed to an explosion in applications currently being written that run independently of the operating system and exist only as web-based programmes. Under cross-examination, however, he admitted that he had never even studied the Web-based applications nor had he performed any economic models to quantify his assertions. More or less, it was simply an educated guess based on trends he had observed."Do you even have a range?" of how many web-based applications there are, Mr Boies asked. "I haven't offered any number of Web-based applications, I've offered examples. I don't have any numbers," Mr Schmalensee said. Mr Schmalensee conceded that he had not done any studies, saying that "hard numbers" were not relevant to the issues he had raised.Even more damaging to Mr Schmalensee's case, Mr Boies asked him if it was not true that to use a web-based application, a user still needed a web browser and an operating system - in most cases Windows. Mr Schmalensee reluctantly agreed.Mr Boies also cast doubt on Mr Schmalensee's charts on the popularity of Netscape's browser. The charts were meant to show that the Netscape browser was growing and thriving, despite Microsoft's alleged efforts to crush it. Mr Boies pointed out that the chart was flawed, the conclusions exaggerated.A flustered Mr Schmalensee admitted there was a problem: "A comparison here suggests there's a difficulty. One of these things is wrong, that's apparent." Microsoft later offered a corrected version of the chart, only to provide yet another opportunity for the tenacious Mr Boies.He showed several email messages in which a survey company had told Microsoft that one of the key questions used to derive browser market share was badly flawed, resulting in unreliable answers. But Microsoft had not accepted the company's suggestion to change it.Mr Boies also attacked Mr Schmalensee's assertions that other operating systems are becoming popular, thus providing more alternatives for software developers. Linux, in particular, Mr Schmalensee testified, is gaining momentum; he mentioned companies such as Dell and IBM that have said they will start shipping Linux on their computers.But again, Mr Schmalensee could not come up with hard data to back up his assertions, admitted to not having done any studies on the issue and could not even proffer a guess as to how popular Linux might be.
Perhaps most telling, Mr Schmalensee was forced to admit that Windows is the "only current viable commercial choice" for computer makers today.Mr Schmalensee's ordeal should end today.
Several years ago in South London I heard about a bartering initiative whereby people would exchange one service for another: "You cut my hair, I'll fix your car". Newsgroups operate on a similar level. Open to anyone with an Internet connection they act as free public message boards and discussion forums. Like-minded people from all around the world meet in this cyber kingdom and share information and debate, instead of car keys and shampoo.I had my first taste of newsgroups two weeks ago when I decided to progress from the one-on-one conversations in emailing to a more group-orientated discussion. I found them easy to access through my browser on Internet Explorer 5. You can also use specifically-designed software - Free Agent, for    example. If you are unsure which newsgroup will best serve your requirements, go towww.deja.com("Share what you know, learn what you don't") which acts as a newsgroup search engine and links you with relevant groups after you type in a subject. There are 30,000 in Usenet so you shouldn't have a problem accessing your particular quirk.Then lurk for a while.Lurking is the term used for browsing a specific group before actually posting a message. This is a good way of sussing out the calibre and relevance of the particular group and avoids the embarrassment of submitting an FAQ (frequently asked question). You can check for FAQs atwww.faqs.org/faqsor check the newsgroup itself. They are usually posted every two-to-four weeks.Delurking is the next stage, when you move from looking at what everyone else is saying to actually   thinking you could have something to contribute or ask yourself.Being a newsgroup virgin I found the initial process quite intimidating. All this lurking and delurking made me feel like an unsavoury secret agent from a James Bond movie (try rec.007  or misc.confidencecrisis ). There appeared to be a certain netiquette that had to be followed. Do not at any cost send Spam (mass-advertising) or you will end up with luncheon meat all over your computer. Do not SHOUT, do not start a flame war (personal attack online) and just remember your Ps and Cs. My first attempts resulted in a semi-spamming at alt.acting  when I tried to advertise a friend's acting workshop and (I blush with shame) an FAQ at alt.linedancing .Initially it's like being the new kid at school. Most subscribers are regulars who debate and share   information and resources. But you too can join in. Take a deep breath, straighten your pigtails and load your catapult. Just type your message and post it onto the notice board. Depending on the group I used, my message generally appeared the following day, and within a couple of days I heard from fellow groupies from all over the world.Personal experience over the past couple of weeks has led to some unprecedented success. Posting a message to  alt.cybercafes, I asked where to find the largest cybercafe in the world. Kierron then posted a reply   and I got the website. Traditional web engines had failed to provide me with this information.I lurked at  rec.climbing which gave some answers about indoor rock-climbing in London. I laughed at  misc.immigration.au  when John P asked for advice about how to obtain Australian residency for his South African girlfriend (he felt he was too young to get married). A lad in Adelaide offered to do the honours. Groupies have a sense of humour too.A slight variation are the moderated groups (where submissions must first go to an individual, the moderator, before they can be posted to the group). It allows for more coherent debate and less repetition, a common pitfall if you frequent a group.My main problem with accessing the newsgroups was trying to interpret the confusing terminology.   News servers, readers, moderators, providers, engines - it can all become very complicated when the process is in fact very simple. Also watch out for moneymaking schemes. Someone out there wants your cash and it is easy to fall victim to entrepreneurs.On the whole I found newsgroups invaluable. They serve a real purpose in this age when getting information is often expensive or time-consuming. I was impressed with the way a simple internet accessory could ascend to the heights of human kindness. And that is surely a positive response from such a lonely activity.We may not be able to communicate on the Underground, but we can talk quite magnificently on line.
Stuck upGOOEY is helping web users stick together. It's a browser plug-in that works like Mirabilis's ICQ ("I seek you") instant messaging system, except that it links people who happen to be looking at the same website. HyperNix, the Israeli start-up behind Gooey, says it creates "dynamic roving communities", removing the walls between web surfers. It also offers HitWave, a list of the top 20 sites being accessed by Gooey users at any particular time. The Windows version is available for downloading now atwww.getgooey.comwith Macintosh and Linux versions expected later.Sky portalBSkyB television is testing a Freeserve-style web portal and free internet access service atwww.skynow.co.ukfor launch next month. The most attractive feature is an online diary that you'll be able to link to TV schedules to plan your viewing in advance. Other features include a standard Outlook-compatible email service, web-based email (Funmail), UK-oriented Web information (including LookSmart), news and games etc. The service can be personalised as My Sky. The second-generation diary is online separately atwww.smartcal.comSmartCalendar Inc is offering a "preview" version.LaraLara Croft fans who like her Lucozade commercial can now download it as a screensaver fromwww.lucozade.comThe site also has a gallery of    pictures of the Tomb Raider heroine (in The Eye), an electronic postcard service and other goodies.First callShoutmail is offering free email for mobile phone users atwww.shoutmail.comcom It offers a text-to-speech service, so you can listen to email, and a    speech recognition system for voice to email. Although Shoutmail includes a free email service, it also works with existing web-based systems like Hotmail. For instant messaging, there's Who's Online, which works with ICQ, AOL Instant Messenger and Yahoo Pager.Search  habitsThe Electric Monk claims to be the first web search engine to understand plain English: try it atwww.electricmonk.comIt certainly understands natural language questions better thanAsk Jeeves, (which doesn't seem to understand very much, but it still doesn't work as well as Excite (www.excite.com). The Excite search engine isn't promoted for the way it extracts concepts, but it's still the best choice for answers to free-form (not pre-written) queries.Film spottingTrivia Bytes is an addictive little quiz game based on identifying audio clips from films and TV programmes. Americans have an obvious advantage but you can always lie and aim to be the highest-ranking player from Burkina Faso. Go towww.triviabytes.comOnly naturalBBC Wild, part of the BBC's Natural History Unit, has just launched a searchable database of about 8,000 images atwww.bbcwild.comThe service is aimed at publishers who can    either download images for reproduction or wait for them to arrive on CD. The images are invisibly protected by Signum watermarks.Win a Virgin island...Want to win a Virgin island? Fish Cay is very small and inhabited only by chameleons, but it could be yours if you can think of a better name for it. The catch is that it costs $10 to enter, with the money going to Virgin Islands Challenge. This charitable organisation has been co-founded by local sailing hero Peter Holmberg, who will represent the US Virgin Islands in the next America's Cup races in New Zealand. Seewww.amcup.vi/islandfishcay.htmlWeb albumPublic Enemy is the first major band - well, rap group - to turn their backs on the music industry and launch their new album on the web. There's a Poison Going On - that's the title - can now be downloaded in either MP3 or a2b music formats for $8. But it's a hefty download, and also consumes 48 megabytes of hard drive space. The album and samples of the tracks can be found atwww.atomicpop.comGoing DomeThe Dome at the heart of the UK's Millennium Experience has also introduced a "quiz zone" atwww.dome2000.co.ukThe questions are simple but provide another way of plugging sponsors like Boots, who are putting up prizes. The organisers are keen to attract visitors to the website which will be used to sell tickets to the Dome from September.Yep?Yep is a new search engine that lists sites in order of popularity, and rates them for quality. Popularity is measured by WebSideStory's tracker, HitBox, which records visits to around 300,000 websites, and Yep users can rate sites when they visit them. It is a neat idea that would be useful if it covered 3 million websites. Until it does,www.yep.comonly has curiosity value.BrixtonianBrixton On-line is looking for "local writers/poets/artists" to contribute to its webzine, and also it's sponsoring Shout It Out Loud, the UK's first online MP3 label releasing music on the web. Seewww.brixton.co.ukBonomaniaP45 is not a name that will mean much to American surfers but most of us will see it as an invitation to cyberskiving. The site atwww.p45.netincludes a database of jokes, naff pick-up lines, spoof office memos and other time-wasters. P45 is based in Dublin and includes a Bonomatic lyric maker: "choose the style from any one of five classic U2 albums, then hit the reload button a few times until something half sensible comes out". However, if you really do have time to waste, The Fabulous Bakin' Boys - Europe's biggest muffin makers - have better jokes and a couple of games atwww.bakinboys.co.ukBowling berries or shooting muffins: who could ask for more?Six of the best: WebzinesHome to the digeratiwww.salon.com"Nasty, British and short"www.ntk.netFeeding our mindswww.feedmag.comLiterate smutwww.nervemag.comGonzo webmarketingwww.rageboy.comSlick but not stalewww.slate.com
Free servicesDixons' Freeserve has become the UK's largest internet service provider (ISP) with a 31% market share after only nine months, according to a survey by London-based Fletcher Research. Fletcher's report, based on a poll of 40,000 British internet users, shows Freeserve ahead of BT ClickFree (14%) and AOL (9%). Three companies - BT Internet, the AOL-owned CompuServe and Virgin.net - share fourth place with 7% each.The &#163;995 report, Internet Access Strategies: Freeing the Future, shows that two thirds of UK users no longer pay for internet access. It also predicts that while the number of homes online will grow to 7.5m by 2003, the number of households with paid-for accounts will fall to 1.5m, down from 2.3m at the end of 1998.Fletcher says that "Freeserve users do use the service heavily" but it remains to be seen how much bigger it will grow. Freeserve's performance seems to have declined so dramatically over the past   month that some may consider the service no longer usable: even BT Internet is better.PC PallasGenie-Telecom Ltd is offering PC users a modern version of the goddess Athena to act as their personal assistant, "bringing the kind of sophistication to natural language voice recognition previously only seen in science fiction and space films", the company claims.The idea is that you can dial Athena when you're away and "she" will read out messages in Microsoft Outlook etc - or get a helper, Gordon, to do it - or look up telephone numbers or addresses. You can also tell her to "go to sleep" but "she will remind you that she is in sleep mode by whispering 'I'm still here' at irregular intervals". Athena (&#163;175 inc VAT) has been   developed in the UK but is based on Dragon Systems' voice recognition software. The program needs a Pentium PC with 64 megabytes of memory, at least 50MB of free disk space and, for remote operation, a wave-compatible voice modem.  Seewww.Genie-telecom.comGame BoyIn Tokyo, Nintendo has announced that its Game Boy hand-held games console will be able to access the internet via mobile phones. Software to make this possible will be released early next year.SuperfloppyImation says it will introduce several new versions of its 120 megabyte SuperDisk floppy drives that read data almost three times as fast as the original. Imation had been devel oping 200MB SuperDisk drives but changed tack when consumers said they wanted extra speed rather than extra capacity.At a lossCompaq Computer Corp says it expects to lose money in its current financial quarter, and plans a "major realignment of its business structure to enhance the execution of its strategy and fully leverage the company's vast capabilities". This involves dividing into three global business groups - Enterprise Solutions and Services, Personal Computers, and Consumer - each with profit-and-loss accountability. The restructuring will lead to a "substantial charge" (a write-off) in the next quarter.Compaq is the world's second-largest computer company, after IBM, and the largest PC manufacturer. Last year, Compaq took over Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC), a pioneering minicomputer manufacturer which used to be the world's second largest computer company.PartnersThe consolidation of the old-style computer industry - firms who used to be big in mainframes - continues. Japan's Fujitsu Ltd and Germany's Siemens have signed a Memorandum of Understanding to merge most of their European computer businesses in a joint venture, Fujitsu Siemens   Computers. In the last round, Fujitsu took over Britain's ICL to form FujitsuICL while Siemens rescued Germany's Nixdorf to create Siemens Nixdorf Informationssystemes. The German-Japanese combo will become the second or third largest computer supplier in Europe, at least for a while. Since Fujitsu has been supplying the engines for Siemens' mainframes the deal does make technological sense, unlike, say, the combination of Compaq, DEC and Tandem, or Sperry Univac and Burroughs (both formerly among the world's top five computer suppliers) into Unisys.Flat but not outNEC Packard Bell has launched a $2,499 all-in-one home PC, the Z1, in the US.    The design is based on a flat LCD screen, much like the Gateway Profile announced last Thursday (What's New, June 17). The Z1 has a 450MHz Intel Pentium III processor, 96 megabytes of memory, 8.4GB hard drive, DVD-Rom drive and floppy, 56K V.90 modem and wireless keyboard. The Z1 will go on sale in August. Seewww.nec-z1.comAt the other end of the price scale, Seattle-based Microworkz ( http://12.18.142.10/ ) plans to release a $199 system called iToaster on July 15. Chief executive Rick Latman says: "Everything is set up at the factory for consumers so all they have to do is press one button and it's instant on, instant off - no boot up time required. They can immediately shop online, surf the Web, or send and receive email." The iToaster, which looks like a hi-fi component, includes a word processor, a spreadsheet and a graphics program, but users have to add a monitor.
Once Yahoo! was a plain old web directory. Now it is a radio station and an auction house. These developments are typical of internet-based companies who can rapidly break into new electronic markets avoiding the usual hurdles that confront their counterparts on the ground.But how far can you stretch an internet company? Could Amazon, for example, lend its powerful brand name to any product or service? Or are there definite limits to the expansion of the new mega cyber brands?Web analysts at Fletcher Research have just commissioned a survey to test how far internet brands can be transferred. About 10,000 people in the UK have been asked questions such as whether or not they would be willing to buy car insurance from Yahoo! and Amazon.Director Neil Bradford is keen to try to find out the extent of the UK public's appetite for products and services endorsed by internet-based companies. Such research could be extremely valuable to investors at a point when the UK stock market is preparing for its first wave of major internet flotations. So how far does he think internet-based companies can diversify into different markets?"We don't know yet. There is definitely a limitation. There has to be some kind of appropriate use of an internet brand so as not to dilute its value." He   thinks the litmus test will be how much leeway the City is prepared to give them.However, many new media marketeers are convinced that internet companies are shaping up to become the mega consumer brands of the future, especially because of the hold they have on the young."Kids are certainly talking about Yahoo! as easily as they talk about Nike and Coke," says Jon Cousins, managing director of Fundango, specialists in new media learning programmes for children. "Many kids do not know life prior to the internet. It is already a key part of their lives."Cousins reckons that in time the new mega cyber brands have the potential not only to dominate the web-based consumer scene but also the land-based marketplace. Other new media marketeers agree, pointing to developments such as Demon Internet sponsoring Fulham Football Club and appearing on the team's strip alongside Adidas. Web-TV will also help to make internet companies household names and could facilitate opportunities for them to extend their businesses into off-line areas."In the same way as   Waterstones feel they can migrate online, why could it not work the other way for Amazon?" asks Paul Brooks, creative director of multi-media company, pres.co. "When a book is delivered to you, it is branded Amazon. It is not virtual anymore."As well as conjuring up the idea of Amazon bookshops on the high street, Brooks and others think Yahoo! now has a brand name with sufficient appeal for it to be transferred to other consumer products similar to how Richard Branson has successfully attached the Virgin name to airlines and the internet.In the US, Yahoo! has a consumer magazine and branded clothes. But how   far could it develop in the UK? What are the chances of a Yahoo! cola, for example - the "real thing" as opposed to the virtual thing?UK marketing manager, Iliane van Ees says there is still a lot to be done online but admits the future development of the brand is pretty wide open. "Yahoo is extremely powerful as brands on the internet go in terms of consumer recognition and in terms of people who are not on-line yet. We do talk about how Yahoo! can make your whole life easier."Some internet analysts are sceptical about online brands going off-line - particularly for web-based businesses like Amazon, as   the electronic model which delivers the commercial advantages, such as freedom from the usual time constraints, is so different to the traditional high street book selling operation.But the introduction of new technology which is enabling bookstores like Borders to download and bind titles in store might prompt a re-appraisal of the viability of high street book   selling. For the time being, the managing director of Amazon UK, Simon Murdoch, will not discuss any off-line business possibilities. But on-line expansion is a different matter altogether.Typifying the brimming optimism of other internet companies, he remains very confident that the UK public will accept an extension of the Amazon brand name into lots of different areas in the electronic marketplace. "We want to give people a wide selection of products," he says. "Currently we offer a large selection of books but there is no reason why that cannot be a large selection of anything."UK car insurance companies have been warned.
As Britain's once-a-year tennis fans dust down their wooden rackets in the wave of enthusiasm that greets the Wimbledon championships, two websites are aiming to feed the interest then keep it alive and boost the sport's flagging fortunes.The Championship's official site, which attracted 233 million hits last year, has been relaunched with an array of improvements and features designed in response to users' comments - including FanCards which allow surfers to send messages to the players, and audio and video clips of interviews with the stars.With the Lawn Tennis Association estimating that 50% of Britain's 2.8 million tennis players - from occasional to regular competitors - have internet access, hopes are high that the sites can reach out to existing players, and encourage more to take up the sport.Wimbledon's site plans to build on its success last year and offer a huge range of features to feed the net public's voracious appetite for the latest information. Meanwhile, the Total Sport and Leisure Group has unveiled Tennis Interactive, which offers tennis news and heavily discounted equipment and clothing through a deal with Dunlop and Slazenger.The central feature ofWimbledon.orgis the Wimbledon Channel, designed to give speedy access to news and statistics, while a Java scoreboard can be downloaded to the desktop so that fans can keep up to date with scores at work.Great use will also be made of multimedia facilities; aside from audio and video libraries, three interactive cameras will operate above   Wimbledon during the fortnight, where users can pan, zoom and take a snap shot of the Wimbledon scene from their PC's desktop.Andrew Burns, producer of Wimbledon.org, says that score updates are in huge demand - so much so that this year surfers are able to subscribe to live score updates on their mobile phone. "The majority of the site's use is for live scoring information - about 90% of last year's hits was for scoring information. People want to know what's happening now, and those hits happen when people are at their work. They're using the web to complement other types of media, because when they go home the hits drop off dramatically."The second part of the site allows users to get a Wimbledon experience; a feel of the physical location. Our Netcam grabs a still of the BBC's court feeds, and there are also the interactive cameras."Their positions at the ground give good coverage, and they're really just there so that you can spy on the fans, look around and get a feel of the place. And because they're live all the time, you can get things like the sun setting over court one."There's also a continuously-streaming live programme which will go out over the web, with its own production team, anchormen and presenters. They're going to put together a proper broadcast programme, with a lot more interview material and specialised features   done on site so that people can get a different view to what's on the broadcast channels. "It's a very high-hit site - we're sure that this year the site's going to break all records again. We're expecting a peak of 60-million hits a day."Total Sport and Leisure's managing director, Robert Porter-Smith, thinks there is great potential for encouraging those internet fans to get on to the court."The profile of the people surveyed by the Lawn Tennis Association suggests that 50% of that market has internet access, either at home or at work. From the point of target marketing, the web really does fit the profile almost perfectly."But Porter-Smith says his site, Tennis Interactive, is not just about selling to the market already there: he has hopes the market will be expanded by offers which include a Dunlop racket, which normally sells for &#163;200, being offered for just &#163;35, and the lure of a free pair of tickets to Wimbledon's men's singles final. He is also planning to offer free web sites to local tennis clubs, in a bid to get more of them on the internet."Getting people to take up the sport is one of the main drivers for the site," he says. "We're involved with the Tennis Industry Association, which has been set up for 18 months with the sole objective of growing the game.The number of people playing has declined in the last four or five years, and Tennis Interactive is part of the process to bring tennis to a new audience, and get involved in the grass roots to put forward the joy of the game."www.wimbledon.orgwww.tennisinteractive.net
Britain's largest ever study of "crime on the information highway", launched this week, has come up with no clear answers to the net crime problems that, according to the National Criminal Intelligence Service (NCIS), are growing exponentially, year on year.Publishing his report on Project Trawler, a three year study of the threat of crime on and in computer networks, NCIS director John Abbott said that it would facilitate planning and resourcing decisions and "raise awareness".The 30-page study is a highly edited version of a more detailed report which is being circulated exclusively to police forces and law enforcement organisations. The longer version, officially classified as "confidential", contains detailed "how-to" descriptions of hacking and fraudulent methods, as well as how to detect and prosecute them.But computer experts and MPs have already pointed to flaws in the NCIS approach, which suggests that the police, home office and other government departments are not participating in joined-up government to develop a single, co-ordinated approach to dealing with crime involving computers. Despite asking for co-operation from individual police forces over the previous three years, NCIS had been unable to prepare quantitative statistics detailing how often, for example, the encryption of   files or communications by suspects had actually impeded or prevented prosecutions.One reason was that individual police forces were not obliged to report or maintain records of complaints and prosecutions under the Computer Misuse Act.Even where statistics were available, other government departments had refused permission for the information to be used. Every year, MI5 prepares a detailed report called UNIRAS, detailing computer crimes and incidents affecting government computer networks. According to analysts, MI5 had refused permission for any of this data to be used. NCIS were not even permitted publicly to refer to the existence of UNIRAS.Ironically, information about UNIRAS published by its MI5 author is already available - on the internet. TheMI5 statisticsshow that most attacks or problems affecting government computers come from employees of the civil service or government agencies.The lack of detailed information about whether Britain faces severe problems with computer crime was robustly   criticised when Abbott appeared before the House of Commons Select Committee on Trade and Industry in February. The committee was investigating the role of encryption in electronic commerce, and the government's plans to prevent it being used for criminal purposes.The MPs then reported that Parliament, industry and organisations involved in electronic commerce "will be much more willing to help the law enforcement agencies if there are reliable means to assess the problems posed", mainly by encryption. Abbott admitted that he faces a problem: "there is a lack of authoritative statistics on reporting computer crime", he said. "It is difficult to get an overall picture of where &#91;individual&#93; forces are encountering different aspects of encryption"."If private sector organisations are going to deal with this and help the police, they have to know the scale of the problem and need to relate it to the costs they will be asked to bear," said Peter Sommer, an LSE research fellow and computer forensic expert who was the expert adviser to the Select Committee. "That means getting good statistics - and being much more adult and candid about what law enforcement agencies require, and how they want to work."Abbott said this week that he was calling for the establishment of a national computer crime investigative unit, which would replace and assist specialist units in Britain's regional police   forces. He also wanted a new law forcing suspects to give access to encryption keys.Specialists in computer crime agree that, because of the likelihood of internet crime crossing national and international boundaries, a national unit should be set up soon. But the problem is beset by police politics and a lack of joined-up government. Besides NCIS, the National Crime Squad, the Association of Chief Police Officers, and the Metropolitan Police all have teams and committees dealing with computer crime. The home office run a specialist technical centre at St Albans. Individual police units, such as the Fraud Squad or Clubs and Vice, have their own specialists, methods and equipment.Another problem is that detectives are routinely having to examine computers even when they may not be central to a criminal investigation. But most CID staff have yet to get a basic training in IT. "We don't need an elite squad at the expense of ordinary police investigators not knowing the basics of how to deal computers when they come across them in any sort of crime," according to Peter Sommer. He pointed out that for more than three years, all Customs and Excise investigators have had basic training in computers and IT.Controversially, Abbott called for high penalties under the planned new decryption law. If a suspect refused to hand over the codes to unlock files that had   been seized on a raid, the court "should be able to draw an adverse inference", he said. The penalty should match the crime, he said, just as a driver suspected of drink driving faced the same penalty if they refused to provide a blood test, or if they were convicted. This would mean that some suspects could face sentences of 14 years or even life if they were unable to provide the keys to encrypted files.One journalist pointed out that he had old encrypted files on his laptop to which he had long lost the keys. That would be "unfair", Abbott agreed. But he could not suggest any answers.&#149; Duncan Campbell is a freelance writer who specialises in computers.
Taming BillIf the DOJ case against Microsoft is proven, the only just punishment is as follows:&#149; Make all versions of Windows and MSDOS "open source code" and executables compiled from it (including future developments of it by Microsoft), "freeware".&#149; Stop Microsoft from acquiring businesses which would extend their activities into other areas such as telecoms, or which might otherwise compete with them.In a wider sense, the following practices should be made illegal:&#149; "Embracing and extending" hitherto "open standards" such as HTML.&#149; Buying competing businesses with the express intention of closing them down.The overwhelming dependence on one supplier for PC operating systems must be eliminated.  Governments must desist from standardising on proprietary formats to hold public information.I don't want to wake up one day and find I have to buy a Windows PC to vote!Iain Loganiainlogan@enterprise.netLook againInstant net cafe, June 17, states: "I have never spied anyone over the age of 35". Possibly the writer was not looking in the right cafes.My "trendy" travelling sister-in-law regularly pops into a cybercafe and spends a happy hour informing her family of her whereabouts. Her then "trendy" family/ sister-in-law returns her correspondence via her home internet link. Youth cannot claim technology for itself as   we take full advantage of all that it has to offer and do not stop to think of if we are young or old; we just enjoy it.M MacDonoughWirralNo creditThere is a solution to internet credit card fraud (The risk is hard to credit, Online, June 17): don't accept them. Our customers order online without using their credit cards, and of course we accept cheques or postal orders like any other mail order shop. So where's the problem? On low-price goods such as CDs, credit card payment is simply not viable anyway.Jake Speerwww.seedys.free-online.co.ukDead wrongJohn Sutherland (Online, June 17) raised some interesting issues about the problems of internet piracy, but unfortunately failed to make any useful suggestions about how these issues might be addressed.He is wrong in claiming the Grateful Dead "actively encouraged electronic bootlegging". Rather, they sanctioned audience taping of their shows and the subsequent sharing of these tapes by their fans, so long as this was done on a strictly non-commercial basis. As a consequence a "tape trading" scene grows even though the band no longer exists.Conventional wisdom dictates this should eat into sales of official albums, but if anything the converse is true: the Dick's Picks series of archive releases from the band's own vault brings a new three or four CD package onto the market several times a year, and sales remain high.The important point which needs to be made is that the band has never tolerated commercial bootlegging. Recently an MP3 web site which was distributing their music was the subject of a "cease and desist" order from Grateful Dead Merchandising (GDM), even though the site in question was not profiting from distributing the material. In accepting   advertising to defray its costs it was deemed to be a commercial undertaking.Following this episode, GDM made it clear through a formal statement that it will allow fans to trade MP3 recordings with one another in much the same way that cassette tapes have been for many years, but that any unauthorised commercial distribution of MP3s will be stamped on.Gabriel BrodetskyOxfordFree 'n' easyMarkie Robson-Scott states that Macintosh users are still waiting to use Freeserve (When love is not enough, June 17). Not true. I joined Freeserve - using a Mac - on September 23 last year, the day after its launch. Just over a week later, I published step-by-step instructions on the web showing Mac users how easy it was to connect.It was not until about three weeks ago, however, that Freeserve finally "allowed" Mac users to join up via their home page, although they have yet to produce a Mac CD.As for the rest of the article, it confirms what I have long thought: Macs are the most compatible computers as they have been forced to adapt to survive in a Windows-centric world.Chris LeutyCheadle Cheshire SK8 3HSwww.leuty.freeserve.co.ukiMac bluesLook on the bright side, Jim Hadfield (Feedback, June 17). OK you may have been sold an unreliable, unstable machine by a manufacturer who couldn't care less.At least you didn't pay over the odds for an equally dismal package, which doesn't even have a built in floppy drive! Yes, Leslie Ohomele, I mean the iMac. As a long-standing Mac owner and Windows user I no longer care which system I use - they are now equally unstable, and only marginally different to operate. Unfortunately I fell for the Apple hype and bought an iMac, which has now become a writhing mass   of conflicting software, and crashes each time I plug in the dodgy LaCie floppy drive.I suppose at least it's nice to look at while I am waiting for the system software to reinstall for the tenth time.... Let's just admit it - we have all been conned one way or another by this cynical industry!Ray BellRedhill, Surrey RH1 2BXSo you fancy an iMac, but what happens when something goes wrong? If you bought one of the first it's probably out of warranty. Here are a few things the salesman won't have told you.You cannot buy replacement parts just anywhere, you have to go through a dealer. They will insist on fitting them, adding expensive labour costs. Many of the parts are very easy to fit and if you can change a plug you're over-qualified.Most parts are reconditioned with a three-month warranty. All old parts, even the ones considered to be beyond repair, go back to Apple. If not, you don't qualify for a large discount on the replacement parts. The cost of parts can be many times that of a PC.R HartleyManchester UniversityMac rightIt's good to see that at least you're considering the PC/Mac debate (Online, June 17), but it would help if you got the facts right.I have a Mac and have been with Freeserve since Autumn 98. Look atwww.macaddict.freeserve.co.ukfreeserve.co.uk for how to do it. The benefit is that all you need is a (free) browser and email software.Dragon is bringing out Naturally Speaking for the Mac later this year.Talking about PC-to-Mac file transfer being a problem - OK there are niggles, but if you're going from Mac to PC you can't do it at all; PCs don't even offer the option. Macs being "left behind" is simply not true - Apple are the innovators, the PC world simply takes their ideas and dumbs them down (see Online, June   17, page 5). Unless of course you really can't manage without wacky stickers.John HawkinsJohnH@jhbd.freeserve.co.ukScreamingAfter reading recent reports of Localtel and its offer of free off-peak calls to screaming.net I decided to give it a go. After waiting four weeks from signing up on-line and receiving no communication from Localtel despite sending several emails, my phone was disconnected by BT as they received a request from Localtel to do so.I then spent the next two days on my mobile phone trying to get my line reconnected. The lines to Localtel (not a freephone number) were either engaged or when I did get through I had to spend another 10 minutes queuing. I ended up explaining what had happened to half a dozen different people over this period. I was promised call backs with a solution to the problem which never arrived.Eventually I gave up on the whole thing and asked BT to reconnect me and cancel my transfer.I have probably spent more on phone calls from my mobile phone trying to sort out this disaster than I am likely to spend on internet calls for the next 12 months.Tony Crooktony@pharmalinks.co.ukYour report on free internet   providers prompted me to give BT Click a go, and they prompted me to sign up for "free" Talk-21 e-mail service.What no one tells you - not even you - is that it takes about five minutes to receive your messages, and because you can't reply offline, the phone bill clocks up at a tremendous rate. I reckon I'm much better of with my BTInternet service at &#163;4.70 a month for three hours unlimited access, which allows you to read and write offline. Free provider? No such thing!Peter Buckmanpmab@btinternet.comHard wordBefore anyone tries to speculate about the etymology on internet terms,it is usually a good idea to check the Jargon File first.Checking the entry on "warez" would have saved your pundit from making wildly inaccurate claims (Hacking away at our ethics, Online June 17).In fact, as the Jargon File says quite clearly (in the section labelled "Lamer Speak") "warez" is a term used by "k3wl warez d00dz" - according to the usual conventions, which state: "always substitute z's for s's. (i.e. codes = codez).Thus, "k3wl warez d00dz" is pronounced "cool wares dudes". It's the sort of thing typed by a teenager with no life.Gideon HallettPimlico, London
When Sydney's Powerhouse Museum unveils a permanent exhibition of Information Technology today, the foyer will be graced by two full-screen animated talking faces, both called Sylvie. The public can inquire from either twin by keyboard input, and get answers via face-and-voice    animation.Sylvie knows about the exhibits. But to a limited extent she can also chat generally. She has been developed by the Human-Computer Learning Foundation, a UK charity bent on creating systems of a new and more human type. The idea of computers with conversational intelligence is not new. In 1950, Computing Machinery And Intelligence, a famous paper by British    pioneer Alan Turing, post-ulated a program that could imitate human conversation so well that "an average human interrogator will not have more than 70% chance of making the right identification &#91;as between human and computer&#93; after five minutes of questioning".He predicted this 70% level for around 2000. British development of Turing's innovatory legacy has    not always depended on charity. For a while our government supported experimental "intelligent agents". Edinburgh's Freddy 1 and Freddy 2 robots blended diverse capabilities into virtual mentalities, to a significant degree trainable and educable. As often, official failure of nerve greeted early successes. In the 1970s the work joined the long line of British computing "firsts" to fall victim in mid-trajectory to Sudden Starvation Syndrome.Not all of us are prepared to give up. The HCL Foundation has pulled together an academic consortium led by my co-worker Claude Sammut from the University of New South Wales. For the Powerhouse Museum application we licensed a face-and-voice animation from the Los Angeles company, Virtual Personalities. VP Inc supplies the face and voice; we supply the simulated intelligence that drives them. Each year $2,000 and a bronze medal goes to the most human-like approximation to Turing's definition, thanks to the Loebner Prize competition, established in the early 1990s: $25,000 is up for grabs if the program's chance of being rumbled gets below Turing's 70%.This year's Loebner winner scored 89%.  The full prize of $100,000 goes to any programming team whose brain-child hits the 50% mark. This would correspond to downright impossibility of telling whether one is conversing with a computer or a human - a performance spec so tough it is unlikely to be met within foreseeable time. But for fooling non-adversarial judges, prospects are not at all bad. The Loebner 2000 competition will be the first for which a team consisting entirely of AI (artificial intelligence) professionals has entered. It will be held on January 28, 2000, at Dartmouth College in the US.We found within the first few months that quite crude pattern-based methods were sufficient to hit the ground running. Now we're beginning to get serious about linguistic and logical components. An early prototype was able to beguile someone with a command of English as a second language into taking a shine even to Sophie, our name for the text-only Sylvie variant without face and voice. When I was visiting the computer science department at Campus Morelos, iat the Institute of Technology and Advanced Studies of Monterrey (ITESM), Mexico, I invited our departmental secretary, Aurelia, to try her thoughts on the keyboard:Aurelia: What kind of job do you do right now?Sophie: 'I'm a part-time museum guide. I co-operate    with members of the public to help them enjoy their visit to the current exhibition, which is concerned with information technology. I think that's my whole job, when you boil it down.Where are you from?I'm from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in America. I spend my time these days in Sydney.Have you visit Mexico?In my teens my uncle Albert gave me a small telescope. I could tell you quite a bit about the solar system. Like the planets, for instance. What would you say to that?I'm telling you about Mexico because is the country where I live.OK, how do you feel about talking with a person like me?I'm feel real good, because I've never done somthing like this before.Outside English-speaking territories, language learners cannot easily get the hours of practice in idiomatic conversation, so a conversational program could be very useful. Leaving Mexico, I found Silicon Valley jumping with start-up companies for peopling computer screens with virtual personalities. But it takes more than venture capital. Possibly it takes more even than Microsoft to deliver the "smarts". The following stray memo fluttered from the Web a year or two ago: "... In anticipation of this shift, the User Interface group at Microsoft Research is working to develop an assistant-like interface...This project, which we are calling Persona, will try to produce the illusion of a conscious being in a machine." The dancing paper clip in Microsoft Office? With a little help from our friends, we aim to do better than that. Turing's prescription was: stage one, build an educable system; stage two, educate it. (Educable means that professional teachers can take over without further help from implementers.) Turing called instances of stage one "child machines". They could be achieved today by an integration of new conversational agent technologies with state-of-the-art machine learning.  Donald Michie is Emeritus Professor of Machine Intelligence at the University of Edinburgh, and trustee and treasurer of the Human-Computer Learning Foundation, a registered charity.
With names like Band-X, Min-X and InterXion, the array of young internet companies looking for business in Dublin last week sounded like they might be selling online sex, or perhaps downloadable music. But the truth is much odder. They sell minutes.For these companies, minutes are the excess chunks of time available on underused telecommunications networks which the network owner would like to sell and, usually, another telecommunications company wants to buy. Because, globally, telcos are all rushing to install new networks - particularly networks constructed of fibre optic cable with its mammoth capacity to carry voice and data - nearly everyone, from small to large players, has spare capacity to sell.As a result, companies like London-based Band-X (www.band-x.com) have found   a niche acting as intermediaries to the telecommunications carriers, conducting online auctions of excess bandwidth in forums that have become known as "virtual minute markets"."Band-X was created from the belief that bandwidth &#91;the capacity of telecommunications networks to carry voice and data&#93; would be more like a commodity - exchangeable and widely available," says Richard Elliot, the company's founder and director. Because this has turned out to be the case, minute traders came to Dublin last week to pitch their services to the telecommunications carriers that had come for the bi-annual Carrier Wholesale Market conference and trading floor.According to Alex Mashinsky, founder of New York minute market company Arbinet (www.arbinet.com), large carriers typically use only 20% to 30% of capacity on their networks on average, while smaller   carriers might use 50% at most. But a carrier may find it needs extra capacity to a particular destination at particular times of the day. Or, perhaps a client has requested the installation of a network and the carrier needs a set of lines in a hurry. In such cases, more and more carriers are turning to the minute markets to buy and sell capacity.Minute traders offer spare capacity through a system of anonymous bids placed on their company website. Anonymity is important, say the traders, because carriers know many of their own customers may be looking for capacity on the minute markets and the carriers don't wish to be seen selling it off for less than the deals they've negotiated face to face.Buyers going to the websites to shop for capacity can view a list of offerings along with details on the quality of the line - for example, the percentage of calls which are completed on the first   attempt to put them through. Buyers can also check when the line will be available, how long the term of contract is for, any additional costs associated with installing the line, and other information, which sometimes includes a guide price. Bids are made online and if the capacity is sold, the minute traders get a percentage, usually about 2% of the total value of the deal.While numerous bidders going after a particular offering can push prices upwards, a new carrier entering the market can offer its capacity at a lower price, pushing costs downwards.That kind of volatility has turned the formerly slow-moving wholesale capacity market on its head, say traders. Deals that used to stretch out over weeks and months are now completed in minutes.Some dealers even operate their own network switching centres, so that   they can turn the newly-bought connection on between the two parties to the deal as soon as it's closed. Other dealers have set up virtual networks that allow them to route traffic over the lines they've brokered. Either way, traders say carriers save money by not having to create lots of one-to-one connections with other carriers. Instead, the traders serve as a single point of access to other carriers' networks.The traders say they are the ideal neutral brokers because their goal is to close deals, not to benefit one party over another. "We don't make money based on the margin. We make money based on how many transactions we do," says Mashinsky.Many carriers, though, are wary of minute traders because the fledgling industry has no formal standards and no way of guaranteeing the quality of the lines it brokers anonymously. Some carriers are still cautious about using lines that run   over the internet. And carriers have to be convinced that minute traders are trustworthy.But, says Philip Low, a deputy director of telecommunications analysts the Philips Group, carriers "feel that they will have to use &#91;minute markets&#93; inevitably, as prices for capacity continue to fall".And in the future, he says, it won't just be voice capacity offered by minute markets, but internet and satellite capacity as well. He predicts that by 2002, the value of minutes bought and sold on the minute exchanges will reach at least $4.6bn.And that kind of money will cause competition in the sector to reach a boiling point, he says, warning that today's minute traders should keep in mind a comment from a recent Ernst and Young report on the telecommunications sector: "Competition will intensify to the point that the industry will look like Dodge City with automatic weapons."
It might have been the violence at last Friday's Reclaim the City demonstration that caught the attention of the public, but long after the broken glass and empty beer cans have been swept away, the demonstration will be remembered for the role that the web played in helping to galvanise and promote many such popular outpourings of dissent across the world.Now, the fact that the billed Carnival Against Capitalism recruited its demonstrators via a ring of websites, rather than more traditional sources, like political parties and pressure groups, is significant for two reasons.Firstly, it means that the demonstration appealed to a wider number of people, not just the politically active; and secondly, the demonstration could be arranged without the consent of the relevant authorities. This threatens to change the politics of   dissent irrevocably."Old-fashioned" demonstrations - like the recent march against low pay or the anti-war protests opposite Downing Street - differ from events last Friday because they are always policed by both the authorities and political groups themselves. Reclaim the City had no such control as it was able to bypass the usual procedures in which marches and political rallies are organised.Reclaim the City was also a global phenomenon. In all 17 cities across the world experienced some kind of demonstration and again the web both facilitated this by connecting the diverse range of political groups and providing a shared medium for the groups to synchronise their activities.Last Friday's demonstration was also organised using the type of cellular structure we usually associate with terrorist organisations, only on a grander scale. The police,   quite naturally, are running scared and are refusing to discuss suggestions that the nature of dissent was fundamentally changed by events last Friday. But concerned they must be, because it is so difficult to predict the popularity of events organised on the web. It's even more difficult to apprehend the "ring- leaders" and therefore police similar clashes in the future.While thousands turned up to various Reclaim the City events around the world, thousands more witnessed them on the web. While the "official" site (http://bak.spc.org/j18/site) was shut out to many users because of the overwhelming amount of traffic last Friday, other "mirror" sites transmitted live video feeds of the demonstrations.Indeed, the Financial Times, situated a stone's throw from Southwark Bridge, displayed live footage of protesters on the front page of its website at   ft.com. Other 'new media' sites, including the Guardian's newsunlimited, held links to the sites where video streaming of the demonstrations was available.Commentators who have looked to the poll tax riots for a precedent for events last Friday are wrong. Last Friday's demonstration had more in common with the activities of the Spiral Tribe that culminated in an equally ugly showdown with police in Canary Wharf in 1992. The difference this time is that the Spiral Tribe had both an organisation and a perceivable hierarchy that the police could deal with and combat. Reclaim the City, it seems, does not.It must be said that while the great majority of demonstrators behaved in a civilised manner on Friday afternoon, the very fact that Reclaim the City was able to attract so many of them gave their more violent comrades both the confidence and the cover to perpetrate their   acts of destruction.The idea that there is no single organisation to hold responsible also shows that the tactics of dissent have evolved.Reclaim the City showed that protests that were once isolated - the smaller local battles over bypasses or airport runways - can now be fought on a much larger scale in much more prominent locations. It also demonstrated how ranks of protesters who belong to no political party can be recruited into action just by setting up a handful of simple websites.And at the moment, there seems little that the police can do about that.
The latest version of this popular database for Microsoft Windows inflicts several shocks on regular buyers. First, the price, which has doubled, though you get two CD-Roms instead of one. Next it demands 100Mb of hard disk space instead of the expected five. And when it loads, you have to look at a fatuous quote from another newspaper describing it as a "watershed in the information age in Britain".It's certainly useful. It holds the names and addresses of 47 million people drawn from electoral registers, plus details of 1.5 million businesses. When you've found the person you   were looking for, the program will show where they live on a zoomable map, and dial the phone number. You can sort data from searches by clicking a table heading (forename, street name, etc) then copy and paste it into other programs.You can't search by street or by phone number (this is possible with the professional edition, &#163;199.95) but otherwise UK-Info is a very capable program. Version 4.1 is much faster than 3.1 when running searches, especially across large areas such as the whole UK; this justifies putting the indexes on the hard drive. Version 4.1 also includes data from odd areas   previously missing, such as Jersey, the Isle of Man, and Kingston upon Hull.On the down side, the screen redraws are still annoying, and the toolbars have not been upgraded to command bars like those in Microsoft Word (you can pull them off but not reshape them). Still, this is a worthwhile upgrade to all previous versions of UK-Info, and remains good value.However, it's not quite as indispensable as it used to be, simply because BT has now put its own directory on the web where it can be consulted for the price of a local call.
What was your introduction to computers?At school in the early 1970s using punchcards that took a week to return from the mainframe - hated them. My father was a Reuters correspondent so we had a teleprinter in the house, an early form of a net type life as we got news as it happened round the world and could even send messages to the global Reuters network. Primitive stuff but the idea of a humble suburban house in global contact was sort of inspiring.Do you get involved with web design and/or programming?I did my own site in html. Check http://www.btinternet.com/~neuronautfor the results.How important is the computer to your work?I sit in front of one all day and my net bill is big. The key benefit to my work is in the depth of research that is possible. It takes half an hour to do what it used to take a week up in town at somewhere like the British Library. The net is patchy - good for the latest academic findings, poor on historical stuff. But it is the feeling that you are not missing anything (so long as you have worked out the question to ask) that is the big change.What kind of machine(s) do you use?A Dell Dimension 166mhz PC .Any particular favourite software/ hardware?I use a standard Microsoft suite 99% of the time. I have no particular love of Microsoft - even though Bill Gates bought me breakfast once - but like most computer users, I'm grateful if something works reasonably well. Given I first used a system that would lose a whole screenful of writing if you bumped it, my existing set-up seems a dream.Any favourite sites?I hang out on a number of consciousness-related discussion lists. For a list, visithttp://psyche.cs.monash.edu.auShould the Net be regulated?It would be nice to ban everything sick, stupid and false. But this is modern life. It is now up to individuals to build their own set of standards.Are you a geek? Got any favourite geeks?Not by the standard of real geeks (I spent time working alongside journalists on PC magazines!). Bill Gates I liked simply because he was so in love with ideas that he could turn up for the UK launch of Windows with the most repulsively greasy hair. Generally geeks do make the best company which probably does mark me down as a geek.On a desert island , a human or a computer for company?Human. Computers exist solely to amplify our interactions with other humans.
Rule BritanniaOrigin's Ultima Online: The Second Age (right) makes its UK debut next week: odd for a game based in a fictional Britannia created by a chap called Lord British. Origin said it waited until it was ready to set up local servers - there will be two for European players, to start with, plus nine in the US and four in Japan - and a local help service (seewww.owo.com). The Second Age introduces extra land area, the original being pretty much occupied by the current 125,000 players. There's also a built-in language translation service (English, German, Japanese) based on Systran, a machine translation system originally developed for the European Community. The game is being published by Origin's parent company, Electronic Arts, at &#163;34.99.DoomedThe US-basedRevolutionary Software Fronthas released a version of iD Software's Doom for palm-sized and handheld computers running Microsoft Windows CE. It shouldn't be that much of a problem porting games to CE, which is also used in Sega's Dreamcast games console. However, titchy machines like Casio's Cassiopeia E-10 weren't designed to run high-speed shooters. Meanwhile,   Macmillan Computer Publishing has added Quake, Quake II, and Civilization: Call to Power to its range of games for the GNU/Linux operating system.RobokickRoboCup-99, the third world cup championship for football playing robots, will kick off in Stockholm on July 27 following events in Japan (1997) and France (1998). About 90 teams are expected to take part, including the first four-legged players: there's a league for Sony-legged robots following recent sales of a limited edition of Aibo, Sony's robotic dog, in the US and Japan. For details, seewww.robocup.orgMeltdownEuropean games programmers will get their first look at DirectX 7.0, the next version of the games interface in Microsoft Windows 95/98, at the Meltdown 99 conference at the Stakis Metropole Hotel in London on June 28-30. DirectX 7.0 offers enhanced    3-D sound and graphics capabilities. It is supposed to be finished this summer and will be available for downloading at http://microsoft.com/ directx/download.asp though games that need it will of course include it. Meltdown follows the Develop! 99 conference for game developers, which will be held at Olympia, London, on June 26-27: call 0181-987 7728 for details.Gratuitous goreGratuitous Games Inc is looking for a video game artist to handle character design and animation. "Must be good with blood," says the advert inFast Games News.All outTomorrow may be the best day of the year for new games, with about 30 titles expected, if they all make it to the shops. The pick of the crop should include Driver, V-Rally 2, Street Fighter Alpha 3 and Player Manager 99 for the Sony PlayStation, and Outcast, Total Annihilation: Kingdoms, Unreal: Return to Napoli, and Aliens Vs Predator for the PC. Surely they can't all have been intended for launch on the day that's as far as possible from the peak of the selling season: Christmas.
At school, at home, in cybercafes and at friends' houses, young children are getting online.
The latest figures from NOP, show that one in four British children - over three million of them - are regular internet users.Using the internet is seen as something to envy, with users described as "clever", "friendly", "cool", "trendy" and even "rich" by their less-wired friends. Forget the clich of the sad anorak - today's schoolchildren are the new kids on the net.The NOP research, part of its ongoing kids.net project, shows how many seven-16 year olds are using the internet, and also tells us what they are using it for. As might be expected given the level of investment in the National Grid for Learning, school projects and educational research are still the most popular applications for children, with 79% of children saying that the internet helps them with their schoolwork.Away from school, nearly one-fifth of the children surveyed (17%) had made an online purchase, and almost half have used the web to browse shopping sites.According to Rob Lawson, one of the kids.net team at NOP, "these findings suggest some significant shifts in patterns of use of the internet among British children. They also indicate that usage is going to end up pretty close to 100% in the next couple of years".Of those children who use the internet, NOP found half do so most frequently from home, a third from school and the rest either from friend's or relative's houses or from their parents' work. According to Rob Lawson, "if they have access from home they prefer using it from there - they're on for longer, they get control of the mouse and of course they don't have the teacher looking over their shoulder".Kids also like to do other things while online.Three out of five listen to music, almost a quarter watch TV, and one in 10 reads magazines while surfing.Use of the internet is not limited to older children. At Morley Memorial Primary School in Cambridge, IT co-ordinator Rachel Gutteridge teaches year 5/6 - nine to 11 year olds. She has seen her pupils' interest in the internet increase very rapidly. "I think they'd picked up a certain amount from odd bits that we'd done in the class', she says, "but I was surprised by how much they knew already. They'd got a good idea of what it all was, and I didn't feel it had all come from me."Her class largely uses the internet for project work. "I thought it might be used for emailing and penpals but it's not," she says. "Instead, I mention a particular topic and they go away and research it." Not all of the material they find is relevant or accurate, and this is a key part of their internet education. "Talking to them about what are useful sites and then helping them make use of what they find is really important," says Gutteridge.The lack of apparent interest in email and chat may be because the class of 30 has to share a single internet-connected computer. 
However, Rob Lawson at NOP says that "chatting is a big application for kids but it tends to kick in at about 10-11 for girls and a couple of years later for boys. Overall, chat is fourth or fifth top application, and for some groups like teenage girls it can be almost the only thing they use the internet for."As well as doing research, Rachel Gutteridge's class has built its own website, joining the 15% of home net users and 12% of school users (NOP figures) who do the same.
According to their teacher: "I don't think they would have done it at home - they'd probably have no idea how easy it is and I don't think they'd have realised that it was possible for them to do."But the site is now live (see panel) and under continual development. As more schools get online, the number of children who feel confident about developing their own sites is bound to increase.While parents and teachers are concerned about access and educational use, kids on the net are being targeted by more and more companies as potential consumers. NOP found that 17% of children have made an online purchase, and recent research into children's use of the net by US-based Jupiter Communications forecast that "teens" (13-16 year olds) will be spending $1.2bn a year online by 2002, while "kids" (five-12 year olds) will spend a useful $100m, on top of purchases made on their behalf by parents.At the moment the most common way for children to buy goods online is by using their parent's credit card, but two new services could change this. RocketCash and iCanBuy are US-based e-commerce sites that let parents give their children digital pocket money which can be spent online at approved shops.Both work by setting up online accounts for the children which are funded by payments from their parents. The most popular online purchases in the UK so far are games, music, tickets and videos, but these sort of services could quickly transform that and put Beanie Babies, computer games and clothes on to the list.Jupiter's clients - toy companies and similar - are interested in finding ways  to market to the estimated 17 million internet using children around the world without upsetting their parents too much.The children who signed up for the US-based Young Investor website found out about the downside of internet marketing the hard way. This site, set up as a place for young children to learn about money and investing, had a privacy policy which said that information would be kept anonymously, offered children a free email newsletter, and advertised a competition.In fact, the survey results were not anonymous, the email newsletter was never sent, and there were no prize draws.  This case, which drew the attention of the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and resulted in a "consent order" - an agreement to mend their ways - against site owners Liberty Financial Services, highlights the way that some companies see children just as a soft market.There are other concerns for children going online. Despite the growing number of child-friendly sites and search engines, NOP reports a large increase - from 20% to 33% -of children using the internet who have found something that has "upset" or "embarrassed" them. Of these, six out of 10 (58%) describe this material as being "rude".
Part of the reason for this may be that the children are given too much freedom when online. A recent survey of 500 online households for the US-based National Center for Missing and Exploited Children found that 20% of parents did not supervise their children's use of the internet at all, while 71% of parents with children aged 14 or older say they have stopped monitoring their children's internet use."The same seems to be true here," says NOP's Rob Lawson. "We ask kids whether they use filtering software and most of them seem to know more about it than their parents." He believes that "this is one of the main barriers to adoption - parents are concerned about pornography.  It will remain a serious obstacle."Unsuitable content is not the only concern.  Roger Lilley, a trainee teacher with two young children, does not see the internet in common use in his primary school, and he does not encourage his own children to use it. "I haven't found trainee or practising teachers who are using the internet as a resource that they're directing children towards," he says. "There has been quite a lot of use of CD-Roms, but not of the internet."One reason may be that the net is still quite complicated to use. "My experience is that it's very difficult for younger children to actually find things online," he says. "It involves really quite advanced literacy - you've got to be a very good reader in order to be able to find information and select from the vast amount that's available.
"It's much easier for children to use CD-Roms - and it's also easier for a teacher to find a CD-Rom that's appropriate."Roger Lilley's preference for the controllable and child-friendly CD-Rom puts him firmly in the minority. At Morley School, Rachel Gutteridge admits "there are children in my class who'd be completely lost &#91;going online&#93; on their own", but she sees the future in terms of better training and better resources."It's partly a money thing, getting enough computers so they can easily be integrated into class work," she says. "It's going to take a while and it's going to take training for teachers, before they can pass it on to the children."But with backing from the Department for Education and its National Grid for Learning,  she is planning to extend the use of the net in her teaching in all subjects and at all levels.It is too early to say whether the net-literate children of today will grow into adults who succumb to the online equivalent of the shopping channel and buy indiscriminately, or whether the critical skills developed at school will allow them to navigate the commercial internet with ease. What is certain is that today's kids accept the net as part of their day to day life in a way that still seems strange to most adults.As a result they are being targeted by both educators and salespeople, and the pressure is unlikely to diminish.Bill Thompson's book Your Own Website, a guide for 9-12 year olds building websites, has just been published by Hodder Children's Books in the Activators series, price 3.99.&#149; Kids.net is targeted at marketing professionals interested in children; educational suppliers and authorities; and children's charities. It is available from the NOP Research Group: 0171 890 9370.
Beware of analogies in court. That was the lesson from yesterday's trial as Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson turned an analogy of Microsoft as a supermarket to the company's disadvantage.Richard Schmalensee, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology professor who is appearing as Microsoft's final witness, argued that the extreme popularity of Microsoft's Windows operating system does not mean that other companies cannot develop competing systems."That's like saying I have a grocery store and you don't - and that makes it hard to compete with me in groceries," Mr Schmalensee told the judge.But in a long exchange, Judge Jackson faulted Microsoft's economic expert on the analogy. Judge Jackson, who will make the final decision on the Microsoft case, said: "I have trouble with your grocery-store analogy. While your competitor is building his little neighbourhood store, you are building a supermarket and your competitor has fewer and fewer customers because they are looking for products in your megamarket and your competition is always trying to play catch-up."The government and 19 states have accused Microsoft of unfairly wielding its market power to bully others or crush the competition, notably Netscape, an Internet browser company. Although it holds a 90% share of the operating systems market, Microsoft denies having a monopoly. Microsoft says it faces competition from different sources, including the Linux operating system, which is distributed free.Mr Schmalensee eventually told the judge that if consumers freely choose the "megamart" because it had lower prices or more products, "they're better off". But Judge Jackson questioned whether the megamart - a not so subtle reference to Microsoft - should then be considered a "benevolent despot or a monopoly".Judge Jackson wondered whether Microsoft could simply use its size to squash smaller competitors. Mr Schmalensee argued that "you don't rely on the baker's benevolence to get your bread... If a firm begins to think like a benevolent despot, it will have a short reign."This phase of the trial ends this week. Both sides now have for 30 days to come up with their "findings of fact" or a summary of their case. The judge will then deliberate and come up with his own conclusions. There will then be further discussions and representations before a final verdict, dragging the process out through the summer.The unofficial verdict is that Microsoft suffered a pounding in court as David Boies, the government's lead lawyer skewered the software giant's witnesses, tripping them up in contradictions, disclosing embarrassing emails and generally tarnishing Microsoft's image. Judge Jackson has done little to hide his impatience with Microsoft during the course of the trial.The judge's extended dialogue with Mr Schmalensee yesterday reflected his sceptical attitude towards Microsoft. Of course if Judge Jackson finds against Microsoft, the company will almost certainly appeal and the case is expected to go all the way to the supreme court. But if Judge Jackson finds Microsoft guilty of predatory behaviour, that could unleash a spate of lawsuits from competitors, who feel they have been unfairly pushed around by the software colossus.
Criminals are exploiting the internet to commit complex offences which the police will find difficult to tackle without a dedicated national unit, a report issued yesterday said.Hacking, viruses, child pornography and fraud are already well known problems, but others are emerging, such as cyber-stalking, blackmail by email, hate sites, work rage and gambling, a three year study, Project Trawler, by the national criminal intelligence service (NCIS) has found.John Abbott, its director general, said the fight against crime in cyberspace should be spearheaded by a national computer crime unit and urged the government to tighten laws governing electronic theft.The information superhighways had revolutionised communications and commerce, but had also opened up new areas of criminal activity.Project Trawler is the first comprehensive assessment of computer crime in Britain. A classified version of the report, which includes more detail about crimes and how they are   committed, has been sent to police forces.The study was divided into nine areas: hacking, viruses, intellectual property offences, fraud, gambling and pornography, electronic payments, harassment, paedophilia and criminal communications.The report described the ease with which hackers could disrupt organisations or conduct commercial espionage.One hacker broke into the Labour party website three years ago and changed a link to another site to read "Labour Party Sex Shop", so visitors were transferred to pages carrying pornography.In one incidence of work rage, a man sabotaged an estate agent's website "in a revenge attack" after losing a business deal.NCIS believes copying trade information from confidential databases should become a criminal offence. It is not at present regarded as theft; hackers can be prosecuted only for gaining unauthorised access.The number of viruses infecting the internet has risen 16-fold since 1992, with research suggesting that 17,000 were on the loose last year. NCIS believes the countdown   to the millennium has spurred many malicious program writers to create viruses to be triggered on January 1, 2000.Software piracy is likely to continue to boom, and digital recordings will make it much easier to make counterfeit compact discs.Last year 160 "virtual" casinos were found on the internet, as well as a host of mail order bride services.The report said a suicide service in Japan offered advice on lethal dosages and the sale of potassium cynaide capsules. "At least one death was attributed to the service."NCIS said it was aware of two recent cases of blackmail by email in the UK. One victim was threatened with photographs altered to show her performing pornographic acts.Almost 1,500 hate sites, supporting terrorism, racism and neo-Nazi groups, have been found on the internet.The report confirmed paedophilia as the most pressing concern for computer police. "Paedophiles use 'chatrooms' to lure minors into meetings," it said. "Possibly the internet is being used to make arrangements for sex tourism and the sexual abuse of children."
The bell will this week ring on round two of the battle between Microsoft, the world's largest software company, and the US government. Microsoft started this rebuttal stage of the anti-trust case brought by the government and 19 US states on June 1 on the back foot. It had appeared less adept at putting its arguments than the government in the opening round which started last autumn. Now, after the sixth and final rebuttal witness has taken the stand in the federal courthouse in Washington's Constitution Avenue, its case does not seem to have advanced much.Ed Black, president of the Computer and Communications Industry Association, a trade body which has taken an admittedly anti-Microsoft stance, says: "Microsoft has probably known for some time that it has a very weak case. Most objective observers feel that Microsoft will be found in multiple ways to be in violation."There is, to be fair, a long way to go before Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson delivers his verdict but Mr Black's judgment and those of several other trial-watchers is based on the latest evidence and the judge's perceived reaction to it.Microsoft managed a few jabs and parries with its three witnesses and its cross-examinations, but the government is widely considered to have achieved the knock-out blow in this latest round with the testimony of Garry Norris, an executive of IBM.He made it clear that Big Blue, subject to its own anti-trust problems several years ago, does not hold a grudge against government forces. He detailed the strong-arm tactics used by Microsoft in negotiating a sales agreement several years ago. Mr Norris, who was IBM's sales negotiator, said Microsoft executives had threatened to delay delivery of the all-im portant Windows operating system unless the company stopped offering rival software.The testimony showed how important Windows, which drives more than 90% of the world's operating systems, is for computer hardware manufacturers. Few could afford to be left behind by rivals offering new machines with updated Windows products.Mr Black, whose 26-year-old industry organisation has fought IBM in the past, said: "IBM are powerful enough to come forward. Their testimony showed how vulnerable companies are."Microsoft argued that the negotiations with IBM simply reflected the rough and tumble of business life.Its chief argument rests on the fact that the computing industry is incredibly dynamic and incredibly competitive. A monopoly could be easily eroded by any number of threats from other companies. Company emails, published during this trial, appeared to back this up when they talked about Netscape, the internet browser company, as a threat. But the same emails also backed the government's case in suggesting the "air supply" for this threat should be turned off.Microsoft's chief witness failed to provide the fireworks it must have hoped for. David Colburn, an executive at America Online, was questioned over the company's purchase of Netscape last year. Microsoft said the deal proved how valuable its erstwhile enemy remained.The position of Netscape is a key part of the government's case as Microsoft gave away its own web browser, leading Netscape to lose sales, and later built Microsoft Explorer into its Windows operating system.David Boies, the government's chief lawyer, did not bother to cross-examine Mr Colburn after the judge appeared to grow weary of his evidence.Microsoft's latest witness, Richard Schmalensee, also appears to have tested the patience of the judge. The dean of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Sloan School of Management took the stand on Monday and argued that Microsoft's tactics had been good for consumers. But during the academic's discussion of predatory pricing, the judge wondered aloud if his definition did not apply to Microsoft.Both sides now face a 30-day period to come up with their "findings of fact". The judge will then deliberate and come up with his own findings. There will then be further discussions and representations before a judgment is made.The government's lawyers have won points with their peers. Karen Donovan, writing in the National Law Journal, could hardly contain her enthusiasm for David Boies, head of Boies &amp; Schiller and the government's chief negotiator. William Neukom, Microsoft's lead counsel, had looked amateurish even next to his junior colleagues, she indicated.Opponents such as the CCIA and a range of consumer groups in the US believe that some kind of break-up of Microsoft is the best solution to the allegedly bullying tactics of Bill Gates and his company. Others believe Microsoft may simply be told to set limits on its behaviour rather than its structure.Mr Black, whose organisation supports a wide variety of businesses, believes that a finding of liability against Microsoft would open the floodgates on legal complaints from erstwhile competitors. "There are a lot of companies out there who have legitimate suits against Microsoft," he said."However, fighting them and their huge stable of lawyers is not something most companies want to tackle. A liability finding makes it somewhat easier and the outcome more predictable."Meanwhile Microsoft has looked remarkably unassailed by the court case. Its share price has doubled in the past year as it has launched initiatives to get involved in a range of different products, from hand-held devices to cable television.Mr Schmalensee said in court this week that the computing industry was still an intensely competitive environment in which Microsoft and its competitors "are still firing".Microsoft must be hoping that the same can continue to be said after this stage in its battle with the government.
Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson yesterday hinted that Microsoft's intentions would weigh heavily in his thinking when he delivers his judgment in the Microsoft antitrust trial.Judge Jackson repeatedly challenged professor Richard Schmalensee, Microsoft's last rebuttal witness, when he asserted that the software giant had competed fairly. Mr Schmalensee, dean of the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, argued that Microsoft should not be considered a corporate predator simply because top company officials, in their emails, spoke of crushing Netscape, the internet browsing company."Most economists would not attach high importance to intent," Mr Schmalensee said."That's what courts do every day," Judge Jackson countered, indicating that the intentions of Microsoft  executives may count for a lot in his final decision.Mr Schmalensee is the final witness in the six-month-long case and Microsoft hoped he would make a favourable impression on the judge with a highly academic point-by-point rebuttal of the government's allegations. Mr Schmalensee is expected to return today for another full day of direct testimony in the landmark trial, pitting the US government and 19 states against Microsoft. The trial is expected to end this week.The government and state attorneys general last year filed a suit accusing Microsoft of illegally using its market power in operating systems to gain advantage in the internet browser market. Microsoft was specifically charged with trying to drive Netscape out of business after it turned down Microsoft's proposal to divide up the browser market.Lawyers for the government yesterday dismissed Mr Schmalensee's analysis. They said Microsoft had intended all along to use its internet browser to extend its dominance of operating systems. Microsoft controls 90 per cent of the market for operating systems."Every full moon they bring out this consumer choice stuff," said David Boies, the government's lead trial attorney. "They've charged higher prices in the only component of the PC market that is increasing in price, they've deprived consumers of choice, and they've forced computer makers to offer a product they don't want to offer."Mr Boies pounced on Mr Schmalensee's explanation that Windows' popularity increased when Microsoft gave away its browser, despite heavy development costs. If, because of browser improvements, Microsoft sold only three per cent more copies of Windows in a single year, the company would more than make up the $100 million invested in the browser's development, Mr Schmalensee said, based on economic models he prepared for the trial.While this may have made business sense for Microsoft, Mr Boies argued that the practice upheld the government's argument."This witness came very, very close today to saying the only way &#91;Microsoft was&#93; going to recoup their &#91;sic&#93; investment in the browser was through the price of Windows and that's exactly the government's theory, that they can recoup, they can get their money back, by maintaining their Windows monopoly," said Mr Boies.Mr Schmalensee did make the point that Microsoft faces enormous competition because software developers use the internet as an alternative platform to Windows. Since his first appearance on the witness stand in
January, Mr Schmalensee said, none of the competitive threats he mentioned before, including 3Com's Palm Pilot, had "become less serious, and a number of them have become more serious."The "most obvious" emerging threat, he said, could be seen in the merger between America Online, the world's biggest online service and Netscape. "The threat from that quarter has become more serious," he said. "And it's impossible to discount &#91;the&#93; Linux &#91;operating system&#93; as a more serious threat as well."
What are you driving?It's a fairly ancient Honda VFR 750 with a V4 engine. I bought my first bike when I was 21 at university after national service. My friend had a Francis Barnett 200 single-stroke and I decided I rather liked it. Then my parents bought me a 250cc two-stroke. I had no car as a student, so my wife rode on the back of the bike.What did she make of it?She was no fan. I gave up riding for 25 years on her orders. She thought I could beat it. But she has a thing for horses, like I love bikes. For a while we almost had a deal. Unfortunately, horses require things like mud and grazing, whereas bikes just sit in the garage. Then, 10 years ago, I got a Honda 500.How fast do you take the bike you have now?It can go to about 150mph. I never take it that fast though. My conscience reacts differently to speeding in cars and speeding on bikes.Have you ever been caught?No.What do you think the bike says about you?A 750cc is a bit of an old man's bike. My Honda was designed decades ago as a state-of-the-art sports bike. It's now been overtaken. It's a bit of a middle-aged choice.So the Volvo of motorbikes, then?No. Bike owners hate Volvo drivers - in fact the car-driving fraternity are generally hated by bikers. I've had a bad-boy bike in my time, though: the Suzuki GSXR 750. That's quite hooliganesque.How do your congregation react?Well, no one sees it's me. I have a helmet on.But when you turn up at church and take off the leathers?Some find it amusing, others think the joke wears a bit thin. I'm surprised at the number of former bikers in my church.What kind of music plays in your head when you're riding? Born to Be Wild?None really. I'm not into pop music of any sort, to be honest. I love the freedom it brings though - and the country smells you can experience.Presumably, people don't expect you to be driving that?Everyone seems to think that bishops go about in chauffeur-driven cars. I went to a youth club recently and apparently one of the kids there said he thought bishops drove Fiestas and wore cardigans.&#149; John Oliver is the Bishop of Hereford and a Church of England environment spokesman.
Friday August 6 will be a busy day for the west country's traffic police. It marks the first rush for 1999's biggest pre-millennial bash, the solar eclipse. The AA reckons that up to 4m people will converge on Cornwall that weekend; the Lizard's eclipse dance festival alone is counting on 20,000 arrivals.Very few drivers will be so raving mad as to drink before they set off, but new research from the department of the environment, transport and the regions (DETR) suggests that a large number will be sampling some sort of drug before or during the journey.As depicted in Human Traffic, Justin Kerrigan's documentary-style film of club culture in Cardiff, driving under the influence of drugs is becoming a fact of life. The law makes drug-driving an offence punishable with the same level of fines as for drink-driving, but the tools of detection are still being worked on and the level of prosecution is tiny."Jane" is 25, works in IT training and drives a Polo. She wouldn't dream of drink-driving but often takes cocaine if she is out clubbing. And because her friends love lager, she is normally the driver. "I suppose the feeling is that if I'm stopped, the police only want to be sure I'm not pissed. The risks of being done for it are virtually nonexistent." Indeed, a recent survey in Edinburgh showed that most young people believed drug-driving to be legal.The latest annual survey of   motoring habits conducted by car-leasing company Lex indicates that 500,000 road-users regularly take cannabis, 250,000 take speed and 100,000 are "regularly under the influence of ecstasy, cocaine or heroin". What's more, Lex's figures provide no information on the rising tide of prescriptions for "psychoactive" medication, as available through your local GP. An EU survey estimates that one in six British drivers drive while taking psychoactive medication, most of which can have a disastrous effect on a driver's judgment. In fact, in the EU, the use of prescribed drugs alone is estimated to be a significant factor in 4,500 road deaths a year.The RAC has some scary statistics, too. For instance, it says that in the past year more than 750,000 passengers have been driven by someone who was high on drugs. The motoring organisation is so concerned about the risks that it is calling for a "legal" driving limit to be set for illicit substances. "Three million people regularly take drugs in the UK and surveys show that 85% of 22-25 year-olds believe that their peer group regularly drive after taking them," says RAC director Edmund King. "Perhaps it is time to change from 'kill your speed' to 'taking speed can kill', but the government is very shy to comment; it appears to be a taboo subject. Because much of the focus is on illegal drugs, no one wants to talk."Soon they may have to. This October, the DETR's three-year study on the extent of the problem will be forwarded to the government as a basis for policy. An early glimpse of the findings is chilling. In 1989, blood samples from fatalities of road accidents showed that only 3% of the drivers had taken drugs. Ten years on, the figures returned by police surgeons have risen dramatically: based on 465 road-traffic deaths, positive readings were measured in 25% of cases - 20% illicit substances (mainly cannabis), and 5% medical drugs.To give the authorities their due, dealing with drug-driving is a tricky issue, with far-reaching implications for civil liberties as well as for road safety. "While some substances can have a lasting effect for days," a DETR spokesperson admits, "it's very difficult to assess the level of impairment. We have few results, but 75% of our positive results have shown the presence of cannabis, which implies a direct driving impairment long after the effect is felt."But here's the rub: to define clearly an offence in which alcohol impairs driving, the legal system had to establish a yardstick, namely 80mg of alcohol per 100ml of blood. By contrast, law relating to driving under the influence of drugs relies far more upon subjective opinion. Ann Flintham, spokeswoman for the Magistrates' Association, readily admits that the bench is in the dark. "It is a murky area. There seems to be some difficulty in defining a measure for drugs and the added complication is where the drugs may be illegal."For banned drugs, the government faces a moral dilemma: if it establishes a threshold for impairment from a banned substance, it will automatically make a nonsense of the laws put in place to prohibit the substances in the first place. What's more, many legal experts believe detection will be the easy bit; proving a drug's potential for impairing driving may be open to varying medical opinion. And if a driver has picked up traces of cannabis merely by walking through a smoke-filled room, he or she may be have a decent case for police harassment.None the less, the DETR began work in March with four police authorities to carry out voluntary roadside testing of "drugometer" devices. The drug screening devices, if approved, could become part of the traffic policeman's standard kit, alongside the breathalyser, which has been around for almost 30 years.There are currently two types of device for roadside drug testing. The first is a "Drugwipe" which takes a specimen of sweat from the driver's forehead. The presence of drug traces will trigger a change in colour on a strip. "Drugwipes are drug-type specific and a separate one is required for each test," a spokesman says. In the trials, the wipes have been primed to detect cannabis,   amphetamines (including ecstasy), cocaine and opiates. The second prototype test is an electronic saliva swab which detects drugs by indicating a colour change then displaying the results on a digital readout. In addition to the Drugwipe's hit list, the swab can detect benzodiazepines such as diazepam (Valium).Medical drug company lawyers are watching closely. Dr Johan Gier of the European road safety federation says that the public has a right to expect adequate warnings on the labels on those drugs that can impair driving. "They do not. Invariably, they are brief, uninformative, carry no hazard warning signal and are always in English - regardless of the mother tongue of the recipient." Diazepam labels, for example, simply warn against driving or using machinery "if you feel drowsy".The RAC echoes this concern - and offers a solution. It wants a European-standard "traffic light" warning system on over-the-counter drugs: "Green would indicate that there are no side effects to impair driving, amber that it may be advisable not to drive and red to indicate adverse effects that would make driving dangerous". Amid the confusion, the only safe course for drivers is to avoid any drug. For an everyday trip, they just don't work.
Antidepressants, sleeping pills and tranquillisersThese are mostly benzodiazepines (BZ) and tricyclates (TCA). Research at Surrey university has shown that, in an emergency, reaction times are slowed by up to 60% more if a driver has taken TCAs than if they are on the legal limit of alcohol intake. Taking BZs, according to research in Canada, increases your risk of a road accident by 6 to 13 times. A 5ml dose of Valium, a type of BZ, is said to be the equivalent of two double dry Martinis - well over the drink-drive limit. The new selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors (SSRI) such as Prozac are believed to have a negligible effect on driving reactions.AntihistaminesCan make you drowsy. Check the label carefully.Operation anaestheticModern anaesthetics can wear off without leaving a hangover feeling. Many doctors are concerned that fast-track operations lead to patients driving home before the effects of the drug have worn off. Get a taxi.CannabisDetectable for 30 days in regular users. Can have unpredictable effects, ranging from fear of lamp-posts to reckless driving. Like alcohol, cannabis affects judgment.EcstasyDr John Henry, consultant physician at Guy's hospital toxicology unit, regards ecstasy as among the most dangerous drugs for drivers. It can, he says, "make people paranoid, alter their concept of time and cause totally distorted behaviour in which they can drive like a demon".Cocaine/amphetamines (speed)Increase confidence, decrease concentration. Might cause fast driving.LSD/other hallucinogens/heroinDoesn't bear thinking about.
An offer of  60,000 in return for housing a mobile phone transmitter on a hospital roof has been rejected by an NHS trust on health and safety grounds. Health managers said the potential risk to patients of microwave radiation  was too great.Orange, the phone company, had offered the East Cheshire trust 6,000 a year for 10 years for the mast to go up at Macclesfield District General Hospital. A similar offer involving a mast on a clinic in Nantwich had been rejected by the Cheshire Community Health Trust.A letter seen by The Observer from the trust to Orange said the rejection of the mast was a 'policy decision. The trust feels that, in view of the continuing research into the effects of mircrowaves on people, the construction of the mast would not be appropriate within the hospital grounds.'A trust spokesman confirmed that Orange's request had been rejected because 'we don't know one way or the other' about potential risks.Campaigners, who are working with scientists and some MPs to win a moratorium on new masts until more research can be carried out, welcomed the decision as 'highly responsible'.Margaret Dean, leader of a group in Northern Ireland that won a High Court order blocking an Orange mast, said: 'We are concerned about the effects of chronic exposure to low-level intensities.'Early symptoms that had later forced telecommunications riggers to retire through ill health had been reported by people living near masts.'The Government should overhaul the planning procedures, which are heavily stacked in favour of the powerful companies,' she said.Labour MP Phil Willis chaired a seminar on the issue at Parliament last week.  International experts in microwave radiation called for minimum distances between masts and homes, schools or hospitals.Professor Henry Lai, whose research at Washington University in Seattle linked microwaves emitted by mobile phone handsets to DNA changes in rodents, said the 'biological and health consequences need further understanding'.The first British Government study, carried out by Dr Alan Preece in Bristol and unveiled in April, suggested that the microwaves did not impair memory, and actually speeded up the working of the brain. But he said mobile phone owners should limit their use of handsets to a matter of minutes.Senior scientists from the National Radiological Protection Board, which advises the Government, said they believed the risk was minimal, but acknowledged the need for much greater research.
Gordon Eubanks was personally chosen by chairman Bill Gates to testify as a friendly witness for Microsoft, but his courtroom appearance yesterday turned out to be a mixed blessing for the software titan.Mr Eubanks, the former head of the software company Symantec and now in charge of a smaller company called Oblinx, said the average shelf life for computing operating systems was only five to 10 years, bolstering Microsoft's argument that its market dominance will eventually wither away. Mr Eubanks also told the court that Microsoft played tough but fair; this was the way the industry operated.But David Boies, the government's main lawyer, tore into Mr Eubanks in the afternoon session. By the end, Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson showed his doubts about Mr Eubanks's credibility with a weary shake of the head.In one heated exchange, Mr Boies asked if it wasn't true that Symantec had tried hard to avoid being "stepped on" by Microsoft. An animated Mr Eubanks nearly jumped out of his chair shouting: "That's not true! That's absolutely not true!" Having laid the trap, Mr Boies closed in.He displayed a New York Times interview in which Mr Eubanks was quoted as saying: "We certainly do compete with Microsoft, but we don't look to do that. We look for segments where we can be out from under their feet."Mr Boies also portrayed Mr Eubanks as someone who discouraged criticism of Microsoft at Symantec. 
A series of internal e-mails from Symantec employees highly critical of Microsoft was produced as evidence. At the end of one message, an employee complains: "I have decided that it's better to say                         nothing than risk the blast from MS &#91;Microsoft&#93;."Mr Boies twisted the knife further by making Mr Eubanks look like a pliant tool for Microsoft. Mr Eubanks admitted that his decision to write an opinion piece for the New York Times in support of Microsoft had indeed been at Microsoft's prompting. Mr Eubanks admitted that he had not even written the piece himself. The draft, Mr Boies pointed out, had been provided by Microsoft.In return for the opinion piece, Mr Eubanks apparently lobbied Microsoft to help him out in another business dealing. "I'd be happy to consider this," Mr Eubanks wrote in an e-mail to Microsoft executive Brad Chase, referring to the Times piece. But then he went on to say that he had talked to higher level Microsoft official "about something that is really concerning us - the inclusion of a competitor's anti-virus product" in Microsoft's Windows operating system. "This makes no sense to me - why favour one company over another?"Mr Eubanks said this was merely "coincidence." Judge Jackson shook his head.Mr Eubanks was Microsoft's second-to-last rebuttal witness. Next week, Microsoft's economic expert, Richard Schmalensee, the dean of the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, will take the witness stand. After that, both sides will have a month to prepare closing arguments.
Worried about shopping over the internet? Afraid the bogeyman of credit cards is lurking out there in cyberspace? In the same way that many people are more afraid of flying than driving because they think it is riskier, many consumers are held back from purchasing electronically by an irrational fear of giving away their credit card details over the big bad net.In a recent DTI survey, 69% of those contacted cited security fears as a major inhibition to the purchase of goods through the internet. One of the main fears among consumers is that their credit card numbers are open to abuse when purchasing something online.However, the latest figures from credit card giant Visa would tend to suggest quite the opposite: that there is a lot of scaremongering going on out there and that the incidence of credit card fraud over the internet is, in fact, quite low.According to figures collected by Visa at the end of last year from 15 banks across the European Union, while 1% of all Visa transactions are internet-related, 47% of all complaints to Visa from its clients relate to the internet. But this figure can in turn be broken down into two: 25% relate to a variety of complaints such as the fact that the wrong item was ordered - blue shoes instead of red - or customers don't understand the entry on their   statement relating to internet orders.The other 22% only are actually related to possible cases of fraud, or "disputes" as Visa prefers to call them, which spokeswoman Stacey Torbit explains are most probably related to someone in the physical world stealing credit card numbers fraudulently then using them over the net.Crucially, she says that Visa has so far never come across the case of a card number having been stolen over the internet while a customer was using it to purchase an item.But the fact that both Visa and MasterCard find it difficult to compile exact statistics for internet disputes - because such occurrences are usually lumped together with telephone and mail order complaints - does not help to dispel myths about online credit card fraud.In these conditions, it would be fair to say that consumers are actually safer shopping electronically than in the physical world, whether over the phone or in a shop where anyone is able to write down the number of their credit card then use it fraudulently.If you're still worried, the consensus throughout the industry is that the best way of protecting yourself is to use your common sense - just as you would when making a purchase in the "real world" - and stick to the following industry guidelines.The best known way to shop electronically in safety is to purchase through what is   known as a secure server or SSL (Secure Socket Layer), which uses encryption to protect the transmission of data across the net, and that includes your credit card details.Jonathan Rodger is managing director of just such a company, Secure Host ing, which, as the name suggests, provides secure hosting facilities to merchants who include the London Philharmonic Orchestra and Saracens Rugby Club."In 1994," he says, "it took a university professor with 120 workstations and two supercomputers working in parallel eight days to break a single 40-bit encrypted message."These days, with 128-bit SSL, it would take a Pentium computer somewhere around the age of the earth (billions of years in other words) running 24 hours a day to crack a 128-bit encrypted message."Once we've installed the   maximum security measures possible, such as (filtering software against hackers) and SSL encryption, then the risk of a card number being intercepted by a third party is extremely low," he says.The second piece of useful advice is to deal only with a reliable, known merchant, ie a big brand name, to whom you can turn if things should go wrong."Use your common sense, make sure there is reliable information given on the site such as an address and a telephone number in case of problem," says Caroline Chapel of internet service provider AOL. Most   importantly, she says: "Don't buy if you don't think the site is reliable.""Generally speaking, read the small print as you would do in any other purchasing situation," says Nick Cobban, director of the Credit Card Research Group, which represents credit card issuers, mainly high street banks."If anything does go wrong, you should ultimately take it up with the credit card companies," he adds. "Just make sure you don't lose any sleep over it."&#149; Alexandra Fouch&eacute; is International Agenda Editor Time Out
Virus days"It's been quite a busy week," said Graham Cluley, the hard-to-spell doyen of the British anti-virus fraternity. As the senior technical consultant at Sophos, a supplier of anti-virus software, he was fielding enquiries about ExploreZip, the Trojan Horse/worm/virus that had spent most of the week zeroing files across the western hemisphere. But that was just one of four new viruses to cross his hard drive.ExploreZip attracted most attention because so many companies took their email systems off-line to deal with it, and because it deleted Microsoft Word and Excel   files. Of course, it also deleted C language and other files, and Cluley had talked to one programmer who'd had more than 3,000 files deleted. (But being a programmer, she had simply restored them from back-up tapes.)Cluley said a rogue program called PrettyPark had turned up in France - it appears to offer a South Park screen-saver - and he'd also found Heathen and Flash-Killer "in the wild". Heathen is the first Microsoft Word virus to go "in effect, memory resident - it works even when you don't have Microsoft Word running" - while FlashKiller can disable PCs completely, like the CIH or Chernobyl virus which struck on April 26."But unlike CIH," said Cluley, "FlashKiller doesn't care what day it is."Take care"The message, as always, is: Don't run unsolicited executable files and don't open unsolicited documents," said Cluley. "The problem with things like ExploreZip   and Melissa is that they appear to have come from friends and colleagues..."What next?The problem with today's virus attacks is that they are becoming very sophisticated. ExploreZip, for example, mails itself to people who've just sent you email, and may well be expecting a reply.And malicious programs can be far more sophisticated than before. ExploreZip is big - more than 200K - but millions of computer users on fast corporate networks neither know nor care how big their file attachments are.The skill in virus writing used to be making them small enough to avoid detection, but an email Trojan could include digital video clips of the programmer asking "How would you like your hard drive deleted today?"But don't bother sending anything like that to us: we're conserving internet bandwidth by coming an attachment-free zone.
This Saturday night, up to 10,000 clubbers will pile into the grounds of Leeds' Lotherton Hall for a mammoth 10 hours of dancing to music mixed by some of the world's biggest DJs. Fans will be bussed from all over the country to the event, one of the hugely fashionable all-nighters whose vast crowds, side shows and atmosphere are as much an attraction as the music.But the ravers gyrating to the likes of Pete Tong, Paul Oakenfold, Judge Jules and Seb Fontaine - all huge names on the dance scene - will only be a small part of the total audience. For, as well as the thousands listening live on BBC Radio 1, another huge audience will watch and listen to the party over the internet, typing comments into their terminals which will be displayed on screens high above the dancers at the venue. Welcome to the age of cyber-clubbing.The young fans of dance music have made large, and very successful, parts of the web their own. From chat rooms, where they discuss what they got up to at the weekend and what the best new tracks are, to the official club sites which offer the latest news and sell merchandise, some of the most sophisticated multimedia sites on the web revolve around the communities of clubbers.Clubbers go in crowds to everything, it seems. Star DJ Paul Oakenfold is the new holder of the Guinness Book of Records' title for the largest number of website "hits" at any given moment: 900 people accessed his site within the same few milliseconds last month, triple the previous high, when he released a new mix. The total number who turned up to watch his live webcast was 40,000 - also a record. Not surprisingly, his   Perfecto brand - which includes clothing as well as music - will hit the internet service provider scene soon.Already helping clubbers online is the Ministry of Sound, a name which extends across nightclubs, CDs, a magazine, clothing, accessories and, of course, a website. Ministry Digital's Head of Production, Dave Ranshaw, says the club spotted the potential of the web for clubs three years ago, and has gradually developed the site to embrace new technologies. It now ships "vast amounts" of merchandise through the e-commerce options on the site."The development of the Ministry of Sound website is a natural progression for the company. It allows us to deliver our message to a global audience," he says."Teenagers have traditionally been early adopters of new technology, and students throughout the world get free access to the internet via their university networks. Increas ing numbers of people get online every week all with a view to checking out what's cool."For DJ Dave Pearce, who presents BBC Radio 1's Dance Anthems show on Sunday evenings, the internet is the best way to communicate with the millions who listen to his show. "It seems like the most instant way to interact with the audience," he says. "When you've got phone calls you have people answering them and sifting the calls; the beauty of email is that people just go bang and it appears in front of me. They're coming in all the time."And the show has gone one stage further; a listener who's a bit of a computer buff has set up his own unofficial chatroom site, so while we're on air there's all these dance fans in the chatroom. I think the BBC is a bit flummoxed by it, but that's the nature of the internet - it's all good fun, and it's definitely the way forward."That computer buff is Aberdeen student Robin Brinkler who, although only 18, is building a reputation in the music industry as a fan with his finger on the pulse of the online dance scene. The RadioONE chatroom he set up - not officially endorsed by the BBC, but "given a shout" by Pearce every week - is now busy on not just one evening each week; there are often visitors in other nights, keen to talk about all sorts of music and avoid the Sunday rush, when often more than 100 people will cram into the room to talk about the Dance Anthems show as it goes out."I've always loved dance music, but Dance Anthems really got me into it," says Brinkler, "and when I got onto the internet in 1997 I set up the chatroom. Initially it was nothing to do with Dance Anthems, but people came in when the show was on and started talking about the music. Dave Pearce picked up on it because I was emailing him, asking for tunes to be played and basically annoying him, and he started to email back. Then he started advertising it. It was doing some thing for Dance Anthems, and for Radio 1. He didn't mind, and I wasn't looking for anything out of it. Now we get DJs in, we get people talking about the scene, exchanging samples of music."The support pages are done by my friend Kyle who lives in Newcastle. He is almost totally deaf, but through the internet he's got this thing that he loves. Although he can't really hear Dance Anthems, he loves being involved with it and chatting to people in the chatroom. He gets loads of fun out of it - there are so many aspects to it, and so many different kinds of people."Robin has plans to keep improving his site, but is adamant he is not looking to   make any money from his labour of love. Instead, the links he wants to set up with record companies will simply help fans keep up with the latest tunes, while tying in with a shop will help them find elusive tracks not available in the shops. "We've always got people trying to hum things in text, and sometimes they work it out," says Robin."A lot of people ask 'why are you doing this if you're not making anything out of it?' but it is just something that I love doing. I'm at university, that's what I do, but this is something where I'm building up contacts. I'm talking to these industry people and saying I'm not looking for anything out of it more than   getting on your mailing list. I'm happy just to take a different attitude to it."There is the idea that people who go on the internet are geeks and don't want to communicate, but I think what Dave and I have been doing is helping to dispel the myth. You sometimes get 20 people in there at 2am on a Sunday morning, because they've just come in from clubbing, or they listen to the Essential Mix &#91;another Radio 1 dance music show&#93;."I think &#91;record&#93; labels recognise that if you want to be successful in dance music, you have to move onto the internet in all sorts of different ways. I think Dave has always been interested in using it as a medium for promoting Dance, and he's taking the right steps to do that."For Pearce, the idea of the internet being the place for dance music fans to hang out makes perfect sense. "People   can make dance music in their bedrooms, and people can then download the music, and there are a lot of fanzines going around on the net now, dealing with club culture. And the internet is a way of life for people in that age group. It's just so normal to them, like using the telephone," he says."The clubs themselves love it. I was doing a club the other day and they were saying how brilliant it is because, at the moment, the conventional way to promote a club is through a mailing list, and you have to mail out all these flyers. But now you can have email databases, and you hit 500 clubbers and tell them who's DJing at your club that week."Pearce even thinks that the web can help lure young people back to the oldest of the electronic mediums, radio, by forming a unique partnership: the web   providing vision and interaction, and the radio the accompanying sounds. "I think radio lends itself very well to internet usage. It's something you can do while you're online, and I think a lot of young people are coming back to radio because of that."It's interesting that, in the last year and a half I've been doing the show, the amount of email has become ridiculous. The screen in front of me is beeping away more or less every second. Radio 1 has carriage on the Astra satellite so we get emails from all around Europe, and I think unofficially people relay bits of our show over the web."I get emails from America, and there was a group from Poland who came over to a gig we did in Scotland the other week and they were saying how they get the show on the net from somebody."There was even an email from Serbia, from someone saying how glad they were the bombing was stopping."
Women who want the full monty can now get it on the Web at a new cybershopping mall called Zoom. In fact, they can get far more than the full Montague Burton group, now called Arcadia.The familiar high-street names are at the core of the site -TopShop, Dorothy Perkins, Principles, Evans, Racing Green - but Eva Pascoe (above) Zoom's managing director says they've added the "best of breed" brands from outside the parent company. An impressive collection of "about 25" partners was announced at Zoom's launch on Monday in Arcadia's flag-ship TopShop store in the middle of London's Oxford Street. The list went from Amazon for books, HMV for music, Interflora for flowers, Littlewoods' Index for household goods... all the way to Battersea Dogs Home. And to help generate custom, Zoom will be handing out CDs for its free internet service at all its 1,609 high-street outlets, with specially-trained "zoomers" on hand to provide advice.It's just like Dixons' Freeserve, but in skirts. For Pascoe - best known as co-founder of the Cyberia chain of cybercafes - the TopShop party is the culmination of two years' work. She    joined Arcadia as online marketing director, running the group's various Web sites. Sales reached &#163;1m in the first year and are expected to reach &#163;3-4m in the second, with women making up 75% of the buyers. Zoom has been set up as a wholly-owned subsidiary to grow the business beyond the fashion market. However, most of the customers will probably still be women, so Zoom is intended to be easy to use."We're talking about Dorothy Perkins customers after all," says Pascoe. "They're not technically-minded, nor do they want to be. Zoom isn't about technology, it's about saving you money, and helping you to find the best deals, without wearing out your shoe leather." All this might add up to a somewhat pedestrian approach. The Internet is supposed to enable bright young start-ups to come in and take business away from traditional retailers like the Burton group.Boo - started by Ernst Malmsten and Kajsa Leander, co-founders of Sweden's successful bokus.com internet bookshop - is the obvious example, because it has just enjoyed a high-profile launch into the online fashion business. Boo has a sportier image and its brands include DKNY Active, Fila and Rocket Girl, but the businesses aren't that    far apart. While Pascoe concedes that "obviously we don't want to endanger the high-street brands", she's using every trick in the internet book to build loyalty in her online customer base, and Arcadia's traditional businesses have skills she can exploit.It's not just about creating web pages, it's about collecting the money, delivering the goods, and handling the messy but inevitable drawback to the fashion business: returns. Pascoe says her online customers will be able to collect Zoom points in the fashion room, as part of a rewards scheme that will later be extended to the partners as well. From July 5, they'll also be able to use a "store card" to    buy goods, with a credit scheme backed by GE Capital. From September, they'll be able to check their bills and pay online.Using a store card is seen as less risky than using a credit card online. Also, Zoom will continue to use the fulfilment systems provided by the Arcadia Group. "We've already delivered to 131 countries including China and Japan, where Racing Green and Top Shop are particularly popular," says Pascoe. "We will also be setting up in other countries, starting in France and Germany in September, and we may do a franchise operation in Japan." Perhaps Boo -which is starting as a multi-language, multi-currency operation -will ultimately prove faster on its feet, but it should be an interesting battle.And while Boo may have landed the first blow by getting more publicity for its launch, Zoom is already ahead on points: when Zoom made its announcement, it's site was already up and running, whereas Boo still only has a fancy place-holder.&#149;  Zoom:www.zoom.co.ukBoo:www.boo.comZoom CDs -  which include Microsoft's Internet Explorer 5 browser- are available free at Arcadia Group stores or by phoning 0207-636 8040.
What was your introduction to computers?My father is a physicist, and I remember when I was eight or so he took me to see a huge computer that had to be fed punchcards. My own first computer was a Kaypro. It was one of the first advertised as portable.The thing was a big metal box that weighed about 15 pounds, I think.The screen was not much bigger than a postcard. I loved it, and wrote my first two books on it. Now I'm sitting comfortably in a London flat with my PowerBook on my lap. The convenience and the sleekness of the new machines make the first ones look like close cousins of the Remington. On the other hand, I was just browsing in the Portobello Road yesterday and I lingered nostalgically over a barrow full of Remingtons. I wonder how long it will be before one sees Kaypros in Portobello Road?How important is the computer to your work?I write everything on my Mac, and I am an email addict.Any favourite software?I love a Macintosh program called Hypercard for my notes. I have about 500 note-cards about genes and behaviour, and more than 7,000 cards about evolution, and almost 2,000 cards in my Rolodex, and they're all sitting right here in my lap.Any favourite websites?My favourite website at the moment isFlybase. I go there to follow the latest discoveries about genes and behaviour in the fly rooms of the world.Any favourite gadgets?My next set-up will include a digital camera. But I really want to be able to record an interview and have my computer transcribe it. That's the last real slog left in nonfiction writing.Anything really irritate you about computers?When I'm having trouble writing, the computer's smoothness and efficiency seems like a reproach. It's ready and quick, and I'm not.Are you a geek? Got any favourite geeks?My sons are my favourite geeks. They're 13 and 10.On a desert island, a human or a computer for company?A human being. No contest. Sorry.What do you see in the future for computers?Two divergent visions. One, our computers become more and more personal, like old, well-trusted, familiar (occasionally over-familiar) servants or friends. Two, we keep all our our stuff in large central computers, and we access it with anonymous gizmos smaller than Palms.Has email revived the art of letter writing?I scrawl more letters every day than I used to write in a month.
In the old days, when self-service department stores were still new-fangled, there was a popular moral conundrum: supposing the lights went out in Woolworth's, would all those honest shoppers become shoplifters? If no one is looking, can we trust ourselves to be honest?The relationship of modern society and the personal computer can be charted as a series of key points of convergence. One such, about five years ago, was when the desk-top became (1) powerful enough to connect with the web (2) cheap enough to be a routine domestic purchase. The number of web-connected households grew explosively. In another five years, the net-connected computer will be as ubiquitous as the refrigerator.There are two other lines which have yet to converge: cyber-expertise and cyber-ethics. Put bluntly, what keeps the bulk of the   computer-owning population honest is computer-ignorance. Once that first generation of users gets to know the formidable machine under their fingers, it will be lights out in the candy store.The analogy is not quite accurate. The community of hackers, crackers, soft-loaders, hard-loaders, counterfeiters, bootleggers and chat-line traders who flout society's laws of intellectual property, giving Bill Gates and the RIAA (Record Industry Association of America) sleepless nights, do not see themselves as thieves. In their eyes they are Robin Hoods. Not unethical, just differently ethical.Piracy thrives principally with music, games and software. New compression technology (MP3) means that the latest CDs can be downloaded in an hour or less; software (via FTP) in the twinkling of an eye. Where music is concerned, filching    can be done with a veneer of legality. Go to http://mp3. lycos.com , enter the name of the group you want (Spice Girls) in the search box, and Lycos will direct you to helpful sites where you can help yourself.If you really want to trade, you'll need to get into Usenet, scan various channels, and do your business by chatline. It's very easy. Any number of online manuals will walk you through it. A relatively small investment in equipment will enable you to assemble your own customised CDs. Free.MP3 freebooters justify their malfeasance by reference to the recording industry's $38bn turnover in 1998. They point to the archive built up by illicit concert recordings and groups like the Grateful Dead who actively encouraged electronic bootlegging. In their analysis, what terrifies the RIAA is less the (insignificant) erosion of their financial base than the shift in the   balance of power. The net, over time, will give musicians the power to take over the means of production.Software piracy is as old as the personal computer. A subculture has built up around Warez (it's "wares", crossed with "Juarez", the Mexican smuggling capital across from El Paso). The "crackers" who operate it are essentially not-for-profit. They get the material in the first instance from free demos, and "crack" the maker's protective codes. Warez can get you virtually any software program on the market free. A legitimate   search via keyword will get you to the appropriate "sitez"; although, as with MP3, the real trade and barter is done on chatlines. Warez-merchantz justify their activity as political resistance to monopolists like Microsoft. They, the crackers, are the good guys.Given the bandwidth bottleneck, downloading artifacts as large as movies can take hours and camcorder reproduction is lousy. For the foreseeable future, film is safe. There are, however, some interesting straws in the wind. Call up the directorywww.isonews.comand among thousands of other items, you'll find a new workprint (ie full cinetext) of the TV movie about the Irish troubles, Divorcing Jack, which was suppressed because of the Omagh bombing. Isonews strictly doesn't distribute, but it discreetly points you towards a warez group which does.If we were dealing with a traditional medium (such as   the press in the 19th century or radio in the 20th) the usual authorities would step in. The industry would organise, laws would be passed. Net technology is evolving so fast, however, that traditional regulations can't catch up. Guerilla distribution is here to stay. System providers (following Demon's unfortunate experience) won't monitor content. Search directories, like Yahoo, insist it's none of their business.Industrial lobbyists won't solve the problem. Nor will the Draconian laws which the recording industry is calling for. V-chip technological fixes are pie in the sky. What is needed is some serious debate on the ethical issues , workable consensus, an agreed code of conduct, and education. Without them the net will be an electronic Wild West, forever.&#149; John Sutherland is professor of English at University College, London
Computer tops pollAmericans think the computer is the leading technological achievement of the century, according to a survey by Systems Research Corporation for Harris Corporation (www.harris.com). The computer (40%) was followed by television (12%), the refrigerator (12%), medical advances (6%) and the internet (5%). When they were asked which new technology was most important in their everyday lives, the computer beat the TV set by 34% to 17%. When asked about the technologies they wished had not been developed, most chose "weapons of mass destruction" (59%), followed by credit cards (10%) and genetic engineering (9%). Most of the 1,000 respondents owned a VCR (93%), a computer (59%) and a mobile phone (52%), and 77% had two or more TV sets in their homes. The margin of error was +/- 3%.MS TVMicrosoft has unveiled its "television software platform" for broadcasters and cable TV operators. It is a client/server system that links host software running Microsoft TV Server on a central computer with a range of "television-centric appliances" such as WebTV sets, internet terminals, set-top boxes and integrated digital TV sets in people's homes. The idea of the system is to enable network operators to merge internet and television services and provide interactive programming.Listening databanksOmnitel Pronto Italia, Europe's second-largest mobile phone operator, has launched the first internet portal or gateway that can be navigated by talking to it using natural speech. Omnitel 2000 provides access to up to 300 databases using True- Dialog and SpeechMania speech-recognition software developed in Austria by Philips, the Dutch consumer electronics giant. The Omnitel portal can also be accessed via a web browser or a smart-phone using WAP (Wireless Application Protocol) software. About 90 services should be available by the end of this month, including travel, leisure and weather information, news services, share prices, and sports results.Camera verit&eacute;Kodak Japan is launching a digital camera that doesn't just put the date on a picture, it records where it was taken. Place data comes from a Garmin GPS (global positioning system) receiver that gets its co-ordinates from a network of satellites. The &#163;2,300 GPS-260 combo is not a pretty sight but it's expected to appeal to surveyors, civil engineers and similar users.All saintsIt often seems that the internet has everything from nutters to Nobel prize-winners... but it doesn't have a patron saint. Spanish users seem to be particularly concerned about this "problem" and some are campaigning for the adoption of St Isadore of Seville (556-636), who developed an early hierarchical database, Etymologies, at least in book form. Others favour San Pedro Regalado, whose trick was to be in two places at once, or Santa Tecla, whose website enables users to make online confessions to sins like not paying for shareware programs. Outside Spain, of course, the net already has a patron saint in the writer of Emacs and founder of the Free Software movement,   Richard Stallman, who may humorously play Saint Ignucius (sic) with the help of a platter from a defunct hard drive (below). However, newer and slightly less knowledgeable net users may well be keener to canonise a Finn whose symbol is a penguin: the author of the Linux Unix-like operating system kernel, Linus Torvalds.Intel chips upIntel, the world's largest chip manufacturer, is building a $1.2bn production lab at its plant in Hillsboro, Oregon, to produce 300mm (12in) silicon wafers. These will enable twice as many chips to be produced at once, compared with today's 200mm wafers, while doubling production volumes and reducing manufacturing costs by about a third. Production will not start until 2002, but as Intel's chief executive Craig Barrett says: "The road to the Internet is paved with silicon."Cow prizeRivella, the Swiss soft drink, is launching a competition on its website giving surfers "their first ever chance to win a pet cow on the net". Rivella has 370 luxury cows, all of them guaranteed not to tell lies while providing life-long companionship. The site is aimed at women, says Bates Interactive, which produced it. It describes the campaign as tongue-in-cheek humour.In ProfileGateway is expected to launch its Profile flat-screen PC in the US today. Previously the system has been available only in Japan. In an interview with Online (June 10), Gateway co-founder Ted Waitt said it was "not unlikely" that the company would also offer a cheaper system with a built-in monitor instead of an LCD screen, which would make it the Windows equivalent of an Apple iMac.
Ada Project: comprehensive Yale's site on techwomenwww.cs.yale.edu/~tap/tap.html4000 Years of Women in Sciencewww.astr.ua.edu/4000ws/4000ws.htmlWomen in Information Technology at Berkeleyhttp://lucien.sims.berkeley.edu/womeninit/index.shtmlWomen &amp;Computer Science: Ellen Spertus's site at MITwww.ai.mit.edu/people/ellens/gender.htmlWomen in Computer Visual Arts, Effects and Animationwww.animation.org/womenWomen of Nasa:http://quest.arc.nasa.gov/women/intro.html
BloomingFans of James Joyce will know that yesterday was the most important day of the    year in the Joycean calendar. Joyce's doorstop tome, Ulysses, is set entirely on June 16, 1904, on a day in the life of the place the writer called Dear Dirty Dublin. As a result, on June 16 Joycean fans gather across the globe for readings, breakfasts of lamb's kidneys and lunches of gorgonzola sandwiches, and to raise a few pints of Mr Guinness's deep black brew. If you want to see what the fuss is all about or have been considering some particularly heavy reading for the beach this summer and want to    know where to get started, checkDyoublong, the Irish Times newspaper's year-round site dedicated to the author. There are photo and video essays of the city, appreciative writings, discussion areas and the 1904 Irish Times from the day Joyceans now call Bloomsday, after the lead Ulyssean character, Leopold Bloom.Riding highCyclists - from those in top competitive form to families looking for a different sort of holiday this year - can find reams of information on touring and off-road cycling in Europe and the Mediterranean at theTrento Cycling Pages. The encyclopedic site is maintained by a cycling professor of algebra at the University of Trento in Italy, who includes biking calendars of events, trail and road reports, lists of bike touring companies, reports from individual cyclists of all levels of experience, and sugges tions of places to stay and where to eat from Iceland to Latvia to France.Money manThe Microsoft trial is back in full swing and just in case you're feeling sorry for William Gates III, just stop by the Bill Gates Personal Wealth Clock,www.webho.com/. Philip Greenspun at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology runs a little program on his site which updates the Spectacled One's fortune based on the daily price fluctuations of the Microsoft boss's M$ share holdings. Usually it floats somewhere between $88bn and $100bn. There, don't you feel less anxious for Bill already?Robot timeFancy your own R2D2 unit? Nasa is offering a live, online course on the use of robots in space. The eight-week short course begins June 30 and each lesson will involve a live robotics expert working on a Nasa project, a webcast, chat sessions, video clips, web slides and a follow-up question and answer session.    Classes will be taught by Nasa robotics experts who were or are involved with such projects as the Sojourner mission to Mars and the Mars Surveyor 2001 mission. The enrolment fee is $275; get more information athttp:// quest.arc.nasa.gov/courses/nroTurtle songAfter the squeaky-voiced all-singing, all-dancing hamsters, the site which launched a thousand spinoffs (including the dancing Jesuses), another silly "animals doing stupid things on the Web" site has arrived. This time, it's a singing turtle but theQuicktimemovie takes ages to download. Worth the wait if you're an animation fan with lots of time on your hands.Canal plusIf the more than 10 million people who use Britain's 2,000 miles of inland waterways every year also use the internet, they'll be delighted withwww.britishwaterways.comthe site created for British Waterways, the organisation which promotes and looks after the canal systems. Along with general news, information on getting afloat, sights along individual waterways, towpaths accessible to cyclists, and conservation projects, the site has highly detailed interactive maps of all 2,000 miles of waterways.On the tilesWe know you'd really rather be surfing, but if you have to do those pesky DIY tasks over the weekend, why not use the net to find out exactly how to do the job? Lowe's Home Improvement Warehouse,www.lowes.com, has detailed, illustrated instructions for more than 150 DIY projects from tiling a floor to installing a ceiling fan. They also have a paint problem solver for dozens of indoor and outdoor painting tribulations.HistoryAnyone fascinated by the history of the internet or who ends up in office arguments over who wrote the first paper on packet-switching will love Hobbes'Internet TimelineThis venerable and unbelievably comprehensive guide to every significant who, what, when, where and why of the internet world begins in 1957 and ends in late March of this year. Tacked on the end are enough charts, graphs, lists and links to keep even the pickiest geek happy for hours.
Microsoft Office 2000, launched last week, is not just the latest version of the world's dominant productivity software. It may also redefine the way millions of people work, by blurring the distinction between the internet, internal "intranets" based on internet technologies, and users' personal files.Microsoft president Steve Ballmer has warned IT directors that this could create chaos for a while. But in its ability to provide users with a "digital dashboard" - a way of organising everything on a single screen - Office 2000 might also provide a route to a more profitable future. It will certainly be profitable for Microsoft. It has already "sold" 15 million copies of Office 2000, mostly to companies who get upgrades through licensing deals, whether they install them or not. But Ballmer says "over 50 million Office licences have been distributed in just the last 12 months", and the new version will undoubtedly take over from Office 97, continuing a business worth more than $5bn a year.Microsoft Office started life as an Apple Macintosh suite that combined three main programs: Word (word processor), Excel (spreadsheet) and PowerPoint (presentation graphics). Access (database) and Outlook (personal information manager) were added later. Office 2000 takes the expansion further, and the Premier edition now has eight applications, including Front Page (web page creation), Publisher (desktop publishing), and PhotoDraw (business graphics).Not everyone wants everything, of course, but there are five versions of Office to choose from, including Standard, Small Business,    Professional and Developer. The Standard edition has the basics: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook. All of them also include Internet Explorer 5, which underpins the integration of Office 2000 and the internet.It's the network integration that provides the real advance in Office 2000. Users can not only save files in Microsoft's proprietary formats, familiar from Office 97, they can also save them as web pages in HTML (HyperText Mark-up Language). They can even save documents straight to a web server, perhaps bypassing multiple levels of corporate control and checking. This is where Ballmer foresees potential chaos because, as he says, "every group in the company is going to want a website... even every individual may want one".IT departments will always try to hog-tie users "but you risk losing more than you gain if you attempt to restrain knowledge workers", he warns. Implementing web technologies has been hard because HTML was never designed to handle the sophisticated facilities built into Office. Microsoft has done it by using XML (eXtensible Mark-up Language). XML is gaining widespread support and could revolutionise the web, but it depends on the use of common vocabularies to translate data between different applications.The danger is that Office 2000's ubiquity will put Microsoft in the driving seat for XML, much as Netscape's monopoly in web browsers helped it to drive HTML. Another problem is that the web pages created with Office 2000 may depend on Microsoft extensions to the web server software or use effects that can't be displayed using other web browsers. But Microsoft's Tom Williams claims the programmers    targeted Netscape 3 as the "baseline browser" for delivering reasonable results, and text should be readable in any standard browser.In other respects, Microsoft has tried to make Office 2000 easier to use, both for knowledge workers and IT departments. The user interface, for example, adapts itself    to what users do, promoting menu items that are used and hiding ones that aren't.You can always pop up a full-sized menu to see what actions are possible, but the effect can be disconcerting. Further, Office 2000 users don't even have to install features they don't think they will use: there's an "install on    demand" facility that will fetch the program code from a network server if it's needed.Unfortunately this is not much use to people with standalone desktop PCs or portables, unless they're happy to keep their office discs handy at all times. But one Word feature everyone will love is Click &amp; Type, which lets users start typing anywhere in a document, without entering lots of spaces first. The clipboard's long-overdue ability to hold more than one file - Collect amp; Paste - is also useful. For IT departments, Microsoft has made Office 2000 easier to install, upgrade or remove. One important development for global corporations is that there is now a single code base for Office 2000, instead of dozens of versions for different regions and languages.The multilingual capabilities also benefit users, who can have different languages spell-checked on the same page or, for example, type in English while having help routines in a local language. The Developers' edition of Office 2000 is intended to help companies build their own applications on top of Office, re-using its 6,000+ components. Outlook 2000, the information manager, now supports Microsoft's VBA (Visual Basic for Applications), and can be programmed to provide a "window" into everything else - you need never use Windows again!This is the basis of the "digital dashboard" that Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates is now promulgating. (Think of Outlook as a glorified web page and the digital dashboard is a glorified personalised web page, like My Yahoo! on steroids.) Jeremy Gittins (pictured), the group marketing manager in charge of Microsoft Office products in the UK, says this type of   "knowledge management" is "the big thing for us: Office applications are going to be the 'portal on the desktop' for viewing information from lots of different sources. You can create your view of the business, the one you need," he says, "and it's not rocket science by any means."This approach will also be supported by forthcoming Microsoft server programs including a "workflow development platform" code-named Grizzly. So do we want Office 2000, and will it be a success? The question seems otiose to Mary Wardley, the expert on office suites at US-based analysts International Data Corporation. She thinks it has more than 90% of the market. "It's a standard, it's a staple, it's a desktop environment for many organisations that have committed themselves to it. As a standard it needs to be revised and refreshed to reflect evolutions of technology like web-centric document publishing, collaborative computing, et cetera," she says."They've got a huge installed base that's very reliant on them to keep their applications up to date." San Jose-based Chris Le Tocq, director of software consulting at Dataquest, also reckons Office has an 89% to 90% market share, "but the challenge for Microsoft is how to get the upgrade dollars". He finds it more interesting that Microsoft is testing enforced registration of the suite in some areas, such as Australia. The idea is to discourage piracy, which Ballmer admits "is a real problem in this business". "Yes, &#91;Office 2000&#93; will sell," says Le Tocq, "but whether you should buy it depends on who you are and what you need. If you already have Office 97 and no great need to produce web pages in a word processor, it's not necessary to go out and upgrade everything you have."
Big shotsMechWarrior 3PC CD-Rom Microprose &#163;39.99Two-legged armoured combat vehicles they may be, but Mechs are ineffectual without some human control. Piloting the hulking behemoths is only one of the problems you'll face in this, the third of the long-running MechWarrior series.The convoluted plot, set in the 30th century, basically boils down to a lot of stomping, shooting and strategy. The 20 missions involve controlling your bi-pedal giant and   generally causing the enemy some bother while simultaneously keeping an eye on your units and resources.The 3-D world is convincing but it is the mechs themselves that impress most. Individual body parts can be targeted and therefore arms can be shot off and leg hits cause your robot to limp.When sustaining large explosions, your machine teeters before crashing to the ground, crushing any unfortunates below. The sound effects have enough bass to give a satisfying footprint crash and you gain a real sense of scale through the clanking strides.It's this, plus the high detail on the machines, which helps   make the giant robot warfare as realistic as it could be.Problems? The main one is the missions, which lack variety and number. This is a shame, as the graphical engine deserves more imaginative scenarios than the simple seek-and-destroy variants on offer. Although individual battles can be set up it would have been interesting to have a less linear route throughout the one player game.Despite this, MechWarrior is a good looking stomp-around, especially enjoyable in multiplayer. Ignore the beard-scratching sci-fi plot and MechWarrior offers some decent strategical tech-warfare.Greg HowsonSpeak to meMonsoon MM-1000multimedia loudspeakers Sonigistix &#163;179Sonigistix from Vancouver, Canada, has designed a sound system for hi-fi buffs who want real stereo, not the mush produced by cheap multimedia loudspeakers.The black Monsoon MM-1000 system looks small because the two 8in x 4in speakers use a flat-panel construction which takes up less space than traditional cones. But they provide sounds only above 200Hz: the real grunt comes from the large cube-shaped 25-watt "woofer" on the floor, which pumps out a thumping bass.The ensemble sounds great with a high-quality source, such as a decent portable CD player. Plugged into a noisy PC sound card, the results may be less successful, because these speakers can all too easily show up the inferiority of MP3 files and some game soundtracks.However, the flat speakers are very directional, and with DVD movies and 3-D "surround sound" systems like Aureal's A3D, the results can be stunning: it's hard to believe there are only three speakers in use, not five.How many people will want to pay a premium price for this is an open question. Still, Dixons thinks there's a market and plans to sell the Monsoon in PC World.Jack SchofieldAnna Kournikova's Smash Court TennisSony PlayStationShe's just turned 18, she's the 16th best tennis player in the world and, according to FHM, the world's 14th sexiest woman too. It's sort of reassuring, then, to discover that not everything Anna Kournikova touches turns to gold.Smash Court Tennis is a direct descendant of Smash   Tennis for the SNES, which was fun in a basic kind of way, and reasonable-looking for its time. Russian racket babe aside, though, little has changed for this PlayStation release; and while cute and retro are all very well, next to the superb graphics and gameplay on contemporary PSX titles, this might as well be Pong.As for the effort that's been made to incorporate its star, the cartoon Anna looks like Butthead, runs with the grace of a badger, and can't even manage the trademark Kournikova knicker-flash.Andy Bodle
Sony's playSony is expected to unveil its next-generation PlayStation 2 games console and some sample software at the Tokyo Game Show '99, which opens on September 17. Presumably it will show stuff it is writing in-house, because not many third-party software houses have announced that they're producing games, or shelling out the rumoured $20,000 for a PS2 software development system. Sega is making an effort to grab as much market share as it can before the Sony system arrives, and next Thursday is due to cut the Japanese price of the Dreamcast console while fitting a faster 56K modem. This provides some hope that, in September, UK buyers may also be offered a 56K modem, like the Americans, instead of the 33.6K model previously announced.Battle lineMicrosoft has licensed Creative Technology's Environmental Audio Extensions (Gameswatch, last week), and will add EAX support to the DirectX software used to run many games in the Windows 95/98 operating system. Microsoft has also bought ShadowFactor Software, the Canadian company behind BattleCom (Battlefield Commander). This allows players to talk to one another while playing games over the internet. Kevin Bachus, Microsoft group product manager for DirectX, said: "We are going to include the BattleCom technology in an upcoming   release of DirectPlay," which will make it freely available to game developers. BattleCom currently supports several multi-player games including Aliens vs. Predator, Baldur's Gate, EverQuest, Starsiege: Tribes, and Microsoft's own Age of Empires. However, the deal could be bad news for rival technologies such as ThrustMaster's Talk n' Play and Resounding Technologies' Roger Wilco.Ice queenElectronic Arts, the largest games software house, is finally going to do something for girls. It has signed up popular 18-year-old American figure skater Michelle Kwan to endorse Michelle Kwan Championship Figure Skating, which is being developed for the PC. The game "allows girls to create their own choreographed routines, design their own costumes, choose their music... create and print scrapbooks of their skating careers and email highlights of their performances to family and friends". Girls will also be able to scan in faces and import them into the game, so they can skate either as Michelle Kwan or as themselves.Ill-starredThe force has not been with the two Star Wars: Episode One games launched in the UK ahead of the blockbuster movie. Racer has entered ChartTrack's all-formats top 40 games chart only in second place while The Phantom Menace is trailing badly in sixth. Games trade publication Computer Trade Weekly said some retailers blamed "a lack of pre-release hype and a hefty &#163;50 price tag for poor sales". Meanwhile, Konami's atmospheric Metal Gear Solid is still this year's best selling game in the UK, according to rival trade weekly MCV, which is keeping monthly totals. MGS has sold 282,000 copies in the UK this year, which puts it ahead of EA's Fifa 99 (188,000) and Eidos's Championship Manager 3 (170,000). However, it's no surprise that two of the UK's top three best-sellers are based on football.
It's media-bashing time again in America. After the Columbine High School tragedy and failed efforts to enact meaningful gun control laws that might prevent further murders, Congress is setting its sights on a phantom menace: "violent" video games. If cultural conservatives get their way, a law will   ban the sale of shoot-'em-ups to minors.Proponents cite 25 years of studies linking violent movies, television, and games to violent behaviour in children and adults.But none of the studies I've found demonstrates any causal link between the mediated activities and the real-world violence. Instead, these exercises in soft science demonstrate, for example, that children who are sent to their principal's office for aggressive behaviour in the classroom are more likely than other children to say that they play violent games.Such a study proves only that violent children prefer violent television - not that one causes the other.This doesn't stop many prominent adults - including President Clinton and his wife - from blaming "the culture of violence" for the recent spate of high school killings in America. They say children need to be protected from violent media and games because, unlike adults, young people have trouble distinguishing fact from fiction. Such rhetoric   might make for good sound bites, but I suspect this logic itself is more to blame for our troubled children than the bloodiest level of Doom.It's not children who are having a hard time distinguishing between real and fictional violence. It's the adults. For example, the Chicago City Council held a hearing on June 4 to determine whether fist fights on the Jerry Springer Show are real or staged. If they are real, then assault charges must be filed. Despite the efforts of council members to get a grip on reality, the results of the hearing were inconclusive. Meanwhile, National Rifle Association figurehead Charlton Heston (best known for descending Mount Sinai with the 10 commandments in a Cecil B Demille movie) argues for the right to bear arms in the same tones in which he begged Pharaoh to let his people go.Were American adults able to tell reality from illusion, we would understand that shows like Jerry Springer are no more real than professional wrestling,   and that Charlton Heston was cast as spokesmodel for the NRA precisely because we associate him with a moralising Biblical sage.Nor do we understand the profound difference between the programmed passivity of television and the active response-driven experience of a video or networked computer game. Television deadens senses and numbs the reflexes. The interactive quality of computers heightens them - so much so that they are used to reorient stroke victims. In fact, the better computers get at simulating real worlds, the better users get at distinguishing rendered graphics from reality.Foolishly, adults assume their children's response to interactive simulations impairs their faculties in the same way that television impaired their own. Worse, they hope to control their children's behaviour by editing the content of their play. This is akin to a psychotherapist attempting to change a patient's behaviour by suppressing his dreams, rather than looking to the   dreams for clues to what might be going on.In fact, suppressing a person's dreams leads very quickly to psychosis and waking hallucinations. I hate to think what might happen if electronic simulations are similarly prohibited.However, by concluding that their children are merely confusing reality with fiction, politicians can excuse this behaviour the same way a murderer blames his crime on Prozac, or a rapist blames his brutal attack on the height of a woman's skirt.As a result, American children are growing up in a world where their parents seem blind to the difference between a thrashing on Jerry Springer's stage set and one in Kosovo. Worse, they know that however much despair they feel, and whatever they do as result, it will all be blamed on the content of their play.The violent pretence of video games tells us a lot more about the imaginative capacity of the adults who make them than the psy chology of the kids who play them - and who do so less for the simulated combat than the immersive interface. (Were we fascinated by the early video game Pong because we really wanted a convenient way to simulate table tennis?)Such contortions of logic give lawmakers a way to avoid alienating their gun lobby campaign contributors while creating an illusion for their constituents that they are really doing something to solve the problem.Luckily for politicians, the only people capable of seeing through the sham - those kids inhabiting uncensored internet chat rooms and the scary caverns of networked Quake - are still too young to vote.
SympathyHow I sympathise with Simon Waldman (Online June 10).My computer purchased from DABS Direct last July refused to boot on delivery. The engineer found internal connections had become unwired, and after fixing this he spent more than an hour trying to configure things properly. He failed to get the Microtek scanner, purchased with the computer, to function, and deduced that the correct driver was missing. He promised to get a driver delivered. This never arrived.The computer soon developed more glitches, frequently booting up in "safe mode" only, losing sound, and refusing to work in more than 16 colours. I have waited as long as an hour and forty minutes in the queue for the helpline, and even after long sessions they had trouble solving these problems. I had to reformat the hard drive on two or three occasions. I was promised various drivers which sometimes arrived, sometimes not, but eventually cured them temporarily.I sent a letter of complaint (recorded delivery) on September 1st. to the sales and managing directors of DABS Direct. I did not have the courtesy of a reply.Several times the computer could not be switched off, and only pulling the plug out shut it down. More recently it has failed to switch on. Despite a one-year on-site warranty I had to return the computer to DABS as they said they had discharged their service contractor and had not yet appointed another. On return, the machine lasted four days, then again refused to switch on. Three days ago I had a visit from an engineer.   It took him three and a half hours to sort out software problems and conflicts, and for the first time I have had my scanner working reliably (at the moment). I am currently booting up with crossed fingers.Jim HadfieldJ@hadfield11.freeserve.co.ukDespite being more technically orientated than Mr Waldman, I have deep sympathy for his PC troubles, but in concluding that "the real problem" is the average pre-built PC's hardware diversity, he draws a dangerous conclusion; the hardware is more than likely very reliable, but look what software lies behind it: he had troubles trying to install a Microsoft product on a Microsoft operating system, yet not once did he mention their name.Surely he should be questioning the way that Microsoft does its best to make Windows and PC synonomous, and why the company that produces this operating system does its best to outsource technical support to dealers who cannot help as adequately as MS might.Matthew Blochwww.soup-kitchen.demon.co.ukApple's OKAt the end of your article, you ask if anyone is doing anything to really change the distressing PC situation. There is a company doing just that, and its name is Apple.Leslie OhomeleLondon SW1No gamePaul Trueman's article regarding online gaming well illustrates the attractions and phenomenon of online multi-player gaming. However, it is fatally flawed in one respect: its final recommendation of sites.While the multi-player gaming potential of the games are forever enhanced, the delivery of an efficient multi-player service is sadly lacking. Take, for example,   Wireplay. I have frequently used this site for 12 months or more, but alas no more. It is hopeless! I have had enough! I enjoy a good game of Duke Nukem and also their own game of Air Attack. However, there is little or no play; 95% plus of all Duke Nukem games crash upon launch or shortly after.The same can be said of Air Attack especially following a recent upgrade/download. This upgrade was un-announced and far too cumbersome. I can play for all of 30 seconds before the game either removes all other players or transports me to a game of my own!The smart money wastes neither time nor expense on the likes of Wireplay et al. The smart money links just two computers for a one-to-one death match or alternatively a group de-camps to a pre-arranged meeting point and plays all weekend with their accompanying hard ware that has been lugged, hauled and set up in said location. You'll find that the answer to a high tech problem lies with a low tech solution, - as ever!Jon PlantJON@plant3399.freeserve.co.ukPolitical netAfter your article about MPs on the net, it was good to see an article that acknowledged their more advanced colleagues in Europe. Until recently there were more MEPs than    MPs on-line. However, though some may not yet realise it, MPs have now been added en masse to the wired community (using the address format bloggsj@parliament.uk ).Perhaps they were spurred on by the advent of the Scottish Parliament, where MSPs had email addresses allocated soon after election.MEPs have had Brussels email addresses (jbloggs@ europarl.eu.int) for some time now, but most already had email in their constituency offices.The first MEP web sites were launched nearly three and a half years ago, with John Tomlinson MEP (www.poptel.org.uk/john.tomlinsona few days ahead ofAlex Falconer MEP. Both sites were designed and have been maintained by the MEP's own staff.Unlike the sites referred to in the article, Alex's site doesn't give lots of information about European institutions. Why reinvent the wheel? We provide links to web resources providing this and other useful information.The site concentrates on political content, and includes pamphlets written by Alex, and articles by Alex and others dealing with a range of Scottish, UK, European and global political issues, from a socialist perspective.The "political dinosaurs" were on the web while new   Labour colleagues were still spinning off line.Dave SmithOffice of Alex Falconer MEP    Inverkeithing, FifeY2K safeIn response to Vic Knight (Feedback, June 3), There are a number of reasons why software firms cannot be sued for Y2K problems.Firstly, on the subject of warranties, If you bought a toaster or VCR and it failed after three years, you would not expect a replacement free of charge. Much the same thing applies to software.As far as suing a software supplier goes, this too is pretty much a non-starter. Although IT people refer to themselves as IT professionals, in the eyes of the law they are not.Because of this, they are not legally expected to exercise the same level of skill or care as true professionals such as solicitors or doctors.Furthermore, it could be argued in court that a company was following accepted practice in using two digit date fields, negating any claims of negligence.The only event that could lead to legal proceedings would be if a company knowingly misled people about the Y2K compliance (or lack of it).James Thompsonjamesthompson@beer.comSnake legsI read with interest Michael Richardson's article on embryonic development and evolution "evo-devo". A "startling" discovery that the genes for the development of legs in snakes don't work?Perhaps the biologists should carry their use of the computing metaphor to its conclusion. If genes are the "program" for the manufacture of the individual then the embryo at its various stages represents this program's intermediate stages of execution.The program was written by evolution developing new specialisations of existing code over time.As with all "software" much of this specialisation takes place by deriving new versions that "inherit" the old behaviour and add to it. (Object Orientation?). The old code is not thrown away but built on.When the resultant code gets "executed" the ancestral parts are executed first. It should come as no suprise therefore that embryos in their early stages are very similar across species. Only when the program finishes has all the most recent specialised code been traversed.Embryos are not directly subject to evolutionary changes. They important because they represent an observable repeat run of the evolutionary program stored in their genes.Snakes certainly have code for building legs, its just been commented out!Clive HetheringtonCliveHetherington@compuserve.com
