It’s Tuesday!
We live in a modern world – modern in thinking and modern in capabilities. Our scientists and engineers and technologists empower us with the future, in the present. The technologies they develop solve problems we didn’t even know existed. As individuals we aspire to stay apace with these ever advancing innovations. With its ubiquity in our everyday lives technology comprehensively occupies and defines our realities. Its presence in our lives assumes a position of great power. Technology is the superhero of our generation.With great power comes great responsibility.Currently, the benefits of technology are skewed towards those who can keep up, as opposed to those who need it most. Technology is designed to cater to the luxuries of ready made adopters. In India, a typical urban dweller has even the most trivial of her tasks solved by technology, while a person in a rural setting might struggle to meet some of his most basic needs due to a lack of access. For a superhero as powerful as technology, I think it can do better.I work in the field of social entrepreneurship and during my career I have come across a number of beautiful examples that buck the trend;Embrace(focusing on infant mortality care);Liter of Light(bringing eco-friendly bottled light to communities without electricity);Digital Green(combining tech and social organisation to improve farming, health and nutrition) and many more. The power of such projects to improve the lives of their beneficiaries is immense. And their power depends solely on technology to solve the problem.In my own workI have used technology to positively impact the lives of the visually impaired. With a user-centred design intention and with technology as our medium we have been able to work on a number of solutions that allow better access to smartphones for blind and visually impaired people. The fulfilment of giving joy and empowerment has been the motivation; technology has been the super-heroic protagonist.My experience in the field has helped me understand the significance of technology to increase impact and, as crucially, to understand the interrelationship between impact and sustainability. The more sustainable a project, the greater its positive impact will be. Particularly in non-profit projects, impact tends to scale only up to a point. But as we look at works that scale, a low cost, adaptive and upgradable solution results in easier integration and a longer project lifespan. Technology plays a role not only in terms of the solution but also in terms of the operational sustainability of the enterprise.Ideo’s elaborate Human Centred Design (HCD) toolkitsheds further light on the relationship between technology, project sustainability and impact. It states the need for a product to be desirable by its users, feasible through technology and viable as a business. In our case, design helped us create a desirable solution in the form of a specialised mobile phone for blind users, feasibility made us refine the solution into an app that addresses the same needs yet can scale at a global level and viability allowed us to adapt a business model that supports development yet keeps the price low and accessible for its intended users.In this modern age technology plays a central role in building viable solutions that create positive impact. It defines the scale of impact by being a key factor in the sustainability of these solutions. However, in a capitalist set up as ours, there’s room for increased intervention, and thus impact, from technology. It is not yet the Robin Hood it can be.Sumit Dagaris a social and design entrepreneur working in New Delhi, India.He was made aRolex Awards for EnterpriseYoung Laureate in 2012 for his work in the field of applied technology.
In 1998, one of the earliest employees of Rockstar, the studio behind the blockbusting Grand Theft Auto series, was chatting with the director of the National Museums of Scotland when he suggested something relatively new: an exhibition of video games. The scale and the complexity of the task looked daunting though, so the duo – Rockstar’s Lucien King, and Sir Mark Jones, now master at St Cross College, Oxford – sought help. The Barbican answered.The result was the 2002 exhibitionGame On, which packed the Barbican’s gallery with hundreds of vintage arcade machines and computers.I wrote about it at the time, inspired by King’s enthusiasm; and when I visited just after opening it was astonishing to see artefacts like an old PDP-10 mainframe and the original Pong cabinet. This wasn’t the first example of a major cultural space embracing games. The American Museum of the Moving Image began its Hot Circuits: A Video Arcade exhibition in 1989 and toured it around the US for the next five years. Japan also saw a number of exhibitions through the 1990s. But 13 years ago, it was certainly rare – especially for a general arts venue likethe Barbican. The organisers were far from sure about how it would go.“[In 2002] we realised that a big survey show of video games had not been attempted within a cultural organisation and with games being in its ascendency, both in terms of popularity and game criticism, the timing seemed perfect,” recalls Neil McConnon, head of Barbican International Enterprises. “The exhibition was a risk because nothing similar had been done before. It seems quite obvious to us today that video games have had an impact on contemporary culture, but at the time of the first Game On exhibition in London, this was far from clear. There was understandable concern about whether such a highly interactive exhibition was technically feasible and if it would be a good experience for visitors.”Thousands of visitors later, however, the institution saw the touring potential, and from 2003, the collection travelled the world, stopping off everywhere from Helsinki to Kaohsiung, Taiwan. At most stops, locally relevant instalments are added, exploring regional development cultures, and since 2010, the Barbican has been running a refreshed version – Game On 2.0 – which features brand new elements looking into 3D stereoscopic visuals, virtual reality and other emerging technologies. This year, the updated version is coming to the UK for the first time, taking up residence for five months atNewcastle’s Life Science Centrefrom 23 May.So why did the exploration and celebration of gaming culture become such a lasting element of the Barbican’s output? There’s obviously the revenue generated by touring an exhibition that’s been seen by over one million visitors. But, in cultural terms, why should museums and galleries house coin-op machines and consoles?“It is very important for both arts centres and video games,” says McConnon. “For video games, being part of a broader cultural context will hopefully offer creators access to a greater range of inspiration. It also reminds gamers and creators that the medium didn’t evolve in a bubble; there are strong links to other creative media such as media art and post-internet art. Video games are designed by teams whose backgrounds and training span a range of subjects including fine art, design, animation and mathematics, programming etc... it’s a broad skill set and it attracts the brightest and best in these fields.“For cultural institutions, recognising video games is part of the broader project of acknowledging aspects of contemporary popular culture as significant with important historical implications, as well as potentially reaching out to a broader audience.”The message is getting out. The Smithsonian institute has its incredibly successful touring exhibition, The Art of Video Games; Moma has a range of video games in its permanent design collection; Tate Modern has commissioned several interactive apps around its collection and is currently running itsTateWorldsproject, converting several major works into Minecraft environments; the National Museum of Scotland is running aGame Mastersexhibition; The Victoria and Albert museum appointed a resident game designer in 2013, and has games in its own collection, including Sonic the Hedgehog and Flappy Bird. According to Moran, the Tekniska Museet in Stockholm has started working on building a Scandinavian collection citing video games as heirs to the region’s industrial history.Video games draw from, and feed into, the contemporary cultural milieu. They inspire movie directors like JJ Abrams and Duncan Jones, they are a medium for artists likeCory Archangeland Harun Farocki, and they are increasingly a medium for highly personal self-expression. Intuitive development tools like Game Maker and Twine have made game creation accessible for all, resulting in offbeat, idiosyncratic and moving experiences likePapers Please, Actual Sunlight and Dys4ia.Arguably, games have claimed the cultural indie scene from film and music. This is where outsiders choose to make art now. To reflect this transition, the Newcastle exhibition will feature an indie showcase, co-organised by trade body Tiga, allowing small studios to submit their games for inclusion. I’m on the judging panel, helping to choose which works will be represented (deadline for entriesis 4 March). It’s an interesting move toward a wider inclusivity that other major exhibitions have already adopted: the Smithsonian and V&amp;A have both organised game jams based around their art collections, while the former has held indie-specific events to showcase challenging new titles.A row of classic machines at the Game On 2.0 exhibitionPhotograph: BarbicanMcConnon is adamant about the value of games, dismissing the argument that they’re just ephemeral entertainment with no worth in wider culture. “Look at the huge range of professions drawn into making a modern video game: artists, musicians, writers, actors, programmers, game designers, to name a few,” he says. “Can the culmination of all these disciplines – all valued in their own right – when applied to one project really be said to add no enrichment to our culture? If that was true, other highly collaborative media, such as film, should surely answer the same charge?“From the terse simplicity of Tetris, the kinaesthetic pleasures of Mario and the deep world building possibilities of Minecraft to the environmental story telling of Bio Shock, games offer so many different types of experiences now, I think critics have simply yet to find what they like in the medium.”It’s a view reflected by a growing number of museums and galleries. Speaking to The Art Newspaper last month, the Smithsonian’s curator of film and media arts, Michael Mansfield, said: “It’s been important to us for some time, to represent games as this fantastic and unique expression amongst artists. There were [once] concerns about photography being a viable art form. I think one critic defined it as the bastard child of science left at the door of art. The same issue has been raised with video and performance art.”Of course, what matters is that people interested in games are getting to see, hear and touch the history of the medium. We don’t have to worry about whether games constitute art or not; it doesn’t really matter. Their cultural impact is happening anyway, without anyone’s permission.Those classic Atari games were harder thank you think
Now I know what it feels like when Kate Winslet zaps me in the back with a medical probe.On a cold night last week in New York, an enormous truck – not a van, or a camper, but a vehicle of the sort that normally transports goods across state lines – sat parked on one of the trendier blocks in SoHo. It was the press preview forInsurgent: Shatter Reality, a virtual reality experience for Samsung Gear VR. The four-minute experience will travel around New York City (look for it near the Flatiron building) then hit Navy Pier in Chicago, the Grove in Los Angeles, Pier 39 in San Francisco and South by Southwest in Austin, Texas. It won’t just be of interest to fans of the popular Divergent series (now readying the release of its second film, Insurgent), but also to people who like to stay abreast of new technology.Truth be told, Insurgent: Shatter Reality isn’t so impressive itself as for what it represents: we will be seeing more and more exhibitions attached to films.This isn’t the first time the new medium of virtual reality has been used as a marketing tool for a known entertainment property. A 60-second experience “atop the wall” was part ofa travelling Game of Thrones exhibit. But to hear the publicists at last night’s event tell it, this is the first that has an actual story. The word “story” is a bit of a stretch, but there is a beginning, middle and end. It goes like this.First, you strap the headgear to your face. As someone who needs glasses (and needs them badly), I had to crank the eye relief all the way to one side to get the image in focus. It was still a little blurry, but far better than the last time I tried anything similar, which was a helmeted video game, about 10 years ago. You also put on headphones, and since these were a quality pair, not the junky ones I toss in my rucksack, I soon found myself in total silence and darkness.Kate Winslet and some guy I didn’t recognise appear in a futuristic room. They are talking to me, but I’m not paying attention because I’m busy moving my head around. If you turn away from Kate, you hear her but don’t see her. Hey, this is really neat! Is this really a 360-degree experience? Indeed it is.I turn all the way around and look behind me to see the back wall. I look up to see the ceiling. I look down and see “my” legs, and wow! I’ve been on a diet! Man, I haven’t looked this trim in ages. Ilovevirtual reality!The truck containing the Insurgent game.Photograph: Donald Bowers/Getty Images for SamsungSo, Kate and her friend – who, if my memory of the quite unimpressiveDivergentserves me, are the heads of the evil, cerebral Erudite faction. You, by which I mean me (by which I also mean the protagonist Tris, played by Shailene Woodley), are a Divergent (aha!), meaning you fit into no clan, but your sympathies lie with the rugged, do-it-yourselfers in Dauntless because they jump on and off trains like every day is the opening to West Side Story.Anyway, Kate hooks you up to the machine, which means these plugs fly in your face and reach around to your back and then the chair vibrates at pressure points. I gasped and giggled. All this high-end technology and still nothing beatsan old William Castle gag.You are then set to three tests. First, you sit perched on a high building as Mekhi Phifer sends digital birds flying towards you. In the “real world”, air is lightly blasted in your face. I didn’t see any hoses when I sat down, but I’m pretty sure this was part of the show, not just some joker breathing on me. You do a thing where you zoom down the side of the building (whoooooaaaaaaa!), and then, after Miles Teller talks to you for a while (again, didn’t really pay attention – was more interested in swerving my head around and looking at the digital space), a train comes and smashes into you.Kate Winslet comes back to (I think) congratulate you for being brave. I apologise for being vague. It all went by so very quickly and Lionsgate Films had given me a few glasses of wine before strapping me down, while the headgear made taking notes impossible. I don’t think even the most ardent fan ofVeronica Roth’s novelswill be into this for the plot points.At four minutes and no charge (to the public, as well as press), I absolutely recommend it. But is virtual reality truly the next great art form?Ikrima Elhassan and Cory Strassburger, the filmmakers/programmers from Kite &amp; Lightning,certainly think so. They are two of virtual reality’s leading “experience creators”, as they half-jokingly call themselves, and they are very bullish about their company’s future. A movie tie-in gig like this is a great way, they say, to continue working on original content that they and others will soon be bringing direct to consumers.“In five years?” I ask. “More like one year!” Elhassan claimed.The three major platforms, Oculus Rift (owned by Facebook), Google Cardboard and Samsung Gear VR are about to become ubiquitous, and soon you will be able to rent or buy experiences, such as Kite &amp; Lightning’s short Sensa Pezo, like any other piece of downloadable content.“As with any new media,” Elhassan continued, “we first think of it in relation to the old. But soon we’ll have stories that can only be done in VR. Interactivity and response, that will be huge.”“There are so many crazy experiences we want to do, but, you know, we’re not all king of a country,” Strassburger says. “With VR you can suddenly be in Cirque du Soleil.”The pair were quick to say that they were not actively pitching Cirque du Soleil, nor would they dish on which upcoming movies would have similar marketing tie-ins. But common wisdom in the room was “it’s happening”.My colleagues and I were spitballing whatthe inevitable Star Wars experiencewould be like. All agreed that so long as you get to be Chewbacca, it can be anything.
Google has announced a rival mobile payment service toSamsung PayandApple Paycalled Android Pay. The new service will allow users to pay contactlessly for goods and services using their Android smartphone. Each transaction will generate a single-use “token”, which is sent to the receiving device to secure against fraud.Android Pay will usenear-field communication(NFC) initially, but will be able to take advantage of biometric devices such as fingerprint scanners at a later date. Credit card data will be stored locally so that payments can be conducted without a data connection on the smartphone.“We are doing it in a way so that anybody else can build a payments service on top of Android,” said Google’s senior vice-president of product, Sundar Pichai, at a press event atMobile World Congress. “In places like China and Africa, we hope that people will use Android Pay to build innovative services.”The service is being pitched to developers to build directly into their apps. Users will be able to pay for goods in bricks-and-mortar stores, but Android Pay will not exist as a standalone app, like Apple Pay on an iPhone. Instead, it will be used by third-party apps to create payment products such as store- or payment provider-specific apps, acting as a payment source as well as a credit card replacement.Google Wallet will continue to exist, but will integrate Android Pay as a payment source. Pichai also said that Google will look to work alongside Samsung Pay, but that the Korean company is working to different timescales. No timeframe for its launch was given, but more is expected fromGoogle’s developer conference in June.Despite being available on Android smartphones since 2011,Google Wallet has failed to spread beyond limited usein the US. Mobile phone operators have also tried to leverage their billing systems as a way to pay for goods and services using a smartphone.It was Apple’s entry into the payments space last year that ignited a new race from technology companies to capture a slice of the potentially lucrative market.•Samsung reveals Apple Pay competitor, Samsung Pay
Dating app Tinder has officially launched its premium service Tinder Plus, letting users subscribe for new features including the ability to undo swipes, change locations and have unlimited likes.But the app is courting controversy in Britain with the introduction of two pricing tiers, depending on how old the user is. If you’re under 28, Tinder Plus is available for the bargain price of £3.99 a month. But if you’re older than that, the service costs £14.99 monthly. Americans, meanwhile, will get charged $9.99 if they’re under 30 and $19.99 if they’re 30 and over.Tinder said it picked its prices after extensive testing in multiple countries. “Lots of products offer differentiated price tiers by age, like Spotify does for students, for example.“Tinder is no different; during our testing we’ve learned, not surprisingly, that younger users are just as excited about TinderPlus, but are more budget constrained, and need a lower price to pull the trigger. Globally, the two most common prices for Tinder Plus are $9.99 for more developed countries and $2.99 for emerging economies.”In a blog post, Tinder added: “With Tinder Plus we’re giving our users access to their two most-requested features: Undo and Passport.”It explained that Undo lets you take back your last swipe. “If you accidentally swiped left on someone you wanted to get to know, they are no longer lost in the Tindersphere forever. Get them back with the touch of a button.”The California-based company continued: “Passport lets you change your location to match with people around the world. Swipe, match and chat with Tinder users in a destination of your choice. Navigate between your current location and new destinations.”The official launch comes after months of testing, with British users the subjects of an experiment by Tinder to find the optimal price for its premium tier. The company reportedly held-off on an American launch until it was sure it had the price right, and also made the most of the testing period to check the reception of Tinder Plus’ most controversial feature: an introduction of a limitation on the number of times a non-paying user can swipe right – which signifies liking – on potential matches.The company is rolling out the premium service gradually, and promises that it will be available globally by the end of the year.Nearly two thirds of mobile dating app users are men
Redheads with iPhones rejoice: there is now a petition to get Apple to add characters with red hair.Last week, Apple released a beta update to its operating system to include characters with five shades of skin and same-sex relationship emojis. At the time,the Guardian asked when redheads would be given an emoji presence– and now there is a petition urging Apple to do just that.Emma Kelly, who runs a website for redheads calledGinger Parrot, was unimpressed when she noticed not one of the new characters had red hair. She said: “I was looking through them and thought, hang on a second, there’s one missing here.”Thanks to all who have signed the petition for#redheademoji! It only takes a minute:https://t.co/LYMhuWWpwwpic.twitter.com/9JHSy17o5B&mdash; Ginger Parrot (@GingerParrotUK)February 28, 2015Inspired by theDiversify my Emojipetition, Kelly set up a Change.org petition urging Apple to add redheads to the 300 new symbols. She added:I can’t believe redheads didn’t even get one character in Apple’s openly ‘diversified’ collection of emoji. If you say you’re going to diversify, why not add a few ginger-haired emoji in the mix? Sure, we only make up less than 2% of the world’s population, but that is 138,000,000 iPhones waiting to happen.The petition currently hasmore than 1,500 signatures. Kelly said she plans on sending the petition to Apple once it hits around 10,000 signatures.Apple’s emoji update came following complaints about the lack of racial diversity in the emoji characters. In the new update, a bright yellow is the default option, with five other skin tones available, modelled on theFitzpatrick scale. Currently, only testers can use the new emojis, with an official release on its way in the next few months.
Ed Sheeran and Charli XCX are among the artists filming exclusive videos for the second YouTube Music Awards, which will take place online later in March.YouTube is working with Vice Media to produce new videos from 15 artists, which will launch simultaneously on its site on 23 March.Vice will pair the artists – also including Martin Garrix, Max Schneider, Shamir, Megan Nicole, Cahoots, Migos and Nicky Jam – with video directors for the clips, which will be housed onYouTube’s own music awards channel.Several of those acts are also on the list of 50 artists due to receive awards as part of the event, which YouTube says will celebrate artists with the biggest growth in views, subscriptions and/or interaction from fans over the last six months.Stars including Beyoncé, Taylor Swift, One Direction and Katy Perry will also be among the award-winners, along with emerging artists like FKA Twigs, George Ezra, Meghan Trainor, and YouTube-born stars such as Lindsey Stirling and Pentatonix.The event is part of YouTube’s growing ambitions for its role as a music service, which also include the launch ofYouTube Music Key, a free-or-subscription rival to Spotify and other streaming music services.Related:Zoe Keating v YouTube: key sticking points in Google's latest music row“These artists prove that YouTube is not only a place to launch new music and be discovered by fans around the world, but also where artists and fans truly connect,” wrote YouTube’s Eshan Ponnadurai in a blog post announcing the 2015 awards.Four of the10 most popular YouTube channels by views in 2014focused on music – Katy Perry, Shakira, Spinnin’ Records and Enrique Iglesias – whileTaylor Swift was the third biggest channel on YouTube in January 2015with 361.3m video views that month.YouTube has some prominent critics in the music industry, however. Ahead of Music Key’s launch it sparked fury from many independent labels over thecontractual terms they were offered– andallegations from trade body WINthat YouTube was threatening to block labels’ channels if they refused to sign up.YouTube eventually struck a licensing deal with indie licensing agency Merlin, but more recently in January 2015 wascriticised by independent artist Zoe Keating, who said she’d been offered the same contract and threatened with a similar block.The YouTube Music Awards will, unsurprisingly, focus on more positive aspects of the company’s relationships with musicians, including its potential as a platform to break new stars.Its online-only nature is a departure from the first awards in 2013, which took the form of afreewheeling, often surreal 90-minute showstreamed live from New York, and directed by filmmaker Spike Jonze.The highlights of that event were the performances – notablyStirling’s CrystallizeandArcade Fire’s Afterlife(above) – which were more like music videos performed live rather than traditional stage setups.By teaming up with Vice to make the 15 exclusive videos for its 2015 event, YouTube appears to be keeping the best of its inaugural awards, while losing thehooded face-painting, cake-munching and baby-watchingthat entertained and baffled in equal measure first time round.
Samsung’s newGalaxy S6 flagship smartphoneshave powerful processors, very high resolution screens and a new metal and glass design – but sacrifices have been made in pursuit of premium materials and a curved screen in Samsung’s war with Apple.1. To curve, or not to curveThe Galaxy S6 Edge has a gently curved screen on the left and right sides.Photograph: Laura Lean/PASamsung has not one,but two Galaxy S6 models– one with a standard, flat screen similar to most other phones and the Galaxy S6 Edge with a screen that curves around both left and right-hand edges of the phone.2. It packs in the pixelsCurved or not, the Galaxy S6 has one of the most pixel-dense screens available. The 5.1in screen has a quad HD resolution with a density of 577 pixels per inch (ppi), making it denser than the 432ppi Galaxy S5, 401ppi Apple iPhone 6 Plus– and 43 more pixels per inch than the 534ppi 5.5in LG G3.The denser the screen the sharper the image, up to a point. Whether users will be able to see the difference is unknown, although quad HD is quickly becoming the new standard for smartphone and tablet screens.3. The curved screen isn’t just for showPeople edge on Galaxy S6 edge. Select five favourite contacts for enhanced alerts.pic.twitter.com/GXfj9NkN9Q&mdash; Ben Wood (@benwood)March 1, 2015As with theNote 4 Edge, the curved screen on the S6 Edge adds a few features that slide out from the side of the phone. These include ticker-tape news alerts, a clock along the edge at night and a feature that places contact photos along the edge for quick access and to recognise who’s calling.Samsung Galaxy Note Edge review: curved screen is more than a gimmick4. They’ve ditched the plasticOut is Samsung’s trademark, yet criticised, chromed plastic construction – the S6 is an all-metal and glass affair. A curved metal band surrounds the edges of the phone holding together a glass front and back.5. Thinner than an iPhone, justThinner than an iPhone 6, by 0.1mm.Photograph: Bebeto Matthews/APThe S6 and S Edge are 6.8mm thick, which is 0.1mm thinner thanApple’s iPhone 6, although both are roundly trounced to the thinnest smartphone crown by the Oppo R5, which is just 4.85mm thick.6. Don’t get it wetTo achieve that thickness and premium design, the S6 has lost a few features. A microSD card for adding additional storage, waterproofing and a removable battery are all missing, which was a cornerstone of Samsung’s previous Android smartphones.7. A choice of storage – all fixedWith no external storage support, Samsung has adopted Google and Apple’s model of fixed storage variants – users will have a choice of buying a 32, 64 or 128GB version.8. It uses Samsung’s shiny new chipThe S6 uses Samsung’s own Octa-core 64-bit Exynos processor. Previous Samsung smartphones have used Qualcomm’s Snapdragon processors, although Exynos variants have been available in some countries.9. No cable neededThe S6 Edge on a wireless charging plate.Photograph: Yonhap/EPASamsung has pledged to force wireless charging into the mainstream, and the S6 is the first smartphone from the company to have it built-in. It will work with any wireless charging pad currently available, which is good, because there isn’t one included in the box.10. Fingerprints: touch, don’t swipeSamsung’s improved fingerprint sensor takes a leaf out of Apple’s book, requiring only a single touch rather than swipe across (as was standard with previous Samsung models), which should make it more accurate and easier to use.11. Another step towards a world without credit cards?Credit cards are dead, if technology firms are to be believed. Samsung haslaunched “Samsung Pay”, which allows users to pay for goods and services using a credit card swipe terminal, joiningApple Pay, Google Wallet, PayPal, mobile phone carriers and others attempting to be the new vector for paying for things.12. It’s virtual reality ready (if you get a smaller Gear VR)Samsung Gear VR will come in a smaller version for the Galaxy S6.Photograph: Donald Bowers/Getty Images for SamsungTheGear VR– Samsung’s virtual reality headset that was made in partnership with Facebook’s Oculus Rift for use with aGalaxy Note 4– will have a smaller version for the Galaxy S6.13. Less bloat – kind ofSamsung proclaimed that it has cut back on unnecessary bloat and feature overload by 40%, but that doesn’t include Intel’s McAfee security software and Microsoft’s apps, including Skype, OneDrive and OneNote, which now come pre-installed on the S6.Samsung’s Gear VR headset is Oculus Rift for smartphone
Australians are trolling their politicians with iMessage texts in protest over a controversial law which would increase the length of time the government retains communications data.Apple’s messaging service, built into iOS devices and the newest versions of Mac OS X, lets users send text, picture, voice and video messages through an SMS-style app. But while most users link the service primarily to a phone number, it can also be connected to an email address, and at least two Australian legislators have apparently done so with their publicly available work addresses.Senator George Brandis, the Australian attorney general, was the first minister to be on the receiving end of the messages, largely humorous in tone. Users sentphotoshopped pictures,Blade Runner quotesandquestions about favoured emojito the senator, who has been at the forefront of pushingthe data retention billthrough the Australian legislature. Journalist Lauren Ingrameven messaged him the entire first chapter of Orwell’s Nineteen Eighty-Four.@wordsonaplatfrmpic.twitter.com/Vms4r1bGG9&mdash; Her Infernal Majesty (@platinumdepot)March 1, 2015pic.twitter.com/iiws8jLuCX&mdash; Ben Jenkins (@bencjenkins)March 2, 2015Brandis was also in the midst of a censure motion in the senate at the time,which was passed 35–32 on Monday. The Labor party had accused the attorney general of mistreating the president of the Human Rights Commission.A campaign to protest the data retention act had encouraged Australian internet users to cc all their emails to Brandis’s government email address – or“curious george”, as the campaign nicknamed him. “Attorney general George Brandis is very very curious. He wants to know exactly what we’re all up to online. And the phone,” the campaigners wrote.pic.twitter.com/yu8oa1lHCA&mdash; Wil Southers (@shoerust)March 2, 2015“We like ‘Curious George’. He’s such a clever little monkey. But he’s really not too technical. Please pledge below to help George feed his insatiable curiosity. All you need to do is to cc senator.brandis@aph.gov.au on all your emails. Easy!”Shortly after the iMessage bombardment began, Brandis unlinked his senate email address from the service – but other ministers didn’t move so quickly, andBuzzfeed News reportsthat Greg Hunt, the environment minister, had his iMessage account hooked up to his government email as well.I&#39;m messaging George Brandis the entire first chapter of 1984@SenatorLudlampic.twitter.com/P9iwNtEwMl&mdash; Lauren Ingram (@laureningram)March 2, 2015
Live streams of people playing games – from League of Legends and StarCraft II tochaotic crowdsourced play-throughs of old Pokemon games– brought Twitch tens of millions of online viewers and a$1bn acquisition by Amazon.Now the site is turning its attention to gambling, with live streams of online poker matches.Twitch tells the Wall Street Journalthat its move into poker began in November, with some channels already drawing seven-figure audiences.The report claimed that Twitch streamed 56m minutes of poker in January 2015, although it notes that this is less than 1% of the overall video streamed on the site.Twitch is ambitious, though: “Like videogames, poker is a game and we’ve grown that into a huge business,” said Scott Ball, who is heading up Twitch’s expansion in this area.Matches are broadcast with a four-minute delay, because the live-streaming players’ cards are shown to the audience. Without the delay, the people they are playing against would be able to tune in to their Twitch channel too.Twitch is recruiting professional online poker players to broadcast on their own channels, and could quickly become a rival for the growing television audiences of live poker tournaments on networks such as ESPN.Related:What is Twitch, and why does Google want it?As an advertising-funded service, Twitch’s latest move looks smart: there is a large potential audience of poker players keen to soak up tips and strategy – just as gamers do from Twitch’s traditional channels – and a number of flush-with-cash online poker services who may be keen to advertise around its live streams.Twitch already has an audience of 100 million monthly viewers, according to the Wall Street Journal piece. That’s more than double the45 million viewers it had at the end of 2013. The company wasrumoured to be in talks with Googleabout an acquisition in May 2014, before Amazon swooped in.Poker is the latest addition to Twitch since Amazon acquired the company in August 2014. The service has also introducedstricter rules on streamers appearing in a state of undress; andlaunched its own library of “pre-cleared” background musicwhile attracting musicians including Deadmau5 and Steve Aoki.Twitch is, however, facing new competition in 2015: PC gaming service Steam launched its own live streaming service calledSteam Broadcastingin beta in December 2014.
Encryption and privacy firm Silent Circle has unveiled a successor to its Blackphone security-focused smartphone, as well as the first Blackphone-branded tablet.The Blackphone 2 handset and Blackphone+ tablet will both go on sale later in 2015, running the company’s new PrivatOS Android-based operating system and its suite of communications apps and services.The announcements at the Mobile World Congress show in Barcelona followed Silent Circle raising $50m in funding and buying out partner Geeksphone to take full control of the Blackphone business, which was previously a joint venture.The Blackphone 2 will have a faster processor, more memory, a larger display and longer battery life than its predecessor, whichlaunched in 2014. For now, Silent Circle is keeping the features of the Blackphone+ tablet under wraps.The devices will run an updated version of PrivatOS – tagline: “no software, no hooks to carriers, and no leaky data” – including a new feature called Spaces that keeps personal and work apps separate, and enables employers to lock and wipe the latter “spaces” if necessary.They will also run Silent Circle’s encrypted voice calls, messaging and contacts apps, as well as a new conference-calling app called Silent Meeting, and the Silent Store privacy-focused app store thatlaunched in December 2014.Silent Circle says it is working with mobile device management (MDM) companies Citrix, Soti and Good Technology as it aims to build up its business supplying devices and software to businesses of all sizes.The company’s co-founder, Phil Zimmermann,recently told the Guardianabout its ambition to persuade businesses to focus more on protecting their employees’ privacy, in order to improve overall security.Related:PGP creator Phil Zimmermann: 'Intelligence agencies have never had it so good'“People don’t think of privacy much when they think about enterprises, but enterprise privacy is a real thing: it’s the collective privacy of everybody in the company, and the privacy of the company assets as well,” he said.Blackphone has faced its own challenges, with security researcher Mark Dowddiscovering a vulnerability in its SilentText appthat could have helped attackers decrypt messages and steal personal data from the device. Silent Circle fixed the bug andpublicly thanked Dowd for reporting it.The company is hoping high-profile hacks, such as the attack on Sony Pictures in late 2014, will persuade other businesses to adopt its technology and devices.“Sony had all kinds of things: intrusion detection, firewalls, antivirus … But they got hacked anyway,” Zimmermann told the Guardian.“A lot of this stuff could have been encrypted. If those emails had been encrypted with PGP or GnuPG, the hackers wouldn’t have gotten very far. Those movie scripts that they stole? They could have been encrypted too.”
Games firm Valve has made its long-anticipated move into virtual reality, teaming up with HTC for theVive VR headset, which will launch later in 2015.It’s the second move into hardware for Valve – best known for the Steam digital games service as well as games like Half-Life, Portal and Left 4 Dead – with the company also developing itsSteam Machine console.Vive is a fully-functional VR headset rather than a VR housing for a smartphone like Samsung’s Gear VR. HTC will launch a developer edition of the new device in the spring before a commercial version goes on sale by the end of the year.HTC is designing the Vive hardware, but using tracking and input technology from Valve’s Steam VR team. The Steam store will also act as a prominent distribution channel for Vive games and software.The Vive will ship with two wireless controllers to help its users play games and explore virtual worlds viewed through the headset, but they’ll also be able to walk around these environments thanks to a pair of base stations tracking their physical movements.The headset, meanwhile, includes two 1,200 x 1,800-pixel screens, promising refresh rates of 90 frames-per-second and “eliminating the jitter common to previous VR technologies” according to HTC.Games developers are already announcing their support for the Vive headset, with a number of titles due to be shown off at the GDC show this week in San Francisco.They includeThe Galleryfrom CloudHead Games, a first-person adventure that started life asa Kickstarter-crowdfunded Oculus Rift game in 2013; andJob Simulatorfrom Owlchemy Labs.Related:Virtual reality documentaries 'take the middle man out of journalism'Fireproof Games, which makes the widely-lauded series of mobile games, The Room, is also working with the Vive. The company had already been making a new game, Omega Agent, for Samsung’s Gear VR.Even at this early stage, it seems many developers will be making games for both Oculus Rift (including Gear VR) and the HTC Vive, rather than choosing between them – even if individual games are exclusive to one or the other.Like Facebook, whichbought Oculus VR for $2bn in July 2014, HTC has ambitions that go well beyond games for virtual reality. “Travel, attending a game, meeting friends or even shopping will never be the same again,” claimed HTC’s announcement of the Vive, with Google and TV firms HBO and Lionsgate already on board.Oculus still hasn’t confirmed a release date for the first commercial edition of its Oculus Rift, although it too is expected to launch by the end of 2015.
Isis supporters have threatened Twitter employees, including co-founder Jack Dorsey specifically, with death over the social network’s practice of blocking accounts associated with the group.In an Arabic postuploaded to the image-sharing site JustPaste.it, the group told Twitter that “your virtual war on us will cause a real war on you”. It warned that Jack Dorsey and Twitter employees have “become a target for the soldiers of the Caliphate and supporters scattered among your midst!”“You started this failed war … We told you from the beginning it’s not your war, but you didn’t get it and kept closing our accounts on Twitter, but we always come back. But when our lions come and take your breath, you will never come back to life.”Twitter’sterms of serviceexplicitly ban “direct, specific threats of violence against others”, and the companyhas followed YouTubein proactively shutting down Isis-related Twitter accounts, with the aid of the UK’s counter-terrorism internet referral unit.Related:Twitter boss vows to crack down on trolls and abuseWhen the company has identified a user as being associated with Isis, it moves aggressively to keep them off the social network. As the Guardian reported previously, “one account run by Rayat al-Tawheed, who speaks on behalf of mainly UK-origin pro-Isis fighters, had a replacement account taken down by Twitter within just a few minutes of its relaunch” in September, after sending just three non-offensive tweets.During a Lords’ committee hearing in July, Twitter’s Sinéad McSweeney said it had “in excess of 100 people” working 24/7 to examine reports to Twitter across a range of issues.A Twitter spokesmantold Buzzfeedthat “our security team is investigating the veracity of these threats with relevant law enforcement officials”.•Anonymous claims victory over jihadi Twitter accounts in #OpIsis•Samsung Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge: 13 things to know
YouTube’s top 100 channels have more than doubled their monthly views in the last year, withtoy-unboxingchannel Funtoys Collector emerging as the biggest star.The 100 most popular channels generated more than 14.7bn video views in January 2015 according tofigures published by industry site Tubefilterbased on data from analytics firm OpenSlate, which tracks YouTube.That’s up 110% from the 7bn views accrued by the top 100 in January 2014. It’s not the same 100 channels, but rather the most popular ones in each month – showing strong growth for YouTube’s biggest creators.For much of 2014, the biggest star of them all was gamerPewDiePie, but he’s now been relegated into second place in the rankings byFuntoys Collector, the toy-unboxing channel formerly known as DC Toys Collector – and before that, Disney Collector.The channel racked up 517.3m views on YouTube in January 2015 alone, well ahead of PewDiePie’s 417.9m. However, both are well up on their view counts from a year ago: 175.6m and 266.5m respective views in January 2014.The latest month’s top 10 is a mixture of music, games and children’s channels, includingTaylor Swift(361.3m views in January); Russian cartoon channelGetMovies(359.5m); nursery rhymes collectionLittle Baby Bum(302.1m); Russian animated seriesMasha and the Bear(287.8m); games channelPopular MMOs(266.9m); more toy-unboxing withBlu Toys(255.3m); child-friendly Minecraft gamerStampy(252.9m); andBuzzFeed Video(239.4m).Related:YouTube targets music lovers and children to head off rivalsWith six of YouTube’s current top 10 channels aimed at children, the rationale for the company’s launch of a standaloneYouTube Kids appthat filters out inappropriate videos and advertising is clear: those six channels alone notched up nearly 2bn views in January.According to Tubefilter, 55 of the top 100 channels that month were produced in the US, ahead of the UK’s 10 and Russia’s eight. Music video service Vevo was the most well-represented multi-channel network with 21 of the top 100 channels, followed by Maker Studios’ 15.YouTube’s top 100 channels may have grown their views by 110% in the last year, but the service tends to use other metrics to judge its success. YouTube says that the amount of time its 1bn visitors spend watching videos isup 50% year-on-year, as are its payments to partner channels. The Google-owned video service does not publish detailed figures for its own traffic or growth.
Something has altered time, andDragonball’s greatest battles are now being won by the villains. A fighting game with a focus on story, this is an RPG/brawler/MMO hybrid, its earliest hours accordingly sluggish. Players wade through narrative-led tutorials introducing various systems, including combat, before being allowed free rein.It looks great throughout, though, with the user-created character fitting flawlessly into the world. Although it’s impossible to jump immediately into local or online versus fights, once it opens up,Xenoverseproves itself a competent fighter. Gloriously destructible arenas, speedy confrontations and a customisable array of attacks add surprise to encounters, while the roster offers a fantastic who’s-who of unlockable characters. Shame the restrictive hubworld and slow intro may deter players who just want a few quick fights.
Criminals in the US are using the new Apple Pay mobile payment system to buy high-value goods – often from Apple Stores – with stolen identities and credit card details.Banks have been caught by surprise by the level of fraud, and the Guardian understands that some are scrambling to ensure that better verification and checking systems are put in place to prevent the problem running out of control, with around two million Americans already using the system.The crooks have not broken the secure encryption around Apple Pay’s fingerprint-activated wireless payment mechanism. Instead, they are setting up new iPhones with stolen personal information, and then calling banks to “provision” the victim’s card on the phone to use it to buy goods.Criminals with the stolen IDs are understood to have targeted Apple Stores in particular because they both accept Apple Pay and offer high-value items, which can then be sold on for cash.A credit or debit card can only be added to Apple Pay when its issuing bank beams over an encrypted version of the card details to store on the phone – which it should only do when certain the real owner is using it.However, fraud using stolen IDs is understood to be far higher than expected, with total losses already running into millions, according to industry sources. That compares with an expected value of about $5bn for smartphone-based retail payments in the US this year.Apple’ssupport pages for the servicesays: “When you add a credit or debit card to Apple Pay… Apple sends the encrypted data, along with other information about your iTunes account activity and device (such as the name of your device, its current location, or if you have a long history of transactions within iTunes) to your bank. Using this information, your bank will determine whether to approve adding your card to Apple Pay.”US banks are using a “green path” for cards they approve straight away on such data, and a “yellow path” for cards requiring more checks. But some banks have made the task too simple by asking callers to verify their identity with the last four digits of their social security number (SSN).Though meant to be secret, SSNs are commonly stolen in identity theft, and on average 11.5 million Americans are victims of identity fraud annually,according to US data, with the average incident costing $4,930. In 2013 total losses from ID fraud in the US totalled $24.7bn. Nearly two-thirds of cases involve credit card details.“At this point, every issuer [bank] in Apple Pay has seen significant ongoing provisioning fraud via customer account takeover,” said Cherian Abraham, a mobile-payments specialist who is a consultant to US finance groups,on his blog.He said organised gangs are behind the scams: “In some cases, fraudsters are calling the [bank’s] call centre themselves to ‘alert them to a trip out of town’ so that fraud rules looking for transaction anomalies (such as a customer living in California and transacting in Miami) do not trip up [as] fraudulent transactions.”Related:Samsung buys mobile payments firm LoopPay to take on Apple PayApple Pay, introduced in October 2014 and only available on the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus phones released last year, lets users pay by holding their phone near an NFC-equipped payment terminal and then confirm their identity with the iPhone’s built-in fingerprint reader.On Wednesday, JP Morgan Chase said on an investor call that more than one million customers had added debit and credit cards to Apple’s service, while Bank of America has previously said800,000 people had added 1.1m cardsby the end of 2014 – almost certainly making it the predominant mobile payment method in the US, displacing Google Wallet, whichlaunched in 2011. Despite being available first, Wallet has had very low transaction volumes due to the lack of NFC terminals and a more complex interface, retail experts say. Google has not provided any data on how many users it has for Google Wallet.A spokesman for Apple reiterated that the secure mechanism for paying with card details stored on the phone had not been breached.“Apple Pay is designed to be extremely secure and protect a user’s personal information,” the spokesman said. “During setup Apple Pay requires banks to verify each and every card and the bank then determines and approves whether a card can be added to Apple Pay. Banks are always reviewing and improving their approval process, which varies by bank.”None of the US banks that offer Apple Pay contacted by the Guardian would discuss levels of fraud.But it is understood that US banks are seeking more robust methods to verify peoples’ identities before adding cards to the service. Abraham warns: “Fraud scales – call centres don’t. There has to be an automated process that is invisible but secure. In hindsight the only thing Apple could have done better was to anticipate the problem, made it mandatory [to call] and helped build a better ‘yellow path’.”Tim Sloane, vice president of payments innovation at the Massachusetts-based financial consultancy Mercator Group, said: “These are probably just some teething problems. If the banks can nail down the authentication, they should see less fraud on Apple Pay,” and added: “Battle plans always look great until you meet the enemy.”Dave Birch, a UK-based mobile payments expert, told the Guardian: “in the UK there probably won’t be a ‘yellow path’” – meaning that people won’t have to call their bank to add any card to Apple Pay once it is introduced here because the banks have alternative, stronger authentication techniques.The US lags behind much of the world in its adoption of secure retail payment systems and mobile payments. “Chip and Pin” systems, used throughout Europe for years, will only become compulsory in the US later this year. As retailers replace old magnetic stripe systems, which were vulnerable to widespread fraud, with new ones, they are also adding NFC capabilities, already used in the UK for Oyster cards and in many shops.Abraham says: “Fraud in Apple Pay… came as a surprise to all”, adding that too much trust had been put in the on-device security: “The soft underbelly proved to be [the] provisioning of cards”.This article was updated 6 March 2015 to more accurately reflect Dave Birch’s views of how UK banks will implement Apple Pay.
Genre convention asserts that the best 2D shooters are made in Japan, not Europe, and as a consequence, the Euro shoot-’em-up (or “Euroshmup” to the cognoscenti) is applied as a broad derogatory term to lacklustre contributions to the field, often regardless of country of origin.TheStardustseries, however, proves Euroshmups can triumph and now it has arrived on the PlayStation 4. As with its predecessors,Super Stardust Ultrais a visually splendid sci-fi shooter in which each stage plays out as if theAsteroidstemplate were stretched over a sphere. The rule set is a familiar one. Shoot everything; don’t get hit. Action is intense and difficulty ramps relatively high, yet it remains simple and accessible. But while a wealth of modes encourage a rewarding variety of play styles,Ultrais very similar to the 2007 PS3 instalment, with only a scattering of new features. Nonetheless, with gameplay that’s so gratifying, this is a minor quibble, andUltraremains well worth the asking price.
Each game in this year’s Six Nations championship will produce two million rows of data, equivalent to more than 1,400 actions (tries, conversions, tackles, passes and so on) per game. This data will be fed to broadcasters, fans (viathe official Six Nations appamong other channels) and to coaches who can and will use the information to improve player performance.The idea of capturing data during a sporting event is not new but the richness of the data now available and the speed at which it is gathered certainly is.In the 1950s Charles Reep, an RAF officer and accountant, pioneered the idea of data capture in sport. While watching football matches he created a system of paper notation to record players’ moves. It took him three months to wade through the data produced by the 1958 World Cup final.Reep’s work is not without controversy: among other things, he is credited with driving English football managers’ fondness for the long-ball game. But there is no doubt that his work and the system of notational analysis he patented has changed the way teams play sport and how fans now watch them.Reep, of course, only had the most basic tools available to study a match: his eyes, a notepad and a pencil. It was only in the 1990s that football, rugby and a raft of other professional sporting clubs started to install cameras which enabled match-play monitoring.The move to digital cameras, that can capture much better pictures and transfer far more information, is even more recent.Over the last few years, clubs have started to marry up information from their cameras and video screens with other sources of data, especially information from GPS (global positioning system) satellites and accelerometers worn by players.“We are seeing the convergence of health and lifestyle technology,” says Mark Skilton at PA Consulting. “You can wear a sensor in your shirt, on your wrist, shoe or raquet; we’re even seeing sensors in golf clubs to monitor players’ swings using kinetic real-time feedback.”But the way sports are layering these different technologies together is changing coaching, the way fans view sports and even how sports clubs are run. A variety of applications now mean the keen fan can see not just how their team performed but which players were most influential in the game. Any fan with a WiFi connection and a tablet device now has, in effect, a coach’s eye view of the game.In Reep’s day, sports analysts had no choice but to go through their notes after the game. Even the first-generation video coaching aids required back-room staff to watch hours of footage in order to pick out the key parts of the game to show players. Now, because of digital technology, access to all this information is as good as instant.Sports are benefiting too from off-the-pitch technologies making it easier to capture and share information.The development of ubiquitous networks of connected sensors and communications, known as the internet of things, is giving rise to intelligent buildings. Sports venues are no exception and teams and sports scientists can piggyback on this intelligence to share rich data.Technology company Cisco is heavily involved in smart buildings but also has a project called theConnected Athlete.The Connected Athlete takes data from sensors, for example in a shoe or boot, and then connects that up to the stadium’s WiFi network or even a low-powered cellular phone transmitter so that teams can monitor it. But because the internet of things allows the athlete’s sensors to connect to other networks, it can be shared with fans and broadcasters too.Much of the power of the internet of things in sports, relies on the idea of a “smart building” to tie together existing technology resources. These include WiFi, sensors including intruder alarms, door entry systems, thermostats and smart meters, digital displays and even electronic ticketing.In this way, building owners and building management software know where people are, what they are doing and how much energy they are using.From a business perspective, such data becomes very valuable when it comes to cutting the running costs of large buildings, but they bring benefits too in public safety and security.Coupling a smart building with digital signage allows building managers to give visitors up to date information, and redirect people away from busy areas to where queues are shorter.Already beingused to ease congestion at airports, an intelligent building system can direct people to the least busy turnstile or bar, or even where the toilet queues are shortest. Signs can direct the public in an emergency, but the rest of the time they can show match information, player statistics or even special offers.A proof of concept by Accenture (who sponsorthis series), goes a step further. Trialled at Twickenham during the Six Nations,their technologycombines a wireless headset with the Six Nations app and information cards created by an expert curator showing data from critical points in a game.Hooked up to the Wi-Fi network, according to Ben Salama, UK and Ireland managing director of Accenture Mobility, the tech could be extended into areas as diverse as catering. “You could see half time scores from other games,” he says, “but also to order drinks to be delivered to your seat without missing any of the game.” This, he says, is one way for sporting venues to increase their revenues.There is still some way to go before such gadgets become mainstream at sporting events. Cost is one barrier. Others include connectivity and battery life.Accenture admits that most UK stadiums lack a powerful enough WiFi system to support a truly connected experience; the firm had to build a new network at Twickenham for its proof of concept.Manufacturers also say more needs to be done to allow devices to stream more data and to last for a match, or beyond, on a single battery charge.“We’re constantly looking at ways to reduce power consumption the technology consumes,” says Sujata Neidig, director of business development for consumer technology at Freescale, a microchip maker. “And we are also looking at wireless charging.” That way, fans can focus on the game rather than hunting for a power socket.TheCreative Data hubis funded byAccenture. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled ‘Brought to you by Accenture’. Find out morehere.
It’s Monday again, but hey, at least it’s spring now!
The Order: 1886’s opening promises great things. The game presents an enticing alternate vision of Victorian London, realised in graphics that may be the most technically impressive yet of the current console generation. History and technology have been remodelled in a world that plunders steampunk and art nouveau with aplomb. Meanwhile, an engrossing if untidy narrative focuses on a rebellion against an order of contemporary knights, a powerful empire-era trading company, and monsters roaming Dickensian streets.Unfortunately, the setting’s potential is rarely met. That the game is linear and relatively brief is of no consequence. Rather, an overabundance of cut scenes and quick-time events dilute the more absorbing gameplay upsetting the pacing. Despite some enjoyable shooting sections, The Order: 1886its stealth, melee and exploration elements feel dated.Not a bad game, then, but one that is routine and too concerned with content that is only minimally interactive.
Sony has launched an Android tablet that doubles as a laptop when connected to a keyboard accessory, despite announcing the end of its long-running laptop line in 2014.The new Xperia Z4 tablet, announced at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, is a slimmer, lighter and more powerful follow up tothe Z2 tabletreleased in May and claims to be the thinnest and lightest 10in tablet at 6.1mm thick and 392g.The tablet is thin, light and has the brightest 10in 2K screen, according to research firm Strategy Analytics.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe tablet runs Android Lollipop software and has a high-resolution 2K screen, which is the brightest 10in 2K screen of any device yet at 500candela, according to research firm Strategy Analytics. It also has a claimed 17-hour video playback time and runs by Qualcomm’s latest 64bit octocore Snapdragon 810 processor with 3GB of RAM and 32GB of storage.It is waterproof, using internal seals rather than small external covers to allow exposed USB and headphone sockets.Sony has also made a removable Bluetooth keyboard accessory into which the tablet slots, turning it into an Android-powered laptop that includes a trackpad, “chiclet” keys which give space around each key, custom control buttons and a hinge to hold the screen at an adjustable angle.When clipped into the keyboard dock a menu bar pops up, reminiscent of the Windows Start menu, as well as a task bar.“We wanted to make the tablet into a better work companion,” Jun Makino, Sony’s senior product marketing manager told the Guardian. “One of the key demands has been lightness and slimness, so it’s easy to carry around and hold; but also battery life so that it lasts a productive day.”The tablet and keyboard accessory folds like a laptopPhotograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Xperia Z4 marks the Sony’s first return to a more business-focused product sinceit pulled out of the laptop market, having sold its Vaio PC business in February 2014 after 17 years. Whether Android is capable of delivering a useful laptop-style computer remains to be seen. Others, including HP with its SlateBook line, have tried in the past.Sony also launched a re-invigorated mid-range smartphone with the Xperia M4 Aqua, which apes the company’s well-received flagship Xperia Z3 smartphone with a waterproof design, 13-megapixel camera and 5in screen, but costing less than half the price at €300 (£220).Both the M4 Aqua and the Z4 tablet will be available in spring 2015.
Samsung has unveiled the latest editions of its Galaxy handset, featuring a curved screen and payments technology designed to replace credit cards, as the South Korean group attempts to reboot its flagging smartphone business.With Apple waiting in the wings to seize the crown as the largest smartphone maker by volume, Samsung’s answer to lacklustre sales of last year’s Galaxy S5 was to release not one, but two handsets on Sunday.The Galaxy S6 and Galaxy S6 Edge, which features a screen that curves over the left and right hand sides of the body, were unveiled at a seafront venue in Barcelona, where 2000 exhibitors and more than 86,000 visitors are gathering this week for the Mobile World Congress trade show.Taking a leaf from Apple’s book, both phones also use processors designed in-house. In a break with tradition – the S5 processor was made by Qualcomm – both handsets are powered by Samsung’s eight-core Exynos chip.Related:New Samsung S6 is unveiled ahead of Mobile World congress – in pictures“Tonight is big,” said Samsung mobile boss JK Shin. “We are sharing with you the results from the most significant team effort in this company’s history.”In an upmarket tilt, Samsung has replaced the plastic casings of old with metal, including a gold version whose tones bear more than a passing resemblance to the gold edition of the iPhone. The compromise, which may not please busy executives who like to carry spare batteries, is that the back case is no longer detachable for inserting freshly charged spares. Instead, wireless charging is now possible.In a presentation tightly focussed on besting Apple, one marketing chief promised the body would be 50% stronger than “other high end smartphones”. “My first language may not be engineering but I do know that this stuff will not bend,” she quipped, in a reference to reported problems with the iPhone 6 casing.The standard-shaped S6 has a screen that is 5.1 inches on the diagonal, a width of 6.8 mm, and both handsets have 16 megapixel rear cameras and selfie-friendly 5 megapixel front cameras.On sale in 20 countries from 10 April, both S6 models are designed to show off Samsung’s technical prowess not only to consumers but to other smartphone makers, such as Huawei and Microsoft, who buy its components. Selling to other vendors is potentially lucrative: operating profit at the Samsung chip division surged 36% in the fourth quarter.The S6 will be competing in a crowded market. Hours before its unboxing, Taiwan’s HTC unveiled an annual update to its flagship phone. The HTC One M9 has a 5-inch display and an eight-core Snapdragon processor, the handset has a 20 megapixel rear-facing camera, and the phone now comes paired with a fitness band.The HTC Grip contains five sensors including GPS location pinpointing, to track route, distance, pace and calories burned.With Apple preparing to launch its digital watch on 9 March, the emphasis for many handset makers at this year’s Mobile World Congress has shifted from phones to wearables. China’s Huawei on Sunday revealed two wearables and one ”hearable”: the W1 Android Wear smartwatch, the TalkBand B2 wristband and an activity tracking headset called the TalkBand N1.But for Samsung, except for a glimpse of its updated virtual reality headset, the emphasis was very much on the smartphone. The Edge’s screen, said analysts at CCS Insight, would set it apart in a “sea of smartphone sameness”.Despite its eye-catching appearance, the practical benefits of the Edge’s multisided screen weren’t immediately clear, which may explain why the company has paired it with the more traditionally shaped S6. Potentially more useful is the payments offering. Samsung bought LoopPay last month, a US company whose technology allows phones to be swiped or tapped at tills just like credit cards, and on Sunday night unveiled its answer to Apple Pay. The fingerprint scanner, which made its debut in the S5, will help keep payments secure in the S6.Champions are quickly toppled in the fast changing smartphone business, as both Nokia and Blackberry found to their cost, and Samsung’s business took a turn for the worse last year. Earnings have tumbled, and so has its leading share of the smartphone market.Samsung sold 84m handsets in the fourth quarter of 2013, but only 75m in the same period last year. By contrast Apple’s volume exploded to 74.5m in the fourth quarter, with just 600,000 fewer units sold than Samsung, according to analyst IDC.For the previous 11 quarters, Samsung had outsold any other mobile phone vendors, but the smartphone map of China, one of the world’s largest and fastest growing electronics markets, has been redrawn and the change is hurting Samsung’s business. Apple is taking a much larger share of high-end sales, while cheaper alternatives from Chinese makers like Xiaomi are eating away at Samsung’s budget phone following.
Samsung has announced “Samsung Pay”, a collaboration with MasterCard which sees the Korean firm make a renewed attempt to establish a footing the mobile payment market.The feature will let MasterCard cardholders with a new Samsung Galaxy S6 make in-store transactions with their mobile phone, similar to existing mobile payment systems such as Google Wallet and Apple Pay.But where those services use near-field communications (NFC) technology to make contactless payments in shops which have newer payment terminals, Samsung Pay is also compatible with older magnetic-stripe card terminals, according to MasterCard’s Ed McLaughlin, the company’s chief emerging payments officer.The company has incorporated technology acquired from American start-up LoopPay to enable the backwards compatibility, which could prove an important factor in encouraging adoption in North America, where growth of newer chip-and-pin and contactless payment standards has been slower than in much of the rest of the world.But the incorporation of LoopPay’s technology also means that Samsung Pay will initially be limited to the brand-new Samsung Galaxy S6, since it requires special hardware which isn’t present in earlier Samsung phones. Until LoopPay was acquired, this hardware requirement posed a difficult problem for the business, which had been forced to encourage users to purchase special phone cases or use a compatible key-fob accessory.MasterCard’s McLaughlin said “This is an exciting time for payments. As consumers are increasingly relying on their mobile devices in their everyday lives, we are excited to work with an industry leader like Samsung to deliver new payment options to our cardholders around the world.”Announced at Barcelona’s Mobile World Congress conference alongside the Galaxy S6 mobile phone, Samsung Pay is not the company’s first foray into mobile payments. At the same event last year, the company announced a collaboration with PayPal to build that firm’s payment technology into the Samsung Galaxy S5, then the newest Samsung mobile phone. The PayPal deal let users authenticate payments, both online and in-store, using the Galaxy S5’s fingerprint reader.And before that, Samsung phones with NFC chips were compatible with Google Wallet, a mobile payment service which lets users of Android phones make contactless payments by hooking their credit and debit cards up to Google’s cloud services.But the latest relaunch follows the entry of Apple into the mobile payment market, with the company’s Apple Pay technology. Apple Pay introduced little new to the market, but galvanised public interest in the technology and created space for competitors to promote their own efforts.
HTC has launched the new One M9 smartphone, a follow up to its theaward-winning flagship phonefrom 2014, which is faster, lighter and with a more powerful camera, but bets on extensive customisation options to win new users.The new One M9 has a solid aluminium unibody design found in previous One flagship devices but now with a two-tone colour scheme and a slimmer, lighter body.It uses Qualcomm’s latest and most powerful octocore processor, the 64-bit Snapdragon 810, has 3GB of RAM, 32GB of storage and a microSD card slot. It also has a new 20-megapixel camera, shifting the company’s low-light specialist “Ultrapixel” camera to the front for selfies.But HTC’s big bet for this generation is in customisable software. The One M9 runs Google’s latest Android 5 Lollipop, but uses HTC’s custom “Sense 7” interface.The smooth metal body is shaved out of a solid block of aluminium, leaving just 5% of the original chunk to make the shell.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianRelated:Google Nexus 9 tablet review: can't match Samsung or AppleThis customised version of Android is a trademark of HTC, offering useful additions to the standard Android experience without adding too much clutter.With this new version of Sense HTC has added the ability to customise almost every aspect of the phone, from the icons to the backgrounds, colours, typeface, sounds and other elements of the user interface.These themes can be automatically generated from a user’s background or lockscreen photo, downloaded from the theme store or manually created using HTC’s theme generator, and offers a level of customisability only previously achievable through the use of third-party custom software, such as Cyanogen.Sense Home – HTC’s application launcher that has its BlinkFeed social news aggregator built in – will now learn its owner’s app usage pattern, dynamically presenting apps it thinks the user will need at different times of the day and locations. It might suggest a train timetable app in the morning for the commute, or a TV remote app for when at home in the evening.The two-tone body wraps around to a step to the screen.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianRelated:HTC One M8 review: a lightning-quick, five-star smartphoneSome third-party application launchers, such as Yahoo’s Aviate, already do something similar.Android smartphone manufacturers have struggled to differentiate themselves from competitors, all using the same software. HTC is hoping that premium materials and strong design coupled with extensive software customisability will be enough to set it apart from Samsung, Sony, Motorola and LG, as well as cheaper Chinese rivals.The HTC One M9 will be available in the UK from 31 March, while itsOne M8will remain on sale at a cheaper price – a move HTC hopes will help put it in a stronger position to increase its market share in 2015.The top black strip hides an IR blaster for the remote control features.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianHTC also announced the Grip fitness tracker with built in GPS – a partnership with sportswear manufacturer Under Armour that will be available only in the US initially.Related:MyFitnessPal and Endomodo fitness apps bought by Under ArmourUnder Armourrecently acquired popular fitness tracking apps Endomodo and MyFitnessPal as part of its push into digital health.
The world’s largest mobile technology event kicks off on Sunday with more than 86,000 salespeople, software engineers, chip designers, device makers and television crews arriving in Barcelona for the five-day event.With Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg headlining, alongside Google rising star Sundar Pichai and the omnipresent Will.i.am, who has moved from recording music into designing electronic wristbands, theMobile World Congresswill fill the halls of two separate exhibition centres and take over countless unofficial venues around the Catalan capital.Related:Mobile World Congress 2015: location and programmatic in the spotlightAmong the big themes this year will be 5G, the faster wireless internet successor to 4G, and the challenges bringing the developing world online. Executives from Twitter, Facebook, Pinterest and Airbnb will ensure that the rise of social media remains a talking point.But the event’s organisers have for the most part steered clear of the more controversial topics that have lit up online discussion forums since Edward Snowden’s revelations two summers ago. At MWC 2015, surveillance and the ethical dilemma presented by commercialising private data will for the most part remain off the agenda.“We will have government officials and policy makers there and private companies there but no one speaking for the users, especially the most vulnerable,” says Peter Micek, policy counsel atdigital human rights campaign group Access. “The fact that civil society is not invited to the biggest mobile technology event in the world says something.”With 2,000 exhibitors jostling for attention, corporations will be well represented. TheUS Agency for International Development(USaid) is also taking part this year, but charities and campaign groups remain thin on the ground. There is a panel discussion on Monday about data protection, but the speakers all represent corporate interestests other than Mozilla, the not for profit maker of the Firefox browser.Accesshas worked closely with networks like Vodafone, whose Egyptian masts were temporarily shut down during the Tahrir Square uprising of 2011, to create guidelines for how mobile phone companies should respond when asked to implement a communications blackout. But Micek says blackouts are increasing. It recently filed evidence to the international criminal court on events in the Central African Republic, where Orange and three other networks were asked to suspend text messages and international roaming for a period last summer. The blackout coincided with reports of increased civil unrest.Net neutrality, however, will be under discussion, both at the ministerial side-conference, where the UK’s telecoms minister Ed Vaizey will rub shoulders with his Rwandan counterpart Jean Philbert Nsengimana, and on the main stage.The USFederal Communications Commission(FCC) last week voted to grant itself the power to enforce net neutrality, for example by preventing cable and mobile phone companies from charging to deliver traffic more quickly for those that can afford the fee. On Tuesday evening in Barcelona, FCC chairman Tom Wheeler will explain in a keynote speech the decision which he has described as“a red letter day for internet freedom”.Related:Net neutrality is only the beginning of an open internetApple as always will be notable by its absence from Barcelona, but South Korea’s Samsung and Taiwan’s HTC will use the trade show to unveil the latest editions of their flagship handsets.The Samsung S6 and the HTC One (M9) will make their first public appearance within hours of each other on Sunday night. With every attendee offered a fitness band to track their activity levels, calorie burn should go off the scale as reporters and analysts dash across town to catch both events.The S6 is Samsung’s big money spinner and the stakes are higher than ever this year, with the company sliding in profitability as Apple cements its dominance in the west and conquers new markets like China.Samsung is expected to release two models, one with a screen that curves over three edges, and another more conventional handset. The practical benefits of a multisided screen aren’t entirely clear, although Samsung claims to be the only company able to produce them. But Samsung is likely to follow Apple’s lead by using a processor designed by its own engineers, instead of the Qualcomm chips of previous models.The S6 has been conceived not only as a competitor to the iPhone, but to advertise Samsung’s ability to make components like screens and chips for other device manufacturers. Samsung’s latest numbers explain the shift in emphasis. According to Bloomberg, operating profit at the chip division surged 36% to 2.7 trillion won (£1.6bn) in the fourth quarter, while mobile-phone unit earnings slumped 64% to 1.96 trillion won (£1.2bn).WithApple Watchlaunched on 9 March, a flurry of rival products are under development. Microsoft, which is expected to unveil mid range Lumia phones running its latest Windows 10 software on Monday morning in Barcelona, may have a wearable project in the pipeline and there are rumours of a smartwatch from HTC.Telecoms analyst Kester Mann, of CCS Insight, is predicting “an avalanche of wearable devices”, but also many more gadgets with which to populate the much discussed Internet of Things. Stands projecting a future of smart cars, homes and cities will no doubt draw the crowds, but Mann says these inventions have implications that their creators must consider.“Switching your lights off, your alarms, linking all this up to a cellular network … security is important and privacy is fundamental. That’s an area where the industry needs to tread very carefully as it moves into a new era.”
What doMercedes-Benzand my old history teacher Mr “Hefty” Heftner have in common? Quite a lot as it turns out. Both are German, both have a rich sense of heritage and both have evolved novel ways to keep you awake. One uses feedback from 70 sensors placed invisibly around you to produce auditory and visual stimuli to stop you dozing off, the other throws a chalk duster at your head. Both methods are extremely effective. You’ll find it difficult to nod off at the wheel of a Merc, and we were all too terrified to fall asleep in O-level history.Mercedes has been at the forefront of safety innovation for decades. It put the crumple zone into production as long ago as 1951 and its anti-lock braking system (ABS) has been with us since 1970. Another industry first isAttention Assist. You don’t have to be a genius to realise that falling asleep at the wheel is probably the fastest way to test your crumple zone, but that hasn’t stopped the boffins from checking it. It’s a research programme that can’t have yielded many surprises – “Yes, Jürgen, it was just after you fell asleep that you crashed!” Indeed they found that between a quarter and a third of all motorway accidents are caused by driver fatigue. Amazing!Come on in: the new Mercedes-Benz B-Class manages to be both compact and luxurious.So this is where Attention Assist comes in. From the moment you start driving, your Mercedes keeps an eye on you. Using input from 70 sensors it creates a unique template of your driving style on that particular day. As your journey continues, it constantly monitors you to see how you are measuring up to that first impression. The heart of the system is the steering wheel. Tired drivers make dozens of tiny errors that they then correct immediately. If you start doing this, Attention Assist will check to make sure you are actually feeling sleepy by asking itself a series of questions: how long have you been at the wheel; are you listening to the radio; are you fiddling about with the car’s controls; is the road pot-holed; are you being buffeted by a side wind? If the answer to these is not as expected, the system presumes you must be nodding off and the car emits an irritating beep and flashes a picture of a cup of coffee at you.Inside story: the composed interior of the B-Class.I tried it out in the new B-Class I was driving last week. I tried to fool the clever little car by starting out feeling totally knackered and thus creating a dodgy initial template. It saw through that and soon started beeping at me. Another time I pretended to drive like an exhausted person. Veering about, slamming on the brakes, nodding my head like a fat man at a Shakespeare matinee… The car saw through my wheeze and did nothing. More worryingly my wife didn’t make any comment either. She said my driving had seemed no worse than usual. I didn’t go as far as just closing my eyes… but even then a crash would have been tricky as the car’s radar-controlledCollision Prevention Assist Plusequipment would have autonomously slammed on the brakes, while the Merc’sPre-Safe systemwould have tightened the front seat belts, adjusted the front head restraints and closed the windows and sunroof to ensure the best outcome from a smash.Safety gets a big tick in this small Benz. But then what did you expect from the upmarket B-Class? This latest update to the model also comes with sharper looks, more technology and a choice of engines: two petrol and four diesels. Handling is as precise as ever and the drive is calm, reassuring and soothing… No wonder they’re worried you might drift off.New month, new carIs it time to trade in your old banger?According to the websiteHonestJohn.co.uk, March could be your best month for buying a new car in years. A perfect combination of factors means it’s certainly worth having a look, as low borrowing costs, low fuel costs and a boom in new models could result in a bargain for you. Research by Honest John shows that the typical APR for car finance has dropped by more than 3% over the past four years. At the same time, the number of high-street lenders offering finance deals has increased dramatically. The reason for this is that the price of borrowing is low – with the UK base rate of 0.5% finally filtering down to car buyers. March will also see many consumers buy new cars fuelled by the low cost of petrol. Compared to last year, a typical petrol hatchback owner will spend, on average, £200 less a year on fuel. Insurance costs are also at their lowest in years thanks to savings from an increase in car safety technology, eg autonomous emergency braking, and insurers clamping down on fraud. Finally Ford, Skoda and Volkswagen are all releasing their 2015 ranges this month. So, get yourself down to your local showroom and start the spring with a new set of wheels.Motorbike kit from AldiReady for the road: Aldi’s new range of gear for bikers.Next time you pop into Aldi for your weekly groceries, you might also want to check out their new range of affordable gear for motorcyclists. As you would expect, the price is startlingly low, but what you might not have appreciated is just how good the kit is. Aldi’s motorcycle jacket (£79.99) and trousers (£59.99) are both CE 2 certified, offering a high level of protection. On top of that there’s a stylish neckwarmer (£2.99), thick socks (£3.59), gloves (£19.99) and boots (£29.99). All well worth a look, if you want your money to go further. For more details, go toAldi special buy events.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166Follow the Observer Magazine on Twitter@ObsMagazine
Set in an alternate Victorian steampunk era, The Order: 1886 bundles werewolves, Jack the Ripper and Arthurian legend in with a load of wood-handled, high-tech gadgets and empire-era mock-futuristic weaponry. Unfortunately, your role is barely more than that of slack-jawed bystander, the game frequently reducing your input to pressing a button when a prompt appears onscreen. At other times you’ll wander along rigidly defined corridors, side turnings blocked by scenery, or groups of conveniently immobile passers-by. There’s a robotic artificiality about the game that isn’t helped by pockets of third-person shooting in which your hero hunches behind pieces of scenery, popping out to take pot-shots at baddies until the music goes back to normal and you can move on to the next beautifully rendered but strangely lifeless encounter.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKIronFall: Invasion, Nintendo 3DSIn the past, the only way to make a shooting game really work on the Nintendo 3DS was to use the Circle Pad Pro, a peripheral that adds a second analogue stick to let you aim your gun. IronFall: Invasion relies on the same technique but also lets owners of the newer models of 3DS use its tiny C-stick to aim their weapons. Shoehorning a Gears Of War-style third-person shooter on to a device that normally contents itself with puzzle games and adventures seems, initially, to just about work. Yet, despite its outward appearance of functionality, the playing experience is uniformly terrible, the C-stick proving incapable of the subtlety of movement needed to aim accurately. Lumbering enemies move slowly enough to make up for this shortcoming, but multiplayer mode is a random mess of getting shot repeatedly by unseen malefactors.VD-Dev, £17.98The Detail: Episode 1 - Where The Dead Lie, iOSSteeped in gritty police procedural-style comic-book noir, The Detail is a drama about cops and gangsters. Starting off as a detective whose best days are behind him, you meet an informant being dragged back into a life of crime, a smug, too-slick internal affairs officer and a parade of other hoary old stereotypes. The action is framed as a point-and-click adventure, getting you to touch hotspots on the screen to investigate crime scenes and choose between a few simple options during conversations. The iPad’s touch screen lends itself to such old-school adventuring, and The Detail applies it nicely to methodical police work. However, the game is let down by characters who barely qualify as ciphers and a script that’s better at conjuring atmosphere than making you care about the walking cliches you meet.Rival Games, £4.79
The Skoda Yeti Black Edition is outlandishly ugly; it looks like a foreshortened hearse, and yet, despite the satisfyingly easy fold-down mechanism of the back seats, you could never fit a coffin in it. It’s like a Nietzschean embodiment of disutility. There is something about its bearing – the way it is imposing and businesslike, but utterly unglamorous – that gives it a bureaucratic air. I drove through chocolate-box Cotswolds towns, with endless names telling you what they are under and twixt, imagining myself part of a military convoy examining what was salvageable from a wrecked civilisation.The mash-up with VW (two decades old, would you credit it?) has delivered a cockpit that is very Golf, with extra twiddly bits. An innovation I particularly liked was a second satnav screen above the speedo. However, the driver’s armrest is awkwardly close to the handbrake; a small but infuriating thing.And yet, and yet; subjected to some profoundly challenging driving conditions, it triumphed, and I decided I didn’t care what it looked like, or where the armrest was. Wednesday was spent driving alongside a cyclist while someone else took photos of him on miles of country road, causing huge inconvenience to other cars. I needed more than agility, which this has in surprising amounts; I needed enough acceleration that meant, when I’d finished, I could disappear at a speed that said, simultaneously, “I’m sorry for the delay,” and “Eat my shorts”. That I got. Does turbo-diesel get better all the time, or do my prejudices simply recede? The 2L TDI engine soared past everything.The next night I got caught in a snowstorm, flakes luminous in the headlights, like driving into a Maw Cluster in Star Wars. This is when you notice the Yeti is a 4x4, with its great traction and solid, unperturbed manoeuvrability. I may have been the fastest vehicle on the M1 (not, I underline, by breaking the speed limit; just because everyone else was chicken). And the day after that, Ikea. The tribulations of that journey aren’t so much in the driving as in the stopping and starting; this is when you notice your posture: how long would you be able to remain in the car before you felt as if your back were broken and your achilles tendons had snapped in sheer frustration? And the results, again, were difficult to fault. It’s roomy in the front and the back, and the reach is well designed.I came round to this beast; it’s like having a bison or something. A bit of an eyesore for an urban vegetarian, but for the people who need what they’re packing, irreplaceable.Skoda Yeti Black EditionPricefrom £23,990 (as tested, £24,515)Top speed118mphCombined fuel consumption48.7mpgAcceleration0-62mph in 9.9 secondsCO2 emissions152g/kmEco rating6/10Cool rating3/10• Follow Zoe onTwitter
It’s a rare feat for a meme to crawl out of the muck of internet culture and into the consciousness of everyday folks. Especially when it happens as quickly as “the dress” did.Between Thursday evening and Friday morning, the dress grew from a Tumblr post byan Irish musicianto an international phenomenon and subject ofdebateacross the globe.The crux of the dress question, and perhaps its appeal, is simple: is the frock white and gold, or blue and black?The phenomenon could be the result of a simple optical illusion, an ambiguity, or it could be a more complex. Whatever the cause, it’s a photo that not even perception researchers can agree on.“So much of our vision and hearing is really accurate,” said Howard C Hughes, who investigates the mechanisms of perception at Dartmouth College’s department of psychological and brain sciences. “If that weren’t so, we couldn’t walk through the door, and we certainly couldn’t run 50 yards and catch a fly ball in center field.”In short, you’re not crazy: most of what you see is what other people see. But Hughes reminds us that the objects we “see” don’t necessarily have the fundamental qualities we perceive, especially when we’re working with limited information, such as a grainy, two-dimensional photo.Those images are chewed up data collected by our eyes and reassembled by our minds, composed through complex biological and psychological processes.“That creates, I think, the feeling that ... we just see what’s out there,” he said. “But we have to construct that – the brain has to construct that – and people have to realize in a trivial way you need eyes to see, but you need a brain to perceive, and so that perception is something that’s derived.”The dress quandary focuses on color, a perception that is not “real” per se. The experience of color is the perception of the length of visible light rays reflected from a surface, interpreted as one of three primary colors by the human eye.For example, what we see as “red,” is not an intrinsic quality of an object. Rather, it’s humans’ remarkably homogenous perception of reflected light. And there are plenty of animals that experience much color much differently than humans. Theeyeballs of mantis shrimp, for example, have 12 color receptors compared to humans’ three.And while the question may seem inconsequential, many have found that the picture serves as a fascinating example of the interplay of human biology and perception – constructs that make up some of the most studied fields of brain science.“There’s no reason to think that all the detail of the incredible process that nobody really, fully understands doesn’t have individual differences,” said Hughes. “Now, how this image has done such an amazing job of making that painfully obvious – I’m not sure. But I think the reason it generate so much heat between people is most of us think we just see what’s out there.”Hughes said the subject will likely be subject to more research, and hypothesized that the blue-white phenomenon could be the result of anything from anomalous trichromats (people who have slightly different perceptions of primary colors) to a (very difficult) reversing optical illusion, sometimes called an ambiguity.Anyone who has tried to reverse theorientation of convex and concave circles, ora spinning silhouettewill have an idea how difficult some such images are to flip, or “disambiguate”.Another perception researcher. Robert Fendrich, told Hughes he saw the dress as gold-white on Thursday evening, and blue-black on Friday morning, one of which appears to be a minority of people able to reorient the image. Fendrich is a visiting scholar at Dartmouth College, also in the psychological and brain sciences department.At the Whitney Laboratory for Perception and Action at University of California Berkeley, David Whitney said the image’s effect is simple – it’s an ambiguity of inference.“You infer the light is hitting the dress directly, and I infer that the light is coming from behind the dress,” said Whitney. “It boils down to a really simple difference, and it’s a really simple ambiguity.”“It’s an illusion,” said Whitney. “But everything is an illusion.”
Net neutrality campaigners took to the skies to declare victory over cable companies byflying a “grumpy cat” meme banner over the headquarters of Comcast, the nation’s biggest internet provider.Open internet activists flew a plane carrying a 2,000sq ft banner reading: “Comcast: Don’t mess with the internet” with an image of a popular grumpy cat and the hashtag #SorryNotSorry.The aerial victory parade in Philadelphia came the day afterthe Federal Communications Commission (FCC) approved a plan to govern broadband internet like a public utility, and prevent cable companies from offering preferential access to the internet to those that pay more.“This is a victory of the internet, by the internet, and for the internet,” David Segal, executive director of Demand Progress, one of the biggest net neutrality campaign groups, said. “Comcast and cable allies spent big for the right to degrade the very service they provide to their customers, and they tried to ignore the millions of public comments in support of net neutrality.“But they can’t ignore the FCC’s vote yesterday – or a plane flying over their corporate headquarters today. This banner is a message from the millions who stood up to one of the most powerful special interests in Washington: you can’t ignore the internet. We won at the FCC and we’re ready to fight the ISPs and defend net neutrality in the streets and in the air, in Congress and in the courts. And we will win.”The campaigners were integral to generating large scale public support for the net neutrality rules. FCC chairman Tom Wheeler – a former telecom lobbyist turned surprise hero of net neutrality supporters – thanked the 4 million people who submitted comments on the new rules. “Your participation has made this the most open process in FCC history,” he said yesterday [Thursday]. “We listened and we learned.“The internet is simply too important to be left without rules and without a referee on the field,” he added. “[The] order is more powerful and more expansive than any previously suggested.”The grump cat victory came shortly afterRepublican FCC member Ajit Pai, who opposed net neutrality, invoked Star Wars’s evil galactic emperor Palpatine in a fresh attack on the regulations. Pai said: “Young fool … Only now, at the end, do you understand.”The battle between the two sides was quickly dubbed a meme war.
Republicans invoked Star Wars’s evil galactic emperor in their attacks on new broadband regulations on Friday, warning that the public and Silicon Valley were in for an unpleasant surprise.Quoting Emperor Palpatine, Republican Ajit Pai, a member of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), said: “Young fool … Only now, at the end, do you understand.”Related:Net neutrality activists score landmark victory in fight to govern the internetMeme wars between the two sides of the debate continued through the day, as internet advocates Fight for the Future, Demand Progress and Free Press flew an airplane towing a 2,000 square foot banner over the towering corporate headquarters of the cable giant Comcast, in Philadelphia.The victory banner depicted the feline internet starGrumpy Catand the legend: “Comcast: Don’t Mess With the Internet. #SorryNotSorry.”Referring to Pai’s comments Evan Greer, campaigns director at Fight for the Future, said: “What they didn’t know is that when they struck down the last rules we would come back more powerful than they could possibly imagine.”Pai and fellow Republican FCC commissioner Mike O’Rielly, who have been consistent critics of the FCC’s new rules, said once they are published people will realise that they will stifle innovation and lead to taxes and increased rates for the public.“When you see this document, it’s worse than you imagine,” said O’Rielly at a conference in Washington organised by the think tank TechFreedom.The FCC on Thursday voted through strict new rules to regulate broadband and protect net neutrality – the principle that all information and services should have equal access to the internet.The historic vote was cheered by internet activists, President Barack Obama and many in the tech community. However, few people have seen the actual orders. On Friday the FCC was finalising its documentation for publication – it it is not expected to release the orders until next week at the very earliest.Pai said the new rules would mean “permission-less innovation is a thing of the past”. The new rules will ban broadband providers from creating fast lanes for some or slowing the traffic of others for commercial reasons. They will also give the FCC the power to police conduct by broadband providers on a case-by-case basis.Internet service providers will not be allowed to “unreasonably interfere with or unreasonably disadvantage” consumers’ access to content and services.O’Rielly said this would mean that any company looking to start a new service would have to seek permission ahead of time. He said anybody looking for new business opportunities in the document would be best off becoming a “telecoms lawyer”.
It’s not every day that fashion and science come together to polarise the world.Tumblr blogger Caitlinposted a photograph of what is now known as#TheDress– a layered lace dress and jacket that was causing much distress among her friends. The distress spread rapidly across social media, with Taylor Swift admitting she was “confused and scared”.I don&#39;t understand this odd dress debate and I feel like it&#39;s a trick somehow. &#10;I&#39;m confused and scared.&#10;PS it&#39;s OBVIOUSLY BLUE AND BLACK&mdash; Taylor Swift (@taylorswift13)February 27, 2015The internet is now made up by people firmly in two camps: the white and gold, and the blue and black – with each thinking the other is completely wrong.But Ron Chrisley, director of the Centre for Research in Cognitive Science at the University of Sussex, believes that the problem mainly lies in the fact that everyone has forgotten we are dealing with an illusion.Chrisley said: “The first step in reaching a truce in the dress war is to construct a demonstration that can show to the white-and-gold crowd how the very same dress can also look blue and black under different conditions.”The image below, tweeted by@namin3485, demonstrates that even though the right-hand side of each image is the same, in the context of the two different left halves, the right is interpreted as being either white and gold, or blue and black.드레스 논란 정리해보았습니다.pic.twitter.com/Oz2j4nlHyF&mdash; 다나민 (@namin3485)February 27, 2015So does this mean people who are less self-confident are more likely to be able to see both, at least eventually?Chrisley said: “My guess is it’s not to do with self-confidence. It’s a perceptual issue. I could imagine someone that’s open minded could still see it only one way. This is below the level of us trying to understand other peoples views. It’s more physiological than that.”Look at the image below. The colour of surfaces A and B are identical. Place your finger over the join where the top and bottom half of the image meet.Surfaces A and B are the same colour.Photograph: brainden.comBoth surfaces are grey, right? But how?! Why?!Chrisley said: “Which colour we see isn’t just a matter of the light coming into eyes, it’s the inferences that caused that input. We use the context to inform our colour experiences.“Some suffer more than others due to how people factor in context in order to construct a colour experience. Some people see just what’s in front of them and some people are affected much more by the context.“This has yet to be proven, but given what we know of the brain, and it’s a good guess, is that someone who is used to manipulating images and white balance might be able to perceive the true dress colour in a wider range of contexts and ignore context, whereas others can be easily manipulated. People who have changed luminance in Photoshop may not be fooled by it.”Take the following colour illusion. Squares A, B and C appear to be different shades of brown. Cover the surrounding squares and you’ll see they are in fact the same colour.Squares A, B and C are the same colour.Photograph: brainden.comChrisley said: “Another striking thing about the dress illusion is that it is quite unlike the checked shadow illusion, in that not all people experience it, and those that do often do so differently.“It is as if there is a perceptual equivalent of those who can roll their tongues and those who can’t. But it is too early to say whether the difference is genetic, as with tongue rolling ability, or something affected by learning and personality such as being a night-owl or one’s particular sensitivity to context in perception, as I and fellow Sackler colleague Acer Chang speculate.”Here’s the science behind #TheDress colour illusionYou may have gathered this by now, but what we are experiencing is really a colour illusion. Colour illusions are images where the object’s surrounding colours trick the eye into incorrectly interpreting the colour.What’s happening with #TheDress is that your eye is either discounting the blue so you’re seeing white and gold, or discounting the gold so your eye sees blue and black. But why would your eyes lie to you like this?Human beings evolved to see in daylight, but daylight changes the colour of everything we see. Human eyes try to compensate for the chromatic bias of daylight colour.We see objects because light is reflected. When we look at something, light enters the eye with different wavelengths which correspond to different colours. This light hits the retina in the back of the eye where pigments shoot signals to the part of the brain that processes these signals into an image.Your brain figures out what colour light is bouncing off the object your eyes are looking at by subtracting that colour from the real colour of the object.Speaking to Wired magazine, Bevil Conway, a neuroscientist who studies colour and vision at Wellesley College in Massachusetts said: “Most people will see the blue on the white background as blue. But on the black background, some might see it as white.”
Samsung could be investigated by the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) in the US following acomplaintwhich claims its smart TVs record private conversations without informing users.US consumer rights organisation the Electronic Privacy Information Center (Epic) accuses Samsung of breaking federal privacy laws including the Electronic Communications Privacy Act and the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, which both concern the collection and disclosure of electronic communications.“Samsung routinely intercepts and records the private communications of consumers in their homes. Consumers who have learned of this practice have described it is as both “unfair” and “deceptive”,” said Epic in the complain.“Samsung’s attempts to disclaim its intrusive surveillance activities by means of a “privacy notice” do not diminish the harm to American consumers. It is incumbent upon the Federal Trade Commission to take action in this matter, and to enjoin Samsung and other companies that engage in similar practices, from such unlawful activities.”Related:Samsung rejects concern over 'Orwellian' privacy policyA Samsung spokesperson denied Epic’s claims: “The claims made by Epic are not correct and do not reflect the actual features of our Smart TV. Samsung takes consumer privacy very seriously and our products are designed with privacy in mind.”The debate rages around the collection of personal data including speech by voice recognition systems and how they operate. It was instigatedby an “Orwellian” changeto Samsung’s privacy policy regarding its smart TVs and where the data recorded by them is sent, in this case to a third-party.Samsung uses voice recognition specialist Nuance Communications to process speech and return text results.“When the voice recognition feature is enabled, everything a user says in front of the Samsung SmartTV is recorded and transmitted over the internet to a third party, regardless of whether it is related to the provision of the service,” Epic states in its complaint.Related:Samsung smart TVs send unencrypted voice recognition data across internetSamsung clarified its privacy policy, but some of its smart TVs were found to transmit both voice data and the recognised textunencrypted across the internet, despite the company stating that all private data is encrypted when passed between the TV to the voice recognition servers.Epic is hoping that the FTC investigates not only Samsung’s practices, but those using similar systems to ensure that they comply with privacy laws. But the case demonstrates the complexity of the technology entering the home and the lack of consumer understanding of what it is doing and how it works.The FTC has not confirmed whether or not it will conduct an investigation. But it highlights issues around privacy which are likely to become more common in the near future. The internet of things promises to become a reality in the next five years, making everything that was once “dumb” and unconnected to the internet intelligent and able to collect and use private data.
Is it black and blue, or white and gold?Related:The Guardian view on 'the dress'This question, about the color of a dress, is unifying the internet in debate. On every platform available – blogging sites, comment threads and social media – users are asking what others see and marveling at the answers.The question, and subsequent riffs, appears to have started on Tumblr. By Thursday evening, it had been picked up byBuzzfeed, where 25 million people have seen the resulting article.By Friday, four of Twitter’s top trends were related to the controversy: #TheDress, #whiteandgold, #blackandblue and (skipping to fifth) #dressgate. On Friday morning, #thedress was top in Facebook’s trending box, and people had commented an untold number of times on the question.“At one point tonight (ET) more than 670,000 people were on BuzzFeed.com, half of whom were viewing ‘the dress’ post,” tweeted Buzzfeed editor-in-chiefBen Smith.Someone registered all of these domain names tonight:pic.twitter.com/O0NJzToJu9&mdash; Noah Veltman (@veltman)February 27, 2015CNBC,Time,WiredandSyracuse.comare among the many outlets, international and local, general readership and special interest, that have staked a claim on the controversy. Some purport to answer the perplexing question, or weigh in on some other facet of the saga.Jokes also abounded, some playing off other internet fascinations such as thetwo llamaswhich were briefly on the loose in Sun City, Arizona onThursday afternoon.#whiteandgoldor#blackandblue? We found a way around science- you can have both!#TheDress#dressgatepic.twitter.com/5oj3ZTqOWk&mdash; LEGO (@LEGO_Group)February 27, 2015#thedress&#39;Definitely blue&#39;..pic.twitter.com/MkZ01cjDFN&mdash; Tate (@Tate)February 27, 2015Neuroscientists andcolor perception researchersweighed in, though the takeaway seems to be thatno one is surewhy this is happening.As of Friday morning, more than 2.2 million people had answeredBuzzfeed’s quizon the subject. To provide a partial answer to the question, a little less than one-third of respondents saw the dress as blue and black, and the rest white and gold.
In a cramped police interrogation room a woman is being questioned about her missing husband. Is he dead? Has she killed him? There are seven separate interviews, chopped up into short, teasing fragments, but the answers aren’t immediately obvious. It’s up the player to trawl through the video records and piece the mystery together.This is the bare bones setup to Her Story, a fascinating police procedural game written by veteran developer Sam Barlow. Until a year ago, Barlow was working for mainstream studio Climax, where he designed the horror game, Silent Hill: Shattered Memories. Although it was part of a long-running series, the title was an oddity, hugely informed by Barlow’s interest in the “interactive fiction” genre of highly narrative-based adventure games. Now he has set up on his own, and is experimenting with new ways to build compelling interactive mysteries.In Her Story, your job is to sit at a police terminal, accessing the video segments via a database search interface and then inputting relevant words to bring up more footage. The skill is in working out how the segments may have been tagged in this fictitious police system, and then studying any newly discovered clips for clues and pointers. Her Story is effectively a crime thriller told through the conventions of an internet search engine. It is True Detective crossed with Google.The game simulates a 1990s PC desktop, placing the player directly into the fictional police mainframe.Photograph: public domain“It is very of-the-moment, because we’re all now typing words into text prompts more than we ever have before,” says Barlow. “We intuitively get the process – the ‘game mechanic’ – of using the correct search terms, of narrowing a search, etc. I wanted to run with the idea that what you’re doing is essentially Googling.“There is the magic of thinking up the word that unlocks something hidden, the ability to imagine a concept, put into words, type it and the game puts flesh to that idea – itismagical, in my opinion.”The game also comments on another facet of modern digital society – the way in which social media and video sharing sites like YouTube have given rise to a culture of armchair detection. In high profile cases likeJodi Arias, Amanda Knox and the Boston bombing, the public became both juror and investigator, scouring news clips and search engines for clues, meaning that the justice process could be said to have become weirdly game-like. Jane’s Addiction once sang: “The news is just another show”. Now, it’s just another interactive social media experience.But Her Story also borrows from the ancient history of game design, specifically the late-1980s genre of desktop thrillers. Constrained by the graphical capabilities of machines like the Spectrum and Commodore 64, developers found a way to explore complex stories by using the computer interface itself as a framing mechanism. In titles like Vera Cruz and the espionage thriller based on the Forsyth novel, The Fourth Protocol, players would take on the role of a coder or researcher using a database or hacking a mainframe to unpick the narrative. In this way the hardware (and its intrinsic limitations) became the mediumandthe experience.In a similar way to Her Story, the classic infogrames adventure Vera Cruz gives access to messages, statements and photos from which the player must solve a crime.Photograph: public domainWhen gaming visuals advanced during the 90s, the genre fell out of favour, but now independent developers are rediscovering its highly immersive appeal. Lucas Pope’s award-winning title Papers, Please brilliantly explores the politics of immigration by putting the player behind the desk of a single border officer in an unstable Eastern European state. Now, Her Story presents its murder mystery though video clips that the players need to discover and retrieve in order to advance.“The conceit of making the computer itself a prop in the game was so neat,” says Barlow. “You weren’t being transported to an alien world, the world of the game was being transported to your desk-bound reality. It brings about a different approach to the player-protagonist relationship, that has stuck with me. A lot of the built-in assumptions about modern games are tied so strongly to the conventions of having an avatar, navigating a 3D space … these conventions impose a lot of restrictions.“3D space also makes things easy for developers,” he adds. “Especially in say the horror genre. It’s quite straightforward to stick a player inside a dimly lit 3D world, hand them a flashlight and get a certain level of engagement out the gate. I wanted to see what happened if I gave up the prop of immersion in a 3D world. I have a love for police procedural thrillers, so when I started thinking along these lines, my mind naturally pulled up a lot of influence from the 8-bit desktop games.”"The ability to imagine a concept, put into words, type it and the game put flesh to that idea – it is magical"Sam BarlowFor Barlow, the aim wasn’t just accessibility, it was about creating a game process that was familiar, that relied more on real-world skills than a knowledge of game conventions. “The loop of listening to the woman, coming up with search terms, interrogating her story, navigating it via her own words … it feels organic, like a real dialogue,” he says. “It has this sense of making connections, of digging for truth that is more like ‘being a detective’ than many games that let you control a detective avatar. Even when there’s frustration – trying hard to hit on the right search words, etc – it ends up feeling very much like the detective work that we see on our screens.”Even LA Noire, Rockstar’s fifities-based detective drama relied as much on the player’s driving and shooting skills as it did on interrogating suspects. Barlow wanted to remove all that video game stuff. “The key skills here are listening and thinking,” he says. “I’ve had a lot of testers tell me that they were compelled to play with a notebook to hand, like a real police detective, which is not something they’ve done for a long time.The game contains around two hours of footage, split into dozens of smaller sections.“I’m very drawn to games where a large proportion of the experience takes place away from the screen. Strangely, I think it can be more involving than games where the attention is entirely focused on the game. I guess it moves the story out into the same sphere as other thought, which means the experience is not so easily compartmentalised.”Indeed, Her Story is part of a whole movement in game design that’s getting away from familiar twitch-based mechanics, and away from using story as merely a setting for the action. Partly this is about the rise of indies, but it’s also about the arrival of new platforms. Barlow talks about the rise of the tablet, with its intuitive touch controls, and its sleek form factor that lets players curl in a chair and play – like reading a book. It’s personal and intimate. He’s been inspired by titles like Blackbar, Inkle’s 80 days and Emily Short’s Blood &amp; Laurels. All deal with themes of mystery and detection in intriguing ways.Games haven’t generally tended toward subtlety – this is something else Barlow wants to tackle. It is important if the medium is to mature and diversify. “One of the things that drew me to the police interview as a setting was a desire to make a game where subtext mattered,” he says.“In most games, because the story is communicating your challenges, it’s a usability thing. Everything has to be on the surface: ‘Go here, kill this, do that’. This mechanic of searching the woman’s words kind of forces you to engage on a deeper level – it highlights those layers of meaning. The heart of any human story is subtext.”Her Storyis released on PC, iPhone and iPad in “early 2015”.
When Twitter boss Dick Costolo vowed that his company was ready to “get a lot more aggressive” about tackling harassment on its network, details were thin on the ground. Now Twitter has revealed some of its specific plans.The company is introducing new tools for its users to report examples of impersonation and doxing – the sharing of “private and confidential information” – while beefing up the size of its team dealing with reports of abuse.“Overall, we now review five times as many user reports as we did previously, and we have tripled the size of the support team focused on handling abuse reports,”wrote Twitter’s vice president of user services Tina Bhatnagarin a blog post.“These investments in tools and people allow us to handle more reports of abuse with greater efficiency. So while we review many more reports than ever before, we’ve been able to significantly reduce the average response time to a fraction of what it was, and we see this number continuing to drop.”Bhatnagar’s post also cites “new enforcement actions” to be used against people who use Twitter to harass others, claiming that the new measures will not be visible to most users, but “give us new options for acting against the accounts that don’t follow the rules”.The Verge has more details on that, reporting that Twitter may force users who are temporarily banned from Twitter to verify their email address or phone number, and will then use that data to permanently ban persistent offenders.Related:Mary Beard reveals she befriended Twitter trolls following online abuseOn doxing, an increasingly common tactic in cases of online harassment,Twitter will now enable usersto report examples of contact information, financial account information, government-issued ID and/or unauthorised photos and videos of themselves or another user.These announcements build onsafety features introduced in December 2014, after a year of bruising criticism for Twitter on a lack of protection for users who were being harassed on its network.Those features included the ability to report abuse as an observer, not just as a victim, as well as improved controls for blocking other accounts. Costolo has not been mincing his words on Twitter’s need to improve in this area, including a blunt internal memo in February:“We suck at dealing with abuse and trolls on the platform and we’ve sucked at it for years. It’s no secret and the rest of the world talks about it every day. We lose core user after core user by not addressing simple trolling issues that they face every day.I’m frankly ashamed of how poorly we’ve dealt with this issue during my tenure as CEO. It’s absurd. There’s no excuse for it. I take full responsibility for not being more aggressive on this front. It’s nobody else’s fault but mine, and it’s embarrassing.We’re going to start kicking these people off right and left and making sure that when they issue their ridiculous attacks, nobody hears them.”This week, in aninterview with the New York Times, Costolo followed up on those sentiments, declaring his ambition to “put the cost of dealing with harassment on those doing the harassing”, and suggesting that his memo had been an attempt to “send a wake-up call to the company that we’re going to get a lot more aggressive about it, and it’s going to start right now.”
Swedish telecoms firm Ericsson has filed seven new lawsuits against Apple and a complaint with the US international trade commission (ITC) in an attempt to block the sale of the iPhone.The lawsuits filed in Texas allege Apple’s infringement of 41 different Ericsson patents covering the technologies integral to 2G, 3G and 4G mobile connection standards.“Apple’s products benefit from the technology invented and patented by Ericsson’s engineers. We are committed to sharing our innovations and have acted in good faith to find a fair solution,” said Kasim Alfalahi, chief intellectual property officer at Ericsson. “Apple currently uses our technology without a licence and therefore we are seeking help from the court and the ITC.”The spat over patents arose when Apple’s licence agreement with Ericsson expired in mid-January. Renewal talks stalled leading to lawsuits from both companies.But the complaints with the ITC from Ericsson have escalated the dispute putting pressure on Apple. The ITC has the power to block products from entering the US, and as Apple’s iPhone, iPad and most Mac computers are made in China it could stop Apple importing and selling them in its home country.Related:'China’s Apple' Xiaomi banned from selling phones in IndiaApple filed a lawsuit on 12 January claiming that Ericsson’s LTE patents were not essential to industry standards and that the Swedish firm’s demands were excessive, accusing the company of “abusive licensing practices”. Ericsson responded with its own suit.The lawsuits sought a court ruling over whether Ericsson’s patent royalty demands were fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory given the fundamental nature of the technology for mobile devices.“Ericsson made several attempts to find a fair solution, including an offer for both parties to be bound by a decision on fair licensing terms by a US federal court. Apple has refused all attempts,”said Ericssonin a statement.Related:Nokia, RIM, Ericsson and Samsung start new round of patent rowsAnalysts have predicted that an Ericsson victory could cost Apple between $250m and $750m annually. Ericsson’s 35,000-plus intellectual property portfolio was estimated to be worth $1.18bn in 2014. The company has over 100 patent licensing agreements with mobile technology companies and is the largest manufacturer of network equipment.“We’ve always been willing to pay a fair price to secure the rights to standards essential patents covering technology in our products. Unfortunately, we have not been able to agree with Ericsson on a fair rate for their patents so, as a last resort, we are asking the courts for help,” said an Apple spokeswoman at the time of its lawsuit in January.Apple declined to comment further.
“Oh, it was a sad and dark time! We had to make our own fun,” says Sid Meier before his mock-sorrow dissolves into laughter. We’ve just asked him about the games he grew up with.Given that Meier was born in 1954, those games weren’t played on a screen, yet they nevertheless had a strong influence on the video games he went on to create as an adult, from the seafaring adventure Pirates! to his seminal strategy series Civilization, and the upcoming title Starships.“I grew up with some board games, and there were also a few war games, then the hex games that I got into a little later,” he says. “Instead of Lego or soldiers on the screen I had real Lego and real toy soldiers.”“We maybe used our imaginations a little bit more in those days than we have to today. Reading was my growing-up equivalent to playing video games. If there was something I was interested in – pirates, the civil war, airplanes – I would go libraries and get books on it.“That was my way of experiencing those cool things. And of course, in the early days of making computer games, we had to rely on players’ imagination: we only had four colours and one channel of sound!”After graduating with a computer science degree, Meier’s career in game development began in 1982 when he co-founded the development studio Microprose. The company was famous for its compelling battle simulations; games like Spitfire Ace, F-15 Strike Eagle, Silent Service and Gunship brought unparalleled accuracy, aided by the experiences of Meier’s business partner Bill Stealey, an ex-airforce pilot.In 1987, though, Meier designed a new type of game, Pirates!, an intriguing simulation of life as a 17th century privateer, exploring the oceans, trading and fighting. Concerned that Microprose fans wouldn’t recognise this diversion from the designer’s usual titles, the duo decided to put Sid’s name on the box, although Stealey has an excellent anecdote that it was actually the late Robin Williams, a keen gamer, who told Meier to add his name to Microprose titles. Whatever the case, it’s been a permanent fixture of his titles ever since, making him a bona-fide gaming brand, and one of the first true video game stars.But there is one title with which he is most readily synonymous: Civilization. The groundbreaking strategy sim, which tasks players with leading their own tribe from prehistoric obscurity to modern day world domination is a compulsive, fascinating classic, spawning four sequels and a range of add-ons and spin-off. It is the thread running through his career.Back then, however, there was trepidation around using the complexities of classic board-based war games in a computer title. “When we introduced Civilization, it was a risk,” he says. “Up to that time there had been very few strategy games: there was SimCity and a couple of others. We were afraid to use hexes! We used squares in the first Civilization because it was too scary to put hexes in there. But the world has since become a little more accepting of strategy. We’re happy to see it surviving: the kind of games we enjoy playing and making.”Meier says his philosophy when creating games has always been to ask “who’s having the most fun in this world?”, whether it’s a pirate captain or a civilisation’s leader. “Pirates! was designed more around your fantasy of pirates than the actual reality,” he admits. “That allowed you to bring in all the stuff from the movies, whatever you had read, whatever was in your imagination. We wanted to tap into that with our games.”Sid Meier’s Civilization V.I certainly learned new things from playing Meier’s games, though. As a 14-year-old, I once printed out the technology tree from Civilization – the branching diagram showing how discoveries led to new technologies and industrial trends – and proudly took it to school to show my history teacher. “You can’t learn history from a computer game, Stuart,” he told me. I didn’t agree, and still don’t. Thankfully, Meier’s in my corner on this one.“That was the dirty little secret about our games: you actually do learn something,” he says. “Young people enjoy learning, even if they don’t necessarily enjoy being educated. There’s a lot of satisfaction in learning something, and watching your skill increase and coming to understand the map of the Caribbean or how one discovery led to another.”“Learning is going to be part of any good video game: it gives you interesting challenges, and you learn by doing, not by being passively taught something. Once you’ve played a game, you’re a little smarter, a little more skilled than when you started.”Related:From Civilization to Big Brother: how a game recreated Orwell's 1984I never did convince my history teacher, but 23 years on – according to Meier – Civilization is being used in some educational courses. “We hear these stories from people: ‘I knew the entire geography of the Caribbean from Pirates! and amazed my teachers’ or ‘I knew this great world leader because I’d played Civilization’,” he says.Meier talks about the longevity of that brand in particular and his approach – now within another games firm that he co-founded, Firaxis – to keeping Civilization fresh yet familiar in each new instalment.“We have a rule: one third, one third, one third. For the next game, one third will stay the same: those core aspects. One third will be systems that we like but think could be improved, and one third will be new ideas,” he says.“In fact, there should probably be another ‘third’ which is the one third we take out. Basically at this point, for every new thing we put in, we should take one thing out. We don’t want it to become overwhelming.”Sid Meier’s Starships follows on from the last Civilization game.The most recent game in the series was 2014’s Civilization: Beyond Earth, which focused on humanity’s galactic migration. His next game,Sid Meier’s Starships, follows on neatly.Due for release in mid-March for PC and iOS, with a Mac version to follow, it sees you playing a spacecraft fleet captain, building ships and exploring the galaxy through battles and diplomacy. From the video footage released so far, it looks impressive.“When I grew up, I loved Star Trek and Star Wars and all those inspirational sci-fi things,” he says. “I remember coming home and watching the original Star Trek series every Friday. And I’ve never had the chance to actually make a science fiction game.”He says that the Firaxis art team was also “agitating” to do a sci-fi title. The company was working on Beyond Earth at the time, which Meier says provided the ideal jump-off point for a new game focusing more on the starships and intergalactic exploration.“What is the core of the fun in this world? The cool thing is to be the commander of the starships. That’s the fun role. So we focused the game on building and customising your starships, taking them from one mission and adventuring to the next, and exploring the galaxy,” he says.“My inspiration was almost like a Star Trek episode: you’ll arrive at a planet, this is the problem, and you’ve got to figure out how to solve it. And when you figure out the solution, you’re read to move on to the next adventure.”Pray for any red-shirted crew members on your starships, then. Meier says that it’s impossible to avoid echoes of iconic space stories like Star Wars and Star Trek when making this kind of game, but sees the shared knowledge from those and other science fiction as beneficial. While Civilization drew on players’ knowledge of history – their understanding of gunpowder, the wheel, electricity and other advances – Starships can draw on science fiction concepts, from shields and lasers to cloaking technology.“We’ve added our own twists,” he says. “One thing that was missing from Star Trek and Star Wars was, what are the tactics involved in fighting starships, and how can we make that interesting?” Negotiating the various environments – including hiding behind asteroids for protection – will, according to Meier, be a challenge to relish.Sid Meier’s Starships sees players mastering space combat.And yes, there are hexes. “It’s now safe to use hexes again in games! We always love hexes,” he laughs. “And it’s got that tactile look: you can almost reach out and touch those starships. There’s certainly a connection to the rich history of board gaming, which is a warm, familiar place for a lot of gamers.”Play Starships on its smallest map, and you’ll likely finish the game in a couple of hours according to Meier. The biggest map provides 15-20 hours of gameplay. Except like all his previous titles, this is designed to be replayed regularly, testing out different craft and tactics.Starships is also notable because it’s being released simultaneously for PC and iPad. Meier is no stranger to mobile – there have been various mobile versions of Civilization, as well as Pirates!, Railroad Tycoon and his recent Ace Patrol games. He says the only reason Firaxis made Starships for the iPad was that tablet technology has reached the point where he could make the same game with no compromises: it uses the same engine, the graphics are “almost” identical, and the game is well-suited to touchscreen controls.He’s intrigued by the future possibilities of the tablet as a gaming device. “Is it just a bigger iPhone where you’re going to build iPhone kinda games, or a bigger platform that lends itself to strategy and games you’re going to find on a PC?” says Meier.“We’re very interested in the answer to that question. We would like to see more strategy games appear on the iPad, and there seems to be an acceptance of that. We’re interested to see how it works out, but we want to reassure all our players that we’ve not abandoned the PC.“There’s a bit of fear that we’ll abandon the PC and move from this platform to that platform, but PC remains our core platform. It’s where our fans tend to play our games. There are several times when people have been predicting that the PC is on its last legs, but it’s a great gaming platform.”Taking Starships to iPad doesn’t mean ditching PC-style pricing, either: it will be $14.99 on all platforms. That means no freemium model, timers, pay-gates, or virtual gems being sold to rocket-charge your fleet’s progress.“We want to emphasise that there are no micro-transactions: none of that in the game,” he says. “It’s a single price, and you get he whole game for that.” He talks about the “concern and suspicion” around badly-implemented freemium mechanics in mobile games, as well as Apple’s recent ‘Pay Once and Play’ promotion of non-freemium games.“That model works very well for us. We can focus on making the best game that we can, rather than trying to figure out the whole paywalls and all the other aspects you have to stick in there. We’re happy to make games that don’t include microtransactions,” says Meier.Expansions? They’re a different story. Firaxis has released expansion modules for Civilization games, based on feedback from players and ideas that didn’t make it into the main title. It will be interesting to see if the company sees any mileage in doing that with Starships a few months down the line.What next, though? Long-term followers of Meier’s games may be hoping he’ll have another crack at the dinosaur-themed game he abandoned in early 2001, because he didn’t think it was fun enough. “I’d still love to figure it out some day,” he says. “Dinosaurs are one of those words that conjure up a lot in your mind: it’s an exciting topic. The challenge is, in this world, who’s having the most fun? What’s the cool place to be?“I guess that’s to be a dinosaur, so that would tend to a first-person… claw-er? But what intrigues me is the whole idea of the evolution, the different varieties, so it missed what I felt was cool about dinosaurs. Then I thought about a more strategic game, with a herd, but it was hard to find the right place to put the player to be at the core of all the fun.”Dinosaur starship captains? Pirate dinosaurs? Actually, book publisher Penguin might have something to say about that. Whatever Sid Meier’s imagination – honed in those not so sad and dark times before video games – comes up with next, it’ll be worth waiting for.
Google has backtracked on plans to ban sexually explicit images from its blogging platform Blogger, in the face of widespread opposition from users.The company hadinitially announceda ban on “sexually explicit or graphic nude images or video”, with just a few exceptions for content which offered “a substantial public benefit, for example in artistic, educational, documentary, or scientific contexts”.It planned to enforce the ban from 23 March, when any user with offending material still on their blog would be forced to turn it into a private site.Now, the company has backed down. Jessica Pelegio, a social product support manager at Google,wrote:“We’ve had a ton of feedback, in particular about the introduction of a retroactive change (some people have had accounts for 10+ years), but also about the negative impact on individuals who post sexually explicit content to express their identities.“So rather than implement this change, we’ve decided to step up enforcement around our existing policy prohibiting commercial porn.”“Blog owners should continue to mark any blogs containing sexually explicit content as ‘adult’ so that they can be placed behind an ‘adult content’ warning page,” she added.Bloggers existing policy is much looser when it comes to adult content than many other providers. Since at least 2012 The company has warned users to “not use Blogger as a way to make money on adult content”, and says it does not allow “illegal sexual content, including image, video or textual content that depicts or encourages rape, incest, bestiality, or necrophilia.”Users are also not allowed to “post or distribute private nude or sexually explicit images or videos without the subject’s consent.” That ban, which has been in place since November 2014, wasmatched by social news site Reddit this week.The company’s chief executive, Ellen Pao, said that“effective 10 March, Reddit will prohibit any photograph, video or digital image of a person who is nude or engaged in a sexual act if the subject has not given permission for it to be used”.Google’s attempt to broaden that ban to cover all sexual images was met with opposition from sex bloggers, for whom the platform is one of the most popular.Zoe Margolis, author of the sex blog Girl With a One-Track Mind,wrote in the Guardian that“forcing millions of blogs to become private is not just a free-speech issue, or one about making adult content harder to find (Google’s own search tool makes that argument redundant), but boils down to Google sabotaging the integrity of the web – and how it functions – and it is for this reason that we need to oppose this narrow-minded and short-sighted policy.”
A number of companies have explored the idea of humanoid robots as future home-helpers for elderly people. The latest experiment from Japan is distinctly more bear-shaped, though.MeetRobear, an experimental nursing-care robot developed by the RIKEN-SRK Collaboration Center for Human-Interactive Robot Research and Sumitomo Riko Company.Unveiled this month, the robot is designed to lift patients out of beds and into wheelchairs, as well as helping those who need assistance to stand up. Robear weighs in at 140kg, and is the successor to heavier robots RIBA and RIBA-II.“We really hope that this robot will lead to advances in nursing care, relieving the burden on caregivers today,” said Toshiharu Mukai, leader of the project’s robot sensor systems research team.“We intend to continue with research toward more practical robots capable of providing powerful yet gentle care to elderly people.”That’s an increasingly urgent challenge in Japan, where the elderly population is growing fast. According to Riken, robots like Robear can play an important role in taking the strain off nurses and caregivers, who may be having to lift patients 40 or more times a day, risking lower-back pain in the process.Related:Meet the robot giving hospitalised children superpowersRobear remains a research project for now, as Riken and its partners continue to improve the robot’s technology, reduce its weight, and ensure that it will be safe – in this case, through legs that extend while lifting a patient, to ensure Robear does not topple over.Japan remains the hub for research into humanoid (or, in the case of Robear, at least human-sized) robots, and not just for healthcare.Mobile operator SoftBank hasput its “emotional” Pepper robot to workcollecting customer opinions in its stores, with the device also an effective marketing tool. Japan’s biggest bank, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, is alsoabout to start a trial of a customer-service robot called Naoin its stores.Toyota thrilled and unsettled attendees at the CES show in January in equal measure with itsChihiraAico robot, which resembles a Japanese woman, and is likely to be used to work with elderly people with conditions including dementia, connecting them to medical staff.
Apple has invited worldwide media to an event on March 9, where the firm will announce launch plans for its Apple Watch.“Please join us for an invitation-only event at the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts Theater in San Francisco on Monday, March 9, at 10am,” the invite reads. An event will also take place simultaneously in Berlin. The invite carries the strapline “Spring forward”.It is customary for Apple products to ship within weeks of any keynote, meaning the Apple Watch will potentially be available before the end of the month, beating CEO Tim Cook’s previous announcement of an April release.The Apple Watch will be the firm’s first truly new hardware release since the death of founder Steve Jobs, and is likely to shape the company’s future strategy for years to come under Cook.Though other smartwatches have come to market earlier, from rivals such as Samsung, many users have been put off by their clunky interfaces, large and bulky form factor and poor battery life.The Apple Watch aims for a premium market with its metal casing and comes in dozens of customisable options, including a deluxe gold version. Worries over its battery lasting less than a day are unlikely to dampen initial demand.Apple’s entry into the smartwatch market is expected to boost sales of rival models by increasing public awareness of the devices.The Apple Watch, which will be the company’s first entry into the burgeoning wearable technology market other than an iPhone-enabled Nike training app, has been described byAppleas the “most personal device we’ve ever created”, featuring a heart rate monitor and other health and fitness tracking features that feed into the company’s Health app and data sharing service.Apps available on the Watch will include voice-control tool Siri, Messages, Maps as well as information pulled from calendars, email and other iPhone apps. Third-party developers are expected to embrace the new platform in a similar manner to theiPhoneand iPad, creating bespoke software for the timepiece.At the event, Cook is likely to demonstrate a slew of new apps for the watch, as well as expanding on his comments on the health benefits of the new device.
It’s Friday, suckers!
When Björk’s latest album Vulnicura leaked months before its planned release, its launch was brought forward – but only for Apple’s iTunes and other download stores. It is still not available on streaming music services like Spotify.Related:The future of music sales is here. So how CAN the artists make it pay?Now the musician has explained why not. “We’re all making it up as it goes, to be honest. I would like to say there’s some master plan going on, but there isn’t. But a few months ago I emailed my manager and said, ‘Guess what? This streaming thing just does not feel right. I don’t know why, but it just seems insane’,” shetold Fast Company.“To work on something for two or three years and then just, Oh, here it is for free. It’s not about the money; it’s about respect, you know? Respect for the craft and the amount of work you put into it.”Björk’s views mirror those of Taylor Swift, whopulled her entire back catalogue from free, advertising-supported streaming music servicesin November 2014. While Swift kept her music on the premium subscription tiers of services like Rdio, Spotify’s all-or-nothing policy means it’s still a Swift-free zone.“I’m not willing to contribute my life’s work to an experiment that I don’t feel fairly compensates the writers, producers, artists and creators of this music,” said Swift at the time. “And I just don’t agree with perpetuating the perception that music has no value and should be free.”Related:Spotify CEO speaks out on Taylor Swift albums removal: 'I'm really frustrated'Björk has hinted that she may make Vulnicura available for streaming at a later date, however, which would be an approach more comparable to the “windowing” strategy adopted by artists including Adele, Coldplay and Beyoncé, whose new music was released for sale several months before being put on streaming services.“Maybe Netflix is a good model. You go first to the cinema and after a while it will come on ­Netflix. Maybe that’s the way to go with streaming. It’s first physical and then maybe you can stream it later,” she told Fast Company.For now, Spotify is showing its now-customary “The artist or their representatives have decided not to release this album on Spotify just yet. We’re working on it, and hope we can change their minds soon” message to fans who search for Vulnicura.Björk’s back catalogue remains available on Spotify and its rivals.
It’s always election-time, of course. From the moment the polls close, party strategists are scheming about the pre-ordained date, five years hence, when they will close again. But there’s election-time and there election-time and this is the latter – election-getting-very-close-now time.Figuring out how to use the web to get elected – and to get elected again the next time around – is a problem without an all-purpose answer. The particulars of online electoral campaigning are specific to the party and its situation and the nation in which it is running, but there has been a trajectory in the history of electoral campaigns that we can follow out to get a sense of what our near-term future (the next election) and the one after that (2020, assuming parliament hasn’t been dissolved and replaced by a Star Chamber that rules behind closed doors and will not open them until everyone who’s ever done or thought anything even a little terrorist-y is dead or locked up in an offshore black site).In 2004, the Howard Dean campaign made electoral history by harnessing the power of the internet to raise more than any other Democratic contender: more than $25m raised, largely in small-money donations averaging $80 – a marked contrast to the usual way of doing things, which involves raising titanic sums from rich people whom you then owe a lot of favours to, whether or not you take office.Even though Dean was trounced in the elections – GW Bush raised a lot more than Dean, by calling on those rich people – the Dean fundraising experience made a lasting mark on political strategists and the business of raising money would never be the same.The Obama campaigns went further. Building on the Dean campaign, two successive Obama campaigns raised millions in small-money donations, creating purpose-built Facebook-like social networks and using them to recruit highly connected supporters to work their way through their social graphs, contacting friends and friends-of-friends to pitch them on donating and voting.But both times, Obama took office and immediately shut down these grassroots networks. The Obama governance style is big on closed-door, back-room horse-trading – Obama came out of Chicago Democratic Machine politics, after all – and this is fundamentally incompatible with having a bunch of true believers running around waving the flag, making categorical statements about which compromises are (and are not) acceptable.Governing in tandem with a grassroots is a hard problem. The best example we have of this is the Tea Party, which, despite the big-money backers who bankrolled it, is composed of people who are genuinely passionate about politics and are serious about insisting that the politicians they backed act in accord with their principles.Leaving aside my political differences with the Tea Party, it’s fair to say that this has been a mixed bag for Republican lawmakers, whose caucus has been responsible for a congressional deadlock that’s run on for years, so that it’s become normal for vital US governmental agencies to shut down and send everyone home until a budget can be passed.If there’s a single holy grail of internet-era politics, it’s figuring out how to make governance by grassroots actually work. Politicians are accustomed to conducting themselves with a certain degree of autonomy, swaddled by the fog of the Westminster village, where your staffers spend their lunch breaks at expensive think-tank symposia for an airing of views by different industry representatives.Our elected representatives walk straight out of office and into high-priced consultancies, and sometimes they turn a tidy profit moonlighting for them while still in office. It’s one thing to square this up with the whips and your caucus peers, but how can you explain your work on behalf of the government of Kazakhstan or a Chinese bank to the voters back in your constituency?Grassroots can be unruly. They tend to be more politically radical than the caucus, and are sometimes genuinely blind to the political realities of governance. What’s more, they don’t give a damn about who owes favours to whom in the party, and want to know (for example) how the Lib Dems’ lords can keep reintroducing the Snooper’s Charter through the back door, or allow music industry lobbyists toghost-write their pro-censorship amendments, without having the whip withdrawn.In an era ofpolicy with a business model, governing in accordance to any principal apart from “money talks” is getting increasingly hard, and we’re seeing worldwide alienation from mainstream political parties, and the growth of alternative parties from the Greens and Syriza to Ukip. The presence of populist minority parties exerts gravity on the mainstream parties, of course – see how far to the populist, anti-EU right the Tories have been tugged by the force exerted by Ukip.It remains to be seen whether the Greens are able to exert comparable influence on Labour, whose neoliberal New Labour wing has held near-total dominion for more than a decade, despite the defection of left-wing voters to the SNP, Lib Dems and now the Greens (I joined and thenquit the Lib Demsin the last election cycle and am currently a Green member and small-money donor).One thing that gives me hope isI’ll Vote Green If You Do, a service to help tactical voters know whether there are enough Green supporters in their area to give the Greens a fighting chance. Prospective Green voters sign up using a simple form, and get a running tally of how many fellow supporters are prepared to vote Green come election day. I described this service in a Guardian column last July calledHow the Kickstarter model could transform UK elections, and I was delighted to see it become a reality in time for this year’s ballot (I had nothing to do with this).I hope the project takes on an independent, non-partisan life of its own. There are small parties all over the world, of every political stripe, whose supporters don’t vote for them for fear of putting someone really awful into office. Voting for lesser of two (or three) evils is a pretty rotten way to run a democracy, after all.In the meantime, I’ve signed on to I’ll Vote Green If You Do for my district of Hackney South and Shoreditch, a safe Labour seat whose MP, Meg Hillier, was the architect of Labour’s National ID card and voted in favour of the Digital Economy Act. Even if she wins her seat again, I can only hope that seeing all those disaffected, left-wing voters will make her think about her job security as the next government prepares fresh assaults on freedom, dignity, and the body politic.Remember, there are no truly safe seats: no candidate in the last election got more than half of all the potential votes in their constituency. A safe seat is a seat where so many voters are disgusted and disaffected that they don’t even bother to vote, making the outcome a foregone conclusion.
Google’s investment arm Google Ventures has led a $60m funding round for music publishing firm Kobalt, which manages rights for songwriters including Paul McCartney, Sam Smith, Foo Fighters and Beck.The round takes Kobalt to $126m of total funding since it was founded in 2000. The company collects and pays out royalties for more than 5,000 musicians and 500 music publishers, including income from streaming services Spotify and YouTube.It also has a separate “label services” division that acts as an alternative to a traditional label deal for artists including Nick Cave, Placebo and Lenny Kravitz to release their music.Related:Streaming music: what next for Apple, YouTube, Spotify… and musicians?Kobalt joins technology companies like Uber and Nest in Google Ventures’ portfolio – Google acquired the latter for $3.2bn in January 2014 – with Kobalt chief executive Willard Ahdritz telling the Guardian that the funding round is proof that the music and technology industries do not always have to be at loggerheads.“Our investors are backing what I’ve always said from day one: we need trust between technology and music, because these are the technology people who are going to sell our products,” said Ahdritz.Technology industry veteran Michael Dell’s personal investment company MSD Capital – a previous investor in Kobalt – also took part in the latest funding round.Kobalt has grown to 250 employees across its 10 offices, including its London headquarters. The company claims to represent on average 40% of the top 100 songs in the US and UK at any one time.Kobalt will use the funding for global expansion beyond the US and Europe, with Ahdritz telling the Guardian that Latin America and Asia are firmly on the company’s expansion agenda, as it bangs the drum for greater transparency in the digital music world.“Only in the music industry is it okay to wait for a year to get paid, and not know who your music got sold to, and how much it even sold,” Google Ventures managing partner Bill Maris told the Guardian.“The company is on a mission to bring trust and transparency to the payment process for artists, which doesn’t really exist right now.”Google Ventures’ parent company has faced plenty of criticism from musicians and music rightsholders in recent years, over issues includingpirate-site links in Google’s search engineandYouTube’s contractual relations with independent record labels.Willard Ahdritz backs streaming: ‘Spotify has killed the pirates’However, at a time when many songwriters are uneasy about the royalties they are being paid from streams of their work, Maris sees Kobalt’s technology for tracking music streams and sales then processing the royalties as a potential solution to the unrest around new business models.“We don’t see them as a music industry company. We look at them as a technology company – but it happens to be in the music industry. It’s a technology company solving a problem in the music industry that’s unique and has been there or a long time, while using some unique technology,” he said.“It’s adding a layer of trust and transparency that hasn’t existed here before, and showing that maybe this isn’t a dying industry: maybe it’s just one that had a terrible problem.”Ahdritz has been a prominent defender of streaming services like Spotify and YouTube, withKobalt releasing figures in November 2014to show that Spotify had overtaken iTunes as a source of income for its songwriters in Europe for the first time.“Spotify has killed the pirates,” said Ahdritz, citinga recent survey commissioned in Norwayby music industry body IFPI that showed the percentage of people under 30 downloading music illegally had fallen from 80% in 2009 to just 4% in 2014.“Also, the average rate we are getting out of Spotify is $29 per user while the average for the industry is $37. $29 versus $37 is not so bad, I think,” said Ahdritz.“If we can then take that $29 from 1.5 billion people listening to music, then we will double the music industry. That is just in front of us: we will execute this, we will double the industry. We will increase that pie, and we will fight for songwriters getting a better slice of that pie.”Related:Spotify vs Musicians: 10 things to read to better understand the debateKobalt’s desire for more transparency around digital royalties for songwriters may seem an odd fit for Google Ventures, given its proximity to YouTube, which isfamously secretive about the terms of its licensing dealswith music publishers and collecting societies – although it is far from alone in that policy.Even so, Maris praised Kobalt for its potential to make an impact on the way the music industry tracks usage and pays creators, comparing it to Google Ventures’ other notable investments in its willingness to tackle a problem that had seemed unsolvable to many people.“One person’s challenge is another person’s opportunity. A lot of people, for example, have tried to build a new kind of thermostat and not succeeded. Then Nest came along. Trying to solve the problem of getting a taxi while it’s raining was one that not a lot of people wanted to touch, but then Uber did it,” said Maris.“Sometimes it just takes the right technology, founder and team. Uber, Nest and Kobalt are examples of that disruption in different industries. And at the end of the day, they’re all technology companies.”Ahdritz said he is relishing the challenge. “The money gets paid out: I estimate that $2bn in streaming dollars were paid out in the last 12 months. But the pipes are broken, and they need to be fixed. Songwriters and creators need to be represented and paid correctly.”
2.30pmETFCC passes net neutrality rulesThe Federal Communications Commission (FCC) passed historic new rules that give the body its greatest power over the cable industry since the internet went mainstream.Cable companies will not be allowed to offer “fast lanes” on the internet and access but be equal for all users.“No one should control free and open access to the Internet,” FCC chairman Tom Wheeler said. “It’s the most powerful and pervasive platform on the planet. The Internet is too important to allow broadband providers to make the rules.”FCC voted in favour of overturning state laws that ban municipalities from expanding independent broadband coverage.2.23pmETVerizon has accused the FCC for imposing “1930s rules on the internet” ina statement written in morse code.“Today’s decision by the FCC to encumber broadband Internet services with badly antiquated regulations is a radical step that presages a time of uncertainty for consumers, innovators and investors,” itsaid in a ‘translated’ statement.1.09pmETOur man in the room, Dominic Rushe, says.The meeting is adjourned. There’s a lot of let stretching. Wheeler will hold a press conference soon and then Pai and O’Rielly will set out their objections. The historic vote may be over but this is where the fun begins. Expect lawsuits and shouting. Lots and lots of shouting.1.08pmETOur full story on the vote is now up.Internetactivists scored a landmark victory on Thursday as the top US telecommunications regulator approved a plan to govern broadband internet like a public utility.“We have won on net neutrality,” Wozniak told the Guardian. “This is important because they don’t want the FCC to have oversight over other bad stuff.”1.02pmETBerin Szoka,executive director of TechFreedom, which opposes net neutralityNo one can possibly imagine what will happen next on the Internet&#10;&#10;So... we need completely unfettered discretion&#10;&#10;-@TomWheelerFCC#FCCLive&mdash; Berin Szoka (@BerinSzoka)February 26, 20151.00pmET3-2 for net neutralityVoting along party lines, as expected. Much cheering in the roomBREAKING: The@FCChas approved its groundbreaking#netneutralityruleshttp://t.co/eYf4N81Lc8pic.twitter.com/INOeLQT8YW&mdash; Brian Fung (@b_fung)February 26, 2015Updatedat 1.05pm ET12.59pmETWheeler: “We cannot possibly imagine what is going to happen next on the internet. We want to encourage that sort of innovation... The internet must remain open, we will protect the internet.”12.57pmETWheeler: “Fast lanes will not divide the internet into haves and have-nots.“Consumers will be able to go where they want, when they want.”12.53pmETWheeler: “Today is a red letter day for internet freedom... For a future to protect the internet and its usersThe ISPs revenue stream will be the same tomorrow as it was tomorrow”Updatedat 12.56pm ET12.51pmETIt is simply too important to be left with rules and referee on the fieldThe internet has redefined commerce and entertainment.The internet is simply too important to allow broadband providers to be the ones making the rules.The action that we take today is about the protect of internet openess.Updatedat 12.52pm ET12.50pmETVote is coming now“No one whether government or corporate should control access to the internet” Wheeler says.12.46pmETThe FCC website carrying a live stream of the hearing is struggling to cope with the number of people following along online.We&#39;re experiencing high volumes on#FCCLive. Alternatively you can watch Commission meeting via@CSPANhttp://t.co/COLB3CvjeT#OpenInternet&mdash; The FCC (@FCC)February 26, 201512.38pmETBerin Szoka, executive director of TechFreedom, which opposes net neutrality has been tweeting .#FCCgives enormous weight to speculative benefits of#NetNeutralityregulation but NO weight to harms of#TItleII&#10;-@MikeOFCC#FCCLive&mdash; Berin Szoka (@BerinSzoka)February 26, 2015#FCChas abdicated its role as an expert agency&#10;-@MikeOFCC#FCCLive&mdash; Berin Szoka (@BerinSzoka)February 26, 2015Evidence of#NetNeutralitythreats? THERE IS NONE, only a few anecdotes from last decade&#10;-@AjitPaiFCC#FCCLive&mdash; Berin Szoka (@BerinSzoka)February 26, 201512.08pmETPaisays consumers should expect broadband bills to go up and speeds to get slower.He says net neutrality will mean new taxes on broadband bills. He says regulations will slow development in US broadband.It’s hard to imagine US broadband it being any less developed compared to EuropePai was formerly a lawyer for Verizon, which has been on the frontlines of the cable company’s lobbying against net neutrality.His profile on the FCC’s websitesays: “He served as Associate General Counsel at Verizon Communications Inc., where he handled competition matters, regulatory issues, and counseling of business units on broadband initiatives.”Updatedat 12.25pm ET12.03pmETCommissionerAjit Pai: “We are flip flopping for one reason only: President Obama asked us to”He says Obama’s plan “is not the solution to a problem, his plan is the problem”..@ajitpaiFCCnew rules will mean more taxes, less investment and be &quot;a boon for trial lawyers&quot;.#NetNeutrality&mdash; dominic rushe (@dominicru)February 26, 2015Updatedat 12.29pm ET11.53amETChristopher Mitchell, director of community broadband networks at the institute for local self-reliance, which campaigns for more local broadband providers, said the vote for municipal broadband was a “watershed moment” that will help check “the worst abuses of the cable monopoly for decades to come”.Cable companies lost their bet thatmillions spent on lobbyingto stifle competition was a wiser investment than extending high-quality Internet to our nation’s entrepreneurs, students and rural families.“Preventing big Internet Service Providers from unfairly discriminating against content online is a victory, but allowing communities to be the owners and stewards of their own broadband networks is a watershed moment that will serve as a check against the worst abuses of the cable monopoly for decades to come.”The FCC decision sets an historic precedent for towns working to offer municipal broadband networks in twenty states that have enacted limits or bans on local governments building, owning, or even partnering to give local businesses and residents a choice in high speed Internet access.Three-quarters of Americanscurrently have either no broadband or no choice of their Internet provider.11.48amET@SenTedCruz, a Republican senator from Texas, is one main opponents of net neutrality which he described as “Obamacare for the internet.”&quot;Net Neutrality&quot; is Obamacare for the Internet; the Internet should not operate at the speed of government.&mdash; Senator Ted Cruz (@SenTedCruz)November 10, 2014He released this bizarre video as part of his campaignWhat could tomorrow&#39;s FCC Net Neutrality vote mean for you? WATCH:https://t.co/SuG8ZAYmPL#DontMessWithTheNet&mdash; Senator Ted Cruz (@SenTedCruz)February 25, 2015Updatedat 11.49am ET11.40amETSir Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the internet, has given evidence in favour of net neutrality and ensuring that the internet remains open and fair for all.Tim Berners Lee: today&#39;s#NetNeutralityvote about &quot;civil rights, free speech, and democracy.&quot;pic.twitter.com/h3qvaePvD6&mdash; John Perrino (@JCPerrino)February 26, 201511.29amETChad Dickerson@EtsyCEO now making case for#NetNeutrality(also crocheted dogs).#FCClive&mdash; dominic rushe (@dominicru)February 26, 2015“Etsy CEO: How Net Neutrality Shaped My Life” by@chaddickersonhttps://t.co/lEMoxhTL7Q&mdash; Medium (@Medium)February 24, 201511.21amETMunicipal broadband vote passesFCC votes in favour of overturning state laws that ban municipalities from expanding independent broadband coverage.FCC VOTES 3-2 ALONG PARTY LINES TO OVERRIDE STATE INTERNET LAWS.&mdash; zerohedge (@zerohedge)February 26, 2015Updatedat 11.26am ET11.21amETFCC chairman Tom Wheeler is summing up now.“What we too often lose sight of in our discussions... is that these issue... have a very human face,”@TomWheelerFCC&mdash; dominic rushe (@dominicru)February 26, 2015Updatedat 11.24am ET11.20amETReasons to ban rural people getting better internet? Read it if u can#NetNeutrality#FCClivepic.twitter.com/V7SUtYnkHU&mdash; dominic rushe (@dominicru)February 26, 201511.17amETCommissionerAjit Pai, who is against both proposals, said: the FCC does not have legal authority to override state decisions.The FCC does not have the legal authority to override the decisions made by Tennessee and North Carolina. Under the law, it is up to the people of those two states and their elected representatives—not the Commission—to decide whether and to what extent to allow municipalities to operate broadband projects. Today’s Order is therefore unlawful.This decision violates the constitutional principles that lie at the heart of our system of government. The FCC is treating Tennessee and North Carolina as mere appendages of the federal government rather than the separate sovereigns that they are. For all of these reasons, I dissent.10.43amETThe main event isn’t until a bit later on, first up is a vote on whether or not to allow the expansion of municipal broadband. Local governments in Chattanooga, Tennessee, and Wilson, North Carolina, have built their own fast networks, which has angered cable companies. Under pressure form the cable lobby, state laws have banned them from expanding their service to other communities. The FCC may override the bans.Dominic went to Chattanooga in the summer this summer, to find out how its fast internet is helping power the city’s economy. Read about ithere.The city is one of the only places on Earth with internet as fast as 1 gigabit per second – about 50 times faster than the US average. Despite Big Cable’s attempt to block the Gig’s expansion plans, money keeps flowing into ChattanoogaUpdatedat 10.45am ET10.43amETThis is the view from the press seats in the Reading Room where things might get underway in a few minutesThis@fccmeeting is brought to u by Men&#39;s Wearhouse.#NetNeutralitypic.twitter.com/B56hrEPkDX&mdash; dominic rushe (@dominicru)February 26, 2015Updatedat 10.43am ET10.26amETProceedings kick-off at 10:30am, and you canwatch along live.The meeting is taking place at the FCC’s bland HQ in DC. Snow has put a dampener on the planned protests/celebrations outside and has also meant the security lines are clogged with people struggling out of coats, hats and scarves. Inside the chatter in mainly about when it is over. The meeting was delayed until 10:30 and people want out! The crowd is a sea of suits (mainly blue or black and presumably mainly lawyers). We are now being asked to take our seats.It&#39;s snowing in DC but protest groups like@fightfortheftrare outside the#FCCpressing for#NetNeutrality.pic.twitter.com/6GoNLNuTEf&mdash; Tom Risen (@TomRisen)February 26, 2015Crowd gathering outside the@fccin the snow to celebrate a peoples victory for the Internet!#NetNeutralitypic.twitter.com/hB59PXvoRe&mdash; Fight for the Future (@fightfortheftr)February 26, 201510.18amETWhat even is net neutrality? Watch this New York Times explainer video to find out10.13amETApple co-founder Steve Wozniacki has joined campaigners and protesters outside the vote..@stevewozoutside#NetNeutralityvote.@FCCneeds power to stop &quot;bad stuff&quot;.pic.twitter.com/Vv1nOiZB0d&mdash; dominic rushe (@dominicru)February 26, 2015Updatedat 10.16am ET9.56amETIt may sound a bit boring, and the technical language used in the debate is often impenetrable, but this vote matters.John Oliver explains in language one can actually understand in this great videoOliver’s piece was so popular that when it was first published itcaused the FCC’s website to crash. Helpfully proving the internet needs help9.52amETThe future of the internetGood morning and welcome to our live blog coverage of a meeting deciding the future of the internet.Dominic Rushe, our man on the ground in Washington, has writtenthis previewof the historic vote, that will give the regulator the greatest power over the cable industry it has had since the internet went mainstream.President Obama gave his support to the rules last year, following an online campaign that pitched internet activists and companies including Netflix and Reddit, I Can Has Cheezburger? – weblog home of the Lolcats meme – and online craft market Etsy against Republican leaders and the cable and telecom lobbies.The meeting kicks off at 10.30am ET.
Internet activists scored a landmark victory on Thursday as the top US telecommunications regulator approved a plan to govern broadband internet like a public utility.Following one of the most intense –and bizarre– lobbying battles in the history of modern Washington politics, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) passed strict new rules that give the body its greatest power over the cable industry since the internet went mainstream.FCC chairman Tom Wheeler – a former telecom lobbyist turned surprise hero of net neutrality supporters – thanked the 4 million people who submitted comments on the new rules. “Your participation has made this the most open process in FCC history,” he said. “We listened and we learned.”Wheeler said that while other countries were trying to control the internet, the sweeping new US protections on net neutrality – the concept that all information and services should have equal access online – represented “a red-letter day for internet freedom”.“The internet is simply too important to be left without rules and without a referee on the field,” said Wheeler. “Today’s order is more powerful and more expansive than any previously suggested.”Barack Obama – who had pushed for the regulations – praised the decision and thanked the people who had protested for tighter rules. “I ran for office because I believed that nothing can stand in the way of millions of voices calling for change. That’s the backbone of our democracy–and you’ve proven that this timeless principle is alive and well in our digital age.So to all the people who participated in this conversation, I have a simple message: thank you,” the presidentwrote.But Republicans and cable companies were quick to attack the move. The National Cable and Telecommunications Association said the rules would hurt “everyday broadband users” by raising costs and reducing investment.Broadband providers will be banned from creating so-called “fast lanes” blocking or slowing traffic online, and the regulator will oversee mobile broadband as well as cable. The FCC would also have the authority to challenge unforeseen barriers broadband providers might create as the internet develops.Related:Net neutrality: FCC overrides laws preventing municipal broadband expansion – liveActivists and tech companies argue the new rules are vital to protect net neutrality – the concept that all information and services should have equal access to the internet. The FCC’s two Republican commissioners, Ajit Pai and Michael O’Rielly, voted against the plan but were overruled at a much anticipated meeting by three Democratic members on the panel.Republicans have long fought the FCC’s net neutrality protections, arguing the rules will create an unnecessary burden on business. They have accused Obama of bullying the regulator into the move in order to score political points, withconservative lawmakers and potential 2016 presidential candidatesexpected to keep the fight going well into that election campaign.Pai said the FCC was flip-flopping for “one reason and one reason only: president Obama told us to do so”.Wheeler dismissed accusations of a “secret” plan as “nonsense”. “This is no more a plan to regulate the internet than the first amendment is a plan to regulate free speech,” Wheeler said.“This is the FCC using all the tools in our toolbox to protect innovators and consumers.”Obama offered his support to the rules late last year, following an online activism campaign that pitched internet organisers and companies from Netflix and Reddit to the online craft market Etsy and I Can Has Cheezburger? – web blog home of the Lolcats meme – against Republican leaders and the cable and telecom lobbies.Broadband will now be regulated under Title II of the Communications Act – the strongest legal authority the FCC has available. Obama called on the independent regulator to implement Title II last year, leading to charges that he unduly influenced Wheeler’s decision that are now being investigated in Congress.Broadband providers hit back immediately. The National Cable and Telecommunications Association saidthe rules would hurt “everyday broadband users”by raising costs and reducing investment.“Today’s decision by the FCC to encumber broadband Internet serviceswith badly antiquated regulations is a radical step that presages a timeof uncertainty for consumers, innovators and investors,” said Michael Glover, Verizon’s senior vice-president for public policy and government affairs.To illustrate what Verizon saw as the FCC’s old-fashioned thinking, the company put out its news release in typewriter font and dated it 1934. The release also went out in Morse code..@Verizondoesn&#39;t give a font.#NetNeutrality#FCClivehttp://t.co/Nu08lnMf6Tpic.twitter.com/IrJYXV0d8T&mdash; dominic rushe (@dominicru)February 26, 2015Before the meeting on Thursday, a small band of protesters gathered in the snow outside the FCC’s Washington headquarters, in celebration of their success in lobbying for a dramatic U-turn in regulation. Wheeler and his Democratic colleagues, Mignon Clyburn and Jessica Rosenworcel, were cheered as they sat down for the meeting.Joining the activists outside was Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak, who said the FCC also needed more power to prevent future attacks on the open internet.“We have won on net neutrality,” Wozniak told the Guardian. “This is important because they don’t want the FCC to have oversight over other bad stuff.”.@stevewozoutside#NetNeutralityvote.@FCCneeds power to stop &quot;bad stuff&quot;.pic.twitter.com/Vv1nOiZB0d&mdash; dominic rushe (@dominicru)February 26, 2015Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the world wide web, addressed the meeting via video, saying he applauded the FCC’s decision to protect net neutrality: “More than anything else, the action you take today will preserve the reality of a permission-less innovation that is the heart of the internet.”“It’s about consumer rights, it’s about free speech, it’s about democracy,” Berners-Lee said.Clyburn compared the new rules to the Bill of Rights. “We are here to ensure that there is only one internet,” she said. “We want to ensure that those with deep pockets have the same opportunity as those with empty pockets too succeed.”The fight for net neutrality has been largely fought online. The millions of messages were sent to the FCC during its comment period on the rules before Thursday’s landmark series of votes.Last year the FCC looked set to approve rules that would have allowed internet service providers to create “fast lanes” on the internet. Critics charged such a move would create a two-tiered internet and stifle competition.Tiffiniy Cheng, co-founder of internet advocacy group Fight for the Future, said: “This is our free speech struggle in the digital age. Institutions of power should know by now: internet users will not stand idly by while anyone tries to take their freedom away.”The FCC passed two new orders on Thursday. The first, equally controversial but eclipsed by the net neutrality debate, overturned bans on municipal broadband companies competing with private cable firms.Municipal broadband companies inChattanooga,Tennessee, and Wilson, North Carolina, pushed for the expansion plans, against which private cable and telecom rivals have beenlobbiedintensely. Twenty US states currently have limits or bans on local governments building, owning or partnering with others to give local businesses and residents a choice in high-speed internet access. That vote, too, fell along party lines, potentially opening many US cities to wider competition.Voting for the municipality change, Clyburn said millions of people had been left in “digital darkness” because cable companies did not want to expand in their areas. The Republican commissioners, O’Rielly and Pai, called the change “appalling” and “un-constitutional”.“Unfortunately for the Commission, all the lipstick in the world cannot disguise this pig,” said Pai.Christopher Mitchell, director of community broadband networks at the Institute for Local Self-Reliance, said Thursday’s vote could set “an historic precedent” that could “profoundly impact the lives of three-quarters of Americans who are without broadband or a choice in their service because of big cable underinvestment in their towns”.The FCC was forced to rewrite its broadband rules after Verizon successfully challenged its authority to stop it creating fast lanes or to more broadly regulate the industry under its last set of regulations, the Open Internet Order of 2010. Legal challenges for the new rules are also inevitable.“When internet users come together to fight for something they believe in,” said Fight for the Future’s Cheng, “nothing can stop them.”
Suppose, for a second, that the concept of elections was new, and it was your job to pitch them to the nation. You start off singing the praises of democracy, and how it transfers power to the people like never before.People are looking excited, so you then bring up the concept of a legislature: all the elected representatives doing the important task of scrutinising the government, as well as enacting new laws and debating important national issues.You’ve pretty much won them over, so now you turn to elections: those momentous days when the whole nation marks their choices with a pencil cross on small pieces of paper, which are gathered up, counted by hand in their thousands, and used to determine who runs the country.A deathly silence falls. Someone in the back mutters: “Paper?” You decide that now is perhaps not the time to introduce the concept of postal voting.Face it: British elections are ever so slightly anachronistic.Pencil and paperThe problems with our current, resolutely 19th-century method of running elections should be obvious. Votes can be miscounted, misread, or even simply misplaced. Counts consist of thousands of people across the country, paid overtime to stay up all night manually sorting and counting those votes. When they go wrong – as happened in Tower Hamlets during the 2014 local elections – there’s no easy way to trace the problems back to their source, and no easy way to fix them other than simply restarting the count.At this point, one might be forgiven for feeling trapped in the “before” section of an infomercial. But yes: there is a better way.Electronic voting machines are used in some of the world’s biggest democracies, including Brazil, India, and the Philippines, to get around some of these hurdles. The machines come in all shapes and sizes, from small touchscreen devices to larger units with physical buttons and a printed ballot paper on the front.But those nations that have widespread adoption of electronic voting are also developing nations with relatively short democratic histories and their own unique challenges, from inaccessible rural populations to low levels of literacy.Addressing those concerns was a driver for the introduction of electronic voting, but has also led to a perception that the technology wasn’t necessary in developed nations, according to Antonio Mugica, the chief executive of electronic voting firm Smartmatic.“In western Europe, there isn’t a generalised perception that integrity needs to be improved,” he says. But while it’s true that the mature democracies of western Europe tend not to see outright stolen elections, there is still the potential for mistakes. And, after all, “the fact that there is no crime in this neighbourhood in London doesn’t mean you’re not going to put a door and a lock.”But that’s not enough of a pitch for many, who – perhaps fairly – take the view that voting with paper ballots isn’t broken, and doesn’t need to be fixed. Mugica disagrees. “The reason to bring technology into the election process is to increase integrity and security, but it has a series of important collateral benefits.“One is cost reduction: so I’m sure Britain could spend less per election if it was using technology, and the security and integrity would be 10 to a hundredfold better. So you have something that’s a hundredfold better, and it’s going to cost less.”The concept of electronic voting has garnered widespread political support, seen as both a cost-saving measure and a possible way of boosting turnout in an era of declining voter representation. A Labour spokeswoman said: “Labour is committed to looking at radical ways of encouraging more people to vote, by making the process easier and more in tune with the way people live their lives … Labour will pilot secure systems for electronic voting, including online voting.”Not everyone agrees that electronic voting is dramatically better, or even better at all. The switch does remove some problems inherent to paper ballots – not least the cost of simply printing and distributing the millions of ballots required to make an election happen. But it also introduces its own.The chief fear of many is that a switch to electronic voting would make electoral fraud easier, not harder. In the worst-case scenario, rather than forging ballots individually, a wannabe dictator could simply flip a switch and win the election with no trail in sight.Jim Killock, the executive director of the Open Rights Group, says that voting has to be secret, secure and accountable.“This is a very hard problem to solve and so far nobody has managed it. Accountability in most software systems means a clear audit trail of who did what, which of course would violate the basic question of secrecy.”And even without ascribing malicious intent, a bug in an electoral machine’s operating system could alter the vote result systematically. That’s why many observers, such as ORG, prefer that the machines only run on open source code, so that independent observers can check the programming is bug-free.Smartmatic doesn’t go that far, citing the need to protect trade secrets, but typically encourages nations to perform a fully independent code review in the runup to an election, inviting all political parties and representatives of civil society to check for bugs. The code is compiled then and there, with a digital signature that individual voters can use to check that their machine is running the correct software.As for the audit trail, it’s something that the company takes very seriously. “We bring, along with the technology solution, a recommendation to perform 17 different audits, before, during and after the election,” says Mugica.Keyboard and mouseBut if those problems are tricky to solve, they’re nothing compared to the other major form of electronic voting, online voting. Casting votes over the internet seems like the natural progression of democracy to the 21st century, but it requires a fairly fundamental rethink of how the electoral process should work.In order to let people cast votes from home over the internet, we have to decide to give up some of the most important principles of our electoral system, like guaranteeing that a vote cannot be given away, stolen or forced, and ensuring secrecy of the ballot.Those problems are so fundamental that, to date, only one country has really cracked the problem: Estonia, where almost a quarter of all votes cast in the 2011 parliamentary elections were made online. In March, the country heads to the ballots again, for its sixth election where online voting is allowed. And the proportion of votes cast online is expected to rise even further.Related:Pirate party founder: 'Online voting? Would you want 4chan to decide your government?'How have they solved the problems? With a mixture of hard work and smart solutions. On the one hand, Estonian civil society is the most connected in the world: every citizen has an online ID card, which has biometric information about them and digital signing capabilities. The card can be used with a chip-and-pin machine to prove to government agencies online that its user is a citizen of Estonia.That solves half the problem, letting voters sign and encrypt their votes as they transmit them to the polling office, in order to prevent them being intercepted or fraudulently cast.But what Estonia can’t do is control the conditions in the home of the voter. So instead, they get around it another way, explains Smartmatic’s Michael Summers, who works with the Estonian government to provide the voting solution. After voting, “a copy of the vote is also sent to a verification server”. The voter can then check that their vote has been correctly registered at any time, to ensure that it wasn’t changed by malware on their computer, for instance.“If you think about an internet application, the environment which is hardest to control is the voters’ computer. Anyone who has a laptop runs the risk of downloading malware, so the purpose of verification is that we give the voter an opportunity to check that their vote has been correctly recorded by the server.”Importantly, voters can also change their votes throughout the polling period, and if they vote in person as well, that “overwrites” their online vote. The idea is to limit the opportunities for coercion, so that even if someone demands to watch a citizen cast the “correct” vote, they can easily vote according to their conscience later.All the same, the opportunities for funny business are higher than in-person voting. But, argues Summers, that’s the wrong comparison; instead, online voting should be compared to postal votes, used by 15% of the electorate in Britain in 2010. That comparison is much more favourable. When you make a postal vote, after all, “your mechanism for securing that ballot is a piece of gummed paper. As opposed to a robust RSA certificate which is significantly harder to crack than steaming open an envelope by putting it over a kettle”.But regardless of the correct comparator, the ORG’s Killock argues that the potential downsides of internet voting are just too great. “You have the complexity of making sure that internet systems are secure, that the voting equipment can be trusted despite being attached to the internet, and that every voter’s machine is not being tampered with.“Given the vast numbers of machines that are infected by criminally controlled malware and the temptation for someone to interfere in an election, internet voting is a bad idea.”But the tide seems to be turning in the concept’s favour. In January, the Speaker of the House of Commonspublished a report on digital democracy, which concluded that “online voting has the potential greatly to increase the convenience and accessibility of voting”.“In the 2020 general election, secure online voting should be an option for all voters,” said the report. In response, the Electoral Commission’s chair, Jenny Watson, said: “We will consider carefully the balance between maintaining the security of the system, whilst making it as accessible as possible for voters as part of this.”But Killock remains unconvinced, and uneasy with turning to a digital solution for what remains a societal problem. “The real driver of voter participation,” he says, “is the belief that elections are important and that voting will make a difference”.
Facebook has rolled out new tools in the US that aim to help prevent suicides, allowing users to report content for review and encourage the vulnerable to get help.The tools build on a reporting featureimplemented in 2011, which passed details to the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline in the US, and the Samaritans in the UK. The new initiative involves a trained team, more resources and features to help those at risk of suicide or self-harm.After reviewing a report and confirming that it may indicate suicidal feelings in a user, Facebook will send that user notifications stating that a friend has attempted to help and offering access to suicide prevention resources.Facebook will notify users it thinks are vulnerable providing support and resources.Photograph: FacebookVulnerable users will then be encouraged to connect to the US National Suicide Prevention Lifeline or a friend, or to seek self-help advice from resources developed in partnership with mental health organisations Forefront, Now Matters Now, the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline and Save.org in the US.The new tools will also allow the user who reported the content to access support resources, including messaging or calling options to help their friend and to get advice from another friend or from a suicide support helpline.Related:Samaritans pulls ‘suicide watch’ Radar app over privacy concerns“If someone on Facebook sees a direct threat of suicide, we ask that they contact their local emergency services immediately,” said Rob Boyle and Nicole Staubliof Facebook.The update is currently rolling out to users in the US. Facebook said that it was also seeking to improve its tools around suicide outside of the US.
