For the past two years the 300-strong team at Ubisoft’s Quebec office has been pondering a vital question. It’s something that gets to the heart of the Assassin’s Creed series, a multimillion dollar action adventure franchise that follows a shadowy cabal of killers throughout history. The question is: how do you modernise a franchise that is, by its very nature, stuck in the past?After a decade of making games like Prince of Persia: The Forgotten Sands on Nintendo Wii, as well as collaborating on Assassin’s games in a supportive role since the days of Brotherhood back in 2010, the Quebec studio now has now been handed the reins on Ubisoft’s largest franchise. Its job is to continue refining the series in new and interesting directions as it evolves on current gen consoles. Perhaps most interestingly, Ubisoft Quebec has been told it can add new perspectives to a series desperate to modernise.Which was always going to be important. Assassin’s Creed is a self sustaining behemoth of a franchise, but it has had a troubled few years. Assassin’s Creed 3 was a critical disappointment, and while last year’s Assassin’s Creed: Unity made great improvements to the mechanics that had remained so stagnant for so long, it had real technical problems when it was released, leading to huge boycotts and fan outrage. There’s no room for error this time around, and the team at Ubi Quebec are fully aware of the pressure that sits firmly on its shoulders.“I actually remember the day I started working on Brotherhood.” says Marc-Alexis Côté, creative director on Syndicate. “From that day, I was aspiring to lead on an Assassin’s Creed game, and over the years I’ve been building my list of notes – the stuff I would do if I was in a leadership position.”“It’s a completely different team.” continues executive producer, Francois Pelland. “A different core team and a different culture. Even though it’s just 250km away from Montreal, it has a different way of approaching the creation and the production of a game. And it shows! That’s a good thing. It’s a different process and a different mentality.”Factories belching acrid black smoke into the air beyond a snaking, highly polluted river? It can only be Victorian London.Photograph: UbisoftSome of what you’ve heard about this game already is accurate - it’s set in London, for example. The year is 1868, the midst of the Industrial Revolution. Britain is changing, the world is changing, and these monumental transformations set a perfect revolutionary stage for Assassin’s Creed. And change is at the forefront of Syndicate.It begins with the game’s two brand new assassins, the twins Jacob and Evie Frye, who are both playable and both at the centre of the game’s narrative. Right now we’ve only heard much about Jacob, as Evie is barely mentioned during our presentation at the Quebec office. It’s an odd decision, especially considering how much criticism that Ubisoft has received in the past for not fully featuring female characters, but Evie is described as a real driving force in Syndicate. We’ll just have to wait to find out more.“I like to say that creating a new Assassin’s Creed game is like creating a new IP.” says Pelland. “We made the decision on London, 1868, the Industrial Revolution, and Jacob and Evie all very early on. And all of that shaped the way we made decisions in terms of innovation. We have the chance to make something interesting and something that’s new.”“Top of my wish list was ‘how can we tell a different story, and how can we tell a story differently?’” continues Côté. “I think two protagonists is something that can bring a lot of freshness to the way that we do storytelling. We tried that on Assassin’s Creed 3 with Haytham and Connor, but they were coming one after the other. So, one of the things I was wondering was, what if we had those two bouncing off each other. “They’re twins, with the playfulness of twins, but still have their own very different personalities. This was the intention we had from the beginning – to bring a different tone to the story.”The game has a suitably dark Dickensian tone.Photograph: UbisoftThe tone of Syndicate is clearly much darker than, say, Black Flag, but the cheekiness of Jacob and Evie came through in the gameplay demo. Subtle glances, winks and eyebrow-raises gave a real sense of companionship between them. From a gameplay point of view, it’s not entirely clear how much the two characters will differ from one another. Evie is a presentation that we are going to save,” says Pelland, perhaps eyeing up a bigger audience at the huge E3 games event in June. “When we focus on her, we’ll really focus on her,” he assures.He elaborates enough to explain that Jacob is the hot-headed and more volatile character of the two, while Evie is a master of stealth, but it’s not clear whether this will determine the kinds of weapons and gear that you’ll have access to. Players will be able to switch between the two in the open world, but whether or not Ubisoft Quebec has gone as far as to adopt a Grand Theft Auto V style ‘multiple perspective’ approach to different missions and assassinations is yet to be seen.What we do know is that there will be no co-op play, or indeed any multiplayer at all. It’s a surprising omission, especially as this series has worked hard to innovate on standard competitive game modes. So was it cast out late in the day when deadlines loomed? Not according to Pelland. “We decided very early on to focus Assassin’s Creed: Syndicate solely on single player,” is all he’ll say on the matter.Dark cityThe London of Assassin’s Creed: Syndicate is huge – 30% larger than Unity’s Paris. This vast Victorian sprawl is divided into several very different boroughs - City of London, Westminster, Southwark, Whitechapel, Thames and the Strand – and each plays differently along with the obvious cosmetic changes. You’ll find rich, opulent buildings in the large streets of Westminster while the slums of Whitechapel rot into a fetid bog of filth so filled with crime that even the game’s police daren’t venture in. The studio is looking to “contextualise” the missions and activities in its world rather than creating endless stuff to do, much like Ubisoft did so well with Far Cry 4.With a focus on the people of London, Jacob and Evie are part of the street gang called The Rooks, and the mission is to unite the populace under its banner. In the announcement demo, we watched an armed Jacob infiltrate the stronghold of enemy gang, The Blighters, in order to kill one of its leaders and gain influence across a section of London. Much of what’s new in Syndicate is designed to modernise the experience; to overhaul the perception of what it means to play an Assassin’s Creed game.“We’ve chosen the Victorian era this time because, the team felt it would really allow us to modernise the gameplay pillars” says Côté. “We’re modernising stealth, we’re modernising weapons, we’re modernising movement, and we’re modernising a lot else. The key thing is making a great game and a game that will feel great for our players.”The most distinct modernisations shown so far are combat additions like the assassin’s gauntlet, fitted with a rope launcher that allows you to zip to the top of buildings without needing to climb. It also allows you to create horizontal platforms for your own aerial assassination opportunities – think Dickensian Batman. Up close and personal, combat is much more about brawling: there are knuckle dusters and brutal kukri blades, and there’s a revolver for taking out the drivers of other carriages. You can now commandeer a horse and carriage to get around London quicker. After we sneek through a stronghold using a refined stealth system, stabbing gang thugs in the neck with the ever-satisfying hidden blade, a hectic carriage chase ensues to catch Bloody Nora, one of the Blighters’ top dogs.You can now commandeer a horse and carriage whenever you need to get around quicker. Like GTA with hooves.Photograph: UbisoftThe chase itself isn’t perfect, with some clunky looking navigation – we’re told that the build being demonstrated is only pre-alpha - but it is something new, something exciting. That’s what was clearest about Syndicate – there are a few sweeping new ideas but there are also subtle changes, like how AI crowds now form on pavements rather than anywhere and everywhere. It’s impressive how significant the comparatively small 75-year leap in history is, even just on a cosmetic level.It’s a shame though, that we were shown a comparatively short Outpost-style assault rather than an assassination mission: i.e. the core of the game. We were told, however, that assassinations will be much more open than they were in Unity – a welcome promise. “The open spaces for assassinations was something really loved by fans,” says Côté, “So, we are improving upon that by making them even more open and even more spectacular. We want to make sure that the player understands the amount of opportunity that each one of those sandboxes offers them, and each assassination in the game will take place in one.”For Côté and Pelland, the aim is to keep moving forward – to help the series recover from the slight stumble that Unity represented. “We don’t want to get back into the past,” says Pelland, when questioned about the lessons learned from Unity. “There’s so much that we’ve learned from a tech point of view, a design point of view. If there’s one thing we focused on a lot it’s what you’ve seen today: a pre-alpha build, played on consoles, running on target at a very high frame rate. We want to be in the position where we can polish the game, and that’s probably the biggest learning we’ve had over the years.”Sam White attended the Quebec press trip with other journalists from Europe. Travel and accommodation costs were covered by Ubisoft
Children’s apps and websites are in the spotlight on privacy grounds again, after the UK’s Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) announced a review of how these services collect data on their young users.The ICO will review 50 sites and apps to find out what information that collect, how they explain it to children, and how they seek parental permission. Its study will be part of a wider, global review involving 28 other privacy bodies from around the world.Related:Moms With Apps aims to direct parents to responsible apps for kids“Anyone with children knows how many websites and apps are now targeted at them, and how popular they are with children,” said the ICO’s head of enforcement, Steve Eckersley, in a statement.“In the UK, we’re clear that apps and websites should not gather more personal data than they require, and operators should be upfront about how and why they collect information and how they use it.”The research will fall under the umbrella of the pan-governmentalGlobal Privacy Enforcement Network, which in 2014studied 1,200 apps for adultsand found that 85% failed to disclose how they used information collected from their users.Eckersley promised that the new study will focus carefully on established data protection principles. “These principles are true whatever the audience, but they are especially true where children are concerned,” he said.“This research should give us a valuable insight into whether companies in the UK are operating compliantly, as well as how that fits with what is happening around the world.”This is not the first time children’s app developers have faced scrutiny over how they conduct their businesses, however.In 2012, the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) published a report claiming thatmost children’s apps were collecting information– including device IDs, location data and phone numbers – without the permission of parents.Related:Who is responsible for kids and in-app purchases: Apple, developers or parents?The FTC has also taken action against app store owners over children spending money on in-app purchases without their parents’ knowledge or permission. In January 2014Apple agreed to pay $32.5m to consumersto settle a complaint about its iOS platform on this score.In September that year,Google agreed to a $19m settlement in a similar case, while the FTC has alsopursued Amazonover in-app purchases made by children on that company’s devices.On the other side of the Atlantic,the European Commission praised Google but criticised Appleover the companies’ respective policies regarding children and in-app purchases in July 2014.Meanwhile, in 2013 the UK’s Office of Fair Trading (OFT) published a reportexamining 38 mobile and online games for children, and drew up best practices for areas including in-app purchases and advertising.
Fruit Ninja has taught a generation of mobile gamers how to slice their way through virtual foodstuffs. Now its developer has produced a spin-off game to help teach children maths.Fruit Ninja Academy: Math Master, released by Halfbrickfor AndroidandiOSdevices, aims to help five- to seven-year-olds practise their addition, subtraction and multiplication, among other skills.The game stars a “curious and hungry” pig called Truffles, and a cast of characters going on a quest to find “the lost tablets of Fruitasia” and rescue him.It’s an attempt to marry casual mobile gameplay and an engaging story with educational material, by a gaming brand that first launched in 2010 and went on to generatemore than 300m downloads in its first two years.With Math Master being a game for children, Halfbrick has avoided the freemium model that currently dominates the app stores, opting to charge £3.99 upfront for the game download rather than use in-app purchases.Related:YouTube backs digital star Stampy's new Minecraft show Wonder QuestThe developer has also promised parents that the app is not collecting analytics – data on how children use it – nor will it include any advertisements or social media features.Fruit Ninja is just the latest established brand to launch a children’s app, with the upper reaches of the Kids category in Apple’s App Store already featuring the likes of Peppa Pig, SpongeBob SquarePants, Charlie and Lola, and Nickelodeon’s Blaze and the Monster Machines.Developers like Toca Boca have also built strong brands for themselves among smartphone- and tablet-owning parents, although that company’s fortunes – in 2013, itmade $8.6m from more than 35m paid and free downloads– show that the children’s apps market is much less lucrative than the adult mobile games world.Although Halfbrick is best known for Fruit Ninja, the Australian developer’s other games include Jetpack Joyride, Band Stars, Fish Out Of Water and Age of Zombies.
US telecoms giant Verizon announced on Tuesday it was buying AOL in a deal that will see one of the world’s biggest mobile players takeover the one-time king of the internet for $4.4bn.Verizon, the US’s largest mobile player, said it was making the move to strengthen its position in mobile video and advertising. The all-cash offer will give Verizon access to AOL’s advertising technology and content businesses such as Huffington Post, MovieFone and TechCrunch.When completed, the acquisition will end AOL’s independence six years after the company was split off from media conglomerate Time Warner. The company has long been seen as a takeover target and had previously been rumoured to be in merger talks with Yahoo.In an interview with financial news channelCNBC,AOL’s chairman and chief executive Tim Armstrong said the company needed to get bigger to survive amid the consolidation of the media and technology sectors.“If you look at AOL over the last five years ... we turned the company around,” he said. “But if you look forward five years, you’re going to be in a space where there are going to be massive, global-scale networks, and there’s no better partner for us to go forward with than Verizon.”Time Warner and AOL entered an ill-fated $165bn merger agreement in January 2000. The deal, effectively a takeover of Time Warner by AOL, has often been described as the worst merger in history and was a pivotal moment in the last tech boom. AOL continued to struggle as the phone subscribers who made up the bulk of its business drifted away to cable and was spun off from Time Warner in 2009.Under Armstrong AOL has built an advertising platform and bought content companies including Huffington Post. The price is high compared to content rivals like Vice, now valued at $2.5bn. But it is a fraction of the values attached too the latest generation of hot tech firms. Snapchat, a profit free disappearing message service, is currently valued at $10bn. Uber, a taxi app and would-be logistics company, is valued at $15bn.AOL is still heavily reliant on fees from dial-up internet subscribers who last year contributed about a quarter of AOL’s sales. Those subscribers either live in areas too remote for cable access or have forgotten to cancel subscriptions.AOL took 0.74% market share of the $145bn digital advertising market worldwide in 2014, according to eMarketer. Google was the worldwide market leader with 31.4% share last year, followed by Facebook with 7.9%. While AOL remains a small player, the market is massive. Mobile advertising worldwide totalled $42.63bn in 2014, and is expected to increase 61% to reach $68.7bn in 2015, according to eMarketer.Verizon’s offer values AOL at $50 a share, a 17% premium over Monday’s closing price. AOL shares rose 19% in morning trading to $50.61. Verizon shares dipped slightly.“Verizon’s vision is to provide customers with a premium digital experience based on a global multiscreen network platform,” Lowell McAdam, Verizon’s chief executive, said in a statement. “This acquisition supports our strategy to provide a cross-screen connection for consumers, creators and advertisers to deliver that premium customer experience.”In a statement Armstrong said he would remain at his position once the deal is finalized.“Verizon is a leader in mobile and OTT [over the top – ie video services like Netflix and Hulu] connected platforms, and the combination of Verizon and AOL creates a unique and scaled mobile and OTT media platform for creators, consumers and advertisers,” Armstrong said.The former Google executive, whotook over as AOL’s chief executive in 2009, told staff that “AOL is back and now we are joining forces with Verizon to build the best media technology company in the world. Let’s mobilize”.“AOL has once again become a digital trailblazer, and we are excited at the prospect of charting a new course together in the digitally connected world,” McAdam, said in a statement.
Last year, Hideo Kojima, the creator of the Metal Gear series of stealth adventures, caused a minor controversy when he tweeted about a new character in his forthcoming title, Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain. The character is a mute female assassin named Quiet, whose complex backstory will apparently explain why she wears only a bikini and laddered tights while carrying out covert missions in 1980s Afghanistan.“I’ve been ordering to Yoji [Shinkawa, character designer] to make the character more erotic,”wrote Kojima. “And he did it well.” He laterclarified the comment, correcting “erotic” to “sexy” and claiming that his game would provide a context for the character’s clothing. “Once you recognise the secret reason for her exposure, you will feel ashamed of your words &amp; deeds,” hetweeted.But of course, another tweet (which may well have been loaded with irony) got to the heart of what is going on here:The initial target is to make u want to do cosplay or its figurine to sell well.&mdash; HIDEO_KOJIMA (@HIDEO_KOJIMA_EN)September 4, 2013Which brings us to Kojima’s latest controversial tweet, about the Quiet action figure, which, it seems, will have squeezable breasts made of soft, pliable PVC.In his message on Twitter, Kojimawrote: “Yoji, a supervisor says some soft materials enables to be pushed &amp; lifted. lol”, and supplied four photos of the model. It does indeed have strangely aerated boobs, like balloons inflated to bursting point – helpfully, a modeller is seen pushing the breasts together slightly – in case anyone is concerned they are not malleable enough.Naturally, the revelation has attracted plenty of coverage and discussion in the gaming press. Is it sexist? Is it objectifying? Is it just part of Japanese game culture?In this way, the Quiet action figure has become the latest exhibit in an ongoing culture war between those who want to challenge the often overtly sexualised depiction of women in games and comics, and those who feel that writers and developers are being browbeaten into political correctness by “feminist thought police”, or whatever they call the people who worry about how representation affects people.The Quiet character in Metal Gear Solid V.Photograph: KonamiIt’s pretty creepy though. This is a creative industry in which female characters are routinely sexualised – fromthe ludicrous sightof Ms Pac-Man lounging provocatively on the front of game cabinets to Lara Croft and the enthusiastically circulated myth of heraccidental breast augmentation, women have been envisioned through a certain lens of desire and voyeurism.This happens in other media, and yes, male game characters are physically idealised, too – but let’s not pretend it’s to anywhere near the same extent, or for the same reasons. There are plenty of female characters who are not sexualised (sopleaselets not bother listing them in the comments section), but we have to recognise that, well ... this is the industry that brought us Dead or Alive – a whole game series which is effectively about watching digitised breasts being groped by the world’s worst physics engine.It’s worth pointing out, however, that the Quiet figure is hardly a standalone example. The high-end video game action figure market is huge in Japan, where companies like Play Arts Kai and HotToys specialise in making very detailed, very lifelike PVC models of favourite characters.Although they often come with accessories (Quiet even has a separate head that features smudged make-up), they are designed for display, and they’re not for children. Female game and manga figures are particularly popular, both those drawn from mainstream titles like Metal Gear, DoA and Street Fighter, and those from theerogeor erotic game genre.Related:Video games need fewer 'sexy' women and more you can actually fancyMore specialised manufacturers like Lechery, Ques Q and Griffon produce dozens of models drawn from key series, posed sexually, with masses of plastic cleavage. Griffon, particularly, has been producing models with squeezable breasts for years, andemphasises boob pliability in its online advertising. So it’s creepy but it’s not new.As for Quiet herself, well, she comes from a long line of sexualised female assassins, a game/comic trope (no doubt spawned from the femme fatale archetype), that takes in Catwoman, Elektra, Black Widow, Nikita and just about every female character in Quentin Tarantino’s Kill Bill.That’s not justification, that’s the context we need to bear in mind when we ask: “Kojima, what thehellare you doing?” Indeed, Quiet is actually a westernised take on the problematic “silent Asian assassin” sub-trope, which takes in the likes of Deadly Little Miho from Sin City and one-time Batgirl Cassandra Cain. Those depictions were rife with notions of otherness and the Asian as alien aggressor – maybe that’s what Kojima is getting at. But maybe not.Maybe this is just in extremely bad taste, a sad example of games merchandising inching its way toward the territory of love dolls. What does that tell us about game culture? Nothing great, really.
An American sales executive is suing for wrongful termination after she was fired from her job for uninstalling an app that let her employer track her location 24 hours a day, even while she was off-duty.Myrna Arias, whoaccording to her lawsuitworked for money transfer company Intermex for three months until she was fired in May 2014, had been required to download Xora,a workplace management app, as part of her employment.The app allows an employer to monitor workers who aren’t in the office,and advertises its ability to“see the location of every mobile worker on a Google Map” to show “where they have been, the route they have driven and where they are now”.The lawsuit alleges that: “After researching the app and speaking with a trainer from Xora, Plaintiff and her co-workers asked whether Intermex would be monitoring their movements while off-duty. [Arias boss, John] Stubits admitted that employees would be monitored while off duty, and bragged that he knew how fast she was driving at specific moments ever since she had installed the app on her phone.“Plaintiff expressed that she had no problem with the app’s GPS function during work hours, but she objected to the monitoring of her location during non-work hours and complained to Stubits that this was an invasion of her privacy. She likened the app to a prisoner’s ankle bracelet and informed Stubits that his actions were illegal. Stubits replied that she should tolerate the illegal intrusion.“He confirmed that she was required to keep her phone’s power on ‘24/7’ to answer phone calls from clients. Stubits scolded Plaintiff when she de-installed the app in late April 2014 in order to protect her privacy.”The lawsuit seeks damages “in excess of $500,000” to remedy lost earnings and wages.Arias’s attorney told the website Ars Technica that management“would tell her co-workers and her of their driving speed, roads taken, and time spent at customer locations. Her manager made it clear that he was using the program to continuously monitor her, during company as well as personal time.”
The boss of major label Warner Music Group has warned rivals to “think very carefully” before restricting the free tiers of streaming services like Spotify, after his company revealed that it now makes more money from streams than from download sales.The tipping point came in the first quarter of 2015, according to WMG’s latest financial results, which saw the label’s revenues grow 4% year-on-year to $677m, helping it record a net profit of $19m.That included a 33% increase in streaming income, as it overtook WMG’s download revenues for the first time.“The rate of this growth has made it abundantly clear to us that in years to come, streaming will be the way that most people enjoy music,” chief executive Stephen Coopertold analysts in the company’s earnings call.Error: Failed to load image asset“Not only that, we are also confident that streaming’s ongoing expansion will return the industry to sustainable, long-term growth.”Cooper’s comments come at a time when the economics of streaming music are the subject of intense debate within the music industry, with two main issues.Firstly, whether streaming – and the free, on-demand streaming tiers of companies like Spotify and Deezer – is making as much money as artists, songwriters, and labels and publishers representing them, want.And, secondly, whether streaming even pays off for the companies providing it, given that flagship service Spotify recorded lossesof €162m in 2014alone.Related:Spotify financial results show struggle to make streaming music profitableOn the former point, Cooper’s opposite number at Universal Music Group, Lucian Grainge, has spoken out publicly about his desire to focus more on paid subscriptions than free streaming, reportedly egged on by Apple as it prepares to relaunch its Beats Music service globally in June.“The ad-funded part of the music ecosystem – that’s on-demand, ad-funded – as I’ve said before, is not something that is particularly sustainable in the long term,”said Grainge at the Code/Media conferenceearlier in 2015. “Ad-funded isn’t a sustainable business for them … or for us. That’s why people get restless.”Grainge’s comments have been interpreted as a desire by his company to restrict or even remove the free tiers of services like Spotify, but Cooper advised caution in his comments to analysts.“There are any number of models out there, and all of those models – ad-based, subscription-based or with both – are better than piracy. To be crystal clear: piracy is zero revenue, it’s the theft of intellectual property, and it’s not good for anybody. So all of these models are better than piracy,” said Cooper.“With respect to going to a strictly subscription world, I think that you can find evidence that when music is not generally available, people will seek out sites on the internet that will offer up that music for no charges, and in many instances, with no economic model.Related:Why are Apple's music streaming plans arousing the interest of regulators?“Before people conclude that freemium should be burnt at the stake, we should think very carefully about the consequences.”However, this does not mean that WMG – like Universal and the third major label, Sony Music – will not use its bargaining power when renewing licensing deals to nudge streaming services towards trying to turn free users into paying subscribers.“We are working with a number of our digital partners to see if there are ways in which that adoption, that is the movement from the ad-based model to a subscription … can be turbo-charged through modifications of service offerings or more sophisticated approaches to the consumer market,” said Cooper.
Google has shut down its Map Maker service after a series of embarrassing oversights allowed vandalism –the most notorious example being an image of a Google Android robot urinating on the Apple logo.The company said it had been moderating all user-generated edits to try to prevent such pranks, but found it impossible to keep up.Visitors to the Google site were directed on Monday to a forum post that explained the site would be unavailable for editing until a solution could be found.Pavithra Kanakarajan, a Google Map Maker product manager, wrote: “As some of you know already, we have been experiencing escalated attacks to spam Google Maps over the past few months. The most recent incident was particularly troubling and unfortunate – a strong user in our community chose to go and create a large scale prank on the Map. As a consequence, we suspended auto-approval and user moderation across the globe, till we figured out ways to add more intelligent mechanisms to prevent such incidents.If we do not have the capacity to review edits at roughly the rate they come in, we have to take a pause“All of our edits are currently going through a manual review process.”Google introduced Map Maker in 2008 as a tool to allow users of Google Maps to edit the information on the service directly. While the majority of the mapping information is bought in from third-party providers, those providers fall short of universal coverage, particularly in some nations where location information is controlled by government regulations.Users can use Map Maker to draw features directly on to the map, adding information such as roads, rivers, green spaces and built-up areas to the database, as well as local businesses and amenities. But while the information contributed by new users is pre-moderated, either by Google or by more experienced users, long-term users can make edits without much oversight at all.It was one such user who prompted google to shut down the service, introducing a picture of the Android robot urinating on the Apple logo and a message saying “Google review policy is crap” to the map of the area outside Rawalpindi in Pakistan.Google’s Kanakarajan added: “We have been analysing the problem and have made several changes. However, it is becoming clear that fixing some of this is actually going to take longer than a few days. As you can imagine, turning automated and user moderation off has the direct implication of very large backlogs of edits requiring manual review. This in turn means your edits will take a long time to get published.Related:Google Maps hides an image of the Android robot pissing on Apple“Given the current state of the system, we have come to the conclusion that it is not fair to any of our users to let them continue to spend time editing. Every edit you make is essentially going to a backlog that is growing very fast.“We believe that it is more fair to only say that if we do not have the capacity to review edits at roughly the rate they come in, we have to take a pause.”In the meantime, users with hankering to improve the state of mapping information in underserved areasare still able to make updates to the open-source OpenStreetMap project, a competitor to Google Maps that aims to free mapping data worldwide.
Crossy Road has become one of the most popular mobile games in the UK according to a new report from research firm App Annie.The report claims Crossy Road had the most active British users of any iOS game in the first quarter of 2015, ahead of Candy Crush Saga and Clash of Clans.In the equivalent chart for Android in the UK, Crossy Road placed third behind Candy Crush Saga and its sequel Candy Crush Soda Saga.The game, a colourful and addictive action game inspired by arcade classic Frogger, was released in November 2014, andmade more than $10m globally for its developer Hipster Whaleover the next three months.That’s a relatively small amount compared to the other games listed above, withCandy Crush Saga players spending $1.33bn on that game alone in 2014– or more than $10m every three days.At the time of writing, Crossy Road is 164th in the top-grossing chart for Apple’s App Store in the UK compared to the top-five placings of the Candy Crush games and Clash of Clans.Still, reaching the fiscal heights of those titles isn’t the aim of Hipster Whale, with its handful of staff and an enthusiastic and growing fanbase.“Obviously, $10m is fantastic. That’s way, way, way, way, way more than we thought we would get. But someone on the free-to-play business would look at those numbers and think we could make a lot more per user,”said co-founder Matt Hallat the GDC conference in March.“But, if we changed it … if we followed some of those best practices … if we sold coins and had a ‘save-me’ button and it felt like the other games, would anyone have cared?At the start of April,Hipster Whale updated Crossy Road with a collection of British and Irish characters to play as, including a Queen’s guard, a policeman and a Scottish piper. At that point, the game had been downloaded 70m times globally.Exactly how many Brits does it take to make a mobile game the most popular by UK active users on iOS? Hall told the Guardian that Crossy Road “peaked at 2.9 million monthly active users right at the end of February” – although this figure covers the UK and Ireland combined.App Annie also published iOS and Android charts for the most popular non-gaming apps in the UK during the first quarter of 2015.Related:What is Trivia Crack and why are 100m people playing it?The iOS rankings were topped by Facebook, followed by WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger, YouTube, Instagram, Snapchat, Google Maps, Twitter, eBay and the separate eBay for iPad app.On Android, the same list ran Google, YouTube, Maps, Chrome Browser, Facebook, WhatsApp, Gmail, Google Play, Facebook Messenger and Google+. Unsurprisingly, the apps preloaded on Android devices dominated that chart.Apps popular in the US but not the UK according to App Annie’s analysis include Kik Messenger, Pandora Radio and Netflix, while in Japan and South Korea homegrown social apps Line and KakaoTalk (respectively) beat the big western social networks.Quiz gameTrivia Cracktopped the company’s charts for the most popular iOS and Android games in the US in the first quarter of 2015, while in Japan, Disney’s Tsum Tsum – which uses Line’s social graph – headed both lists.
Hello, it’s Tuesday.
Nataliia Dmytriievska was 15 years old and enveloped by flames when she first heard the call of outer space. A year earlier her boyfriend had taught her the basics of poi, a Maori dance in which performers swing flaming, tethered weights to describe bright geometric shapes in the dark. Despite the burns and bruises she earned, Dmytriievska was a determined pupil. She would practice for hours each day, drawing flowers and other outlines around her body using dummy weights, before attempting the same perilous tricks using fire.Although money was never the primary motivation – “I simply love the fire; there is something magical when you feel like it’s in your control,” she said – after a few years Dmytriievska turned semi-professional. She joined a circus troupe in her home city of Kiev, Ukraine to help support her university studies. She excelled, often performing to audiences of hundreds. In June 2007, the troupe began rehearsals for an interpretation of Edgar Allan Poe’s poem, The Raven. As the backing music sounded out for the first time – a pipe organ, played rhythmically, as if calling people to worship, soon joined by galloping guitars and a furious drumbeat – Dmytriievska took to the stage. She began to dance. But her mind was not on the performance. As soon as she finished the routine she left the stage, walked up to her friend on the mixing desk and asked: “Where is that music from?”Related:Eve Online: how a virtual world went to the edge of apocalypse and back. By Simon ParkinThe track, he said, came fromEve Online, a science-fiction video game. It is, he explained, a game set in a vast galaxy comprised of tens of thousands of stars and planets, and inhabited by half a million or so people from around the world, who explore and do battle together daily via the internet. Dmytriievska returned home to see for herself.Space, it turned out, was a demanding place. Even before she entered the virtual galaxy, Dmytriievska had to make numerous choices. What would her character look like? What race would they be? Would they have shoulder‑length hair or a tight bob? What about piercings, tattoos or scars? Today, after years of updates and improvements, people who are new to Eve, as the game is known to its inhabitants, meet their digital avatar in the captain’s quarters of a spaceship, a gloomy room with a full-length mirror in which you can admire your newborn character. But when Dmytriievska joined, Eve was a simpler proposition. “Back then it was more of a, ‘Here is your ship, now fuck off’ kind of approach,” she told me.Dmytriievska’s new character was summarily cast out into space, in a Rookie ship – the lowliest and least powerful craft in the game, offered gratis to every newcomer. On screen, at the centre of the sweeping galaxy, Dmytriievska saw her craft, a nub of lights and metal, blinking expectantly in a perpetual night sky. Moments later, its hull erupted in flames, as an enemy ship taught her Eve’s most elemental rule: in space, everyone longs to hear you scream.Dmytriievska, who only spoke a little English at the time, tried in vain to find other Ukrainian or Russian players within the game who might be able to guide her through the basics. Eve is a cold, hostile environment. You can pause to admire the curious play of light in the atmosphere, or the heft of the distant planets as they pass through stardust clouds, but sooner or later you will have to start thinking about how you are going to go about earning a living, out there in the galactic wilderness. That new spaceship will not pay for itself.Dmytriievska’s initial expedition floundered in the face of Eve’s arcana – should she install the Social Adaptation Chip in her character’s digital brain to increase her charisma or the Ocular Filter, to increase her perception? Glumly, she closed the game window. But Dmytriievska did so not to quit, but to learn. Just as she had spent a few hours each day learning to juggle fire, she now took a few hours each day to study Eve.Along with fish, aluminium and Björk, Eve Online is one of Iceland’s biggest exports. Launched in 2003, it is a science-fiction project of unprecedented scale and ambition. It presents a cosmos of 7,500 interconnected star systems, known as New Eden, which can be travelled in spaceships built and flown by any individual. In-game professions vary. There are miners, traders, pirates, journalists and educators. You are free to work alone or in loose-knit corporations and alliances, the largest of which are comprised of tens of thousands of members.As a microcosm of human activity, the game has been studied by academics interested in creating political models, and by economists interested in testing financial ones. In a universe where every bullet, trade, offer of friendship and betrayal can be tracked and its impact logged and measured, Eve offers a new way to understand our species and the social systems of our world. “Within Eve we can see a political community that models hierarchy, authority, rule of law, power, violence and distribution of labour,” says Felix Ciuta, senior lecturer in international politics at UCL. “Players project onto this blank space their political and ideological principles. The way in which people act in the game might not reflect the way in which they act in the real world. But their virtual behaviour almost certainly is an expression of their ideas about how the world really works.”As a microcosm of human activity, the game has been studied by economists interested in testing financial modelsAs she began her research, Dmytriievska read about the game’s three primary districts. High Security is a heavily policed area of space where drones and sentry guns pursue characters who have been flagged for criminal activity. Here new recruits can find sanctuary from the pirates that roam Low Security, a more dangerous patch of cosmos where unscrupulous bandits hijack vessels to sell them on for profit. The third, final and most notorious territory is Null Space, the galactic wild west where even the most well-tooled characters live in a state of constant peril. There the risks of being blown up are offset by the potential rewards: money, fame and power.Dmytriievska researched the famous and infamous factions and corporations that vie for control of territory. She read about their renowned leaders, who battle and scheme for supremacy. She learned of Eve University, a player-run virtual institution staffed by volunteers who lead newcomers through the fundamentals, and of the legendary Titans, vessels so large that they are capable of disrupting the tides of entire planets.Finally, in 2008 after months of study, reading online guides and lurking in the game’s forums, Dmytriievska felt ready to return to New Eden. With some sense of ceremony she clicked on the icon Eve Online for the first time in nearly a year. She has lived there most days ever since.* * *In 1997, three friends– Reynir Harðarson, Thorolfur Beck and Ívar Kristjánsson – founded the game studio Crowd Control Productions (CCP) in Reykjavik. Their ambition was simple but ludicrous: to “create virtual worlds more meaningful than real life”. They dreamed of a game that would appeal to people from all over the world: a multiplayer space opera. This kind of luxurious project (the “Crowd Control” in the company name bespoke the hope that its games would be well-populated) was not going to be cheap. For one thing, at the time, there was no broadband internet connection in Iceland. So, first, the trio launched a board game, Hættuspil (Danger Game). They had so little startup money that they had to mortgage a house owned by a close friend’s grandmother to pay for its printing. The gamble worked: Hættuspil was a hit (since its debut, roughly one in eight Icelandic households bought a copy). With the money from the board game, the team were able to work towards Eve’s big bang moment. After three years of continuous work, the game finally launched in 2003.In the two decades after video games first appeared, outside of a few university campuses, people could only play cooperatively while gathered around the same screen or plugged in to the same local computer network. The advent of the internet brought new possibilities: virtual spaces that could be inhabited by more than one person at a time, who could connect from anywhere in the world. But these virtual worlds soon faced a problem: they were forever on the edge of obsolescence. Players were often lured from one game to the next, each brave new world more technically proficient than the last. When too many players leave a virtual world, the cost of maintaining it becomes prohibitive and the game’s servers are switched off. This is a catastrophic event: the world and everything in it dies.Spaceships do battle in Eve, a virtual world that has achieved the rare feat of lasting more than a decade.Photograph: Eve OnlineSince the first graphical virtual worlds launched in the mid-1990s, more than 50 have closed as a result of dwindling populations. Some, such asLego Universe(2010-2012) closed quietly and without ceremony. Others make the Armageddon a formal part of the fiction. WhenRubies of Eventide(2003-2009) closed down, developers burned down the capital city and every player’s character died in the fire. Some developers provide remaining players an opportunity to celebrate their memories and even to grieve. In the hours beforeStar Wars Galaxies(2003-2011) closed, the skies lit up with a prolonged and expansive firework display, providing a mournful ceremony for the remainder of the million players who bought a copy of the game during its eight-year existence.Eve is one of the few virtual worlds to have survived longer than a decade. Still, apocalypse-by-exodus remains a constant worry for CCP’s 330 staff, most of whom work exclusively on Eve, from one of the company’s four offices in Reykjavik, Atlanta, Shanghai and Newcastle. Andie Nordgren, the game’s executive producer, believes that it has not only survived but thrived because it is “the world’s largest living work of science-fiction”.Eve’s narrative appeal has little to do with formal authorship. It is constantly evolving, but not in the same way as other so-called massively multiplayer online games, such asWorld of Warcraft, where new stories are added by a collective of scriptwriters. Eve’s story is written and steered by the actions of its players, whose individual and collective dramas play out and intersect week by week. People do not play Eve to “win”. There is no way of “completing” the game and no set, overarching goal. Once you’re a virtual millionaire and own the most powerful ship in the game, Eve becomes a game about social interaction and self-made goals. This gives the game its distinctive power.One story, above all, illustrates this power. At 5am on 18 April 2005, a character known as Mirial, the CEO of Ubiqua Seraph, one of the largest corporations in the game, warped into the Haras solar system, flanked by her most trusted lieutenant. It was a moment for which the members of the Guiding Hand Social Club, a corporation of spies founded by Istvaan Shogaatsu, had long been waiting. A code word went out across the Shogaatsu’s chat channels: “Nicole”. Within an hour Mirial was dead.Ten months earlier, Shogaatsu had agreed to take on this contract killing for an anonymous client. The fee was one billion ISK – Eve’s virtual currency, named after the Icelandic króna. It was, at the time, equivalent to about £320. (While it is illegal to sell ISK for cash, CCP sells an in-game currency for real money, so it is possible to calculate an exchange rate.) Throughout the intervening period, Shogaatsu and his agents performed a thorough infiltration operation, orchestrated in private chat channels and on secretive forums. They took on jobs within Ubiqua Seraph and, week by week, ingratiated themselves with other corporation members. Soon the mercenaries had operatives in every level of the organisation.When the code word went out, the spy network was poised to strike. Mirial’s prize ship was destroyed, along with her escape pod and, finally, her vacuum-frozen body was delivered to the Guiding Hand Social Club’s client. Shogaatsu’s spies looted the company’s hangars and vaults. The combined cost of the ambush and theft totalled more than 30bn ISK, an estimated £10,600 of assets lost through robbery or destruction. It was, at the time, the largest theft of virtual assets in any video game.While the ensuing news reports brought Eve to the attention of players around the world, some feared it might destroy the universe too. “It was a pivotal moment,” said Hilmar Pétursson, who worked at CCP from the beginning, and who took over as the company’s CEO in 2004, shortly before the incident. “People wanted CCP to interfere. They felt betrayed and outraged. But we looked at what had happened and could see no rules that had been broken. Only trust had been broken. It’s not our job to guarantee trust.”When CCP released a statement to this effect there was an outcry from both players and staff calling for the decision to be reversed. For many, a line between play and reality had been crossed. Overnight, 500 people cancelled their subscriptions to the game. For a few days, New Eden teetered on the brink of destruction.* * *Eve skirted apocalypse.Many players exited the game in disgust but, soon afterwards, a British video game magazine published a story about the incident. Five thousand intrigued readers joined. If Eve’s world had been on the verge of collapse, it was now saved and, moreover, its custodians had established critical laws with which to govern the virtual world. It was a close call, but a crucial one. As long as no real-world laws were broken, players now knew that they were free to play the game however they chose; an act of extraordinary cunning or betrayal might even make them famous.The 2015 Eve Fanfest held in Reykjavik.Photograph: Steingrimur ArnasonPerhaps this is why Eve inspires in some an undying allegiance. Almost every year since 2004 Eve players from across the world have gathered in Iceland’s capital. Together they drink, celebrate and share knowledge or get-rich-quick schemes (sample session title from 2015’s event: “Confessions of an Eve Trillionaire”). In the Harpa building – a mass of black glass that sits heavily on the Reykjavik shoreline, like a grounded spaceship – attendees whoop and cheer as CCP announces its forthcoming plans for the virtual galaxy. In 2015, the crowd were brought close to mass hysteria by the news that the paintwork on ships will soon be shown to gather dirt and rust.One hundred and twenty players showed up for the first “fanfest”. This year there were 1,200, many of whom had spent thousands of dollars to be there. The makers of other popular video games hold annual festivals in their honour, but this event is different, not least because Eve’s players are different. This is not a game that accommodates undergraduate stoner idling or StarCraft’s caffeine-fuelled competitiveness. Its victories come slowly. They require long-view investment, even leadership skills. CCP claims that more than 50% of the player base is employed in engineering. “You will never find a player who has done something important in Eve Online who has not also done something important or significant in the real world,” one attendee at the fanfest told me.At this year’s event, two artists had set up shop in one of the Harpa building’s broad corridors, offering a range of Eve-themed tattoos. Next to their stall, attendees in fancy dress browsed a shop selling miniature models of in-game spacecraft. There were also burned-out circuit boards, taken from the game’s servers to be replaced with quicker versions. Before the morning’s masterclasses ended, I approached an older man dressed in heavy priestly robes, edged with gold trim and ornate clasps. Charles White is a Californian with a closely trimmed beard, thin-rimmed glasses and a soft accent. He also works for Nasa’s jet propulsion laboratory; he helped put the Rover on Mars. “In the game the players call me the Pope of New Eden, harbinger of faiths,” he told me. “I ran with that and made a costume based on the player’s feedback. I showed up here wearing the costume because I’m 55 years old and I don’t give a crap any more.”An Eve player gets a tattoo at the annual fanfest.Photograph: Ben HunterWhite has been playing Eve since 2008 and is anxious about Eve’s future development. “I don’t really have an endgame,” he said. “But I’m concerned for some of the elder players. Once you own a Titan you’ve pretty much won the game. Where’s the challenge? There have to be things to do.” Players running out of things to do is just one of the threats facing the Eve universe. It must continue to expand in order to hold its inhabitants’ attention, but this expansion must also be in therightdirection. One wrong move can jeopardise the game’s existence.In 2011 CCP introduced a new feature that had been 18 months in the making: a digital store where in-game items (clothing, accessories and so on) could be purchased for real money. It was a disaster that brought New Eden close to its second catastrophic event. At the fanfest, Francesco Munda, an Italian player, recalled what happened: “At that time the game had a huge number of technical problems. Then in this grand reveal, CCP gave us a digital shop. All other problems were pushed aside. The game was in dire need of fixing. Nothing was fixed.” For many players, one object on sale in the digital shop epitomised CCP’s greed: a virtual monocle that could be worn by a player’s online character, which cost £45.The leak of an internal memo from the company’s CEO, Hilmar Pétursson, that denounced the complaints as “noise” further enraged the player base. Thousands gathered within the game and began to stage symbolic riots, firing their ships’ weapons on a giant monument stationed outside a major trading hub. The protest, which marked the beginning of what soon became known as the “Summer of Rage”, was staged continuously for a week. It was effective. In an unprecedented move, Pétursson wrote an open letter to the game’s players admitting that he had made a mistake. “We made a mess and someone had to own it,” he explained to me. “It was mine to own.” After the letter of apology, CCP acknowledged the protest by switching the 3D model of the in-game monument to one that was broken and damaged, a lasting memorial to the time when the players made their collective voice heard and the game’s makers responded.Few video games accommodate their player base in this way. Eve’s creators have learned that the future of their world depends not only on the happiness of the game’s players, but also their feeling that the players, ultimately, own the world which they inhabit. Pétursson describes his company as mere caretakers. A better analogy is that he and his employees are gods. While many CCP staff members play the game avidly, they also exist in Eve on a celestial stratum, defining the rules and boundaries of its reality, listening to the desires of the players and deciding whether or not to act upon their pleas.And among this group of heavenly bodies, fire-juggler Nataliia Dmytriievska is something of an archangel.* * *After she rejoined Eve, Dmytriievska began to helpother new players into the game, remembering the difficulties that she had experienced. She joined a large alliance, which had around 10,000 members, and began to recruit newcomers. Twice a week she would host teaching sessions – either general theory or practical flying lessons through the less dangerous areas of space. In playing the game, Dmytriievska made friends with some CCP staff. “I talked to them about what it was like to work there,” she told me. “They told me it’s like a family. I wanted that.”Dmytriievska sent numerous job application forms to CCP, each of which was rejected. But she had learned the value of persistence and, finally, after four years of pursuing her career inside the game, was invited for an interview to become a game master, an official expert employed to answer players’ questions. Dmytriievska’s family urged her not to go to Iceland. One family member told her that Ukrainian women who emigrate often end up as sex slaves. But Dmytriievska, who had just gained her bachelor’s degree in criminal psychology, was determined to find a way to turn her hobby into a vocation.Ignoring her family’s warnings, Dmytriievska arrived in Reykjavik on 12 March, 2013. She stepped off the plane into darkness. The sky was overcast, untouched by stars or the northern lights. It was, she recalled, extremely cold. “I couldn’t sleep all night,” she said. “I was so excited to see the country and to meet CCP.” The interview, contrary to Dmytriievska’s expectations, was not focused on her professional background or character, but on her knowledge of and accomplishments within Eve itself. Dmytriievska was being primed for a special role. Unknown to her, she was to become a cosmic go-between.Four years earlier, CCP had commissioned a study into the political state of New Eden, hoping to understand how they could better manage this vast virtual society. The study’s authors argued that the game needed a player-run political body. Eve’s society had evolved past tribal structures, they said, into complex social hierarchies. In response, CCP established the Council of Stellar Management (CSM), an invention unique to Eve, the only example of a game-based democratic organisation designed to represent a virtual society. Each year scores of candidates stand for election in one of the 14 places on the council. In 2015 there were 75 candidates, drawn from across different areas of space. Just as in real life, candidates come with platforms, create propaganda and muster both in the game and out for votes.Twice a year, CCP flies the successful candidates to their headquarters in Reykjavik for a few days of intensive debate – an audience with the gods, if you will. During that time, the council meets with CCP’s staff and hears about the new features planned for the galaxy’s future. The meetings can be heated and, on more contentious issues, there can be in-fighting between council members. But the council performs a crucial role in bridging the gap between the game’s makers and players. Indeed, after the 2011 riots, CCP called an emergency summit in Iceland for the council. Pétursson admits that the CSM’s advice directly influenced his mea culpa.Dmytriievska’s final interview was, in the end, a mere formality. She was asked to start work later that week as CCP’s official coordinator for the council, a chaperone and champion for council members. Hers is a crucial role in the project to keep Eve’s universe alive. She must manage the tension between the game’s creators, who want to execute their vision, and the game’s inhabitants, who have different priorities. It is as if gods and their people are in a war over the universe – and Dmytriievska is caught in the middle.As well as the risk of alienating players by tweaking the way the game works, CCP also faces the challenge of policing behaviour when aggravation and bullying spills out of the game and into the real world. In 2014, a statue was unveiled just outside CCP’s Reykjavik office. The monument lists the names of all active main characters in the game as of 1 March 2014 – more than half a million of them. It was a proud moment for the developers: the statue was unveiled by Jón Gnarr, the charismatic, cross-dressing comedian who served as the city’s mayor from 2010 to 2014. A few days later, four of the game’s players scratched off a rival character’s name from the memorial. The police were called and, when the culprits were found out, they were evicted from the game with a lifetime ban.At other times, players have been known to hold others to ransom in the game for real money. One Russian player once claimed to be a hacker and threatened to cut the power to a rival’s home during play in order to steal his Titan ship, which takes weeks to build and is worth between £2,000-£2,500. At last year’s festival the Friday night pub-crawl ended in a street brawl (although there were some minor injuries, the participants later claimed it was just a bit of fun). “I’ve heard about couples breaking up over backstabbing in Eve,” says Nordgren, the game’s executive producer.A Titan spaceship. Some are so large that they can affect the tides of Eve’s planets.Photograph: Eve OnlineFor many players who have been involved in Eve for years, the social game around the digital game is what provides the ongoing attraction. Merely improving one’s spaceship soon becomes tiresome. “People say it’s a game about spaceships … but not so much,” a senior member of one of the game’s larger, player-forged corporations said. “It’s about people.”* * *The most famous of Eve’s playersis Alexander Gianturco, alias the Mittani. He is leader of the Goonswarm Federation, the largest alliance in Eve, and his name is known in every corner of the virtual galaxy. (Gianturco’s Twitter profilepicture shows him kneeling, kissing the hand of Nasa’s Charles White.) Hecommands close to 40,000 players, directing the federation’s battles and actions from his home in Madison, Wisconsin. Gianturco, who used to work as a corporate lawyer in Washington DC, makes his living from the game by running an Eve-specific media empire, reporting the news of events from within the game on his website and YouTube channels. Gianturco regularly boasts that he has not logged into Eve for three years.Instead, he runs the Goons from chatrooms and online forums.According to Andrew Groen, an American freelance journalist who is writing a history that charts the first decade of Eve Online, Gianturco has helped to bring about a shift in the game’s tone. “Early in Eve’s story the game was a role-playing society; it was a blank canvas so the person who could make the largest splash became the most noticeable and therefore the most powerful.” Players tended to be very sincere and to treat this fictional world with utmost seriousness.Today, Groen says, people are more aloof. This tonal change is, in part, thanks to the maturing world. “In the old days it was cool to care,” says Groen. “But Goonswarm came up with this fascinating cultural edict: if you take the game seriously and you bond under the idea that you’re the best of the best, a single loss can unravel the social fabric of the group. So Goonswarm’s rallying cry is: we are terrible at this game. This means that when they lose they are able to laugh about it. But when they win they laugh even harder, making fun of the defeated and bonding over the hubris and misery of their enemy.”CCP claims that Eve is more popular than it has ever been– in 2013 the game’s population passed 500,000. The company’s experiment in democracy, following the Summer of Rage, has paid off. The search for new players also continues. Last month, the company simplified no fewer than 73 tutorials into seven more straightforward introductory topics, with a hope to entice newcomers who had previously been put off by Eve’s complexities.But the game faces other challenges, not least from rival space-simulation games. This is, after all, a game built on ageing technology. In a medium where technological prowess is often key to dominance in the market, that is a risk. Is the game’s future truly secure? “Eve is certainly built upon compromises we had to make 15 years ago when first designing the tech,” Pétursson said. “Nevertheless this 12-year-old game is in many ways the most innovative one out there.” Arguably there are no other online worlds that exhibit such mature and nuanced social structures, or that allow players to play the game from outside its digital boundaries, as Gianturco does. “There are aspects of Eve that nobody has been able to replicate,” said Pétursson.Many of Eve’s inhabitants agree. During one of the final panel sessions at this year’s fanfest, one councillor spoke earnestly of his belief in the game’s future, despite the toughening competition. “Eve offers an experience you can’t get anywhere else,” he said. “That’s the reason we’re up here. It’s not because you can fly around shooting other people. We’re here because you get to deal with people, both their in-game lives and their out-of-game lives.”Nataliia Dmytriievska and Paul Elsy.Photograph: Daniel HoffendGroen is equally confident about the game’s prospects. “I’d be surprised if it’s not around for another decade,” he said. “It will probably be around for another 25 years. CCP honestly believes in the philosophical idea of a virtual construct that never dies.” There is something undeniably Icelandic – stoic, intrepid – in all this. As the snow swirls irritably around the Harpa building, it is easy to make a link between the game’s environment and the country in which it was conceived. For some, Eve’s philosophical darkness – its inhabitants are lost in space, engaged in never-ending conflict – reflects something of the dread of Iceland’s inescapable winter. There’s beauty in its vastness and ambition, but it can also feel bleak and oppressive. “That’s the key,” says Groen. “Eve offers us this utopian idea that you can never die. You can resurrect endlessly. But it also poses the question: do we really want to be strapped into the machines, waging war until the end of all time?”For Dmytriievska, the answer is clear. In Eve, she has found the support and family she was looking for. “We all help one another,” she says. “You can rely on people. I never felt that in the Ukraine.” She is now engaged to marry Eve’s community manager, Paul Elsy, whom she met in the game. But her attachment to Eve is not merely romantic. “I never felt as though I was in the right place until I came to this volcanic glacier in the middle of the Atlantic,” she told me. “But here, I am an essential cogwheel at the centre of this incredible mechanism that is capable of creating universes. It feels interesting. It feels important. I can help to keep the fire of this world burning forever.”Back in the Ukraine, Dmytriievska’s relations remain sceptical about her choices. “A few times I’ve been told to take a careful look at what I am doing with my life and maybe start thinking about a serious job,” she said, looking at the floor. After a moment, she looked up again, defiantly. “I simply reply: there can be nothing more serious than the spaceships business.”Follow the Long Read on Twitter:@gdnlongread• This article was amended to correct the following errors: the Council of Stellar Management meets twice a year, rather than every six months, and the meetings can last up to five days. Additionally, the monument just outside CCP’s Reykjavik office was unveiled in 2014, not 2011.
If you’ve been submerged under a deluge of reminders for friends’ birthdays on Facebook, you’re not alone: the social network has confirmed that a bug in its notification system meant that it sent out many many more push notifications, emails and the like than it should have.Typically, Facebook only sends one notification per birthday to users, and only sends emails to those who have chosen (either actively or passively) to receive them.But over the past month, some users have reported a massive increase in notifications from the website, giving multiple prods over multiple media to wish friends a happy birthday. While many assumed the change was deliberate, or perhaps a form of user experience testing, as with so many of the site’s undocumented alterations, it was apparently a freak accident.Facebook confirmed to Slate’s Jacob Broganthat the bug, which has now been fixed, resulted in users who had never signed up to email notifications for birthdays still incorrectly being sent the missives.“It was not immediately clear whether the other, similarly persistent, notifications were part of the same problem”, Brogan wrote.
Will Wright made his name with games like SimCity, The Sims and Spore. Now he’s stepping out of the gaming world to join the ultra-competitive market for social photography apps, with a startup calledThred.Backed by investors including Andreessen Horowitz, Mayfield Fund, Betaworks, former Electronic Arts boss John Riccitiello and Foursquare chief executive Dennis Crowley, the free app has been released initially for Apple’s iPhone.Wright is hoping that people will use the app to add filters, stickers and captions to their photos for purposes including creating and sharing memes; recording their holiday trips; and creating web comics.“One of the fundamental ideas behind Thred is a better way to create and consume content for mobile,” said Wright as the app launched. “We provide quick and easy access to the sea of personal and global data we swim through every day as building blocks for the creative process.”Thred’s challenge, as with all apps of its type, is tempting people away from the places they already swim through that sea of digital content: Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat, Twitter and other apps with tens or hundreds of millions of users.Further down the line, there is also the task of figuring out a business model, with advertising or in-app purchases of additional creative tools both options for a startup like Thred, if it can attract a sizeable community of people using it.Promotional images of Will Wright’s Thred app.Wright certainly means business: Thred’s website lists a team of 18 employees including its founder working for the app’s parent company Syntertainment Incorporated, whichraised $5m of funding in 2013 for its plans.Wright’s move from games into social apps is not a huge surprise: he’s been talking about his interest in the latter since 2008, when Iinterviewed him for mobile gaming website Pocket Gamer.Related:Are social photo apps trapped in a Silicon Valley bubble?Then, Wright enthused about how walking around cities with his camera had changed the way he looked at the world.“I can imagine mobile platforms evolving in that way, in that they interact with the world around us in a way that changes our perceptions in a really interesting way,” he said. “Games could increase our awareness of our immediate environment, rather than distract us from it.”Thred isn’t a game, but Wright’s comments on his new app mirror those thoughts from seven years ago.“In recent years, I’ve been drawn more and more to new entertainment forms – ones that lead the user to become more engaged with the world around them, rather than withdrawn from it,” he said as it launched.
Keurig has taken the first steps towards abandoning an unpopular enforcement scheme on its pod-based coffee makers that requires customers to purchase their coffee exclusively from Keurig or licensed third-parties.Starting in the run-up to Christmas, owners will be able to use coffee bought from any provider in their espresso machines – after buying a special add-on.The company’s Keurig 2.0 coffee makers use a system similar to Nestlé’s Nespresso brand to make coffee using pre-packaged pods. But unlike Nespresso, the system, the second from Keurig, also uses a sort of digital rights management (DRM) technology to ensure that unlicensed “compatible” pods cannot be bought for a cut-price and used in the company’s machines.Each coffee pod in the Keurig 2.0 system includes a small chip in the lid, without which the coffee maker will not accept the pod. The chips are also used to communicate basic information to the coffee maker about what sort of pod is in the system. The DRM technology is not exactly foolproof, withhackers working out how to bypass it less than a year after introduction, but it turned out to be less popular than Keurig expected, leading to a financial hit to the company’s bottom line.The first single-cup espresso machines from Keurig did not feature the DRM tech, and also included an optional add-on called “My K-cup”, re-useable filters which let customers refill their Keurig machines the old-fashioned way. It’s this which Keurig is bringing back, following an earnings call in which Brian Kelley, the company’s president and chief executive, explained that the restrictions had been unpopular amongst customers.“My K-cup … wasn’t used a lot,” Kelley said, “and so it was a nice convenience for a lot of our very, very loyal and heavy users. They didn’t use it frequently, but they used it and importantly it gave them the ability to brew any brand they wanted.“We took the My K-cup away and quite honestly we’re wrong… And when we did it, and we realised it, we’re bringing it back because it was we missed it. We shouldn’t have taken it away, we did. We are bringing it back.”But overall, the DRM on the company’s products will stay. Kelley argues that the issue has been one of consumer education, blaming “consumer confusion around pod compatibility which we’ve mentioned in the past”. Once consumers learn about the wide range of licensed coffee available, Kelley says he is sure sales will pick up.
“The new video-game world encourages doing and acting and not really thinking. Video games are not so attractive to girls.”The American psychologist Philip Zimbardo has a new book out. It is called Man (Dis)connected: How Technology Has Sabotaged What It Means To Be Male. In Saturday’s Guardian, hespoke to Stuart Jeffriesabout his fears for young men who – he asserts – are increasingly withdrawing from real life and from sexual relationships with women, into an online world of games and pornography. “This thing with boys is really getting me down because I can’t think of a solution that is easy to entrain, that’s easy to realise,” he said. “It’s painful for me because I’m an optimistic person. Boys are in a mess.”His book cites anecdotal evidence from teachers who are concerned about boys who play games into the night then turn up at school unable to learn. There is research from various academic institutions linking unregulated gaming with attention and behavioural problems. I don’t doubt the veracity of these studies and I don’t question that they highlight problems that our increasingly technological society will have to deal with. Parents have some serious work to do when it comes to gating pervasive devices like games consoles and smart phones. But I take huge issue with the projection of minority cases into a societal norm. I don’t recognise the gamers that Zimbardo is worrying about.Over the last ten years there has been a profound change in the way people play video games. The cliche of the teenage boy hunched alone over a console, competing in solitude against computer foes, is outdated. The rise of broadband connectivity has engendered a new culture of shared experiences and co-operative play. These days, a game lives and dies by its ability to attract and maintain a talkative and engaged community. The whole meaning and purpose of video games has shifted: for many players, they have become venues for social interaction rather than solitary confinement.Look at World of Warcraft, a massively multiplayer gamer that has created lifelong friendships, many of which spill out into real-world meet-ups; look at Eve Online, an online space game with a player-maintained economy, society and law system. Look at Destiny and its 17 million players who need to co-operate to garner the full experience. Look at the modding community that has surrounded first-person shooters for 20 years, creating new content for favourite titles. Look at hugely supportive and social communities that exist around trading games like Pokemon and Monster Hunter.Related:Monster Hunter 4: why some video game communities are friendlier than othersZimbardo worries that boys are bored in an overtly feminised education system, and that high rates of divorce means they don’t have father figures to motivate them. He worries this means that boys are now retreating into insular hobbies, into gaming and porn. Ignored in all of this is the fact that primary education has been dominated by women teachers throughout the modern era. With the expansion of teacher training colleges in the 1950s and 1960s, HMSO education statistic show that around 70% of entrants were women – it’s a similar figure in the US. And boys have, let’s face it, always had solitary hobbies to withdraw into.Even more tenuous is the idea that boys now completely lack societal role models. Zimbardo sees a popular culturing teeming with moodles (“man poodles”) and infantilised losers like the stars of Judd Apatow’s comedy movies. What he doesn’t seem to have kept up with is the rise of the aspirational geek. Sure, the muscle-bound alpha males of 80s action cinema have largely retired, but tech culture has brought us new figureheads – Mark Zuckerberg, Elon Musk, Biz Stone, Palmer Luckey – men who (whatever you personally think of them) reached the top through intelligence and industry, who read the prevailing tech trends and got it all right. David Fincher’s movie Social Network is effectively a modern-age take on Brian de Palma’s Scarface: the analysis of male aspiration and heroism as a symbol for its contemporary milieu. Geeks are heroes now, and they’re a lot more functional and relatable than the movie and sports stars we once adored.I can’t help but feel that what Zimbardo expresses is a saner version of the fetid MRA assertion that men are being pushed out by society, that we’re somehow being sidelined; that the feminazis are taking over. And certainly the death of traditional industry in the West, together with complex new work patterns, is leading to an employment market that values different skillsets than those our fathers required. Add this to a culture that is increasingly questioning notions of masculinity and femininity – the online battles over Marvel’s depiction of women, the controversy over Anita Sarkeesian’s questioning of sexist video game tropes – and you have a complex and confusing environment of gender inquisition. Things are changing fast, and transition is frightening – as the recent election has shown us, grasping on to what is known and familiar is a natural human response.As for video games not being as attractive to women, that’s dated too. The rise of smartphones as a habitual technology has seen a huge boost in the numbers of women playing and enjoying games.Research by the Internet Advertising Bureaulast year found that 52% of British gamers are women. This isn’t an isolated blip and it isn’t just down to “casual” phone games like Candy Crush Saga. In the US, research specialist Super Data found that just over 50% of PC gamers are women. Senior researcher Stephanie Llamaswrote abouthow her data challenged the cliche that women only play casual titles – her female subjects identified mostly as “mid-core” and hardcore players.A cosplayer dressed as a character from the sci-fi game, Halo. Video game communities are adept at exploring and blurring traditional gender roles.Photograph: Melissa Hammack/Melissa HammackGamer communities certainly have their problems – the reaction to incoming feminist critics being one of them. But increasingly, they are active, welcoming and social – they meet online, through message boards, forums and sites like Reddit, and they meet in person through the large variety of casual and official events. They meet at huge gatherings like Blizzcon and Minecon; they meet at major conferences like Rezzed, Eurogamer Expo and Pax; they meet at LAN and eSports gaming tournaments. They come with groups of friends, they come with their partners and family members. They are super organised and engaged. They don’t just play games, they contribute. Through initiatives like the crowd-funding site Kickstarter and the Early Access collaborative development section on PC gaming service Steam, they communicate with developers, share ideas and help shape new projects.I know of dozens of UK gaming events where players and developers get together to celebrate game culture. Wild Rumpus, GameCity, the forthcomingFeral Vectorin Yorkshire. There are similar gatherings all around the world. I am certain there are still isolated individuals who play alone, but I am equally certain they are not representative. Games, increasingly, are not a hobby, they are a cultural force, no less or more than music and movies. They unite people – men, women, straight, gay, bi, trans – and they allow the dissemination of challenging ideas. Zimbardo told the interviewer that he wants to see games that are less about violence and more about co-operation – as if this is some kind of revelation. Minecraft, one of the biggest games in the world, has been doing this for five years. There are dozens of others. You want a positive community that challenges Zimbardo’s view of gaming? Look up (orjust read about) the interactive fiction program, Twine.Related:The professor who thinks video games will be the downfall of men | Pete EtchellsIf boys are in crisis, I don’t think they need their new interests to be blamed and vilified – they need what they’ve always needed: unconditional love and boundaries. Just like girls. Parents don’t need knee-jerk diatribes warning about some looming masculine armageddon – they need actual advice on managing new devices, and monitoring what their kids do. The odds have been stacked against women for so long, the mere idea that the scales may be tipping in their favour shouldn’t fill grown men with apocalyptic dread. Technology hasn’t sabotaged what it means to be male, but maybe it’s changing it, and we just have to deal with that.What we mustn’t do is retreat into the welcoming arms of fear, paranoia and revisionist fantasy. If games are becoming a problem then we, as parents, have got to measure game time against other activities like having a kickabout in the park; we’ve got to balance shooting games with creative ones; we’ve got to learn about how our children communicate and socialise online. It’s tough, sometimes really really tough, but technology isn’t going anywhere. Thinking about games purely as an alien presence in the home that has to be feared and curtailed is the wrong mindset. They can be joyful and educational, and in moderation, they will provide a lively venue for family communication – an excuse to chat. It is about involvement, like most other things in parenthood.Thinking about gamers as young boys lost and alone in their rooms is not only counter-productive and defeatist, it is also increasingly wrong. Good, positive things are already happening in games, they’ve been happening for years. Nobody needs another edifice of fear to gather around.
One in five people in the UK would never use their credit card online despite just under 70% of internet users saying they’re perfectly happy to give away their personal information, according to Ofcom.Over a quarter of those surveyed also said that they were unwilling to provide their mobile phone number online, but that they believed that giving away other personal information benefitted them in some way.The UK’s telecoms regulatorconducted a survey of 1,890 adultsover the age of 16 and found that the average weekly internet usage has doubled in under 10 years and that less are concerned about it now standing at 51% down from 70% in 2005.The survey also revealed that 60% of internet users felt they should be protected from inappropriate or offensive content, up nine percentage points in a year. One in five also felt concerned around fraud, security and privacy, where 28% were concerned by mobile apps.Internet usage by 16-24 year olds tripled from 10 hours 24 minutes a week in 2005 to 27 hours and 36 minutes in 2014, driven by the expansion of smartphones and tablets. And while 37% of adults say they would miss their TV the most if they had to give it up, 59% of 16-24 year olds said they would miss their mobile the most.Smartphones also became the dominant gaming platform with 26% of those surveyed playing games on their phones once a week versus 17% for games consoles and 15% for tablets. The number of people who regularly play games has also more than doubled from 10% in 2005 to 22% in 2014, which is good news for the games industry which was worth as much as £1.7bn in 2014,according to the innovation charity Nesta.•What do Periscope and Meerkat mean for broadcasting copyright?
Are smartwatch apps squeezed-down versions of smartphone apps, or more wrist-worn remote controls for the software running on the device in your pocket? Marco Arment thinks it’s the latter.Arment, who first came to prominence with read-it-later app Instapaper on iOS, is now focusing on his podcasts app Overcast, including its Apple Watch app. Which, just a few weeks after Apple’s smartwatch went on sale, has already been redesigned.“I originally designed the Apple Watch app for my podcast player, Overcast, with a scaled-down version of the iPhone app’s structure. This seemed like a sensible adaptation of my iOS app to the Apple Watch. In practice, it sucked,”wrote Arment in a blog postoutlining the lessons he’s learned so far.Why did Overcast’s app suck? Arment cites the load times of Apple’s WatchKit software as one reason, describing it as “frustratingly unreliable” when communicating with the parent iPhone over Bluetooth.“Apps or glances will sometimes just spin forever instead of loading, and even when everything’s working perfectly, apps still take so long to load and navigate that the watch’s screen often turns off before you’ve accomplished anything,” he wrote.The redesigned version of Overcast on Apple Watch focuses on its “now playing” screen, rather than mirroring the three-level navigation of its iOS version, with Arment advising developers not to underestimate the importance of the device’s glances interface, which people access by swiping up on its main watch face screen.Related:As Apple Watch launches, smartwatch app makers explore new interfaces“Trying to match the structure of the iOS app was a mistake. For most types of apps, the Apple Watch today is best thought of not as a platform toportyour app to, but a simple remote control or viewport into your iPhone app,” wrote Arment, whose blog has become an influential voice in the app development scene.“My initial app was easier to conceptualize and learn, and it closely matched the iOS app. But it just wasn’t very good in practice, and wasn’t usually better than taking out my phone ... It’s unwise and futile to try to shove iPhone interfaces and paradigms into the Apple Watch. Instead, design for what the Watch reallyis.”That’s a principle that applies to all smartwatches – Android Wear and Pebble models included. “The Watch seems to fit on a continuum somewhere between the iPhone and, say, a Bluetooth headset — part peripheral, part computer — and it will likely stay there,” he added.“Not every computing device should or will become a general-purpose platform.”
Spotify has hailed 2014 as a “transformative” year in which its annual revenues passed €1bn for the first time, but the music-streaming service’s growth came at a cost – a sharp increase in its net losses.The company’s financial results, published in Luxembourg and seen by the Guardian, reveal that its revenues increased from €746.9m (£537.87m) in 2013 to €1.08bn (£777m) in 2014 – year-on-year growth of 45%.However, Spotify recorded an operating loss of €165.1m (£119m) in 2014 compared to €91.2m (£65.7m) in 2013, while its net loss nearly trebled from €55.9m (£40.3m) in 2013 to €162.3m (£117m) in 2014.Related:Streaming music: what next for Apple, YouTube, Spotify… and musicians?In its management report accompanying the financials, directors Martin Lorentzon and Pär-Jorgen Pärson maintained an optimistic view on the sustainability of Spotify’s business.“We believe our model supports profitability at scale. We have already proven that we’ve created real value for our users, and we know that the more time people spend with our product, the more likely they are to become paying subscribers,” they wrote.“We believe we will generate substantial revenues as our reach expands, and that, at scale, our margins will improve. We will therefore continue to invest relentlessly in our product and marketing initiatives to accelerate reach.”Lorentzon and Pärson also had a note for the music labels and rivals like Apple that have been putting Spotify under pressure to abandon its unlimited, on-demand free tier, which three quarters of its 60 million users are on.“Subscription-only models have not yet proven scale and free user models, whilst scaling, have not proven a path to profitability. Spotify has the combined power of both,” they wrote, although Spotify has yet to prove it has found the latter path.The management report described 2014 as a “transformative year” for Spotify, as it grew from 36 million active users at the end of 2013 to 60 million a year later, including 15 million paying subscribers.2014 also saw Spotify launch in the Philippines, Brazil and Canada, taking its total of launched markets to 58. The company also signed partnership deals with 16 telecoms firms that year, as well as 30 home-audio firms to put its Spotify Connect technology in their devices.The financial results reveal that the 25% of Spotify users who pay for the service account for 91% of its income: the company made €982.9m (£709m) from subscriptions in 2014 and €98.8m (£71m) from advertising.Of that overall €1.08bn of revenues, €882.5m (£636m) was spent on royalties and distribution costs. Spotify’s average headcount increased from 958 in 2013 to 1,354 in 2014, with its personnel costs rising from €114m to €180.9m in that period.Related:Why are Apple's music streaming plans arousing the interest of regulators?Unsurprisingly, the financial results do not mention Spotify’s rumoured next move: an expansion into YouTube-style online video. The company is holding a press event on 20 May in New York, at which it is expected to announce its plans.The Wall Street Journal claimed thatpublisher Time Inc and multi-channel networks Tastemade, Maker Studios and Fullscreen were in talks with Spotifyto provide videos for the expansion, while the New York Timesadded broadcasters NBCUniversal, Fox and Viacom; publisher Condé Nast and Vice Mediato the list.Competing with YouTube and other online video firms will load more costs on to Spotify’s business model, although it will also bring new opportunities to make money from video advertising.The company recently raised $350m in new funding to fuel its expansion on both music and video fronts, inan investment round reportedly valuing Spotify at $8bn(£5.2bn).
Windows 10 will be the last major release of Microsoft’s venerable operating system, according to a development executive at the firm.Once the new version is released this summer, future updates will come in an “ongoing manner”, the company confirmed.Speaking at Microsoft’s Ignite conference in Chicago, developer evangelist Jerry Nixon said: “Right now we’re releasing Windows 10, and because Windows 10 is the last version of Windows, we’re all still working on Windows 10.”The future will be one of “Windows as a service”, with the final release of Windows 10 being updated as necessary, rather than holding features back for the next major paid-for update.“Recent comments at Ignite about Windows 10 are reflective of the way Windows will be delivered as a service, bringing new innovations and updates in an ongoing manner, with continuous value for our consumer and business customers,” the companytold the Verge in a statement.In the future, Windows could be updated more like Mac OS X, with small, free updates periodically, or even like Google’s Chrome browser, which updates almost weekly with barely any user intervention.But large feature additions will still come, even if the operating system name doesn’t change when they do. One of the flagship features of Windows 10 will be total unification between desktop and mobile operating systems, but – at least at launch – only desktop devices will actually be supported. Windows 10 on mobile devices, to say nothing of other supported platforms such as Xbox and HoloLens, will come some time later,the company says.
Anyone with a smartphone, the internet and an app can now broadcast live video to the world. But, while great for users is it a nightmare for content rights holders?Live video streaming is nothing new – services have been around since the early 2000s – butMeerkatandPeriscopehave made it easier to broadcast our lives on the go and shifted the appeal near to the mainstream. Ever since they launched, however, speculation has followed over the potential legal liability for content delivered on their platforms.These live streaming apps let users simply point their smartphones at whatever is happening in front of them, whether they own the rights or not, and broadcast it to a potential audience of hundreds of thousands now, millions in the future.Users Periscoping the royal birth.Photograph: Chris Jackson/Getty ImagesConcern has been raised, in particular, over large right holders such as sports broadcasters and Hollywood studios suing Periscope for users who film content direct from TV or events via their smartphone.Periscope was bought by Twitter in January this year for an undisclosed sum thought to be slightly less than $100m. Given Twitter has a market cap of over $24bn, and most of Periscope’s competitors are not much more than startups, it is Periscope that makes the most potentially lucrative target.How live is ‘live’?The key difference between services such as Google’s YouTube and the newer live-streaming apps is the live element. YouTube, for instance, automatically scans for copyrighted content in new uploads using Google’s “Content ID” system, while providing notification and takedown schemes under the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA).Twitter has had practice with similar issues with Vine. The looping video service drew the attention of the Premier League in the UK, which worked with the social network to develop an effective notification of infringement and takedown system. That same system could insulate Periscope.“Twitter, Meerkat or any other company hosting live streams from users [are] not in breach of copyright in the UK or US just because a user starts streaming copyrighted content such as a football match [by] pointing their phone at a TV broadcast,” explained Julian Moore, a head of broadcast and media rights with Pinsent Masons global sport practice. “They are only in breach if they effectively turn a blind eye to the stream, if they are made aware of it and don’t take measures to remove it.”Periscope’s terms of service specifically prohibit the broadcasting of copyrighted content without permission.A Periscope spokesperson told the Guardian: “Periscope operates in compliance with the DMCA, we respect intellectual property rights and are working to ensure there are robust tools in place to respond expeditiously.”Due to its live nature, it is unlikely to attract the ire of Hollywood – more concerned will be broadcasters of live events such as sports where their value is inherent to their timeliness.TV companies the world over pay exorbitant amounts for the rights to broadcast sporting events. Any attempt to circumvent of those rights is seen in a very dim light.The National Hockey League, which governs ice hockey in the US, has already specifically banned both Meerkat and Periscope including any live streaming up to 30 minutes before face off. The US Open golf tournament has taken similar steps.The MLB, however, has said it won’t stop fans using Periscope and Meerkat at games.Meanwhile the NBA and NFL have policies that restrict both reporters and fans live broadcasting footage of the game, the players or backstage action stamped on the back of press passes and tickets. Given broadcasters pay $4.95bn a year for the rights to the NFL alone there is certainly an emphasis from the sports leagues to protect that lucrative revenue stream.One place leagues and sports can’t stop users directly is in the home.The Mayweather-Pacquiao fight was one of the biggest pay-per-view events in history.Photograph: UPI /Landov / Barcroft Media/UPI /Landov / Barcroft MediaAfter seeing Periscope users broadcast the Game of Thrones season five premiere from their screens, HBO then saw an estimated 10,000 people watching the Mayweather-Pacquiao fightvia Periscopewithout paying.People who had paid their $100 for the pay-per-view event were streaming it straight from their TVs for others to watch. And while Twitter took down streams within minutes of being notified – it received 66 takedown requests and removed 30 streams, the company said – others cropped up in their stead.“Piracy does not excite us. Trust me, we respect intellectual property rights and had many people working hard to be responsive last night, including myself,” Periscope’s chief executive Kayvon Beykpour said after the fight.Sports leagues across America are watching the evolution of Periscope and its ilk closely, but seemingly no one wants to be the first to either ink deals with the new service or take action.“Besides protecting the broadcasting rights, most sports leagues want to make sure a service like Periscope isn’t building up its business on the back of their content,” said a national American sports league executive with direct knowledge of the matter. “Once they become established, who knows, maybe we’ll do a deal with them. Everybody’s waiting to see how everybody else reacts.”In the UK, any big rights battle is expected to be over Premier League football. Sky and BT paid £3bn between 2013 and 2016 for the rights to live games and have forked out a further £5.1bn for live games between 2016 and 2017. News International also owns the rights for clips of key moments worth £20m for three years, while the BBC owns the rights to highlights costing £180m until 2016 and a further £204m until 2019.However, the Premier League is purposefully quiet on copyright infringement, taking the view that they don’t want to treat fans like pirate enemies (something they have been accused of in the past), and have been working with third-parties including Net Result, Irdeto and ID Inquiries to shut down persistent and commercial copyright offenders.“The Premier League already works with Twitter over Vines, which are frequently used by users to show goals and key moments from games without permission. We work closely with Twitter and ISPs to take down pirated content as well as advising users that it is illegal to post such content,” said a Premier League spokesman. “Last season we successfully blocked 45,000 streams that were illegally showing Premier League footage, and successfully took legal action against certain websites, both in the English and overseas courts.”For now Periscope – and Meerkat – is in the clear. Whether that changes when the next NFL and Premier League seasons kick off remains to be seen.•The 10 types of people you will see on Twitter’s Periscope•Periscope delivers blow to pay-per-view in Mayweather v Pacquiao fight
The advent of freemium gaming has led inextricably to many a title being played at a snail pace, as users seek to avoid shelling out cash for in-game currency to speed up progress.Lifeline(£2.39, 3 minute games, iOS) may take its time to unravel – but here it is a deliberate gaming mechanic, not a cheap cash grab.A text-based piece of interactive fiction, it starts with a message from a stranded astronaut, Taylor. Anxious, fractious and sarcastic, crucially he feels like a real person as you are offered a selection of responses to help him as he tries to work out a way off the mysterious rock on to which his ship has crashed. Offer a gentle piece of sympathy, or give him firm encouragement to get on with the task at hand? Each option has definite consequences that drive the story forward in different directions. And there are hours between Taylor’s responses. He’ll pop off to investigate a crash site leaving you… well, just hanging on the end of your phone, waiting to see what he has found and how he’s coping.The story develops over at least three days – more if your responses to him aren’t instant – and once it’s completed you can hop back to different points to see what would have happened if you’d just sent him to look for survivors rather than focus on re-establishing contact with Earth. It’s engrossing fare, which encourages real empathy with a character conjured from nothing more than a few short text messages.
Cult Japanese developer Treasure is famed for the quality of its work, but all too often its releases have evaded the attention of the mainstream in the west. Of late, however, the studio’s work is enjoying a second coming. Last week Treasure’s 2D shooter masterpieceGradius Vwas a more than welcome arrival and nowSin and Punishment: Successor of the Skieshas been released for the Wii U, half a decade after it was a jewel in the crown of Nintendo’s previous console.The game itself is an arcade-inspired on-rails sci-fi shooter. While control over the lead character’s movement on a 2D plane is down to the player, motion through 3D space is automatic, providing a tour of a range of elaborate, meticulously presented set pieces. Showering bullets on to enemy hordes while evading attacks forms the game’s elegant core, but the simplicity here is not at the expense of depth.Successor of the Skiesdemands repeat plays. Back in 2010 the visuals and dialogue demonstrated a rough charm, but five years on that has faded a little. However, it is the gameplay that matters most and in that regardSin and Punishment’sreturn is a triumph.
It’s Monday again!
This sketchpad-themed brawleris centred on the concept that gathering up to four mates together for the purpose of slicing one another’s (virtual) heads off should be a communal event in a local multiplayer mode instead of an online one. Combat is zippy, with fighters harnessing a simple but effective triumvirate of weaponry: scissors, projectiles and ink bombs. This minimalism turns each match into a fierce battle of skill where speed and movement is key.Each player’s ability to invert their “personal gravity” also proves a vital tool in navigating the quirkily designed arenas. Playing against friends on the sofa may be almost archaic as far as premium games go, but this scrappy indie title proves there are still great times to be had gathered around a single screen. A slight sense of repetition across game modes isPaperbound’sonly failing.
This time last yearApple paid $3bn to acquire a company called Beatsthat made overpriced headphones and ran an unsuccessful music-streaming business. This acquisition made Beats co-founder Dr Dre the first hip-hop billionaire at the same time as it baffled many observers of the industry. For example,Benedict Evans, a seasoned analyst, tweeted: “If you think Apple’s lost it, Beats deal is confirmation. If you don’t, it’s… perplexing. Few really convincing rationales.” This columnist was likewise puzzled. Apple normally designs and makes its own kit, and if it wanted to do headphones it would certainly do better than the Beats products. So the conclusion had to be that if Apple didn’t want Beats for the headphones, it had to be the music-streaming service that it craved.And so it has proved. We have just discovered – in a roundabout way – just how much Apple wants to get into the streaming business. It turns out that two US federal agencies – the Department of Justice (DoJ) and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) – have been examining Apple’s business practices in relation to its forthcoming music-streaming service. The Verge, a well-known tech website, reported that Apple has been “pushing major music labels to force streaming services like Spotify to abandon their free tiers, which will dramatically reduce the competition for Apple’s upcoming offering”. DoJ officials had already interviewed senior music industry executives about Apple’s business practices, but it appears that the FTC (which oversees competition) has “taken the lead” in recent weeks.It also turns out that (according to the Verge) the DoJ has had a resident monitor based in Apple’s corporate HQ since the companywas found guilty in an ebook anti-trust casethat had alleged that the company had conspired with publishers to raise the price of ebooks to consumers. Apple was fined $450m and is appealing, so maybe the DoJ minder is hanging around just to ensure that there is no more hanky-panky.Are we surprised by this? Not really. Or at any rate, not as much as we would have been 15 years ago, when tech companies were really cool. We are now almost prepared to accept that the Apples, Googles, Facebooks and Microsofts of this world are really just behaving like the huge industrial conglomerates of the past. Of course they employ smarter people, pay them better, exude coolness, provide chic/funky work environments (free massage and sushi bars, anyone?). And they are led by executives who have good bedside manners. But at base they are just huge capitalist enterprises that exist to provide wealth for their leaders and shareholders. So the next time you see Jeff Bezos or Mark Zuckerberg, just remember that what you are looking at is John D Rockefeller v2.0.Apple’s and Google’s recent adventures suggest that regulators are beginning to see the light. In the United States the FTC and the Department of Justice flexed their muscles. The FTC eventually backed off from launching an anti-trust suit against Google but, as we’ve seen, Apple’s attempt to control ebook prices was successfully challenged. In Europe, the European Commission successfully prosecuted Microsoft for monopolistic abuses, and has now started to call Google to account. And the European Court of Justice stunned everybody with its decision that Europeans had a legal right to request that objectionable material about them published online should be expunged from Google’s search indexes within the 28 countries of the European Union.What was really intriguing about this so-called “right-to-be-forgotten case” was the company’s response. Having experienced some of that response in conversation with people “with knowledge of the matter” (as theWashington Postcoyly puts it), I saw a reaction that evolved through four distinct phases. The first was utter shock: nobody in Google or its extensive legal team expected the court to find against them, and so they were psychologically unprepared for it. The second was gibbering rage – how dare clueless European institutions try to impose antique laws on a progressive global company! The third phase was characterised by a kind of technocratic contempt: harassment of Google by European regulators and courts merely highlighted the extent to which Europeans were locked in the past and hostile to innovation. (Implication: Google = innovation.) And, then, finally, there was resigned acceptance followed by deployment of Google’s superb technical resources to invent an efficient way of complying with the ruling. To date, this system has dealt swiftly and efficiently with nearly a million requests/demands.All of which is good news for society, even if it’s a pain in the arse for the new masters of the technological universe. And the message for Silicon Valley is this: there is such a thing as society, and you need to play by its rules.
“What do you know about the controls of a car?” I ask my 13-year-old daughter Vita and her friend Mary. They look totally blank, as if I have asked a trick question. “How many foot pedals are there?” They roll their eyes at the sheer idiocy of being expected to know such a thing. “Come on,” I say, “this is hardlyJunior Mastermind. Any guesses?” Vita goes for a hesitant “Um, is it three, no four?” at which Mary bursts out laughing. She didn’t even know that there were pedals… I start to feel very sorry for their driving instructor.It’s still four years before the girls will be legally allowed to drive, but in a zoned-off corner of Bluewater’s enormous overflow car park, you’ll findYoung Driver. Set up in 2009, and now at 27 different venues across the UK, it’s a scheme that gives boys and girls aged between 11 and 17 years old the chance to learn to drive a car in a safe and totally secure location.Research has shown that one in five newly qualified drivers crash within six months of passing their test (I managed to crash within my first week – smashed into a parked car as I swerved nonchalantly into a petrol station). A more frightening statistic still is that one in five road deaths in the UK involve a newly qualified driver, while 17- to 24-year-olds are more likely to die in a road traffic accident than in any other way.Go girls: Mary and Vita read their drive diaries.Looking back, those years just after we pass our tests are probably among the most dangerous many of us will ever live through. It’s especially so for young men. Driving those rotten old cars at breakneck speed with all the swagger of Colin McRae, most of us had no idea how close to tragedy we often were. We were as arrogant as we were ignorant. It’s a miracle the casualty figures are not higher. However, developing road skills, experience and car familiarity at a young age has been shown to massively reduce these numbers. In Sweden, for instance, the accident rates have dropped by 40% since a minimum number of pre-test driving hours was introduced, whileAdmiralhas reported that drivers who have followed the Young Driver course are up to 50% less likely to crash in the first months after passing their test.The Bluewater centre has a fleet of 10 cars, all red or white dual-controlSkoda Citigos(so these cars have five foot pedals – it was a trick question after all). The area is about the size of two football pitches. There are cones and roundabouts, stop signs and parking spaces. The little Skodas feel their way tentatively about the various routes, each with a tiny driver at the wheel. Looking out at the action from the café that has been set up in a vintage double decker bus, it looks like some loopy upsidedown world where it’s the kids who drive and the hapless adults who sit moaning in the back.As the lessons take place on private property, the rules are much more flexible than on the road. At four of its venues, Young Driver also runs specially adapted vehicles to give people with a wide range of disabilities a shot behind the wheel. They have even helped some blind people experience what it is like to control a car.Now, those are the pedals: instructor Gary patiently talks Mary through her foot controls.We have been assigned an instructor named Gary. He is clearly one of the most patient men on the planet. “I used to work in the city,” he tells me. “But this is much less stressful!” I’m not so sure. All around us, cars stall and swerve around the course. Vita takes the wheel first while Mary and I squeeze into the back. Gary has given them each a Drive Diary to record their progress. The course has six levels and each takes about an hour to master. They start with the basics – pre-drive checks, moving away and stopping – and end with overtaking, parallel parking and manoeuvring in confined spaces. After which the plan is you’ll be able to make the most of your real-world driving lessons.Gary starts by asking them to adjust the mirror and the seat. Mary needs a cushion so she can actually see over the wheel – there is a height limit of 4ft 8in which she just creeps over. “There are three pedals,” he says, “ABC – which stands for Accelerator, Brake, Clutch.” (How can I never have realised that?) “The clutch is the only one that goes right to the bottom,” he says. “The other two you have to press very, very gently…” All the emphasis is on control and responsibilty. Boy racers and speed queens are not tolerated. Gary goes on to explain the 10 to 2 position, how they should feed the wheel between their fingers “like a piece of rope”, what the biting point is… I’ve never seen the girls concentrate so hard. Driving is an adult world and they seem to sense they need to be grown-up to be in it.Gary asks Vita to lift her left foot slowly and feel for the biting point and we all sit concentrating like crazy, Mary and I holding our breath in the back. The car judders a fraction. “There it is,” says Gary and Vita grins as if she is a bomb disposal expert who’s just snipped the right wire with a steady hand. The Skoda starts to move. We must be doing, oh, 10mph. Go left, go right, stop here… Check your mirrors. She stalls just once and Gary tells her she needs to work on her “lane discipline”, but otherwise is very pleased with her.Which end is the front again?: Vita and Mary make themselves familiar with the Skoda.Vita is driving and I am sitting in the back: it’s a weird role reversal. I start to think of my grandfather. He didn’t learn to drive until he was in his mid-50s. One of the things he found hardest was keeping the car in a straight line – actually he seemed to find most things about driving quite hard. The rain drifts in, the white cliffs around the shopping mall turn grey. Up there in the old quarry walls there is, I’m told, a pair of nesting peregrine falcons. I scan the horizon, but don’t spot them.After just 30 minutes Vita has experienced starting, driving, braking, cornering, changing gear and even reversing. I keep thinking of my own driving instructor. By coincidence he was also called Gary. His car was a Nissan Micra and always smelled powerfully of peach air freshener. A whiff of it takes me back even now.Mary and Vita swap seats. Vita has occasionally driven a car. She’s sat on my lap as we have circled a deserted field, but Mary has never even sat in the driver’s seat, never curled her fingers round a steering wheel. After running through the checks with Gary, Mary lifts her foot and feels for that biting point. Slowly, very slowly we inch forward. No jumps no hops, she touches the accelerator and we ease off down the road. These are the first yards of her driving career. And I think of all the miles and journeys these two girls will travel in the years ahead. Safely, I hope.For more information on Young Driver, go toyoungdriver.eu. Lessons can be booked online and cost from £34.95Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166Follow the Observer Magazine on Twitter@ObsMagazine
Like every Uber executive trying to get the $41bn online car-sharing service established in cities around the world, the head of Uber in Italy has faced plenty of resistance as she takes on powerful established interests.Uber faces regulatory opposition in many places – authorities in the Chinese city of Chengdupaid a visit to Uber’s officeslast week as part of an ongoing investigation; and the service has beenbanned in the US state of Kansas– but in Italy, the battle has become personal.Benedetta Arese Lucini, 31, has been the subject of asteady stream of harassmentfrom people staunchly opposed to the private taxi service in Milan, where Uber has its Italian headquarters. In February, a sign accusing Arese Lucini of being a prostitute was displayed near her house. She has had eggs thrown at her, and posters with the words “I steal” printed over her face have been plastered around taxi stands.Posters with the words ‘I steal’ printed across Arese Lucini’s face have been plastered around Milan’s taxi standsHer open-plan office, in a former photography studio in a trendy district of Milan, is entirely unmarked from the outside, and nearly impossible to find.“It’s like that on purpose,” she said. “We try to avoid too many people knowing where we are.”It is not just Arese Lucini who has been targeted. Her marketing managers are insulted on Twitter every day, she says, and there’s a worrying sense of “private justice” pervasive among people in the taxi industry.They are staunchly opposed to Uber, an app-based service that allows people to locate the closest available car on their smartphone and book a ride after agreeing a set fare. Protests and regulatory interventions against Uber around the world have focused on allegations that it is, in effect, an unregulated taxi service.Referring to her opponents in Milan, Arese Lucini says: “On their side, they don’t feel like the government is doing enough for them. It’s not a healthy environment.”She adds that Travis Kalanick, the San Francisco-based chief executive of Uber, “knows that I am fierce. But he is very clear about the fact that people come first.”Uber in use in Barcelona, Spain.Photograph: David Ramos/Getty ImagesThis was supposed to be Uber’s year in Europe. Having faced resistance in cities across the EU,Kalanick declared in January that he wanted to focus on forging “new partnerships” in European cities, and promised that the expansion of theprivate companycould eventually create 50,000 jobs.Since then, Uber has become the subject of acriminal investigation in the Netherlandsand an injunction in Geneva, where it was accused of operating as an illegal taxi service. But the company – which prefers to call itself a ride-sharing service – is fighting back: it recently made a complaint to the European commission over the banning of its peer-to-peer unlicensed services in Germany, France and Spain.In Italy, Uber operates in a grey zone – not quite illegal, but not quite condoned by the law, either.“There has been no single, centralised pronouncement on Uber,” said Carlo Alberto Carnevale Maffè, a business professor at the Bocconi school of management in Milan. “We have political positions and several contradictory interpretations of the law. There is no jurisprudence.”The company’s challenges here are the same as those facing any innovative group in Italy: deeply entrenched regional and local interests, a painstakingly slow-moving judicial system, stodgy bureaucracy and a general resistance to change.Uber argues it is different from public taxi services in that it only gives rides to people who book through its appArese Lucini sees herself as part of a new guard trying to shake things up, much as Italy’s 40-year-old prime minister, Matteo Renzi, has sought to foster his image of an agent of change.Uber’s biggest obstacle in Italy at the moment is a 1992 law that, among other things, puts severe restrictions on taxi and limo services by limiting the number of licences that are available for drivers in any given city. Although there have been attempts to deregulate the system in the past, none has succeeded.For now, Uber is arguing – mostly with success – that it is different from public taxi services because it is discriminating about its users – in that it only gives rides to people who book through its smartphone app.Changes to the 1992 law are being debated, and Arese Lucini hopes it will recognise that Uber as a private alternative to public transport.In the immediate future, she is focusing on this summer’s Expo world fair in Milan and the partnership she has forged with the US delegation. Uber has promised Expo guests free rides. She says she is excited by the opportunity, though it is clear she had hoped for much more.If Arese Lucini had it her way, the Expo – which is expected to attract 20 million people over the next six months – would have been a grand coming-out party for Uber, and the city of Milan would have promoted it as an alternative to public transport.“I was hoping the pressure of the numbers of people and foreign visitors would have encouraged a bit more openness,” she says. “We’re not there yet.”Cities where Uber has run into troubleBlack cab and licensed taxi drivers protest against Uber on The Mall, London.Photograph: Gareth Fuller/PALondonTaxi drivers in London argue that Uber is an unlicensed taxi service, and up to5,000 black cab drivers blockaded London’s city centrein a protest last year.ParisLast monthFrench police raided Uber’s officesand confiscated 1,200 mobile phones, computers and documents as part of an investigation into the uberPOP service, which connects private drivers with passengers, and use of customer data.AmsterdamUber drivers have been blocked in by taxi drivers and one reported having his tyres slashed. A Dutch court banned peer-to-peer service uberPOP in December and some unlicensed drivers have since been fined.MadridAfter the Madrid taxi association complained about Uber, a judge ordered the company to stop operating in Spain because drivers were unauthorised and taking part in unfair competition.BrusselsUber is illegal in Brussels, and some of its drivers claim their cars have been vandalised. Brussels has announced plans to legalise Uber next year, but under strict regulation.ChengduFollowing raids in Guangzhou, Chinese police have visited Uber offices in Chengdu in a widening investigation into the company’s operations in China, where authorities have banned drivers of private cars from offering app-based services.MontrealThe Canadian province of Quebec and its largest city regard Uber’s service as illegal and in a crackdown the city’s taxi bureau seized 40 cars from drivers in the past few weeks.DelhiThe Indian capital banned Uber in December after a woman said she was raped by one of the company’s drivers. But Delhi’s transport department has complained that Uber is still operating despite the ban.SydneyUber made itself unpopular when it increased fares during the ​2014 ​Sydney hostage crisis last year. The New South Wales government declared Uber’s service illegal last year.KansasUber shut down Uber’s service in Kansas last week after state lawmakers voted through legislation that would force the company to do background checks on all its drivers and carry additional car insurance.
Like some kind of essence-of-hot-hatch, thePeugeot 208 GTihas everything that is good about a small, poky motor, and everything bad, in amplified amounts. Almost nothing troubles this 1.6L petrol engine. It’s extremely responsive, and with a 0 to 62mph of 6.5 seconds, is not one of those little noise buckets that is all gong and no dinner.I can well imagine it being the cardu choixof one of those young men who ferries all his friends about on a Saturday night because he prefers driving to drinking. It would also make a good getaway vehicle, apart from its flamboyant pearlised exterior, and the quite flashy cabin – red trim, executive seats, dinky touchscreen – which might distract said person from getting away. The steering is springy and headstrong; it’s a bit of a surprise when you nudge it and it doesn’t take any notice. I’m pretty confident that you’d make your own mental adjustment to that after a while. The Torsen differential delivers torque to the front wheel with the most traction, which is really fun on a corner and probably even more fun in tricky conditions, though I found no ice in Sussex. The brakes are dependable, but when you hit them hard, the back feels a bit bouncy. There are people who would enjoy this. I’m not one of them.Downsides: it rattles at speed. One time, it was so noisy that I couldn’t hear the satnav – which, otherwise, was speedy and intuitive. The suspension is incredibly hard, and the ride is bumpy. The mister said that if I took a sleeping policeman at that speed again, I’d be looking for a new husband, and I asked him if he was using his libido as a weapon. He said he wasn’t talking about his libido, but his actual testicles, and then the seven-year-old said “What’s libido?” and the five-year-old said “What are testicles?” I realised they never sincerely want to know the meaning of any words, it’s all just an elaborate double-handed mockery.Emissions have been pared right down; they’re still not perfect, but it’s hard to see how they could have been brought any lower without that being the specific raison d’être of the car. Fuel economy is also pretty good; the combined economy as advertised is 52.3mpg. I imagine you can put a dent in that with your driving style, if you are constantly over-revving for a laugh. So don’t do that, OK? It’s not big, and it’s not clever. This car, meanwhile, is not big either, but it has a native, superficially retro, deep-down forward-thinking intelligence that I think will take it pretty far.Peugeot 208 GTi: in numbersPrice£21,995 OTRTop speed143mphAcceleration0-62mph in 6.5 secondsCombined fuel consumption52.3mpgCO2 emissions125g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating7/10
It turns out that theft is taken extremely seriously in the online fantasy role-playing game, Guild Wars 2. The penalty is humiliation and then death.This week, a player named DarkSide was caught using a cheat program to teleport into buildings, kill powerful characters and make off with all the loot. When other players complained, some of them capturing video of the crime taking place, developer ArenaNet stepped in. Security lead Chris Cleary took control of the character in-game, stripped off all its valuable armour and then forced the avatar to run off a bridge, plunging to its digital demise. The player was then banned.Conversing with the accusers on the game’s online forum,Cleary wrote: “We don’t need to see it in-game, sometimes good video evidence is enough for me to track down who it was. In this case, the video was enough for me to find out who it was and take action.”In the video, the character is seen having his floor-length coat and attractive yellow hat removed, before he walks to the edge of a stone bridge. He then waves and throws himself off.Other players later expressed themselves satisfied that justice had been done, with one forum user commenting: “That’s pretty gangster.”It’s common for developers to closely monitor online game servers for players who use hacks, third-party tools or exploits to cheat the system. Usually, they are simply banned, but sometimes more drastic action is taken to make an example of the perpetrator.Earlier this year, Grand Theft Auto publisher Rockstar found that some players of GTA V were exploiting a bug that allowed them to access a powerful vehicle in the online multiplayer mode that was only supposed to be available in the single-player campaign. The studio thenpatched the gameso that the car would explode if used online.There are of course moral questions surrounding the use of humiliation and “execution” as a form of public punishment within virtual environments. Despite this – or perhaps because of it – the video of DarkSide’s demise has already been viewed by over 300,000 people, hungry for a peculiar display of gaming justice.
Ericsson has brought its fight with Apple over licensing to Europe, launching new lawsuits in the UK, Germany and the Netherlands.The two companies arelocked in battle in the US, where Ericsson is seeking to block the sale of Apple’s iPhone and iPad over alleged patent infringement after licensing agreements expired.The Swedish telecoms pioneer said it had offered to enter into arbitration with Apple to reach a global licensing agreement for its patents, but that offer had now expired.“Apple continues to profit from Ericsson’s technology without having a valid licence in place,” said Kasim Alfalahi, chief intellectual property officer for Ericsson.“Our technology is used in many features and functionalities of today’s communication devices. We are confident the courts in Germany, the UK and the Netherlands will be able to help us resolve this matter in a fair manner.”The new and existing lawsuits relate to 2G, 3G and 4G patents, as well as other wireless communications systems, TV streaming and access to apps on phones.The spat over patents arose when Apple’s licence agreement with Ericsson expired in mid-January. Renewal talks stalled leading to lawsuits from both companies.Analysts have predicted it could cost Apple between $250m and $750m annually should the courts side with Ericsson over whether Ericsson’s patent royalty demands were fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory given the fundamental nature of the technology for mobile devices.Ericsson’s 35,000-plus intellectual property portfolio was estimated to be worth $1.18bn in 2014. The company has over 100 patent licensing agreements with mobile technology companies and is the largest manufacturer of network equipment.Last year, Samsung agreed to pay Ericsson $650m along with years of royalties to end a licence dispute.Apple declined to comment.•Why are Apple’s music streaming plans arousing the interest of regulators?
The final round of downloadable content for Mario Kart 8, Nintendo’s brilliant cartoon racing game, contains new racers including a skeletal Bowser and characters from placid town-building game Animal Crossing. It also comes with four tracks, two of which are culled from past Mario Kart outings and two new. Wild Woods sees you racing around a vast tree with gravity-taunting vertical sections, but the star of the show is the Animal Crossing-themed course, which randomly appears in one of four different seasons, changing details on and off the track. A sizeable chunk of new content, this pack conforms to Nintendo’s peerless levels of polish and panache. Another update to the game is available free, and adds a feverishly fast 200cc mode, providing a challenge for players who find the 150cc cups too easy. A generous package, breathing new life into a game rightly hailed as a good reason to buy a Wii U, and among the finest offline multiplayers ever invented by humans.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKProject CARS, PS4, Xbox One, Wii U &amp; PCProject CARSLike GRID Autosport and the TOCA series before it, Project CARS is a stickler for realism. A “community assisted racing simulator”, it’s authentic good fun, eschewing frippery like rewinding time after you flub a corner. It also gets cross with you for cutting chicanes and using other cars as informal crash barriers. In return, we get staggeringly beautiful recreations of the world’s racing tracks, and vehicles ranging from lowly go-karts to modern Formula One cars. It’s worth working your way up from humble beginnings, because jumping straight behind the wheel of an Aston Martin will see you losing control like a drunken amateur, the light touch needed for steering and acceleration earned through painstaking hours. Unlike its peers, CARS gives you access to all its cars and tracks straight away, letting race wins stand on the satisfaction of driving well rather than the hackneyed industry standard of drip-feeding new content. Sadly, though, technical difficulties abound, from your car failing to respond to controls to races where there are no sound effects. Most can be overcome by simply restarting, but it’s disappointing how often you’ll need to do that.Bandai Namco, £36.99-£42.99Broken Age: The Complete Adventure, PS4 &amp; PS VitaBroken AgeKickstarter-funded adventure Broken Age told two stories in old-school “point and click” style: one about a boy stuck on a spaceship with an overbearingly maternal AI, the other featuring a girl about to take part in a ritual called the Maiden’s Feast in which she gets fed to a monster. The Complete Adventure adds a closing act in which the children swap places, the girl stranded in deep space and the boy preparing to be monster food. It’s saved the developer from having to draw new locations, but it makes for a less visually interesting conclusion. The puzzles in the second half are more complicated and numerous, but new baddies are a letdown, even though the quality of script and voice acting remain excellent throughout. Aimed at older children and young adults, its themes of rebelling against authority and the rocky transition to adulthood are tackled with gentle humour and many movie references. It’s witty and engaging but not masterpiece material.Double Fine, £18.99
Just 6.4% of players who have bought role-playing adventure Pillars of Eternity have actually completed it, according to the PC gaming service, Steam. This critically acclaimed throwback to genre classics like Baldur’s Gate and Icewind Dale returns us to a period in which playing games was a much more demanding experience. I finished Pillars of Eternity a few weeks ago and the experience has left me crushed.Does it matter that people don’t finish games anymore? Because they do not. Apparently only15% finished Alien Isolation. Deus Ex: Human revolution stands at about 25%, while Bioshock manages a more respectable 35.9%. With Bungie’s online shooter Destiny, there’s a large percentage who have never actually played the game co-operatively, or seen the end game content – and only 15% have completed a raid.Of course, measuring all of this is difficult as the figures shift according to genre and the meaning of the term “finishing a game”. With Pillars of Eternity, a workable definition is completing the core narrative in a single-player campaign and receiving an achievement. A month after release, most people haven’t done that – and that is hardly surprising.Finishing a long RPG can be a commitment that means ignoring new releases, other ways to spend your free time (including the myriad gadgets and social media sites competing for our attention), and indeed, ignoring the rest of life altogether. With 100-plus hours of content, Pillars of Eternity is a major commitment.It is, in some ways, a sort of oddity in a world that tends to converge on a game for a few days before leaving it for the next big title. Pillars of Eternity is built around a vast and amazing core narrative, complete with fascinating side-quests. You’re at your leisure to complete the main campaign – or you can just murder key NPCs and see where that takes you (although unlike other old-time RPGs such as Morrowind you can’t carry on down your merry murderous path forever).It’s the stories that make it so brilliantly engrossing, though – yet those final moments that lead to a personalised conclusion based on the actions and decisions you inflict on the world, are seen by so few.Characters v storyLet’s consider Divinity: Original Sin, an RPG that looks similar to Pillars of Eternity but shares little else. The story tone is different and the combat is turn-based. Despite being released last year, only 5.6% of Steam players have fully completed the game. Again, as an RPG this is a game built around a story with narrative threads that eventually need to be sewn together. But if only 5.6% of people actually see the end, does that mean role-playing titles are actually more about their character levelling and progression mechanics than the actual story?Rather than reaching the end of narrative decision-trees that have been built up throughout the story or witnessing the journeys that allied NPCs make as you drag them on your character’s own vain quests, will most players just focus on slaughtering NPCs for XP then gathering up loot?I loved Baldur’s Gate and I love Pillars of Eternity, but I had to make time in my diary and force myself to keep going to finish it. As a player, I want to see every possible outcome, every dialogue reaction to a situation that departs from the standard “good hero fights evil villain” narrative, every subquest that nudges you into a morally ambiguous act.This is not the game’s fault; it is mine and it means finishing a game like Pillars of Eternity takes a lot of time. It is also mentally taxing: Pillars of Eternity uses exquisite dialogue and written cues to show how characters react, which means the player has to use his or her imagination to “see” most of the game. That is not something most gamers are used to these days.Games spell things out for us now. Even in a title as detailed and character driven as Dragon Age: Inquisition I’ll see a villain doing villainous things as they spout villainous words because they’re a villain and that’s what villains do. I don’t have to use my imagination to see the subtext behind their actions, to gauge why what they’re doing matters to them.‘Leap of faith’Most modern games don’t ask the player to interpret the wry smile on another character’s face. The narratives are built on enjoyment and, as games are chiefly meant for recreation rather than as a test of emotional intelligence, there’s nothing wrong with that. Old-time RPGs did not adhere to that idea: back then, “fun” was what you made it and you were not guaranteed to have any.If you want enjoyment out of the genre classics, you have to commit to the world that the game presents to you; it’s a leap of faith. And given the difficulty of grasping Advanced Dungeons &amp; Dragons mechanics in a game like Baldur’s Gate, for example, you’re not always guaranteed to land in a wagon of hay.There is a point in Pillars of Eternity where you’re given the option to fight an insanely difficult battle, or to make a morally dubious decision, avoid the fight and still get what you want. Normally I’d save a file, follow one decision tree and then go back and follow another. But I was too tired for another difficult fight by this point in the game and I enjoyed the outcome of my decision so much I just accepted it. I’m fairly sure I know the outcome of what would have happened if I’d have fought, but at the same time I don’t really know.Maybe knowing and seeing everything are less important these days; maybe we are different now. But I don’t regret chasing Pillars of Eternity to its end – even if it did take forever.
Google is expected to bring Android into line with Apple iOS on user privacy, with version “M” due forrelease later this month, giving control of app data back to the users.Android will include detailed control over personal data, such as phone numbers, location, names and addresses, and whether apps can access some or none or all of it, according to aBloomberg report.Apps installed on Android request permission to access various features and data of a mobile device, but a user can either accept all permission requests and install the app, or reject them and prevent the app from installing.There is no middle ground and users cannot revoke permissions after the fact.The return of AppOpsA hidden system of app permissions control called “AppOps” was implemented by Google with Android 4.3 Jelly Bean, accessible only by using a third-party application. The feature was said to be exposed in error andwas removedin the next Android update to version 4.4 KitKat.Third-party customised versions of Android – including Cyanogen, which shipped on the OnePlus One – allow users to control the types of data accessible to installed apps outside of the standard Android permissions.Apple’s iOS has a similar system, where installed apps must ask permission to access data, such as location, the first time it is required. Users can approve the request once or forever, or deny it.The issue with specifying permission to access certain data on Android is that apps often crash when they are denied access. Developers are likely to need to update their apps to handle the exceptions caused by data requests being blocked.Several developer conference sessions at Google I/O in San Francisco later this month suggest that user permissions could be key to Android M, including a new system of website permissions.Key to a new permission system will be protecting users from permission-request overload to avoid a scenario that is present in user agreements, where most users blindly say yes without reading what they are agreeing to.•Free Android apps connect to thousands of tracking and ad URLs, research shows•The next version of Android is on its way. But what will it be called?
Technology firm Fitbit is taking advantage of the rapidly expanding market for connected health and fitness by launching its business on the New York Stock Exchange, it announced on Thursday night.Planning to sell shares worth up to $100m (£64m), the San Francisco-based fitness band maker will list its shares on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “FIT”.Fitbit was founded in 2007 by James Park, its chief executive, and his business partner Eric Friedman.It claims to have pioneered the connected health and fitness market in addition to being the leader in the US fitness tracker market, with a 68% share, according to figures from the NPD Group.Related:Best fitness trackers to help get fitter in 2015The company sold 10.9m devices last year and reported revenues of $745.4m in 2014 – almost three times the total for the previous year. For the first quarter of 2015, revenue more than trebled to $336.8m.Fitbit’s entry-level Zip tracker costs $59.95, or £39.99 in the UK, while at the other end of the range its Surge “super watch” costs $249.95, or £199.99.Net profit came in at $131.8m for 2014 and $48m for the first quarter.The company, which has made considerable inroads into the corporate wellness market, said it has 9.5m active paid users as of 31 March.IBISWorld estimated that the US corporate wellness industry will be worth $10.4bn in 2018, up from $7.4bn last year.Fitbit’s strategy for growth is based on continuing to introduce innovative products with new features and services, as well as making further inroads into the corporate wellness market.In its filing, the company acknowledged that it operated in a “highly competitive market” and cites the Apple Watch as one possible threat, along with products from competitors including Garmin, Jawbone and Misfit.The company valued itself at about $1.2bn in March, according to the Wall Street Journal.It has raised more than $80m from investors, including venture capital firm Foundry Group, which is the largest stakeholder in Fitbit with a 28.9% stake.
Dating app Tinder has rejected research that estimated that42% of its users are either married or in a relationship.A spokesman told the Guardian that the figures by GlobalWebIndex strongly contradicted its own internal numbers, and criticised the methodology of the survey.“The results of this tiny, 681 person study in the UK is a totally inaccurate depiction of Tinder’s user base – this firm is making guesses without having any access to real data on our millions of users worldwide,” said the spokesperson.The single largest age group on Tinder, making up more than half of our entire user base, is 18-24. More than 93% of UK residents in that age range have never been married, according to the UK’s office of National Statistics.Without revealing any data about our users, simple logic should reveal that it’s essentially impossible for any of these claims to be accurate. Their methodology seems severely and fundamentally flawed.”GWI’s report claimed that 38% of Tinder’s users were aged between 16 and 24, while another 45% were aged between 25 and 34. It also suggested that 30% of Tinder users that it surveyed were married, while another 12% were in a relationship.Is it “essentially impossible” for GWI’s claims to be accurate? If 30% of Tinder users were married, it is theoretically possible for them to fall into the nearly half of the app’s users that are older than 24, by Tinder’s own figures.This, however, would indicate that nearly 60% of Tinder’s over 24-year-old users are married, which seems unlikely. It is unclear whether Tinder’s “user base” figures refer to active or registered users, which may also have an impact on the data.GlobalWebIndex has defended its methodology, in its own statement provided to the Guardian.“GlobalWebIndex data is based on interviews with a panel of more than 170,000 internet users worldwide, the largest on-going study into the digital consumer - it’s not guesswork, and not just the UK, as Tinder has suggested,” said GWI’s spokesperson.“Our Tinder findings came from a recent study of 47,622 internet users aged 16-64 across 33 countries.Reference to ONS marital data is irrelevant, and of the 621 who say they use Tinder, almost all are from the 16-34 age group. Tinder’s assertion that our methodology is severely and fundamentally flawed is simply not correct.We only publish statistically robust numbers, and self-reported survey data is widely recognised as an effective way of understanding consumer behaviour.”Related:Tinder: the 'painfully honest' dating app with wider social ambitionsThe new statement from Tinder follows its separate rebuttal to the original report, when another spokesperson told the Guardian that “those statistics are completely inaccurate. I’m not sure how they sampled that specific group of people, but it does not represent Tinder’s user base”.“More than 50% of Tinder’s userbase is age 18-24. And altogether, 85% of our users are age 18-34.” A statement that was not so out of kilter with GWI’s claim that 83% of Tinder users are aged between 16 and 34.It’s the image of Tinder as a hookup app for people who already have partners that appears to be most concerning the company, however.Throughout its history, Tinder has maintained that it is not just for arranging sex – or even for dating – preferring to pitch itself as “a social network” that people use for platonic reasons too.
Oh dear...
The rules of lazy journalism dictate that Apple’s upcoming relaunch of itsBeats Musicstreaming service be referred to as a “Spotify killer”. But the company’s reportedly murderous intentions towards that rival may be landing it in hot water with regulators.The European commission, US Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission are all reportedly asking questions about Apple’s plans for the relaunch, which is expected to be announced during the keynote at itsworldwide developers conference(WWDC) event on 8 June.Like Spotify, it will be an “on-demand” streaming music service – you play whatever you like from its catalogue in whatever order you want – although in Apple’s case it’s likely to be subscription-only rather than also having a Spotify-style free version funded by advertising.Apple has been preparing for the relaunch for some time: it first got into streaming music in 2013 withiTunes Radio, a non-on-demand service, and thenbought Beats Music’s parent company Beats Electronicsfor $3bn (£1.9bn) the following year.It has sincepoached BBC Radio 1 DJ Zane Loweto work on the latter’s relaunch, while negotiating with music labels and publishers for the necessary licensing deals, andbuying the startup behind music analytics startup MusicMetric. The relaunch is expected to ditch the Beats Music brand in favour of iTunes.Why are regulators getting involved, though? Here’s a primer on the issues that the EC, DoJ and FTC are likely to be poking their noses into.Who is investigating Apple?In April, the New York Post reported thatthe European commission on competition has sent questionnaires to several labels and rival streaming servicesasking them for details about Apple’s plans, and existing relationships between labels and rivals.Related:Apple's plan to beat Spotify: push Beats to every iPhone and iPad“There is concern in the industry that Apple, with its enormous market share and distribution power and what it can do in terms of pricing and promotion can have an unfair competitive advantage,” claimed one of the Post’s sources.Early in May,technology site The Verge claimedthat the US Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission were both “looking closely into Apple’s business practices” around streaming music, suggesting that interviews with music industry executives were already underway.“Apple has been using its considerable power in the music industry to stop the music labels from renewing Spotify’s license to stream music through its free tier,” claimed its report, which also alleged that Apple had offered to pay major label Universal Music a fee “if the label stopped allowing its songs on YouTube”.Most recently,Bloomberg published a similar reportfocusing on the FTC’s investigation “looking at whether Apple is using its position as the largest seller of music downloads through its iTunes store to put rival music services like Spotify Ltd. at a disadvantage”.80% of Spotify’s paying subscribers started off as free users.Photograph: DADO RUVIC/REUTERSWhat are the complaints?Broadly speaking, there are three main issues that the regulators are thought to be looking at. First: the question of whether it is persuading music labels to cripple the business model of Spotify specifically, by restricting or even removing its free, on-demand tier.Cripple? Yes. Spotify currently has 60m active users, including 15mi paying subscribers – and it has said publicly that80% of the latter started off as free users. If its free tier goes, so does its main funnel for paying customers, meaning it will have to find a new strategy just as its biggest rival yet launches.Related:Could Apple's iTunes add 75m paying subscribers to music streaming market?What’s the obvious alternative to a free, on-demand tier as a way to get people to pay for streaming music? Preloading an app on hundreds of millions of smartphones with a free trial, and an easy way to pay when it ends.The company in prime position to do thatcertainly isn’t Spotify.The second area for investigation concerns exclusivity: reports that Apple is in talks with a number of major musicians to make their new music exclusive to its service, and thus not available on Spotify and other rivals – for a time, at least.The third area concerns Apple’s App Store. Afollow-up report from The Vergenoted that those rivals allow their iOS users to pay for their monthly subscriptions as in-app purchases – which under Apple’s rules, mean it takes a 30% share of the payments.That, in turn, means the streaming services either have to raise their monthly price (for example from $9.99 to $12.99) to make the same money from an iOS subscriber, or put up with Apple’s share. As an in-house service relaunched Beats Music will face no such dilemma.“I get that there’s some administrative burden so they should get some kind of fee, but 30% is fucking bullshit,” one source told the site. “They control iOS to give themselves a price advantage,” added another.Spotify is one of the App Store’s biggest moneymakers.Is Apple being anti-competition?Without pre-empting the various regulators’ investigations, it’s safe to say that this is a complicated question.For example, there’s the question of whether Apple is a dominant market player – because iTunes accounted for nearly two thirds of global music download sales for much of its history – or an underdog new entrant because Beats Music is a minnow in the streaming market.Related:Trent Reznor to be 'point man' for iTunes relaunchA minnow?A recent survey by research firm ParkDataclaimed that it’s used by just 0.7% of iOS users and 0.6% of Android users in the US, compared to 10.7% and 7.1% respectively for Spotify. The latter is Goliath to Apple’s David in terms of streaming market share, albeit a Goliath whose business relies quite a lot on David’s mobile device and app store ecosystem.(Yes, the Goliath and David metaphor starts sounding silly once we get into geekspeak territory.)In its defence, Apple is likely to point to the competitive nature of the streaming world, where Spotify, Deezer, Rhapsody, Rdio, Tidal and other services are already duking it out – including signing up lots of their users on iOS.It will also surely point regulators towards Google, YouTube and Android. Withmore than 1bn active users, the latter is a bigger platform than iOS, and just as important to the businesses of Beats Music’s rivals.Meanwhile, the Google Play and YouTube Music Key streaming services have the potential to emerge as big rivals to Apple’s service. Apple might also point to personal radio service Pandora, which despite predictions in 2013 of iTunes Radio being a “Pandora killer”, remains resolutely un-killed.Is Apple encouraging labels to hamstring Spotify, or simply indulging in (competitive) hard-nosed promotion of its own business model of paid subscriptions over free streams?That depends on who said what to whom. If regulators dig into this publicly – and especially if there are any allegations of collusion between major labels (which, as yet, there are not) – it will befascinating.On exclusivity, it is harder to see a strong case against Apple. Exclusives have been happening in the downloads world for some time – the Beatles on iTunes for example – while Spotify (with Metallica) and Google Play (with Take That) have struck similar deals of their own, for varying lengths of time.Exclusivity is also common in other areas like online TV, where a certain show might only be available on Netflix, Amazon Prime or Hulu. Short of a smoking gun showing Apple demanding albums be kept off a specific rival like Spotify, exclusives are unlikely to be a major anticompetition issue.The App Store? There may be more juice here. In fact, the question of forcing rivals to use Apple’s own in-app purchases system has cropped up before in 2011, when Amazon and other ebook sellers wereforced to remove links to their stores from their iOS apps, if they were not prepared to use Apple’s in-app purchases.Expect Spotify and its rivals to be carefully monitoring Apple’s stewardship of its App Store in the months ahead, especially if they see changes that seem to penalise them at the expense of Beats Music – for example, giving the latter access to software or hardware features that their apps cannot use.They may also press to be allowed to link from within their iOS apps to their websites to take subscription payments directly – a solution that seems more likely than Apple relenting on its 30% revenue share of in-app purchases (although note reports thatApple is taking only 15% of subscriptions to services like Netflix and HBO Nowthrough its Apple TV, which suggests some wiggle-room.)Apple CEO Tim Cook is expected to announce Apple’s next music plans at WWDC in June.Photograph: Kimberly White/Getty ImagesWhat happens next?According to the various reports, the regulators are merely sending out questionnaires and interviewing music labels and rival streaming services for now. Any further steps are unlikely to be taken before the 8 June WWDC unveiling of new iTunes.Related:Streaming music: what next for Apple, YouTube, Spotify… and musicians?If, that is, it happens on 8 June.Earlier this week, Billboard claimed thatApple had yet to finalise all the licensing deals for its streaming relaunch, quoting one music industry source as saying “June won’t be the release date. The deals aren’t done.”Tech site 9 to 5 Macswiftly responded with its own storyclaiming that the announcement will go ahead at WWDC, with the new service launching “in a long list of countries in late June”.Music industry licensing deals are notorious for a) going down to the wire, and b) springing leaks in the media right, left and centre, so expect to hear more developments between now and 8 June. WWDC provides a useful deadline for both sides, while the regulator rumbles provide some spice for the talks.In the longer term, though, those regulators are spurring changes in companies like Spotify, whichrecently appointed four separate lobbying groups in the USto join the two already representing its views to European politicians. As large technology companies, Apple and Google already have high-profile presences in Washington DC and Brussels.It’s a reminder that the future of streaming music will not just depend on which services have the most innovative features or coolest co-owners – but also on which ones have the sharpest lawyers and the most persuasive lobbyists.
The algorithms used by Facebook to filter news posts have an effect on the information seen by users – but not nearly as much as the choices made by users themselves.That is the finding of a study published on Thursday titled “Exposure to ideologically diverse news and opinion on Facebook” inScienceExpressby researchers working for the social network.Eytan Bakshy and Solomon Messing of Facebook, along with Lada Adamic of the University of Michigan, used anonymised data of 10.1m US Facebook users.They considered the news that users posted online for friends – noting whether it was liberal or conservative – and then determined what kind of news, posted by the users’ friends, actually reached users via the site’s social algorithms.The study concluded: “Compared to algorithmic ranking, individuals’ choices about what to consume had a stronger effect limiting exposure to [ideologically] cross-cutting content.”Examining the findings inScienceExpress, David Lazer, an academic at Harvard and Northeastern universities, said that curation of posts by Facebook did ideologically filter what contents users saw.He added: “This effect is modest relative to choices people make that filter information, including who their friends are and what they choose to read given the curation. The deliberative sky is not yet falling, but the skies are not completely clear either.”Lazer describes the finding as important, and one that required “continued vigilance”.“A small effect today might become a large effect tomorrow, depending on changes in the algorithms and human behaviour. Ironically, these findings suggest that if Facebook incorporated ideology into the features that the algorithms pay attention to, it would improve engagement with content by removing dissonant ideological content.”While welcoming Facebook’s support of the research, Lazer adds: “There is a broader need for scientists to study these systems in a manner that is independent of the Facebooks of the world. There will be a need at times to speak truth to power, for knowledgeable individuals with appropriate data and analytic skills to act as social critics of this new social order.”However, the most important lesson of the report by Bakshy et al is “the need to create a new field around the social algorithm, which examines the interplay of social and computational code,” Lazer writes.
Twitter has banned promoted tweets that were being used to push white supremacist messages on the website. The tweets were sent and promoted through the company’s advertising tools by Andrew ‘weev’ Auernheimer, a former president of the trolling group known as the “Gay Nigger Association of America”.Among the tweets promoted by Auernheimer was one that read: “Whites need to stand up for one another and defend ourselves from violence and discrimination. Our race is dying.” A second promoted tweet read: “White pride, world wide. Do you know the 14 words?” – a reference to the white nationalist credo: “We must secure the existence of our people and a future for white children.”But a further attempt to promote the first tweet a day later led to a rejection from Twitter, which citeda ban on adsdealing with hate content, sensitive topics and violence.Auernheimer’s association with white supremacist movements wasfrequently written offas another form of provocation from the notorious troll, but afterserving a jail sentence for his role in hacking AT&amp;T’s iPad billing system, he stepped up his involvement. In October 2014, he gave an interview to white supremacist site Daily Stormer in which he revealed a large chest tattoo of a swastika, and spoke about his history as “a longtime critic of Judaism, black culture, immigration to Western nations, and the media’s constant stream of anti-white propaganda”. The site this week approvingly reported on his promotion of white pride on Twitter.
Here’s a simple fact about life as we live it now: the objects we carry let us know more about the world than ever, faster than ever. But they also let the world know more about us. Knowledge has become transparent. We look out the window of the internet even as the internet looks back in.Partly for this reason, writers likeJeremy Rifkinhave been saying that information privacy is a worn-out idea. On this view, the “internet of things” exposes the value of privacy for what it is: an idiosyncrasy of the industrial age. So no wonder, the thought goes, we are willing to trade it away – not only for security, but for the increased freedom that comes with convenience.This argument rings true because in some ways it is true: we do, as a matter of fact, have more freedom because of the internet and its box of wonders. But like a lot of arguments that support the status quo, one catches a whiff of desperate rationalisation about it as well. In point of fact, there is a clear sense in which the increased transparency of our lives is not enhancing freedom but doing exactly the opposite – in ways that are often invisible.Philosophers have traditionally distinguished freedom of choice or action from what is sometimes called autonomy. To see the difference, think about impulse buying. You may “freely” click on the “buy” button in the heat of the moment – indeed, corporations count on it – without that decision reflecting what really matters to you in the long run. Decisions like that might be “free” but they are not fully autonomous. Someone who makes a fully autonomous decision, in contrast, is committed to that decision; she owns it. Were she to reflect on the matter, she would endorse those decisions as reflecting her deepest values.Totally autonomous decisions are no doubt extremely rare; indeed, philosophers have long worried whether they are possible at all. But it is clear that we value autonomy of decision, even if we can only approximate the ideal. That’s because autonomy of decision is part of what it is to be a fully mature person. And that, I believe, tells us something about why privacy matters. It matters, at least in part, because information privacy is linked to autonomy, and thereby to the concept of personhood itself.This becomes clear when we think about what goes missing when we lose information privacy. Imagine, for example, that you have a condition that compels you to say out loud every thought that comes into your head, whether you like it or not. Your most basic information – your thoughts – are no longer private; and in an obvious sense, you seem a less than autonomous agent. You are at the mercy of your condition; your decision to speak is not your own; your autonomy has been overruled.Now imagine that using mind-meld technology, I read your innermost thoughts without your knowledge. Here too I am diminishing your autonomy, but in a very different way. Like the doctor who makes a decision to operate without consulting the patient, I’m diminishing your autonomy by undermining it. I’m making your decision to share or not to share information with me completely moot. I’ve already made that decision for you.These are imaginary examples, but they point to a connection between privacy and autonomy that is often missed in contemporary debates. When the NSA hoovers up and stores citizens’ data, even incidentally, the worry is not merely “instrumental”. It isn’t just about what might happen to the data. Of course we should be worried about that: it might be used improperly to exploit or manipulate us.But there is also a more insidious harm here, more insidious precisely because it is not visible. Systematic invasions of privacy are undermining our autonomy in precisely the same way in which the mind-meld case does. The government is not forcing us to make a decision. But it is undermining our autonomy nonetheless, by making certain decisions – decisions about what to reveal to others – moot.Now governments naturally diminish our autonomy in all sorts of ways. Just participating in a government, as Hobbes stressed, is a trade-off. But there is something different in the case of systematic, unknown invasions of privacy of the sort perpetuated by the security state.By invading our privacy without our knowledge, governments are making certain invisible decisions for the population. That is different to restricting autonomy by asking people to all go through a scanner at the airport. That is power visible to all, applied to all.Nor is it like wiretapping a particular person that the courts have decided is a potential danger. Rather, more systematic, unknown invasions of privacy treat the citizenry as a whole in an unhealthy way.Such programmes treat us less like autonomous subjects and more like objects. Individual choice about what is public or private is being usurped, whether we know it or not. That is an attitude that is corrosive of democracy, one made all the more corrosive by not being visible.So whether or not the concept of information privacy – like that of a human right – is a creation of the modern age, the source of its value lies at the intersection of autonomy and personhood itself. That is a fact we would be wise not to forget, even if we cannot see the results of ignoring it.Knowledge may be transparent; but power rarely is.Michael P. Lynch is director of the Humanities Institute, and professor of philosophy at the University of Connecticut. His new book, The Internet of Us: Knowing More and Understanding Less in the Age of Big Data, will be published by WW Norton later this year
“Somebody is going to create an eSports experience on touchscreen that is in the order of five times bigger than Counter-Strike or League of Legends is today.”Kristian Segerstrale, as you may have guessed, works for a company trying to do exactly that: Super Evil Megacorp, which has just struck a deal with eSports firmESLto run a tournament based on its Vainglory mobile game.However, Segerstrale’s background shows he tends to make money where his mouth is. He founded a publisher called Playfish in the early days of social gaming on Facebook then sold it to Electronic Arts for $300m, theninvested early in developer Supercellbefore it struck mobile gold with its Clash of Clans game.These days, he’s chief operating officer at Super Evil Megacorp, which is trying to prove that Vainglory can not just become the first hit hardcore mobile “MOBA” (multiplayer online battle arena) game, but can also draw large online audiences to watch it played competitively.Related:Kristian Segerstrale talks Supercell, free-to-play and the future of gaming“It is incredibly early days for touchscreen eSports. PC eSports has been around for quite some time, and people there are still figuring out how to make it truly mass-market. We can learn from that,” he says.“But in three years’ time, there will still only be 600m or 700m home PCs capable of running the highest-spec PC games, yet there will be 2.5bn or 3bn devices capable of running Vainglory. That’s why the touchscreen eSports opportunity will be maybe five times larger than the PC eSports opportunity today.”(A quick primer if you’ve landed on this article with no prior knowledge of this area: eSports refers to video games played competitively for an audience – millions of people online on sites like Twitch, and/or tens of thousands of fans in real-world arenas. There are professional teams in this world, and increasingly-big prizes as sponsors pile in to the market.But it’s a world still under the radar of the media industry, even with Amazon buying Twitch for $970m and ESPN experimenting with broadcasting eSports on its TV channels. And eSports is an increasingly broad church, taking in PC games like League of Legends and Counter-Strike, console franchises like Call of Duty and FIFA, with mobile games getting into this space too.)Anyway, back to Vainglory:unveiled in September 2014 on-stage during an Apple keynote, then launched for iOS devices in November, with an Android version currently in closed beta.Like League of Legends, Vainglory is a MOBA, where two teams of individual players battle it out for control of a level with gameplay blending action and strategy in equal measure. Segerstrale says its players are currently averaging 75 minutes a day in the game, although that rises to 110 minutes in Japan.One of Super Evil Megacorp’s first official streams of a Vainglory match.“Our dream from the start was to create a gaming experience that was equally fun with friends at home around the table or at the very highest competitive levels to be played at a world championship level and watched in a stadium,” says Segerstrale.“The dream is to get to the status where football is today: where you can play with friends casually or watch the stars at the highest level, and where both are really fun. But we always knew it would be pretentious to say ‘we are aiming to be an eSport’. We had to focus on making a game that our community would want to be an eSport.”Related:Vainglory: the MOBA game that took Apple's iPhone 6 launch by stormThe company appears to have succeeded. In February, streams of people playing Vainglory generated around 500k views on Twitch, according to Segerstrale. By April, that monthly views figure had more than doubled. “We’ve gone from nothing to having well over a million Twitch views a month,” he says.Players have also been setting up their own tournaments and streaming them online, starting with small audiences and cash prizes, and growing from there.Super Evil Megacorp, meanwhile, has been adding features to Vainglory to respond – for examplea spectator modeto help people keep playing three-on-three matches while an extra person on each team handles the “spectator” view for streaming to a wider audience.The company also experimented withstreaming matches on Twitchfrom the PAX East show in March, attracting more than 80,000 viewers. Now that’s led to the deal with ESL, which will run aVainglory Cup Series tournamentin Europe – its first mobile-only MOBA contest – with matches to be streamed on Twitch.Segerstrale is enthusiastic about the potential. “The emotions of watching these things are very similar to watching sports: that heart-pounding feeling of supporting one team and feeling those ebbs and flows of a game,” he says.“What’s been happening too is that eSports production companies are learning to create narrative, through the seasons, the teams and players, and the drama of the matches. They’ll even have slow-motion videos and music in the build-up, like a Rocky montage, to build up the tension!”A promotional image of Vainglory.Segerstrale admits there is some scepticism within the eSports world over whether mobile games – even a hardcore MOBA like Vainglory – can make as compelling eSports viewing as games like League of Legends.At the same time, he points to players like Lanai Gara (akaMs Vixen) who made her name as one of the world’s best Counter-Strike and Call of Duty players, but now alsostreams Vainglory sessionson her Twitch channel.Related:How video gaming turned into the world's newest spectator sport“We don’t pay her to do that: she’s just found this to be a great medium to play with her friends. It’s just as legitimate as the more well-known eSports games,” says Segerstrale.He admits, though, that there is plenty of work to be done before a mobile game like Vainglory is attracting similar audiences to the big guns of the eSports world.“We are starting with the very first baby step of a professionally produced series, and we expect months and quarters ahead of experimentation and learning, as well as more big eSports partnerships being announced in the future for us,” says Segerstrale.“It’s all focused on learning and building towards doing a real ‘Season One’. If you look at League of Legends, they’re in season five, and the production values have just kept getting better and better.We’re not even anywhere near launching season one yet, but we are excited by how many people are already watching this game on Twitch today; and by how many tournaments are already being organised by the community, with a competitive scene despite the fact that we haven’t really had the in-game features to support that.”Super Evil Megacorp is certainly ambitious, which is where Segerstrale comes back to his view that mobile games will eventually be much bigger draws as eSports than the PC games that built the category in the first place.“We want to create the mass-market, digital equivalent of basketball or football,” he says. And this does not necessarily involve taking eSports to traditional TV channels, despite ESPN’s recent experimentsairing tournaments for League of Legends and Dota 2 on its ESPN3 channelin the US.An example of Vainglory being played as an eSport.Segerstrale notes that in South Korea, where eSports is already mainstream viewing fare, there are dedicated TV channels for it. He wonders whether that will be necessary in the west though.“Twitch is the place I would go to watch it, and more likely on my tablet or my smartphone rather than my TV. And the demographic of eSports viewers is exactly the cable-cutting demographic too,” he says.Related:Minecraft YouTube videos were watched 3.9bn times in March“It’s unclear to me whether trying to shove eSports down the throats of an ageing TV-watching population is the right way to make it in the west, rather than building a bigger business around the eSports ecosystem that we already have.”How? More advertising and sponsorship for starters. Segerstrale points to the League of Legends North America league, whichattracts big audiences on Twitch.“It airs almost every weekend during the season, on Saturday and Sunday for four hours or so. The average viewership on Twitch is maybe 300,000 or 400,000 simultaneous viewers throughout the whole thing, so my guess is at least high single-digit millions watching it every weekend,” he says.“And yet still it feels like the business infrastructure around that – the sponsorships and commercial opportunities – has such a long way to evolve. If you watch the whole 3-4 hour broadcast, you might see five ads. This is such an important, trendsetting audience, yet the business structure is so nascent still.”For now, Super Evil Megacorp is trying to build Vainglory’s community and get involved in eSports in a sustainable way.He also thinks that “core” games like Vainglory are currently undervalued within a mobile games industry obsessed with games like Candy Crush and Clash of Clans that hog the upper reaches of the app store top-grossing charts.“Throughout its history, the industry has underestimated each new trend by judging it on the metrics of the previous one. When we started Playfish, people would say ‘why would you make Facebook games? Flash games don’t make any money, pay-per-download is the model’,” he says.“Then on tablets, it’s been ‘why would you make midcore games because clearly these are only very casual experiences like match-three games?’ But in lots of ways, what we and companies like us are building – core gaming on touchscreens – feels far more robust than any of these previous waves of games.”How so? Segerstrale says the community around Vainglory reminds him of the PC gaming community in the late 1990s and early 2000s when games like StarCraft and World of Warcraft emerged.Related:Call of Duty World Championship 2015: Denial claims victory in thrilling finale“They’re franchises that truly lasted for decades. And in terms of the level of passion and community engagement, we are much more akin to what happened then,” he says.“We are already one of the most-streamed touchscreen games on Twitch, despite having an audience that’s a fraction of the biggest touchscreen games in the world. That tells you a big story in terms of how engaged, long-lasting and robust the experience around eSports and core gaming on touchscreens will be.He continues: “There is massive scepticism from inside the industry about what we’re doing: ‘Oh, core gaming will never work, why is nobody there in the top-grossing charts?’” he says.“Nobody’s comparing us using the PC [gaming] metrics: they’re just looking at this compared to midcore on mobile. But we think we and the companies like us are onto something: this phenomenon will be built over years and years, not months.”
The 2016 presidential election could go down as the first in US history to be captured by drones, after federal regulators on Wednesday gave CNN the green light to begin testing unmanned planes as news-gathering tools in urban areas.The Federal Aviation Authority (FAA) announced that it had entered into a new partnership with the cable channel under which CNN will be allowed to explore how drones can be safely used for news photography in populated areas. The federal agency’s administrator, Michael Huerta, told a conference of drone enthusiasts in Atlanta that the initiative would be a way to “help us anticipate and address the needs of the evolving UAS [unmanned aircraft systems] industry”.The concession opens the door to what is expected eventually to grow into vast demand for drones within the news business, with the coverage of presidential elections top of the TV networks’ and cable channels’ wish-lists. Drone experts predicted that with the gathering pace of change within the industry, and with the FAA showing signs that it is prepared to take a more relaxed approach to allowing unmanned planes into the national airspace, the devices are likely to be unleashed in time for 2016, which would render them a striking new feature of next year’s race for the White House.Michael Drobac, executive director of the Small UAV Coalition whose members include Amazon Prime Air, Google and GoPro, said he was convinced that next year would be the first US presidential election captured by drone. “We are entering an enormous presidential election cycle with very high-profile candidates going up against each other. Drones offer the chance to capture the scale and energy of campaign rallies far more effectively than helicopters have done before,” he said.CNN wasawarded initial permissionby the FAA to begin testing drones in January, but at that time the cable channel was banned from flying its prototype aircraft over anybody not directly associated with its flying missions. That prohibition, applied by the federal regulators to all commercial operators, effectively confined the testing to unpopulated rural areas.Wednesday’s announcement breaks through the restrictions by allowing CNN to begin exploring the use of drones in urban areas. The details of the program have yet to be disclosed, and CNN itself stressed that the program was still at its beginning research phase. “The FAA opened up a whole new pathway with a new destination that contemplates a world where CNN and other news organizations can operate much more freely. And CNN is the guinea pig,” said the channel’s senior vice-president of legal, David Vigilante.The presidential horse race, with its many outdoor appearances on the campaign trail by the still-multiplying field of candidates, would make for enticing viewing through the lens of unmanned aircraft that can fly much lower than manned helicopters and up to a height of 400ft. Events such as Barack Obama’s first victory speech in 2008 – in front of a massive crowd of about 240,000 people in Grant Park, Chicago – would have provided dynamic images by a drone.
If you bought a smartphone in the US this year there’s a one in five chance you bought a phablet, as the market share for plus-sized smartphones ballooned.The latest data from research companyKantar Worldpanel ComTechshows that phablets – defined here as smartphones with screen sizes 5.5in or larger – accounted for 21% of US smartphone sales in the first quarter of 2015, up from 6% at the same time last year.The phablet trend has been led by eastern markets such as Taiwan and Hong Kong where screen sizes larger than 5.5in account forup to 50% of active users, according to data from analytics firm Flurry.All major smartphone manufacturers launched new phablets last year and in the first quarter of 2015, including Apple, Samsung, LG and Motorola, as well as China’s Xiaomi and Huawei.Even Apple users love big phonesThe big winner was Apple’s first phablet, the iPhone 6 Plus, which secured 44% of phablet sales in the US, despite iOS switchers from Android being down from 14.6% last year to 11.4% this year.Outside the US, Apple gained market share in Europe’s big five – the UK, Germany, France, Italy and Spain.“In the first quarter of 2015, the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus continued to attract consumers across Europe, including users who previously owned an Android smartphone,”said Carolina Milanesi, chief of research at Kantar Worldpanel ComTech. “On average, across Europe’s big five countries during the first quarter, 32.4% of Apple’s new customers switched to iOS from Android.”Apple claimed a 20.3% share of the big five European market in the first quarter, up 1.8 percentage points on last year. Android is still dominant despite its market share shrinking by 3.1 points to 68.4%.While Apple and Google’s Android fight for the lion’s share of sales in the UK, BlackBerry’s market share shrank from 1.6% to 0.7% in a year, while Microsoft’s Windows Phone also dropped 1.5 percentage points to 8% of UK smartphone sales.Microsoft hopes that its unified approach around Windows 10 is enough to boost sales, but it won’t be launched until the third quarter at the earliest. Meanwhile Google will unveil the next version of Android later this month and Apple is expected to announce iOS 9 at its developer conference in June.LG G4 review: one of the best phablets available, boasting an impressive cameraThe next version of Android is on its way. But what will it be called?Top 5 phablets: Which is the best for big-screen smartphone lovers?
Tesla’s new energy storage systems could become a bigger business for the company than selling cars, Elon Musk has said.The company has taken 38,000 orders for its Powerwall, which wasfirst announced last week, meaning the devices are sold out until mid-2016.The two versions of the “Powerwall” – a 7kWh and a larger 10kWh unit – cost $3,000 (£1,975) and $3,500 (£2,300) respectively.Around 2,800 business orders were for the commercial version called the Powerpack. Musk, founder and chief executive of Tesla, said that he had been surprised at the scale of demand from consumers rather than industrial customers.Related:Tesla's new low-cost battery: 'the missing piece' in sustainable energy?Speaking on a conference call following the company’s results for the three months to 31 March, he said the demand for the energy storage systems had been overwhelming: “The total addressable market size for Tesla Energy products is enormous and much easier to scale globally than vehicle sales.”Production of the Powerwall will begin soon at the factory in Fremont, California where Tesla is making the Model S electric car.Musk said the company’s entire Nevada battery factory, which is due to open in 2016, could be devoted to stationary storage, but batteries for cars will be its priority for now.Tesla delivered 10,045 Model S sedans in the first quarter of the year – 55% more than the same period last year. The cost of the car starts at $76,200.The Model X sport utility vehicle goes on sale in the third quarter and is crucial to the company meeting its goal of delivering 55,000 vehicles this year.Tesla could face more competition in the future as established car makers launch new electric vehicles with longer driving ranges.Apple is also rumoured to be working on an electric car. Asked about that prospect, Musk said: “I certainly hope Apple gets into the car business. That would be great.”Musk said the company hoped to reveal a prototype of its next vehicle, the Model 3 sedan, next March. It will cost about half the price of a Model S and should go on sale at the end of 2017.Elon Musk, chief executive of Tesla, unveils the company’s battery range last week.Photograph: Yang Lei/Yang Lei/Xinhua Press/CorbisFirst quarter revenue rose 51% to $939.9m, while Tesla’s net loss widened to $154m following investment in new products and factory capacity and the impact of the strong dollar.On an adjusted basis, the loss was just $45m – better than analysts had expected.Shares in Tesla fell 1.1% to $230.43 on Nasdaq, valuing the company at $29.4bn. The stock has risen more than 1,100% since the company listed in July 2010.
On finishing the story missions in Bungie’s online shooter,Destiny, many gamers had the same reaction: “Wha ... what?!” Most of us got the quasi-mystical backstory concerning a gigantic moon-like Traveller imbuing the human race with super tech skills; and we understood that a force named “the Darkness” has been chasing the Traveller across the universe. But it was never really clear what the heck was going on beyond those airy concepts. How are the Guardians revived and who are they? What the heck is the deal with that royal family living in the space junkyard? And why do the Ghosts sound like Peter Dinklage waking up from a really long sleep? Also, what the hellarethe Ghosts? So many mysteries.There are, of course,rumoursthat the Destiny story mode was originally much more dense, but that Bungie was forced to jettison great chunks of content as the planned release deadline loomed (hence the relegation of lots of narrative detail to the Grimoire cards, which you have to go online and READ). Of course, no one will ever confirm this, so what we’re left with is a very obtuse story experience and a rather unsatisfying conclusion. But withHouse of Wolves, which is set to add five new story missions to the game, Bungie says it is determined to set things straight.“One of the first things we set out to achieve with this expansion was a very clear, simple story,” says creative director, Christopher Barrett.It is one that we can pay off via what the player is doing in the missions. The dialogue takes the player on a journey and there’s a clear villain that players understand – they’re able to capture him at the end. It’s a compelling story that has everything players need.”Barrett conceded that Bungie will still be adding Grimoire cards to provide deeper lore for those who want it, but the main thrust of the story is all there. The new missions and quests will focus around the Reef and its rulers, who now seek revenge on the Fallen for having a bit of a rebellion. Petra Venj of the Queensguard and Variks, a Fallen loyal to the Queen, are set to be major characters. “One really cool aspect of the Variks character is that he speaks the Fallen language,” says lead designer, Matt Sammons. “As you come across enemies, he’ll translate what they say, so you get more of a sense of all the backstory we’ve built for the Fallen; you have this insight into their world.”Bungie isn’t saying much else about the story content, just that the team has been working to improve the gameplay diversity of the missions, as well as the “sandbox” feel of the environments, making them more rewarding as explorable spaces. A new vehicle has been added, a heavy version of the pike, complete with a canon and, as Barrett puts it, “a few other tricks that you’ll discover when you play it”.Added to this is perhaps the major new feature of the House of Wolves, the Prison of Elders, a set of co-operative three-player challenges, set in a series of vast arena spaces. Fireteams need to take on waves of increasingly difficult enemies before facing a major boss battle. There are five unique challenge bosses, as well as a culminative Level 35 giant named Skolas The Fell – all have their own defensive and offensive capabilities. During a demo session at Bungie HQ we were shown one of the newcomers, an ultra centurion who has a shield that cycles through different vulnerabilities, so players have to keep switching their weapons. “We wanted to make sure we didn’t just create giant bullet sponges,” says Barrett. “We know that has been a critique of the game and we feel that ourselves. We wanted to make these encounters much more dynamic and much more interesting in terms of strategy.”The Prison of Elder challenges are split into different Guardian XP levels. The opening Level 28 version has a matchmaking system which means anyone can get in and play with strangers. After this, the level 32, 34 and 35 versions require players to come in with a pre-set Fireteam. Having experienced them we can see why. The challenges all work in the same way – you access the arenas series and have to beat every wave of enemy that comes at you – but the difficulty level gets extremely high so communication and intricately planned teamwork are a must. The reward, of course, is great handfuls of exclusive exotic and legendary loot.House of Wolves teaserWe completed the basic Level 28 Prison of Elder challenge – a series of five arenas packed with enemies. In one area, a dramatic wasteland of trashed Vex transport gates and twisted machinery, there’s a swarm of goblins and minotaurs, complete with floating mines that explode on touch and leave a stasis field that slows down anyone who runs through it. The next arena is a foggy green-hued bone yard seething with thrall and acolytes: on the second wave the game adds a Critical Objective which involves destroying one or two large mines before they detonate and kill you all. Later we fight in a sort of steampunk inferno, littered with wrecked spacecraft and crawling with centurions. We also meet a variety of new shanks, including one that explodes in your vicinity; elsewhere there are shanks with line rifles and shanks with gun turrets. They’re pretty annoying. At one point we also find a Fallen relic, the powerful Scorch Cannon, a sort of grenade launcher that gives us a timed boost in firepower, like the Sword of Crota in the story campaign.It’s fun stuff, relentless and demanding, and doing a very good job of providing the sort of tense Horde mode action we’ve been enjoying since Gears of War 2. And for Bungie, it’s there to provide a sort of transitional activity for intermediate players. “It’s kind of a bridge between Strike-level difficulty and Raid difficulty,” says Sammons. “With the match-made version you can get in and have fun quickly - you can get the sense, the rhythm of how it works, and then be ready for the challenge modes which are getting closer to the Raid level of difficulty.”Related:Destiny – what House of Wolves brings to competitive multiplayerAh yes, the raids. Many Destiny fans were disappointed to see that there wouldn’t be one in House of Wolves. You get new multiplayer maps, and the fresh Trials of Osiris PvP challenge, as well as the new story missions and the Prison. But no raid. Why is that? “We love raids,” says Sammons. “Bungieisworking on raids – raids will come in the future. But for House of Wolves, we really focused on what we wanted the end game to be – and that was Prison of Elders for us. We feel it’s addressing our entire audience.”Barrett says that the need to bring the PvP experience up to the same level of value as PvsE was another objective with the package. “We wanted to create rewards that are enticing and compelling as those seen in Raids,” he says. “So now the best PvP players in the world are going to be wearing stuff that only they can get.”We also saw another brief addition to House of Wolves, a single Strike mission named The Shadow Thief and set on the Moon’s Ocean of Storms. It’s a super quick skirmish against ogres, reaver vandals, and a boss that continually warps to fresh locations; all set in a familiar warren of caverns and computer workstations. Beyond all this, of course, there are the systemic changes, including gear ascension that increases the maximum light capabilities of all weapons as well as legendary and exotic gear.A close encounter during the new House of Wolves strike missionPhotograph: Activision“We also created a whole bunch of new bounties that Petra will be offering, and those tie in to the new public events,” adds Barrett. “The other thing we wanted to do was create more variety for players, so with the Prison of Elders, there are new challenges that come out every week so you can’t shoot through everything in the a couple of days. Petra’s bounties rotate, too, so you get new ones after the first week. We’re trying to pace things out a little bit.”I guess it’s up to every fan to decide whether this is enough, though for committed players, House of Wolves does offer up a good range of content. It also doubtless represents the ongoing pattern for Destiny: additional strikes, challenges, gear and weapons, along with multiplayer maps and modes – but also a few reactive features that respond to fan feedback. Bungie is keen to stress how important that part is.“As the game is released into the wild, we play it ourselves and understand it better as players,” says Sammons. “When we were developing House of Wolves we had that perspective in mind: what would we like to see as players of the game?”Keith Stuart attended a press trip to Bungie in Seattle with other European journalists. The travel and accommodation costs were met by Activision.
Google’s next version of Android, codenamed “M”, will be announced later this month, the company’s developer conference schedule has revealed.Multiple mentions of “Android M” in theGoogle I/O scheduleincludes one in an Android for Work session specifically talking about how “Android M is bringing the power of Android to all kinds of workplaces”.The conference session indicates that Android M will spread beyond tablets and smartphones, possibly making a play for the market currently occupied by Google’s other operating system, Chrome OS.Unification of the two disparate operating systems, one based purely on Google’s Chrome browser, the other on a mobile version of Linux, has long been expected. Android M could be catalyst that brings the two together.Google has already made moves in that direction, bringing Chrome features to Android and allowing certain Android apps such as Evernote to run on Chrome OS.Android ‘M’ is also likely to feature more extensive voice controls. The company’s digital assistant Google Now has become smarter and more capable to understand natural language queries over the last two years. Many Android smartphones come with hotword activation, which means they can be spoken to when the screen is off to perform searches and other functions after saying specific phrases such as “OK Google”. Android ‘M’ is likely to build on those features.What’s in a name?But the big question is what the “M” stands for? Google uses the names of sweets or puddings to signify major new versions. The first Android version be named after a dessert was Android 1.5 Cupcake. Each major version has then followed in alphabetical order.Android 1.6 Donut followed Cupcake, then Android 2.0 Eclair, 2.2 Froyo, 2.3 Gingerbread, 3.0 Honeycomb, 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich and 4.1 Jelly Bean.Android 4.4 K saw Google partner Nestlé to use the KitKat brand, while the current version Android 5.0 and 5.1 are both called Lollipop.For Android M, Google could partner with confectionary company Mars for either the Maltesers, Milky Way, M&amp;Ms or Mars brand names, or perhaps a more generic term such as marshmallow or maple syrup.Google could also break with tradition and call it Android Marmite, but that could bring with it love it or hate it connotations.What do you think the next iteration of Android is going to be called?•20 best Android apps and games this week•Who are smartwatches like the Apple Watch and Android Wear really for?
More than one in 20 web users are infected with ad injectors, a type of malware that puts unwanted adverts on web pages, according to new research from Google.As a result, the company has announced a new crackdown on the software, which can manifest either as a browser extension or a standalone application. Google removed almost 200 “deceptive” extensions from the web store for its Chrome browser, and has started to use Chrome’s safe browsing features to display warnings to users who are (likely unknowingly) about to download ad injection software. It has a long way to go, though, as the company’s research reveals that there are more than 50,000 browser extensions and 34,000 apps that inject ads into users’ browsers.Perhaps most importantly, the company is also going after ad injection software at the root, informing advertisers whose ads are showing up in the software “to alert [them to] the deceptive practices and ad networks involved”. And since Google also runs one of the world’s biggest ad networks itself, through itsAdWordsservice, it has been able to take action there, updating its polices “to make it more difficult for advertisers to promote unwanted software”.Google’s Kurt Thomas explained why the company decided to act. “Ad injectors’ businesses are built on a tangled web of different players in the online advertising economy,”he wrote. This complexity has made it difficult for the industry to understand this issue and help fix it. We hope our findings raise broad awareness of this problem and enable the online advertising industry to work together and tackle it.”Ad injection is more than just an annoyance. It also representsa potential security hazardfor browsers. In order to inject adverts into a website, the ad injector typically has to break the encryption used to deliver the page safely. In doing so, it opens users up to having their connection hijacked if any third party can insert themselves in the middle of their communications, easy enough to do if surfing on an open wireless network in a coffee shop or airport.In February,it was revealed that PC manufacturer Lenovo had been shipping laptops with ad injection software pre-installed. The software, called Superfish, was ostensibly an “image search engine”, but broke user security and injected visual adverts into Google searches.
I have recently found that adding an external screen to my work laptop has really helped with productivity, but having visited a colleague who had two additional monitors, I now want that too. His laptop had two HDMI outputs so the setup was simple, but mine only has one. What’s the cheapest way for me to do this without changing my laptop?SimonAny Windows laptop will support two screens – at least, I’ve never heard of one that won’t. Supporting three screens can be just as easy, or much trickier. It depends on the laptop, the graphics card (or integrated graphics), the graphics drivers, and perhaps the amount of memory available. There’s no easy way to tell in advance. However, if you search online for your exact laptop, you may find that someone has already tried it, and this is probably the best guidance you can get.Some laptops will support two external monitors if you can find a way of plugging them in. For example, you could plug one into an HDMI port and the second into a VGA port. This is not quite as good as using two HDMI ports because HDMI and VGA are different video standards. The two screens may have slightly different colour renderings, or other differences (brightness, contrast etc), which could be annoying.Alternatively, if your laptop has a DisplayPort or Mini DisplayPort, you can buya splitter or multi-monitor hubthat will drive two or three screens. These are usually used to “clone” screens, but Windows should be able to set up an extended desktop that bridges two or more screens.Using USBIf your laptop only has one video port, you can use a USB display adaptor instead. Amazon searches find lots of examples, none of which I’ve ever used. From a position of ignorance, I looked for better-known brands such as Plugable, Kensington and Climax Digital, but readers with experience of multi-monitor laptops are welcome to suggest alternatives below.I expect you will need an adaptor that includes an external graphics card. One example is thePlugable UGA USB 2.0 to DVI/VGA/HDMI Adaptor, which costs £37.95. (Although the spec says it supports Windows and Linux, it is clear from the Amazon comments than Mac OS X owners are also using it.) Alternatives include theClimaxDigital USB 3.0/2.0 to DVI, VGA or HDMI Adaptor(£29.99), thePlugable USB 2.0 to VGA/DVI/HDMI Video Graphics Adaptor Card(£42.95) and theKensington Universal Multi-Display Adaptor(£65.99). You need one adaptor per USB monitor.Although an external graphics card will usually solve the three-screens problem, there may be limitations. The bulk of the work is still done by the laptop’s processor, which can mean that everything else slows down. The extra screen may not be fast enough for gaming, but it should be fine for normal office purposes, such as email or news feeds.You will generally get better results with USB 3 adaptors, because USB 3 is about ten times faster than USB 2. However, it shouldn’t make much, if any, visible difference if you’re only driving one extra screen – see some of the YouTube demos mentioned below.Hub or dockYou don’t say whether you move your laptop around, though I assume you do. If you don’t, it’s a very bad idea to use a laptop for work. You should replace it with a desktop PC, which provides more power for less money, is easier to expand or repair, and – most important of all – has much better ergonomics. With a standard laptop, it is impossible get both the screen and the keyboard in their optimum ergonomic positions without adding either a separate keyboard or a separate screen.The other problem with connecting multiple screens to a laptop is that you have to unplug them all when you take the laptop out of the office, and plug them all back in when you return. The solution is to use a docking station or a USB hub. For ergonomic reasons, I’d recommend plugging an external keyboard and mouse into the hub, as well as your two screens. That way, you will only have to plug one USB cable into your laptop to make everything work.For example, you could buy aPlugable UD-3900 USB 3.0 SuperSpeed Universal Docking Station(£99.95), and use two external monitors via its two video ports: HDMI and DVI/VGA. Your laptop would provide the third screen. The UD-3900 is a USB 3 hub, but it will work with USB 2 ports on Windows laptops and tablets; it just won’t be as quick.This particular range seems to be popular withMicrosoft Surface Pro owners(which is how I know about it), but there are no doubt many alternatives.Plugable has a short YouTube video that shows an 8in Windows tablet – a Dell Venue 8 Pro, which only has a microUSB 2 port –working as a desktop PC with four monitors, an external keyboard and mouse. This demo uses a Plugable UD-3000 hub.Plugable’s founder Bernie Thompson has also produced YouTube videos showing a multi-port USB 3.0 hubrunning seven monitors from a Windows 7 laptopand, more recently,running 14 monitors from one tiny Windows 8.1 PC, a Core i3-based Intel NUC. The increase came from changes in the DisplayLink technology used by Plugable and other suppliers, not from any changes in Windows.A hub is obviously not the cheapest option, in hardware terms. However, it is a lot cheaper than a course of physiotherapy. And, sad to say, I have hadmore than one experienceof that.Have you got a question? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
Video games are a spatial medium – they are about space. From Pong to Grand Theft Auto V, the designer seeks to create an environment that is navigable and enclosed, and that embodies the rules of the game.Even sandbox games craft environments with boundaries – San Andreas doesn’t go on forever. But there are also more subtle limits on the navigable space available to players. In GTA V, you can only go into certain buildings, and your interaction with objects is minimal. If you punch a coffee cup out of the hand of a passerby, you can’t pick it up and pop it in a bin. That’s fine, of course, because the game design doesn’t require you to be conscientious about litter, it requires you to handle firearms. The world appears open, but it is entirely designed to facilitate death and destruction. That’s perhaps one reason why GTA stunt and comedy videos are so successful on YouTube: to use the environment in this way is (apart from the few ramps littered around the city streets) transgressive.So far, this is pretty much the standard approach for game environments on current generation consoles. In titles like InFamous: Second Son, Middle Earth: Shadow of Mordor and Far Cry 4, the game worlds, the spaces we get to explore, are handled in a relatively orthodox way: as bounded spaces, like Monopoly boards or card tables. The seminal book, Rules of Play: Game Design Fundamentals by Eric Zimmerman and Katie Salen, defined game environments as “a magic circle”, a constricted area in which participants are free to play as long as they abide by the rules of the space and the design.But some of the most interesting games of the past 40 years have been the ones that have subverted this concept of game space as a very formal architecture. Portal, for example, offers the player a means of opening gateways in the world that manipulate our idea of 3D space. With the portal gun to hand, the laboratory environment becomes a strange non-Euclidean arena, where floors can be ceilings and walls become floors. When this happens, the rules are suddenly about the potential of physics rather than the geographic spaces themselves – it’s about “what can the portal gun do?” rather than “how big is this space and where will it let me go?”.Then we have Echochrome, Fez and Monument Valley which play with the idea of representing 3D spaces on a 2D screen to create topographically impossible Escher-esque puzzles. In these games, simply moving the camera can create new shapes and structures, and again, our understanding of the game world is challenged; we have to abandon our idea of it as a geographic space and think of it as a puzzle space. Only games can do this, of course.For this reason, it’s pleasing to see two very recent game announcements: Mirror’s Edge 2 is coming out in early 2016, and Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater 5 has been officially confirmed by Activision. Both of these games mess around with the idea of game space in different ways. In the former, a first-person action adventure title set in a minimalist sci-fi city, players control futuristic courier Faith Conners as she leaps between skyscrapers, escaping gun-toting guards. It is more of a parkour sim than a standard shooter, but what’s interesting about the game is that is it really about embodying the lead character: it is about the idea of the body in space, not the space itself. While running and leaping we see Faith’s arms and legs as our own – a rare feature in first-person games where the human body is often represented merely as a disembodied arm holding a weapon. In Mirror’s Edge, the body is seen in interaction with the environment in strange, often queasy ways, and we have to rethink everything.I love the way game designer Tom Francisexplains the Mirror’s Edge environment– as a language that Faith’s body has to learn. Every object is a word, every leap a piece of grammar. And again, it is about perceiving the explorable space in a different way than just “this is the set of polygonal objects that represent and restrict your play”. Of course, a lot of the original game sucked; the combat didn’t work and the exciting leaps into the unknown became frustrating when they constantly ended in death. But still,DICEdared to think about the game world as an extension of the body, and it was fascinating and thrilling.In Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater, objects traditionally used as barriers become playful opportunitiesPhotograph: public domainThe Tony Hawk series approaches the game environment as a true play space. In most games, the objects are what they appear to be: a car is a car, a house is just a house, a fence is a barrier. In the Tony Hawk titles, however, every object is actually an explorable toy that can facilitate play. Benches are grind rails, cars are ramps. The player has to almost feel their way into the space, tentatively working out how they can combine the moveset and the environment in new ways. While most game environments present obstacles to the player, Tony Hawk Pro Skate presents opportunities. It will be fascinating to see how this pans out on current-gen consoles and PCs where the skate grounds can be vast and detailed, and the control systems more analogue than ever. Sure, Sunset Overdrive toys with this concept, but because the game is technically a shooter, it doesn’t afford the dexterity and variety of movements available to a Tony Hawk player.There are many ways to think about environments in games. In most current titles they are narrative spaces – they are attempts to depict a “real” environment in which the story can take place. They are explorable but only as a secondary concern. But in their essay“The Art of Contested Spaces”, academics Henry Jenkins and Kurt Squire think about game environments as challenges in themselves, where topography is an enemy to be defeated or mastered. “Most often, critics discuss games as a narrative art, as interactive cinema or participatory storytelling,” they wrote. “Perhaps, we should consider another starting point, viewing games as a spatial art with its roots in architecture, landscape painting, sculpture, gardening, or amusement park design.”In Mirror’s Edge, the environment becomes an extension of the body and the senses in a very intimate way; in Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater the environment becomes a playground. In both, space is something to be read, interpreted and understood, like a language, like a relationship. Only games can do this, of course, because only games give us a world and put us in it and say: come in, touch this, feel this, be this. The true beauty of any game world is not how it looks, it’s how it plays.
Tinder shot to fame as a dating app for tech-savvy single people. Except, as it turns out, a big chunk of its users may not be single after all.That’s according to research firm GlobalWebIndex (GWI), whichreleased some figures on Tinderfrom its latest survey of more than 47,000 internet users around the world that suggest the app has a wider demographic.In fact, the research claims that 30% of Tinder users surveyed are married, while another 12% are in a relationship. 54% classed themselves as single, while 3% were divorced or widowed.Related:Tinder and sobriety are incompatibleTinder may also be a digital stomping ground for married men, judging by GWI’s claim that 62% of its users are male and 38% female.The research also shows, unsurprisingly, that Tinder’s users are a relatively young crowd, with 38% aged between 16 and 24, and 45% between 25 and 34.13% are aged 35-44, 3% are 45-54 and 1% are 55-64 – although if reports in late 2014 thatTinder had 50 million active userswere true, that would still indicate half a million people in that oldest age category surveyed.Tinder recently launched a premium Tinder Plus option, enabling people to subscribe for extra features for £3.99 a month if they were younger than 28, and £14.99 a month if they were older.GWI’s data suggests that Tinder Plus could become a good money-spinner for the company, which is owned by online dating giant Match. Its survey found that 24% of Tinder users had paid for an online dating service in the last month, compared to 14% of dating site users surveyed.The company also asked Tinder users for their views on a range of issues, in order to judge their attractiveness to advertisers as well as potential dates.85% agreed with the statement “I look after my appearance/image”, unsurprisingly, while 82% “always like to try new products”. 63% like to keep up with the latest fashions, while 58% consider themselves to “be much more affluent than the average”.Sadly, GWI neglected to include “I send unsolicited penis snaps to single women when my wife isn’t looking” as one of its survey’s statements. Maybe next time.What about all those married and in-a-relationship users of Tinder, though? It would be rash to label them as “cheaters”.Related:Tinder: the 'painfully honest' dating app with wider social ambitionsSome may have open relationships, others may be just browsing, and some in the second category may have only recently started their relationship – perhaps even with someone they met on Tinder – and haven’t uninstalled the app.Tinder might prefer another explanation: that people are using its app to meet new people for platonic friendship rather than just romance. It’s a use case that the company has regularly suggested in media interviews.“We never intended it to be a dating platform. It’s a social discovery platform, facilitating an introduction between two people,” Tinder’s then-chief marketing officer Justin Mateentold the Guardian in February 2014.“As the product evolves, we’re moving into different uses for it, doing little things that will allow people to interact socially in ways other than dating.”Tinder has contacted the Guardian to disagree with GWI’s figures – or at least, the stats focused on their ages.“Those statistics are completely inaccurate. I’m not sure how they sampled that specific group of people, but it does not represent Tinder’s userbase,” said a spokesperson. “More than 50% of Tinder’s userbase is age 18-24. And altogether, 85% of our users are age 18-34.”GWI’s claim that 83% of Tinder users are aged 18-34 nearly matches the latter stat, but its finding that only 38% are aged 18-24 is more puzzling – although it is possible that part of the difference is explained by users taking a few years off their age when registering.Tinder’s statement did not address the marital status of its users, although it is difficult to see how it would have accurate figures even if it asked them when signing up.The company did stress that it has “hundreds of success stories emailed to us every week about a new engagement or marriage”, and reiterated its status as more than a dating network.“Tinder is a social network and these are many use cases for it - not just dating. People are using it to make new friends, to network, and they use it when they travel to meet new people in the area,” said the spokesperson.“With tens of millions of users in all 196 countries, Tinder has quickly become the most prominent way people connect with others. Tinder has already made more than six billion matches globally.”Are you married and on Tinder, or have you met people through the app who had partners? Share your experiences by posting a comment below.
