Britain's government has survived for 1,000 years without an IT strategy, but this is about to change. Chief information officer Ian Watmore is this summer drafting a national plan that will aim to transform public services through IT.Speaking at the New Statesman new media awards earlier this month, Watmore hinted that the as-yet-untitled strategy will be ambitious. It will not set out to computerise organisations and procedures, but look to find new ways of providing public services from scratch with the citizen at the centre. This goes hand in hand with Watmore's other big priority - to find &pound;21.5bn in efficiency savings by joining up government.If Watmore is looking for ideas to pad out the strategy pages, plenty of people are offering help. Two Labour-leaning thinktanks this month published their views of government in the IT age. Both place citizens at the centre, but perhaps not in a way that government may like.Both studies were sponsored by the IT industry: the Institute for Public Policy Research (IPPR) credits Atos Origin, BT, Steria and Microsoft while the Work Foundation's project was supported by Adobe.The IPPR's Manifesto for a Digital Britain aims "to democratise debates about the function of information and communication technology in society". It argues that we have built the hardware of a digital Britain, but have not yet found a way of using it.One issue crying out for democratisation, as well as balance, is privacy. In particular, it warns of an imbalance between the government's enthusiasm for joining up databases and its respect for "constitutional due process".Citizens should have a choice on what level they engage digitally with government, the manifesto argues. The Department for Constitutional Affairs, which should be in charge of such questions, is not a party, "let alone an equal party", in developing e-government and surveillance strategies, the strategy claims.Transformed government implies different agencies sharing information. The manifesto warns against assuming that, because consumers are happy to sacrifice privacy for convenience when dealing with private firms, they will feel the same about government. Citizens cannot choose whether to use government, which covers many more activities than any private firm."In a highly interconnected society, privacy is the right to disconnect, to be anonymous and to be alone should one wish."No consumer would want to sign up to a mobile phone package if there were no way of cancelling it. Yet government promotes the benefits of its modernisation without offering any way of opting out, either periodically or permanently. In another criticism of e-government policy, the manifesto attacks the "techno-centrism" of targets, such as putting all government services online.While it welcomes Watmore's ambition of transforming public services, it warns of difficulties ahead. "Transformation" success stories from industry usually involve creating new services, not reshaping existing ones. Amazon and easyJet were set up from scratch. "It is far harder to think of long-standing organisations that have been dramatically reinvented through the injection of technology."The manifesto also warns that up to now, the Treasury has underestimated the cost of government computing, officially &pound;14bn a year. It calls on the Treasury to take into account the real cost of change, not just the hardware and software. "This will mean that e-government will start to appear more costly, but in the long run, investment will be made more sensibly and more productively."To help balance the books, the manifesto says that new systems be assessed by their contribution to "public value", rather than by the money they save. Public value may come from users' satisfaction, or less carbon dioxide going into the atmosphere because people can work at home. This idea may strike a chord with a civil service obsessed with finding more creative ways of measuring productivity. In a gift to satirists, the Office for National Statistics announced on Tuesday that it is setting up a "UK Centre for the Measurement of Government Activity (UKCeMGA)", responsible for "delivering programmes to produce improved output and productivity measures for health, education, public order and safety, and for social protection".Watmore's strategy will almost certainly look at ways of ending the digital divide. The IPPR's manifesto suggests that previous attempts to promote digital inclusion, by for example giving away internet-connected PCs, were misguided. "The important realisation has now been made that the digital divide is a symptom of economic inequality, and not a cause."The Work Foundation's publication What ICT? Providing more citizen- focused services, shares this concern about the gap between digital haves and have nots. It claims that ICT "has the potential to transform the relationship between citizen and public services".Whether citizens will embrace transformed government is another matter. Research found concerns that IT would liberate some individuals, by giving them round the clock access to "self service" government, at the expense of people less happy with computers and the internet.Watmore's plan for transformed government will need to recognise that different groups of people will want to communicate in different ways. Like the IPPR, the Work Foundation calls for better public debate about data sharing and privacy - and that government should keep citizens informed of what it is doing.Institute for Public Policy Researchwww.ippr.orgWork Foundationwww.theworkfoundation.comá If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Forget Coldplay and James Blunt. Forget even Sgt Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band, which, in the version performed at Live8 by Sir Paul McCartney and U2, has become the fastest online-selling song ever. Beethoven has routed the lot of them.Final figures from the BBC show that the complete Beethoven symphonies on its website were downloaded 1.4m times, with individual works downloaded between 89,000 and 220,000 times. The works were each available for a week, in two tranches, in June.Sgt Pepper could well end up as the best-selling online track of all time. But its sales figure of just 20,000 online in the two weeks since it has been available contrasts poorly with the admittedly free Beethoven symphonies. (Sgt Pepper cost 79p on the iTunes website.)To put another perspective on the success of the Beethoven downloads, according to Matthew Cosgrove, director of Warner Classics, it would take a commercial CD recording of the complete Beethoven symphonies "upwards of five years" to sell as many downloads as were shifted from the BBC website in two weeks. The BBC has been stunned by the response - so much so that its director general, Mark Thompson, opened his annual report with Beethoven's inscription on the score of the Missa Solemnis: "From the heart ... May it go again to the heart!"The classical music industry has also been shocked since the demand for the symphonies seems to defy gloomy predictions about the shrinking appetite for classical music.Roger Wright, the controller of Radio 3, said it was "clear that people had been coming to Beethoven for the first time" through the Beethoven downloads. This was discernible from the fact that the symphonies nos 1 and 2 had a high take-up compared with no 3, the Eroica, a much more famous work.But the corporation has yet to unpick more facts about where the downloaders came from and what their musical habits were, though anecdotal evidence suggests that there was an international reach. If nothing else, the figures suggest the extraordinary power of the BBC.Mr Wright said the idea had started as "just a little extra add-on to draw attention to the fact that the BBC Philharmonic was performing their first complete Beethoven cycle for 30 years". The symphonies were taken from live performances in the Bridgewater Hall, Manchester, and introduced by a Radio 3 presenter.But it had become clear that the downloads marked "an important moment, when you see how the world is changing". He said he had invited industry figures to discuss the implications of the figures.Not everyone was so positive. Some from the recording industry expressed concerns that the BBC was setting itself up as unfair competition in the recording market.Mr Cosgrove said: "I would be worried if the BBC repeated the experiment. We would take an extremely dim view if it happened repeatedly." But, he added: "It's caused quite a bit of controversy - but it has also provided us with an amazing piece of free market research. I don't think anyone had any idea in their wildest dreams that there would be this level of response. Yes, the downloads were free - but if charged at a commercial rate that would have been a huge amount of revenue."In a speech to the British Phonographic Industry, the trade association for the recording industry, Mr Thompson tried to allay fears from the commercial sector.The anxiety, he said, "boils down to two questions: is this the start of some new regular service from the BBC, in which, without warning and consultation, the public will be offered chunks of music free at the point of download which will inevitably distort the commercial market in music? And second, are there any limits to what the BBC might download? Could we wake up one morning to discover that half the BBC's musical archive is available on the net? The answer to these two questions is: no and no. I understand where the anxiety is coming from: the music industry is already under assault from piracy of various kinds - and the last thing it needs is the BBC unintentionally opening up some kind of second front."Radio 3 plans a similar week of broadcasts to its Beethoven Experience later in the year, devoted to Bach. But said Mr Thompson there would be more consultation to " understand the likely market impact".Classical recording labels are lagging behind their pop counterparts in embracing the download service providers, according to Mr Cosgrove which have so far been tailored to working with tracks of a maximum of six or eight minutes, "which wouldn't work for Bruckner". But, he said, this was changing, and there was a "vertical learning curve".According to Chaz Jenkins, the head of LSO Live, the recording company set up by the London Symphony Orchestra, "downloads are the future for classical music".He said when the LSO's catalogue first became available on iTunes online sales outstripped those on the high street. "You can reach audiences who are intimidated by walking into a classical CD store, or who just can't get to one."Everyone talks about the early 1980s, when catalogues were re-recorded on CD and everyone replaced their LP collection, as the big boom in the classical recording industry. This could be just as big."For Mr Jenkins, downloads of the LSO's recordings are not necessarily about building audiences for the orchestra's performances in the concert hall, but about giving the orchestra a reach and a life way beyond it. But Russell Jones, of the Association of British Orchestras, said: "We'd want to use it to try to drive people to the live performance. The buzz of this happening in the Bridgewater Hall can't be reproduced on a download."Ludwig versus MaccaBeethoven's downloads1 Symphony No 6 (Pastoral)220,4612 Symphony No 7185,7183 Symphony No 1164,6624 Symphony No 9 (Choral)157,8225 Symphony No 2154,4966 Symphony No 8148,5537 Symphony No 5139,9058 Symphony No 4108,9589 Symphony No 3 (Eroica)89,318Total1,369,893The download chart1 Paul McCartney and U2Sgt Pepper2 James BluntYou're Beautiful3 2PacGhetto Gospel4 Charlotte ChurchCrazy Chick5 Paul McCartneyThe Long and Winding Road6 Mariah CareyWe Belong Together7 Audio Bullys/Nancy SinatraShot You Down8 RazorlightSomewhere Else9 GorillazFeel Good Inc10 Kanye WestDiamonds from Sierra LeoneClassical chat 'A fantastic experiment'From the Radio 4 Beethoven Experience messageboardbliss 1st postI LOVE the Beethoven week. My only regret is that I must sleep and therefore miss listening to the sublime music and excellent commentary.Hope you will do the same for other composers.dojjey 1st postThanks BBC for the downloads. I've just downloaded #6 and am listening as I write. It's nice to get a bit more from my licence fee.Rowley 1st postMany congratulations on your brave experiment.The performances clearly have a common thread running through them of one conductor's interpretation which gives the cycle an impressive cohesion. I am delighted to say that each download has been fast and faultless here.EKM Beukers 1st postThanks BBC for this superb initiative. I heard a little bit late about this possibility, but succeeded in downloading 7, 8 + 9; many thanks and I hope you will continue actions like this one.As a keen internet user, but not normally a classical music listener, I wanted to praise the BBC for making these excellent recordings of Beethoven's symphonies available. I have downloaded the first five and am gently listening through them and really enjoying a new style of music - a welcome change from my normal listening of Radio 1. Thank you BBC!This is a fantastic experiment in the democratisation of high culture, and shows exactly what direction BBC radio should take. If all of BBC radio's range of live concerts/sessions/DJ sets were available in this way, it would lead to the creation of a national "archive" in homes across the country.Congratulations to Gianandrea Noseda and the BBC Philharmonic for their excellent performances, and hopefully for being the forerunners to the BBC's emergence as the world's premier digital service.
No one leaves home without a mobile phone, but do you want to take the phone as well as a camera to the beach this summer? One of the new multi-megapixel cameraphones may be an enticing alternative. But if you are looking to replace your handset, you will have to choose carefully.Everyone would like sharp, well-exposed shots, and most people want detailed postcard-sized prints. For this, you will need at least a one megapixel camera, with plenty of shooting modes, ideally with auto-focusing and an option to override exposure for tricky lighting.An optical zoom is preferable to a digital zoom, as the latter crops into an image, thereby lowering resolution and detail. Cameraphones with expandable memory in the form of tiny, removable memory cards, such as SecureDigital (SD) or Memory Stick Duo, are worth considering if you plan to take lots of shots. And with a &pound;15 card-reader, it's easier to view lots of images on a PC than use Bluetooth or a USB data cable, and will save your cameraphone's battery. These little cards are also all that is needed to transfer postcard-sized prints, without using a PC, to the majority of popular photo-printers.1Sony Ericsson K750iFree with contract, *****From the front, the tri-band K750i looks like a normal mobile phone, perhaps even smaller than most. Turn it over, however, and it is the most camera-centric of the crop. Behind the brushed aluminium sliding cover is a tiny lens with a whopping two megapixel sensor, and two white LEDs that act not as a flash as such but more as a mini light for close-ups. Thanks to 37MB of internal memory, as well as 64MB Memory Stick Duo (expandable to 2GB), there's room for lots of snaps, video clips and MP3s. In addition to auto-focusing (quite rare in a cameraphone) for improved focusing accuracy, the user can select a macro mode for close-ups, and alter white balance, which allows fine-tuning of colour for daylight, cloudy skies and indoor lighting. Image quality is very good but, for some, it will be enough that this is available in black and is well made, too.www.sonyericsson.comwww.carphonewarehouse.com2Sharp 902, from&pound;60 with contract, ****Sharp's two megapixel 3G 902 won't win many awards for elegant styling - its approach is entirely functional. But it has a long and interesting feature set and the video-conferencing 902 is a very capable cameraphone. It has the best screen of any of those reviewed - it is extremely detailed and big at just under 2.5in. But the inclusion of a 2x optical zoom and auto-focus has more of an impact on the final image quality. While it is a technological triumph, the images are soft at the edges when zoomed, which is a shame. Without zooming, however, image quality is among the best. Other features include an SD expansion slot with a 32MB card along with Bluetooth, and there's even a cable to connect to the TV to display stills and video clips, but it is at the expense of a USB data cable.www.vodafone.co.uk3Siemens SF65&pound;129 handset only, ***There's something iPod-esque about the Siemens SF65's stylish mix of polished chrome and high-gloss white finish, but it is also available in black. The SF65 is a clamshell phone with a difference - there's a swivel-action screen to convert the dual-band phone into a 1.3 megapixel camera. In addition to a single LED light (for close-ups only), there are useful features to enhance your photography, such as a dedicated top/side-mounted shutter-button, which makes it feel more like a real camera; a large, bright 65k pixel screen; and night-shooting mode. Image quality is good but better outdoors, and a 4x digital zoom allows you to get in close, which is good if you want to send images by email or multimedia messaging. Sadly, there's no Bluetooth or supplied data cable, and just 18MB of internal memory. Consequently, most snaps will have to be sent to an online print service using your service provider or to your laptop by infrared (IrDA). But there's no denying that the SF65 is high on style and a capable cameraphone.www.siemens.comwww.carphonewarehouse.com4Samsung D500Free with contract, ***Samsung's diminutive D500 is a classy looking handset, with a 1.3 megapixel camera that has been neatly integrated into the leading edge of the slide-up 1.9in screen. Along with a tiny, lozenge-shaped mirror for self-portraits, there's a tiny flashlight, which has become de rigueur. Although it's nicely put together, the D500 still has the air of a phone that has had the camera added as an afterthought.But it has plenty of control over exposure, image resolution and quality (compression), and there is a choice between focusing modes. The Bluetooth-enabled D500 has a trick borrowed from  digi-cams for overriding the sensor's sensitivity for low-light shooting, which is a big plus. Although there is no memory expansion slot for removable cards, the D500 has 96MB of internal memory, enough to store nearly 1,000 one megapixel snaps or up to an hour of video.www.samsung.co.uk5Nokia 6680,&pound;380 handset only, ***We couldn't talk cameraphones without including at least one Nokia. While we await the new N-90, which boasts a Carl-Zeiss lens, the new 6680 shouldn't be overlooked. Apart from being Nokia's first 3G video-calling phone with two built-in cameras - one VGA to the front for face-to-face video-conferencing, the other a 1.3 megapixel for stills to the rear - the dignified-looking 6680 won't be out of place in the boardroom or on the street. There's still no sight of an optical zoom and in spite of a large screen, not all of it is used for image composition, which is a shame. Like most models, the image can smear if the handset is moved, but if you hold the device steady, shots can be sharp and detailed. As well as a tiny flash (LED), it has a useful, night-shooting mode, plus there are settings to alter brightness, colour, contrast, tone and white balance. The camera performs best outdoors in daylight. Thanks to a reduced-size MultiMediaCard (MMC) expansion slot, Bluetooth and a supplied USB data cable - which can also be used to connect directly to a PictBridge-compatible printer - the 6680 is very well connected.www.nokia.comwww.carphonewarehouse.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so
Olympic class, it ain't. When web-savvy world citizens need to find out how our capital city works, their natural first stop iswww.london.gov.uk.But while an official website is indeed available at that address, its practical value is zero.On the home page, position of honour goes to a portrait of a wry-looking Mayor Ken Livingstone. The rest of the page is largely made up of announcements from his office and the London Assembly. As it happens, these are quite interesting at the moment because of the 7/7 bombs. There's a nice piece on the Trafalgar Square vigil. But these - we hope - are exceptional times. If you just want to find out when your rubbish will be collected, or whether it's OK to park in the West End on Sundays, you are wasting your time here.Part of the problem is that, in London, everyday matters such as these are the responsibility of 33 individual boroughs, rather than the newfangled London-wide government. Each borough runs its own website; some are among the best e-government facilities in the country, so long as you know which borough you need.Poor old London.gov.uk is there to sell the Greater London authority (the mayor and London assembly) to sceptical Londoners. E-government isn't part of the remit. Even the congestion charge, the authority's one e-based service, is hard to find. There is no button on the home page: paying the charge is at least five clicks away, via the search engine and unhelpfully namedwww.cclondon.com.All this means that London may be the world's most exciting city on the ground, but on the web it is just a collection of suburbs. The contrast withwww.birmingham.gov.ukwhich really is the gateway to everything you want to know about Britain's second largest city, is striking. Let aloneparis.fr, ornyc.gov.Well, relief is on the way. In November, London's government will launch a second site, offering electronic connections to public services across borough boundaries. If you live in Lambeth, it will tell you about parks in Southwark, or help you pay a parking ticket from Wandsworth. That's the promise, anyway. A preview of the site,www.yourlondon.gov.ukwas demonstrated at last week's London Connects conference. A prototype is already on the web, complete with a live "find your nearest" feature that ignores borough boundaries. There is even a congestion charge link on the home page.This welcome development raises just two concerns. First, assuming it works, will we really continue to need 33 individual all-singing, all-dancing borough websites? Second, and more urgent, does the new portal have the right name? To build up a critical mass of users and catch passing trade, it would be more sensible to trade urls with london.gov.uk. Or better still, subsume the mayor's site into a democracy section in the main portal.Ken Livingstone's a big bloke - the past few weeks have shown how big. Surely he is not too vain to give up his propaganda website for the greater good?á If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Keep on Rowling: JK is a hit with fans on the web. Photograph: Matt Dunham/APHarry Potter fever's gripped the world this week, but JK Rowling kept herself fairly quiet - though she did take some time to speak to two fans who run Potter websites. Have authors realised the power of the internet to help them connect with fans? Ourlead featurefinds out.Elsewhere, we take a brief tour of theBritish podcasting scene, give you our guide to thebest cameraphoneson the market, and investigate the programming buzz aroundAjaxIn comment, Michael Cross wonders whyLondon's official website is so bad, Mary Branscombe ponderstransatlantic technology prices, and Jack looks back at the history ofIBM's OS/2.Of course, there's much more besides.Click herefor a complete listing of everything inside this week's Guardian Online.
Somehow the furor surrounding the Hot Coffee hidden sex scenes in GTA: San Andreas is still bubbling, with Gamespot reporting on rumours that - gasp - Rockstar itself may have tipped off hackers about the existence of the offending code (gohereand scroll down to rumour two). A videogame publisher - intentionally courting controversy? Heavens, whatever next?No matter who weighs into the argument, however, be it Hilary Clinton or the latest pious whining superstar of the American Religious Right, one fact remains: the videogames industry just can't do scandal. Let's face it, a few laughable scenes of polygonal coupling does not a Watergate make. Even the troubled relationship between Jude 'mind-blowing in bed' Law and Sienna 'pictured without engagement ring' Miller is more interesting than this limp tale of adolescent sex fantasy, Christian self-righteousness and coding. Nothing is more tedious than publicity desperation, so the prospect of inveterate controversy-flirt Rock Star going up against the ever-disgusted National Institute on Media and the Family, who are so revolted by the moral failings of modern society I am surprised they can motivate themselves to issue 50 press releases a day on the subject, is about as exciting and shocking as two ex-Big Brother contestants pointlessly flailing at each other outside some godforsaken Essex nightspot at three in the morning.This whole escapade isn't even as titillating as the SimCopter controversy of 1996 where a coder was allegedly sacked by Maxis for planting secret gay images in a helicopter sim. At least that one had the faint whiff of homophobia about it - plus, the presence of secret gay imagery in a helicopter simulation was amusingly random. But sex in a GTA game - should we really be shocked by that? Frankly, I'd be more shocked to discover that Rock Starhadn'tconsidered such a feature. Why shouldn't they? After all, in Manhunt they had people asphyxiated to death while a panting voyeur begged for more.A love scene - is this the best the videogame business can do? Sport, movies, music, theatre - all of these areas of entertainment can shock in a profoundly life-changing way. Videogames? Nowhere near. Perhaps it's the distinct lack of glamour in the industry, the lack of strong, engaging personalities to simultaneously seduce and outrage us. Perhaps it's the fact that people don't go into videogames to say something about the world. Or maybe it's just that videogames do not occupy the same cultural space as movies or music - consumers just don't invest in them emotionally, and therefore don't really care when games go off the rails.Indeed, as a true cultural force I think videogames peaked between 1995 and 1997, when Sony got its marketing just about right, and people started to see playing videogames as akin to going clubbing or taking a snowboarding holiday. If Core Design had hidden a sex scene in Tomb Raider IIthatmight have been interesting and provocative. Those days are gone. Videogames are, for a majority of mainstream consumers, the entertainment equivalent of white goods. And no one is shocked by a fridge freezer.The day Heat magazine has a videogame scandal on page three is the day the industry really, truly goes mainstream. Until then, the best we can manage is a daft little interactive sex scene of real interest only to lonely boys and the men who worry about them.
Thereviewsthis week reflect the patchy summer release schedule. First up is F1 2005 for PS2. Obviously there are no great surprises, although it apparently it is a little easier to play than the 2004 version. It is still Formula One though, so don't expect too much excitement. The other tworeviewscover titles in the budget territory, which for games, ridiculously, means 20 quid. Codename Panzers: Phase 2 is a real-time-strategy game for tank geeks. Far less cerebral is Gungrave Overdose - an insane shooter that is actually better than my two star score would suggest.
Ebay eased fears about growth prospects last night when it reported a 53% profits rise in the second quarter.The online marketplace posted earnings of $292m (&pound;168m) on a 40% increase in revenues to $1.1bn. Chief executive Meg Whitman said there had been "excellent momentum" in the business.The fastest growing market was Britain, where revenues were up a comparative 94%. Sales in the United States were 27% higher.Ebay hit a wall in January when it reported quarterly results that missed Wall Street expectations. A backlash ensued and shares have lost 40% of their value this year over concerns about growth prospects. With a market capitalisation of $47.7bn, it has been overtaken this year by Google as the most valuable net firm. Google is valued at $86bn.Last night, the firm raised its full-year revenue outlook to $4.4bn.
Lap of honourF1 2005PlayStation 2, &pound;39.99Sony, ****Last year, Sony celebrated acquiring sole ownership of the official Formula 1 licence in a curious way. After prizing shared rights from EA, Sony's F1 2004 was so hard that it required players to have the talent of Jenson Button ... unless they were happy to drag around hopelessly at the back of the field. Clearly, there has been some discussion of the need to create a mainstream game: while F1 2005 retains the same format, it is much easier to play.Career mode sees you once again trialling for one of three teams - Red Bull, Jordan or Minardi - and if you achieve the required time around the twisty Barcelona circuit, you are pitched into the fray at the Australian Grand Prix. When played at the easiest level, an ideal-line trace (in green, but with braking zones in red) makes negotiating unfamiliar circuits much easier.Indeed, petrol-heads may find it too easy. Luckily, there are plenty of difficulty modes offering more realistic levels of driver assistance. Curiously, F1 2005 retains the dual-lap qualifying system that started the season but has since been scrapped, and you must choose your fuel strategy before embarking on a Sunday morning lap. Car setup has been made easier, too, but the graphics have not improved, while the spine-tingling soundtrack has. The online side of the game should prove popular. This time, Sony has created a Formula 1 game that appeals to all fans, regardless of driving ability.Steve BoxerCoasting to victoryCodename Panzers: Phase 2PC, &pound;34.99Stormregion/CDV, ***It's always a shame when sequels get rushed, especially when based on something as unexpected as the original Codename Panzers. Last year's real-time strategy gem showed Stormregion had a gift for deep, arcade-friendly gaming that's getting rare among European developers.Those skills are still in abundance, but they are the same as before. Panzers 2 may have a slightly tweaked version of the original Gephardt engine and 20 new real-world units, but it is effectively the same game, down to the identical interface, loading screens and gameplay. Unique features, such as being able to carry captured units into the next level, have been replaced by the same old tank-rush mentality that seemed more under control last time.Fans of the original will find the new levels equally polished. You get three lengthy campaigns, featuring Italian, Allied and Yugoslavian missions, and the addition of more day/night cycles makes for some eye-catching scenarios - but they are so tightly scripted that success is rarely more than a question of memorising where the enemy will attack from next. However, there's plenty of variety and - as before - units are well balanced to make replay with different combinations productive.It's a shame CDV doesn't push its developers harder. Anyone capable of producing a game this good can probably manage more in a sequel. This would be a bargain at &pound;19.99 but at the moment it feels rushed, expensive and under-ambitious.Mike AnderieszSubtlety not the planGungrave OverdosePlayStation 2, &pound;19.99Play-It, **If you like using your brain when playing games, then Gungrave Overdose isn't for you. If, however, you enjoy shooting numerous enemies, ideally while carrying a coffin on your back, then you'll be at home.This is an offbeat game that will appeal to action fans looking for reasonably priced entertainment. Unfortunately, the gameplay is banal - pumping bullets into assailants is as good as it gets. For a while, this is enough. Swinging your coffin around as a weapon is a great way to let off steam, and there are a steady stream of enemies waiting to be hit.Likewise, the environments are generally there to be destroyed. It is obvious that subtlety wasn't part of the Gungrave design document. Do well in your killing - ie do it fast - and you earn upgrades to further your destructive powers. Yes, this game is as retro as it sounds.The other playable characters uphold the anarchic action, with one using a guitar as a weapon. So, if you fancy a quick and easy bit of fun, then this could be for you. But beware the initial sugar rush: play for more than an hour and the comedown begins, with the realisation that there are far better ways to spend time on your PS2.Greg HowsonTop 5 gamesAll formats1.Madagascar2.Destroy All Humans!3.Juiced4.Medal of Honor: European Assault5.God of War&#183;Leisure software charts compiled by Chart Track, &copy; 2005 Elspa UK Ltd&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
A decade ago, when the internet bandwagon started to roll, the sense of fear from inside the literary establishment was palpable. With each new technological development, sinister soothsayers would trot out the latest in a series of dark predictions. Ebooks, we were told, would herald the death of paper-based novels. Websites such as Amazon would destroy bookselling as we knew it. The escalating volume of informal, sporadic email would degrade literacy and reduce readers' attention spans.More than a decade into the wired world, however, few of these sinister prophecies have come to pass. In fact, there are more and more writers taking the opposite view: that the web is actually a valuable ally to the literary world.Last weekend, when the latest round of Harry Potter fever reached its highest point, the famously reclusive JK Rowling held a sleepover reading for 70 readers hand-picked from around the world. Two representatives from the biggest Harry Potter fan sites were included. The Leaky Cauldron's Melissa Anelli, a 25-year-old journalist from New York, was chosen to visit Edinburgh, as was the 18-year-old founder of Mugglenet, Emerson Spartz. "She said we do a great job with the sites," Anelli said last week. "She knows we will bring it back to the fans in an ethical and responsible manner."Rowling's work has inspired many fan websites, but she also maintains her own domain - a place "where I can tell you the truth about rumours or news stories, where I can share the extra information I haven't put in the books, where I can give you hints and clues about what's going to happen to Harry next".Rowling also freely admits to trawling fan sites, and pays homage to the good ones with a regular fan site award."From what I've seen of reading and speaking to writers, going out to these sites is easier than going out in public," says Heidi Tandy, a 34-year-old attorney from Florida who is one of the editors of The Leaky Cauldron. "One of the things I've learned is that they like interacting with fans, but book tours are murder. For them, to have another way to communicate with the public is phenomenal."It is not just popular writers who are enveloped by these online fan communities - music, film and a multitude of pursuits are replete with enthusiast sites.But many writers particularly enjoy the way the web lets them write to readers directly, circumventing the traditional, one-way communication between an author and the public. That ability has proved positive for Chris Cleave, whose novel Incendiary - about a terrorist attack in London - was published on the same day the recent bombings struck the capital."My site helps me understand people's feelings, and I wouldn't be without it," Cleave says. Connections are "especially relevant at a time like this"."The intense feedback - positive and negative - that I've had from readers has been very important to help me understand how people are feeling out there, which feeds into my current writing project. I don't think direct contact would be possible without the website."Many non-fiction writers, particularly those in technology-related subjects, have already switched to the internet. Publishers such as O'Reilly have led the way through a wide network of writers, and Silicon Valley journalists such as Chris Anderson and Dan Gillmor have used the web to think out their books in public before finalising the manuscripts in print.The benefits are spreading. Even just a few years ago, the web was dominated by early adopters and tech-heads, but these days the subject matter and quality of sites are widening, as more people discover their interests can also be pursued online.This has been helped by the widespread increase in web access. In the past five years, internet connections have more than doubled in Britain, and they are getting faster all the time. And despite the closure of chat rooms from high-profile providers such as Yahoo and MSN, social spaces on the web have continued to evolve and grow. A mixture of bulletin boards, forums, weblogs and social networking sites all help people draw connections with each other. A Stanford University study reveals that about a fifth of internet users now communicate with people they have never met - and not just as part of their work."People bring to the internet the activities, interests and behaviours that preoccupied them before the web existed," wrote researchers Lee Rainie and John Horrigan in a Pew Internet study earlier this year."Still, the internet has also enabled new kinds of activities that no one ever dreamed of doing before - certainly not in the way people are doing them now."Novelist Jasper Fforde has built up a substantial personal website since publishing his first book in 2001, with content dedicated to the alternate-reality Britain that provides the backdrop to his stories. He runs a selection of websites with his partner, fleshing out the world of his main character, the time-travelling literary detective Thursday Next."I don't remember being particularly web savvy," he says about the origins of his online endeavours. "When we started jasperfforde.com, it was a curiosity: websites weren't a new thing, but they were new enough. I thought about the world I created, and I liked the idea of visualising it. I thought that would fit in well with the idea of a website; help blur the edges between what's real and what's not."Fforde sees the site as a kind of "after sales service". With fans all over the world entranced by his storytelling - which was described by the Guardian as "the morning after a particularly delirious dream" - the web allows them to congregate, mingle and speak with the author.His website's discussion boards (and the aptly named independent "ffan club") have proved fertile ground for those wanting to continue their delirium. This September sees the first community-organised convention dedicated to his fiction - the "Fforde Ffestival" in Swindon (an important location in his novels) - with fans from around the globe. And all of it was conceived, created and organised over the web."We have a thriving community of people who talk, organise outings and even fall in love," says Fforde. "We now have three couples who met on the forums, I think, and a baby named Thursday. It's a strange feeling."But he is modest about his role as the Cilla Black of fiction: "All I'm doing is creating little beacons for people with a similar interest. If they didn't meet on the website, they might meet somewhere else."There is one dilemma that writers struggle with: trying to balance the workload. Many authors find themselves unable to fight the gravitational pull of their web worlds, and struggle to balance its demands with the amount of time they have to spend writing their books."My website takes up a lot of energy because I maintain it myself," says Cleave. "I try to reply to everyone who posts or emails - but I think the result is worth it."Fforde agrees, and says he finds it difficult to keep up with the site and his writing schedule. This is no surprise when you consider his prolific nature: later this month, he will publish The Big Over Easy, his fifth novel."Ultimately, the web is a tool to facilitate my primary business of selling books and selling stories," he says. "I like to give the website as much time as I can, but it's a conflict. It takes a huge amount of work, not only in writing it, but in Photoshopping images and other things. One series of pictures - the Seven Wonders of Swindon - took me about three weeks of solid work to complete."Science fiction has a long history of slavish, unsociable technology addicts who trade in their real lives for virtual ones. But the greatest fear of the literary world - that people would stop reading books altogether - now seems as absurd as the plot of a melodrama. Not only is today's wired society reading more, but it has found new ways to support its reading habits: through websites, instant messaging and email. The web is just another weapon in the author's arsenal."Bulletin boards and email are where people write their letters now," says Fforde. "I think in the future, people might look back on the 20th century and say that the era of the telephone was a very short one where people didn't write to each other. Humans communicate: it's what they do fantastically well. If the internet disappeared tomorrow, we'd be able to find something else."&#183;To order discounted copies of The Big Over Easy or Incendiary, call the Guardian book service on 0870 836 0875 or go toguardian.co.uk/bookshopá If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.ukLinkswww.jkrowling.comwww.the-leaky-cauldron.orgwww.mugglenet.comwww.jasperfforde.comwww.chriscleave.com
Sony has announced a crowd-pleasing new title in its SingStar series - SingStar '80s. Allegedly responding to public pressure (come on, own up), this retro karaoke experience boasts, "a new '80s-themed intro, retro colour scheme, fully licensed tracks from the original artists, and, of course, the videos that ushered in the dawn of music TV". A brief glimpse at the tracklist (peeked at gingerly through my fingers) reveals such classics as 99 Red Balloons, Tainted Love, The Final Countdown and Come On Eileen. God help us, its every wedding disco from the last twenty years on one shiny disc.It's a no-brainer for Sony though: combine two popular mainstream entertainment themes - the 'everyone's a performer' ethos of reality TV and eighties nostalgia - into one product. How long before pop culture completely consumes itself and we end up with SingStar Ring Tone classics? Whole families gathered around the PS3 doing Crazy Frog impressions... Is that more or less disturbing than secret videogame sex scenes?You can, if you must, view the whole SingStar '80s tracklist here...Culture Club - Karma Chameleon Dexy's Midnight Runners - Come On Eileen Vanilla Ice - Ice Ice Baby Belinda Carlisle - Heaven is a Place on Earth Simple Minds - Don't You (Forget About Me) The Cure - Just Like Heaven Nena - 99 Red Balloons Frankie Goes to Hollywood - Power of Love Blondie - Atomic Kate Bush - Running up that Hill Foreigner - I want to know what love is Europe - The Final Countdown Soft Cell - Tainted Love Wham! - Wake me up before you go, go! Pretenders - Brass in pocket Billy Joel - Uptown Girl Erasure - A little respect Starship - We built this city Katrina and the Waves - Walkingon Sunshine
The battle for Britain's broadband customers moved up a gear yesterday as both BT and Wanadoo doubled the speeds of their basic broadband packages to the sort of levels where services such as video on demand are possible.The news came as the Office for National Statistics, the government's official statistician, confirmed that more people access the web over broadband than use dial-up connections.Last week telecoms watchdog Ofcom said about 8.1m households - or nearly 30% - are signed up for broadband, while 7.5m homes remain on dial-up.Having persuaded customers to sign up for fast internet access by offering low prices, many  service providers are looking to faster speeds to attract more subscribers.Yesterday Wanadoo, the former Freeserve business owned by France T&eacute;l&eacute;com, said it would offer broadband at two megabits per second (Mbps), twice as fast as its existing service and four times faster than traditional broadband.The faster speed is free for new customers signing on for &pound;17.99 a month, but existing customers will have to pay a &pound;20 upgrade fee.The company has 720,000 broadband customers and another 1.7m on dial-up.BT, in contrast, said yesterday it would start upgrading subscribers to its &pound;17.99 basic broadband package immediately, at no extra cost. It has 1.7m broadband users.While other niche suppliers, such as UK Online, Bulldog and HomeChoice, offer fast speeds - up to 8Mbps in some cases - the move by BT and Wanadoo will bring fast speeds to the mass market.Increasing the speed at which most broadband users can access the internet should spur companies to start new services, according to the head of BT's consumer business Gavin Patterson."With 2MB we reckon we can get DVD-quality video down the line," he said. "This is an important day for content - with this sort of bandwidth ... we can begin to make broadband a real contender for things like video on demand."But the BT and Wanadoo services have "caps" which allow users only to download a certain amount of data each month. BT is capped at 1 gigabyte - about the equivalent of downloading 240 music tracks - while Wanadoo is capped at twice that amount.Rival Tiscali offers a 2Mbps broadband service with a much higher cap of 15 gigabytes for &pound;19.99. It will be launching an offer on this product at &pound;17.99 this week.
The world's insatiable desire to stay in touch while on the move will result in more than a billion mobile phones being sold annually by 2009, far exceeding expectations.Research by industry experts Gartner, published today, shows global handset sales rising from an estimated 780m this year to more than 1bn in 2009. Last year 674m phones were sold.Cumulatively from 1997 to 2009 the world's mobile phone manufacturers are expected to have produced 7.5bn phones - more than enough for every man, woman and child on the planet. The actual number in use is likely to be about 2.6bn."The world's appetite for mobile phones has exceeded even the most optimistic expectations," said Ben Wood, research vice-president for mobile terminals at Gartner. "Mobile phones could go on to be the most common consumer electronics device on the planet."Much of the growth is expected to come from new markets such as India and China and developing markets such as Latin America. China and India will account for 200m phones by 2007 with the Asia Pacific region in general accounting for one in every three sold within four years.Gartner has noted that the mature markets of western Europe and the US are reporting continued strong demand for new mobile phones. In saturated markets such as Britain, new handsets are being used by operators to lure customers from other networks or to retain valuable subscribers.Mobile phone operators are desperate to persuade customers to stick with them as they try to reduce costs and make a return on the billions they have invested in their networks. The Gartner figures suggest they will still have to fight it out by offering the best price on the latest, expensive, gadget-laden handsets.Virgin Mobile, which has the luxury of not owning a network, keeping investment needs down, yesterday showed the effects of continuing strong competition. The company, which has attracted the most customers in recent years, added a mere 77,000 in the three months to the end of June compared with 150,000 in the same period last year, lower than some analysts had hoped.Finance director Alan Gow said the company, which has more than four million active customers, had deliberately not chased after some unprofitable low-use customers.The company also reported declining average revenue per user, down to &pound;123 a year on an annualised basis from &pound;127 in the previous quarter. Mr Gow said that on a standalone basis, "monthly Arpu is recovering and actually going up".
It is a familiar dilemma for parents of teenagers testing new-found independence - do you sit at home fretting over their after-school whereabouts or call their mobiles and risk a tirade against over-protectiveness?The answer, according to one company, is a hi-tech apron string based on the mobile phone location tracking techniques used in police investigations.The new KidsOK service, sold in shops including Boots and Bhs as the summer holidays start, allows parents to use their own mobiles and their children's to "discreetly" locate wandering offspring (or their phones, at least) to within about 500m in built-up areas.Instead of dialling their teenager's number, parents subscribing to the service send or "ping" a text message including the child's name to a special mailbox. Within 60 seconds, they receive a map (if they have a picturephone) or a description showing the position of the youngster's phone.The system uses technology which traces the location of a mobile by pinpointing it within the three nearest mobile phone masts. Because the masts are clustered in built-up areas, the method is most accurate in cities and gives a much less precise picture in rural areas.mTrack services, the company behind KidsOK, insists the system, which costs &pound;39.95 plus the 50p cost of the "pings", is not about parents spying on children.Co-founder Richard Jelbert said: "Receiving an embarrassing call or text message from your mum or dad wanting to know where you are is the last thing kids want when they're with friends."The KidsOK service is based on encouraging trust and cooperation between parent and child, striking a balance between giving kids their freedom and knowing where they are."The system may strike some parents as the opposite of trusting but has been endorsed by the child safety charity Kidscape. Its director, Michele Elliott, said: "As parents, we worry about our children more when they are away from home."The KidsOK service is a brilliant way to keep in touch and their security system ensures that our children can only be contacted by us and not by strangers."mTrack says its security is tight to ensure no one but parents and carers can track children. Parents must undergo Home Office-approved checks before they register, and any child tracked has to opt in to the service before it can start.Reassuringly for those who feel the whole idea represents parental control gone mad, children can also opt out at any time, by switching the service off or simply turning off their phone.
Online's readership has an ambivalent relationship with weblogs: some love them, some hate them. Some realise - like I do - that they're simply an easy way for people to produce their own website.But most journalists, whether they admit it or not, like weblogs. Why? Because they're full of human stories. And sometimes those stories make good copy. And here's another one for you.Here are the basics: A nanny in New York kept a blog. She told her boss, the mother of the two children she nannied. Over time, the mother read the blog. Her husband did too. Eventually they decided they didn't much like what they were reading. The family fired the nanny. Nothing too out of the ordinary. We've been here before, I hear you say.But here's the twist: then the motherwrote an article in the New York Timesabout the whole thing. And the nannywrote back.It's caused something of a stink between the two... and garnered more than a little attention along the way. Here's why. Helaine Olen, the mother in question, opened by lumping all the salacious stuff into the opening paragraph:OUR former nanny, a 26-year-old former teacher with excellent references, liked to touch her breasts while reading The New Yorker and often woke her lovers in the night by biting them. She took sleeping pills, joked about offbeat erotic fantasies involving Tucker Carlson and determined she'd had more female sexual partners than her boyfriend. How do I know these things? I read her blog.Understandably, the nanny in question - "Tessy" - was pretty pissed off about being used as fodder for the article: she produced apoint-by-point rebuttalof Olen's accusations. The claims (including those above) seem over-dramatic, sexed up and more than a little unfair. It's clear that she was hurt by the image Olen portrayed, particularly the suggestion that she may have skipped work because of heavy drinking.But that's not the whole story. The NYT piece - as these things so often are - is far more about the writer than the subject. Helaine Olen admits to self-aggrandisement and paranoia (or at least leans toward admitting it) - and she certainly says that she was jealous of Tessy's "exciting" life. Underneath it all, there seems a vague resentment that a mere nanny had the ability, however weak, to put their lives into the public domain.So, whose life is on parade? Tessy blogged about her days, but was she right to blog about the family she worked for? And is Helaine Olen any better for writing about it? Who's profiting the most from this blame game? And did the Olens even tell their nanny why they were letting her go?In her final post before promising to go anonymously, Tessy saidthis: "I want to reiterate that what I think Ms. Olen did was unethical and inappropriate. I told Ms. Olen specifically what I thought was remiss with her piece and her perspective on the relationship."In truth, it's more complex than that: I'm not sure any of us really know where the ethics of this stuff really lie. Just more proof that people are still trying to work out how to live their lives online as well as offline.At the end of it all, though, the two pieces made me think of a couple of things - both far more mundane than the "NEW YOIK TECHNO NANNY SPAT" headlines. Firstly, that employment law's pretty lax in cases like this. And secondly, since the identities of everybody in the story are effectively no longer anonymous, is there any chance that one party has libelled the other?
Trinity Mirror has stepped up its push into the online property classified advertising market by buying the owner of the smartnewhomes.com website for &pound;16.6m.The publisher of the Daily Mirror announced yesterday it would pay an initial &pound;11.3m for Smart Media Services, with a further &pound;5.3m being contingent on the site meeting earnings targets.It said smartnewhomes.com was the "leading site" for customers wanting to buy new-build homes, with more than 400,000 visits a month and 85% of UK developers advertising on its site. Brand new homes account for between 10% and 20% of all home purchases. The largest newspaper publisher in the UK, with five national and 240 regional titles, Trinity Mirror is boosting its online presence in an attempt to stop its print classified revenues leeching away to the net.Local classifieds are "rapidly" migrating to the internet, the Newspaper Society said on Monday in its submission to the green paper review of the BBC's charter.Analysts said Smart Media Services was a relatively small acquisition but one which fitted in with Trinity Mirror's strategy of expanding its online classifieds business."I'm a bit surprised they did not focus on buying these type of assets four or five years ago," SG Securities analyst Anthony de Larrinaga said. "They certainly need to build national brands vertically to support the horizontal brands they've got in localities."Analysts suggested a more significant purchase for Trinity Mirror would be the Exchange &amp; Mart and Auto Exchange titles United Business Media has put up for sale.Exchange &amp; Mart's website is Britain's third most popular classified site.Trinity Mirror, Daily Mail &amp; General Trust and Johnston Press are all expected to be interested in UBM's two motor titles, which could fetch as much as &pound;100m.Trinity Mirror is also one of three regional newspaper groups that are competing to buy the Hotjobs online recruitment business. It already has a stake in the largest recruitment site in the country, Fish4jobs, which it owns jointly with DMGT, Guardian Media Group - the publisher of the Guardian - and Gannett. Regional newspaper websites account for 30% of the online UK recruitment market.Trinity Mirror has also created a single portal for the websites of its regional titles in order to better exploit their advertising potential.In a trading update released at the end of last month, Trinity Mirror revealed advertising revenues at its national titles would be 7% lower for this half-year, but its regional newspapers are expected to increase ad revenue by 1.3%.
Midnight express: worth staying up for, apparentlyLike any self-respecting gadget lover, I look forward to reading about the latest phones, music players, digital gizmos and bits of kit. But have things gone a bit too far?Yesterday, Sony Ericsson announced that it was going to be releasing a new model, the W800, on August 12. Fair enough. It's an MP3-playing phone with a 2 megapixel camera - a nice little bundle. And, perhaps more importantly, it's also the first phone to carry the Walkman brand. Now personally, I'm not entirely sure what the Walkman brand actually means these days (certainly not much to my 7-year-old sister) but I can see what they're aiming for.To promote the launch, Sony Ericsson has brought in Jamiroquai front man Jay Kay, holding a private concert and sending him out to the Carphone Warehouse on Oxford Street to meet and greet the public. The glorious twelfth indeed.But that's not all: Orange are going one step further."We are opening our Orange shop at 383 Oxford Street from midnight on the day of launch to deal with the expected demand for the new phone," said the firm's director of devices, Matthew Kirk.One of my esteemed colleagues put his response succinctly: "It's all getting a bit silly".
Yesterday I got a European PSP - yes, they do actually exist - and rather lovely it is too. It came with pre-production copies ofWipeout Pure, F1,WRCand the flawed, yet oddly addictive World Tour Soccer. While no Pro Evo, WTS has taken up most of my initial play time. Whether it's the novelty of playing a 3D footy game on the move, or the fact that they've rated Southampton better than Spurs, I don't know. The PSP itself is as gorgeous as the US/Japanese devices and, judging by the attention it received on the train this morning, is likely to fulfil those Christmas must-have gadget predictions. And this is despite a less innovative initial game line-up than the DS. My wife was slightly less impressed though, seeing it as very much a boys toy. According to her the PSP is "very eighties" and "too long". While this description is better applied to aFrankie Goes to Hollywood12", she may have a point. Is Sony pitching the PSP too heavily towards men?
Thanks for the bevy of letters and emails to Online over the past week, they bring brightness and lucidity to our flimsy excuses for existence. Actually, things are rather perky at the moment: the Online Dungeon has been transported to a different floor of Guardian Towers, and now we're feeling bright and breezy - and feeling rather nauseous from the smell of new carpet.Anyway, enough of that. We'll be running ourletters pagetomorrow as usual, but - as is now the routine on Wednesday - we like to take a look through of some of this week's comments, and respond where necessary. If you see anything on the site that you want to get off your chest, email us atonline.feedback@guardian.co.ukor leave a comment below.Linux loveA surprising amount of feedback came in from those looking at Linux, who were interested in ourcoverage of the Knoppix 4.0. Most of it seemed to reflect a little on the difficulty of actually getting a live Linux disc to work properly..."Is there any chance you can make the Knoppix disc available to readers?" asked Ian Deveny. "I have been trying to get hold of it but am having no luck. Downloading 4GB of DVD takes a long time even when it doesn't keep breaking."Simon G Best wondered something along similar lines. "I read your article about the Knoppix 4.0 DVD and would like to make a suggestion," he told us. "How about including a live CD/DVD with your newspaper? It needn't be Knoppix, as there are plenty of other live systems out there.Update:Reader Michael Sheldon has got in touch with a suggestion: "You might want to point your readers towardsshipit.ubuntulinux.org, where people can make a request for an Ubuntu Linux LiveCD and Install CD to be shipped to them at no cost (even for shipping). People are encouraged to a order a few and distribute them to friends and colleagues."Gardening leaveMax Crowe, on the other hand, wrote to complain about switching to 3G. He's not happy that mobile providers try to hold you inside their network."I bought a new 3G phone because I was attracted by the cheap contract and then because of the Wap facilities. There are a great deal of applications that can be downloaded for the phone, including streaming radio, independent email and chat facilities. And then, of course, sites such as the BBC provide many services designed for mobile devices."So far so good."The problem is that 3, my service provider, will not let you out of their "walled garden" of services. Is this not going to put people off upgrading to 3G? 3 does not make this clear when you sign up. It is a shame that so much has been developed for these phones, but then we are not allowed to use them."A very good point - and one I touched on a while back inthis piece, which put across the idea that (a) networks are greedy; (b) the walled garden will eventually break down as people gain access to internet sites outside the perimeter (c) this change will shaft them if they're not careful.Any other businessBen Hammersley's exploration of "personal offshoring" angered Sheelagh Caygill, who wrote in to complain. "I was disappointed with Ben Hammersley's piece, and the conclusion that 'the majority of these offshoring deals are successful'. He fails fully to take into account the social and economic impact of these decisions in the UK. For those who are made redundant or bankrupt, the deals are not successful. Nor does he address the issues of financial exploitation of workers around the globe who are willing to work at a fraction of the cost of European workers. Yes, UK prices are sometimes too high, but paying people a fraction of what we earn is not a solution."Offshoring is, of course, a murky issue. But the piece was never intended to be an exploration of the rights and wrongs of the system... perhaps that's something we can look at more deeply in the future. Do other readers feel the same?And finally, Niall O' Sioradain has a question about a piece of kit we mentioned in last week'sWhat's Newgadget roundup. "Why would anyone pay £400 for a 4GB Buffalo Technology USB mini storage key when you can get a 60GB iPod for £100 less, use it as a USB or FireWire external hard drive and — if you fancied — have plenty of space to store a few songs as well?"Fair question. I asked Ashley Norris, gadget guru, why the Buffalo 4GB was so pricey."Unlike an iPod," he points out, "a 4gb key attaches to your key ring and is tiny".So there's your answer, Niall: wee device, big price.If you want to give us your thoughts about anything you see on the site, email us atonline.feedback@guardian.co.ukor leave a comment below.
Microsoft last night filed a lawsuit against one of its former top search executives with direct knowledge of its "trade secrets" after he quit the software firm to join Google, intensifying the firms' rivalry.The suit was filed on the same day that the internet search engine announced it had hired the executive, Dr Kai-Fu Lee, to head up its first research and development centre in China. The suit also names Google, which it says, "intentionally assisted Lee".Microsoft claims that Dr Lee broke a non-compete clause in his contract by going to work for Google. At Microsoft, Dr Lee had overseen development of the company's MSN search technology, including a desktop search service released earlier this year."Accepting such a position violates the non-competition promise Lee made when he was hired as an executive," Microsoft said in its suit. "Google is aware of Lee's promises to Microsoft, but has chosen to ignore them, and encouraged Lee to violate them." Microsoft said his contract obliged him not to work for a direct competitor for at least one year.A number of senior executives have left Microsoft and other hi-tech firms to join Google, enticed by its rapid growth and a creative environment that allows all of its engineers to work on their own projects one day a week.Microsoft is locked in a fierce battle with Google and Yahoo! to dominate the online search market. Coincidentally, search is the fastest growing online advertising market.Google also does not appear to be content with just remaining a search engine. Earlier this year, the company announced the launch of its personalised home page for users, pitching it into direct competition with MSN and the Yahoo! portal.Dr Lee had founded Microsoft's R&amp;D operations in China before becoming vice-president of its natural interactive services division.Microsoft added: "As a senior executive, Dr Lee has direct knowledge of Microsoft's trade secrets concerning search technologies and China business strategies. He has accepted a position focused on the same set of technologies and strategies for a direct competitor in egregious violation of his explicit contractual obligations."Earlier, Google had bragged of its hiring, describing Dr Lee as a "respected computer scientist and industry pioneer" who will "lead the operation and serve as president of the company's fast growing Chinese operations". It had no immediate response to the suit.
One of the sessions at this year'sEIEFis about the relationship between games and comedy. Why are the two consistently mutually exclusive? Granted there are some hilarious diamonds amongst the vastness of rough, but comedy and games have thus far not been a logical match.Part of it may be the difficulties in creating emotional bonds with characters, whether because of their digital expressive stoniness or because the characters we play are simply reduced to object useful only for achieving goals.Another issue may be that humour is different in cultures across the world. Laughs tend not to be globalised and tastes which must be catered for in interactive entertainment consumption span the lengths of the connected earth. As we've witnessed countless times in TV adaptations, cultures do "funny" differently. Still, sometimes humour in these circumstances works universally. Why not in games?Still another element that may explain the rarely penetrated barrier between comedy and games are the traditionally unfunny scripts. Until recently scriptwriters have had very little involvement with computer games, which is a shame 'cause they do it so well with other media. Will their gift of the guffaw translate into the interactive spehere sa they become an increasing part of the development process?Well, interactivity may also be the downfall of in-game comedic enterprises. As with other forms of design in the game development process, creating hours of entertainment which only a dedicated handful will see to completion may seem like a waste of time. For the average player, hearing the same catch phrases again and again may significantly reduce the hilarity of the product.Sociability may be the saving grace of comedy in games.Researchsuggests that a significant proportion of online game interaction is taken up with humorous conversations, often completely unrelated to the tasks at hand. That kind of defeats the purpose, though.Is the future of comedy in games user-generated?
A sixfold rise in profits at internet search engine Yahoo! failed to save the firm's shares from a savaging in after-hours trade on Wall Street last night. Profits were boosted by investment gains and demand for online advertising, but revenue fell short of analysts' targets, pushing the company's shares down almost 9%.The California company's second-quarter net profit was $754.7m, (&pound;431m), compared with $112.5m in the same period a year ago. Total revenue for the quarter was $1.25bn, up 51%.Mark Mahaney, an analyst at Citigroup Smith Barney, said the shares took a beating as the results only matched expectations.Investors were also disappointed with mobile phone maker Motorola. Second-quarter profit rose to $947m from $619m a year ago.But shares in the world's second-largest mobile phone maker, which have risen about 35% in the last three months, fell about 3% in after-market trade as some investors had hoped for a bigger profit hike.Chip-maker Intel also suffered in after-hours trade after its quarterly results showed a profit of $2.03bn against $1.76bn last year on strong demand for notebook computers. However, its shares fell more than 3%. Analyst Apjit Walia of RBC Capital Markets cited profit-taking as a possible reason for the fall.
To detractors, it is the source of marriage break-ups and a godsend for those who want to pester old friends from school.But to supporters, it is the catalyst for romantic reconciliations, marriage and babies, and a valuable tool for detectives and journalists in tracking people down.What is clear is that Friends Reunited has become much more than a method of  contacting old schoolfriends to boast about vast wealth  and incredible success in later life.Police forces across the UK routinely use it to trace criminals, particularly in difficult investigations such as those involving child abuse.Journalists also use the site to get information about people in the news. When Abigail Witchalls was stabbed in the village of Little Bookham, Surrey, in April, details of her Friends Reunited entry were published in some newspapers.And at the height of the London terror attacks, journalists used the site to find out about the victims and the bombers.Friends Reunited started life five years ago today in Julie Pankhurst's back bedroom in a suburban semi in Barnet, north London.It was conceived to help equip Mrs Pankhurst, who was on maternity leave, brush up her IT skills for her return to work.But it has become one of the biggest success stories of the dotcom age.Five years on, there are 12 million registered users of Friends Reunited (half of UK households with internet access).Police in Wiltshire used it to capture a paedophile teacher, who was later convicted of 54 sex abuse charges against boys over a 15-year period.Peter Hamilton-Leggett, 58, was jailed for eight years at Swindon crown court in June 2003.He was brought to justice after former students at the Olde Ride prep school in Bradford-on-Avon saw a police appeal for help. Officers posted a message asking: "Do you have anything you want to tell police?"Detective Sergeant David Martin of Wiltshire police said yesterday that Hamilton-Leggett would not have been convicted without Friends Reunited, which had been "absolutely invaluable".Hamilton-Leggett had twice previously been the focus of police investigations into alleged sex abuse but had never been brought to justice.Det Sgt Martin was commended by the trial judge for his professional and persistent work in the investigation."One of the problems we had was that the school had closed at least 10 years previously and was being used as a commune. The former headmaster lived abroad, so there were no school records."He said 19 victims of abuse came forward with evidence. "At the end of the day, it was very satisfying to know that someone who had got away with abuse for 30 years had finally been brought to justice," he said.Detectives investigating the murder of Alistair Wilson, 30, in Nairn, have assigned a colleague to use the website to trace the dead man's friends and acquaintances from school and university.Mr Wilson, a bank manager, was shot after his wife, Veronica, answered the door to a short, stocky man in his late 30s.In an interview, Detective Chief Inspector Peter MacPhee, who is leading the investigation, said they did not know why Mr Wilson was killed."We started off with immediate friends and associates, but we are now having to probe deeper and go further back into his past," he said. "The people he knew at university and before could hold the clue to why he was killed. We are using the Friends Reunited site to identify people who knew him."When Carl Wallace decided to get married again, he wasted no time in letting his old pals know via the site."Now living in Oldham and working as a maintenance supervisor for a major maintenance company," he wrote. "I am due to get married in September in Italy."But his wife of more than 20 years, Anne, was not impressed. She contacted police and he was arrested and charged with bigamy. He was given a suspended jail sentence.Another boast on the site led to a drug dealer being jailed. Raymond Casling, 24, wrote: "I'm doing very well. I'm selling a lot of Charlie &#91;cocaine&#93; in Redcar and I've got three sports cars." At the time, he was earning &pound;45 a week working in a seafront amusement arcade. He was jailed for three years.Annette and Simon Smyth, from Milton Keynes had dated as 12-year-olds and got back in touch through Friends Reunited.Mrs Smyth said: "We got back together about four years ago."I saw from his details that he had divorced. My husband had left me in 2000 and I had a young daughter. When I look back now at when we were younger, it was more of a friendship than a relationship."We spent lots of summers together going to the roller-skating rink."The couple met up again in a coffee shop.Mr Smyth had a new haircut and contact lenses instead of glasses."He looked quite different," said Mrs Smyth. "Before, he used to look quite nerdy at school."The couple had their son, Dylan, in August 2002 and were married in May 2003.According to Andrew Collins, the author of Friends Reunited: Remarkable Real-Life Stories from the Nation's Favourite Website, the site was born during a millennium nostalgia fest, when images of spacehoppers and soda streams were everywhere.In 2001 the message board had to be pulled for two months after site managers were threatened with legal action if they did not remove offensive comments about certain teachers.Arthur Cassidy, a social psychologist at Belfast Institute who specialises in inter-group conflict, said websites such as Friends Reunited had "severe implications for the human psyche"."Because of the easy access to the internet, it can become an extremely abnormal and sadistic means of assassinating people's personality," Dr Cassidy said."It has been a very destructive mechanism in the break-up of relationships," he said. "We do not have to meet face-to-face on the internet and it can be very deceptive."It is frightening that you can find information about people in milliseconds. So much extremely valuable information about their lives is exposed to the world."Small beginnings in a north London semi&middot; The site was set up in July 2000 from Julie and Steve Pankhurst's suburban semi in Barnet, north London. Weeks later, one of the first members emailed to say he had had a reunion with a school friend from 30 years ago&middot; By December 2000, more than 3,000 people were registered as members&middot; In February 2001, a &pound;5 charge was introduced as the website had become a full-time job for the Pankhursts and they need the revenue&middot; Friends Reunited's first brush with controversy came in November 2001, when teachers' unions complained about postings on the site. Message boards were temporarily taken down, but reinstated a month later&middot; One million members were registered by August 2001, and the site was receiving up to 5m hits a day&middot; In May 2002, it was involved in an case which made legal history. Jim Murray, 68, a former teacher, sued former pupil Jonathan Spencer over remarks made on the website. In winning &pound;1,250, Mr Murray became the first person to win damages for internet libel&middot; New sites were launched in Australia, South Africa and New Zealand in August 2002&middot; The website's first baby was born to Simon and Annette Smyth, from Milton Keynes&middot; The first wedding, for Nigel Williams and Su Price, both in their 40s, took place in September 2002&middot; In April this year a bigamist was caught after boasting on Friends Reunited about getting married to a woman 21 years his junior. Carl Wallace, from Oldham, Greater Manchester, was given a 16-week suspended sentence and fined &pound;250 after his legal wife spotted his entry on the website and reported him to the police&middot; Today, there are more than 12 million members&middot; On average, 5,000 people register with the site every day&middot; An analysis of the millions of contact emails sent between users shows that the class of 1963 are the school leavers who keep in touch with each other the most&middot; Almost a million of the new users left school within the past five years
Hewlett-Packard yesterday announced plans to cut 14,500 jobs over the next 18 months, representing 10% of the struggling company's worldwide workforce .The plans were the first significant move by Mark Hurd, who was hired after Carly Fiorina was ousted as chief executive in February following a turbulent six years in office. He had flagged a likely restructuring of the personal computer and printer maker in May, shortly after he joined the company."I think this will make us simpler, nimbler and quicker," Mr Hurd said. "We will always be working to grow our company and to get more efficient. The two go hand in hand."The company said "more than half" of the jobs would be cut in support functions such as information technology, human resources and finance. But the firm declined to say where exactly the axe would fall. Details, Mr Hurd said, would be released as they become available.HP employs 42,000 people in Europe, the Middle East and Africa but does not break the figure down to country level. It has offices in Britain in London, Birmingham, Reading, Bristol, Bracknell, Warrington and Erskine.HP aims to save an annual $1.9bn (&pound;1bn) through the overhaul. The company said half that amount would fall through to operating profit while the remainder would be reinvested in the business. The company said the impact on the sales force and research and development would be minimal.The company is also cutting back retirement benefits for its American employees, realising savings of about $300m a year.Mr Hurd said the board had been working on the changes before his arrival. There are no plans to reshape the business further, he added - perennial speculation suggests that the personal computer division could be spun off. "We've been focused on optimising the current HP to make it the best HP we can."Mr Hurd's comment echoed that of the board at the time of Ms Fiorina's exit. The company said then that the problem had been execution and not strategy.Ms Fiorina had arguably been the most powerful woman in corporate America before she was forced from the company.She engineered the $19bn takeover of Compaq in 2002, railroading descendants of HP's founders who vehemently opposed the deal. Shortly after the merger she cut 15,000 jobs from the combined operation but failed to deliver on profitability.HP has been struggling to compete with IBM in high-end services such as servers and consulting for corporate clients and with Dell Computer at the opposite end of the spectrum, in the largely commoditised market for personal computers. Dell began selling printers in 2003, eating further into HP's core business. To regain market share, HP has been forced to lower prices on printers this year by 33%.Mr Hurd, 48, joined the company in March from the technology firm NCR.The cuts were not as big as some Wall Street analysts had been anticipating. Some had forecast up to 25,000 job losses and the lower number caused some selling. HP shares were down 7 cents at $24.85 in early trading.HP is taking a $1.1bn charge over the next six quarters to pay for the restructuring.Outside the United States, HP said it would offer terms in accordance with local laws and regulations.Mr Hurd had already made some changes, including the separation of the personal computing and printing business in June, five months after Ms Fiorina had combined them.The HP announcement comes a day after IBM increased its planned job cuts from 13,000 to 14,500, most of which will be in Europe.
In the quarter to June 30, IBM, the world's biggest computer company, made a profit of $1.83 billion on sales that fell 3.6% to $22.27 billion. The sales decline was expected because of the deal to offload IBM's PC division to Lenovo of China. IBM pocketed $1.1 billion from the Lenovo deal plus $775 million from Microsoft, thanks to the efforts of the US Justice Department, while also taking a $1.7 billion charge to cut about 14,500 jobs, mainly in Europe. But in general, the numbers looked good. TheAPcoverage concluded as follows:"Not only has their business bounced back, which was expected, but above and beyond that, they appear to be doing a better job executing, and demand seems to be improving in some areas of their business," said analyst Richard Petersen of Pacific Crest Securities.The numbers arehere.
A couple of weeks ago the Chinese authorities took a novel step in solving some of the issues related to computer games in that culture. China is a nation in which gaming is a significant part of the social fabric, and in that they have seen the gamut of both the positive and negative outcomes of computer games. They createdsupport clinicsfor "addicted" gamers. While their relationship has in the past been relegated to thecensorshipofnon-wholesomeand ideologically threatening material, this move deals with some of the issues few people wish to confront – that which makes so essential in the lives of the missions who enjoy them every day around the globe.In my opinion, games "addiction" has been blown out of proportion in the press (as can be expected), but the nature of the goal attainment inherent in their design, which opens up new and wonderful elements of challenge and (more rarely) plot does make it feasible that some people may find themselves less centred on reality in favour of becoming King (or Queen) of the virtual universe.ELSPArecently released a document outlining the age ratings and other self-imposed regulations, covering much of the current research on issues such as games' relationships with violence, health and addiction. In particular reference to the latter,"neurologically there has been no evidence of a biological addiction to games, and therefore the industry argues that games should not be judged separately from any other leisure activity that brings people enjoyment. For example, a casual book reader will read books as part of his or her daily activities while balancing a number of other pursuits. At the same time, an avid book reader, or television viewer, music lover, film buff or keen videogamer may choose to engage with that activity more than any other. As with these other hobbies, the industry emphasises that playing with interactive software is one of a selection of daily activities which gives people pleasure."Indeed, I finished the latest Harry Potter book on my way to the airport this morning when I should have been writing this blog. Was I addicted to J.K. Rowling's finest novel to date? Perhaps in the loosest sense of the word, at least until the episode finished. It was finite entertainment, however, and there is greater concern when it comes to the type of games which produce the gaming experience which the Chinese clinics aim to treat: Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Games. These present the players with both the goal-attainment desires of offline producesandthe social life, which may replace (or enhance, depending upon the research you read) offline social ties. I expect what the clinicians are teaching their charges is the old adage "everything in moderation", but with MMOGs and enhance community a central tenet of forthcoming console experiences, I expect more attention drawn to games in this regard in the next few years.Who knows? Maybe NHS-sponsored Games Addicts Anonymous groups will spring up around the country. Just in time.
Half Life publisher Valve, havesigneda distribution deal with EA. The deal only covers boxed product - Half-Life 2: Game of the Year Edition is out in October - so Valve's annoying Steam system is still the key focus. It will be interesting to see if EA's marketing muscle has an impact on Valve. Maybe ol'Gordonwill be an unlockable player in FIFA 2007?
There's anargument going on at the United Nationsabout the future of the internet - or, more accurately, who controls it.At the moment, many countries accept the way that current administrator, Icann, runs the system. But not everyone's pleased. Icann is a private body and has made some decisions that critics feel is contrary to its mission -this Wikipedia pagedetails some of the grievances: they are, roughly, that it's too secretive, that it's failing to spread internet use, and that it's beholden to American interests.Some developing nations resent Icann and Europe has had a problematic relationship with it, too. At the moment, the UN has suggested four options: Set up a UN body to replace Icann; set up a non-UN body to replace Icann; set up three new bodies to replace Icann... or leave it, more or less, as it is.It doesn't take a genius to realise that when the proposals are looked at again in November, they're quite likely to want to reform it in some serious ways: after all, who wouldn't change the system in order to have a say in how it's run?But should the internet be a political pawn?This is all part of a wider struggle to control the internet, as we reporteda couple of weeks ago. Does the control of the internet benefit from being private? Should the root servers be publicly-controlled? And if they are, should the US be in charge of them?The UN's proposal, though intended to bring more openness to the system, could end up splintering it. It's no great secret that bureaucracies don't always make the best decisions, and that a UN-controlled body which tried to represent nations with opposing views could be hamstrung by its own attempts to help.Of course, the problem here is really how we can control what is, in most circumstances, an uncontrolled environment. If we fracture control of the internet, how do we maintain security? How do we stop spam from spreading? How do we close the door to cyber criminals? What about freedom of speech?I don't think anybody really wants a situation where we lose the wide-ranging scope of the current system, and instead develop dozens of smaller, national internets: that seems contrary to the spirit on which the internet has been built. Such a situation would play into the hands of both self-interested corporations and restrictive government regimes.But ultimately, this will be a case of who holds the strongest cards. America's need to legislate the web is weakening its position. Europe, as always, is riddled with internal conflicts. Meanwhile China - a repressive internet regime - is a growing force, and wants to flex its muscle.Ladies and gentlemen, the battle for the soul of the internet has begun.
Peerless: Zenn and the art of innovative technologyAs the co-founder of both Kazaa and Skype, Niklas Zennstrom has been knee-deep in two of the most disruptive technologies over the past decade - filesharing and internet telephony. This pulse-fingering Swedish entrepreneur has made the most of peer-to-peer developments... but what did he have to say when our very ownHamish Mackintoshinterviewed him?Read more...
His Wonderbra campaign used Britain's billboards to offend and titillate the nation's motorists, while the fcuk moniker he created for French Connection attracted equal amounts of applause and indignation on the high street.Now Trevor Beattie is turning to the internet after quitting the agency that made him the most famous creative executive in British advertising. The architect of New Labour's election advertising is launching an internet campaign for French Connection at his new firm, Beattie McGuinness Bungay.The fashion chain is going online in an attempt to reverse a sales slump that forced it to issue a profits warning this month. Internet advertising is becoming increasingly popular with companies chasing younger customers who are diverting their attention from television to mobile phones and new media.Users of the Yahoo! instant messenger service, who can swap messages while online, will be able to browse French Connection's summer collection and then view the clothes on a virtual model.The online mannequin, known as an avatar or virtual person, is also designed by the user and will appear next to the instant messenger box. If internet users like what they see, they can then click on the retailer's website to make a purchase."We wanted to do something that conquered uncharted territory, to do something that no one had ever done before," said Mr Beattie. "It's time for fcuk to conquer cyberspace."Mr Beattie set up his new agency after surprising the advertising world with his abrupt resignation as chairman of TBWA/London in May.As with most new advertising outfits, BMB is keen to emphasise its difference. The new company is interested in content, possibly as a means of working brands into films and TV shows, and is working with Matthew Vaughn, the film director who made Layer Cake.BMB's fledgling client list includes Sky News, which hired the firm to work on its &pound;20m relaunch later this year.
If, as expected, BSkyB and ITV retain the joint rights to show Champions League football they will be placed in the vanguard of a revolutionary experiment by governing body Uefa to increase the number of people watching games live over the internet.The two are expected to shortly announce that they have renewed their existing &pound;83m-a-year deal to share live rights to Europe's biggest club competition.The contract, which runs from 2006 to 2009, is expected to mirror the existing deal, with ITV having first pick of two matches on either Tuesday or Wednesday nights and Sky broadcasting the rest live through its interactive service. But, in an effort to promote viewing across a range of platforms and continue to placate European commission competition authorities who want to see rights owners encouraging mobile phone and internet usage, both will have to simulcast games on the internet.A spokesman for Uefa confirmed that all broadcasters showing games live would be "obliged" to show them online. Uefa has allowed clubs to show delayed Champions League coverage and highlights online, never live broadcasts.By tying live television rights to the internet package, Uefa will placate broadcasters who fear that a separate online deal would cannibalise their audience. But it may also rile big clubs trying to develop their own online propositions.And while likely to pose technical and logistical challenges for both Sky and ITV, not least ensuring that only UK viewers can watch the matches online, it could also open up new revenue streams with advertising and betting partners.Last week, media regulator Ofcom confirmed that more than 8.1 million UK households had signed up for high-speed broadband connections. It is predicted that by the end of the decade most internet users will be able to watch television on demand there. Last summer, the BBC broadcast hundreds of hours of coverage from the Athens Olympics live over the internet for the first time.Last month, BSkyB confirmed that it was making its first serious foray into so-called IPTV, programming delivered over a high-speed broadband connection to a computer or a television set. From later this year, subscribers to its premium packages will be allowed to access content via a Sky Sports and Sky Movies broadband service.The on-demand movies service will initially offer up to 200 films, while the online sports channel will offer news, interviews and highlights. From 2006, it could also be used to deliver the Champions League games live, ensuring that only Sky Sports subscribers are able to log on and charging a pay-per-view premium for others. BSkyB and ITV refused to comment.
You don't expectShakespearefrom a games press release, but one I received today hit a new low of ridiculousness. "Forget everything you have seen before", it began, hinting at a revolution in gaming, a paradigm shift for interactive entertainment. "Here are PlayStation2 screens forStargate: S1 - The Alliance". Er, pardon?The release continued in this ridiculous vein. "Stargate SG-1: The Alliance game will be an experience comparable to nothing you've ever played before". What? Are you serious. Don't laugh, this is important. Does anyone - even the publisher and PR - actually believe this nonsense? Do they expect us to? Hype is hype but this was laughable.Finally there was a feature list so underwhelming it was a surprise not to see "uses PS2 joypad" included. Instead we got, "breathtaking 3D Action" - what does that mean? Then there were the real clinchers, "excellent team management" and "various landscapes." Cheers guys.I haven't actually seen the game, but when you get press releases like this it lowers an already low anticipation level. Anyone else had it with hype?
Just a few months ago, Rupert Murdoch was telling us "Hey! I want in on this internet thingy!". And now the ubermogul and possibleinspirer of Bond villainslooks like he's getting back into the dotcom race: NewsCorp has just splashed out $580m on Intermix, the owner of the incredibly popular Myspace.com.For those not in the know, InternetnewssaysMyspace is:a social networking site which is the fifth-ranked Web domain in terms of page views, according to comScore Media Metrix. MySpace integrates profiles, blogs, instant messaging, e-mail, music downloads, photo galleries, classified listings, events, groups, chat rooms and user forums.We reported on the rise of Myspaceearlier this year, saying it was "trendier than Friendster" - but in truth, hardcore webheads have actually been fairly sniffy of Myspace's success. Fair enough, it's not pretty, and Intermix portfolio is rather ragged: greetings cards, quizzes, music downloads. But where Murdoch sniffs profit, he usually finds it.Murdoch's quoted inThe Guardian's own report:"We see a great opportunity to combine the popularity of Intermix's sites, particularly MySpace, with our existing online assets to provide a richer experience for today's internet users."The question is, richer for who, Rupert?
For those who haven't been following the games news over the past few weeks, there's been a lot ofcontroversyover the "Hot Coffee" modification that unlocks secret sex scenes. This kind of coverage does nothing for the reputation of the games industry, and everything for Rockstar's bank balance.I find Easter Eggs of this sort tedious at best, concurring with Keith's previous posts aboutsex in gamesas puerile escapades into the stupider subjectivities of popular intercourse. On the other hand, I am amused that the most recent headlines shout out about Rockstar's Bill Clinton-style revocation of a "wrongdoing". In short, they released a statement disowning the objectionable digital material, implying that the individual who uncovered the scenes in question had actually placed them in the code himself, but the investigative minds at Gamespot put the software to the test and discovered that CJ's sex-with-his-girlfriend mini-game was inherent in the code, across platforms.Doh. You've let the industry down, you've let your fans down, but most importantly, you've let yourself down. Or so the saying could go - if they cared.Instead, once again the marketing people at Rockstar have had the pleasure of taking a back seat while their product gets more publicity than any game released by another company between 1985 and 2005 combined. Including Tomb Raider.Gosh they have it lucky. Indeed, since Keith's last post on the subject over a week ago all hell has broken loose around the world. Highlights include:The ESRB's age rating system have been questioned, and the organisation is now subject to even more scepticism by the parental public. Strike One for Games.Anti-game bills are rushed through the US government process, speeding up the already extremely intensive regulations against the sale of games to, well, anyone. Strike Two for Games.Hillary Clinton, a potential Democratic candidate for the 2008 US Presidential election, goes into hyper-overdrive, demanding an investigation into GTA on the grounds that it undermines family values. This adds to her previous fire against GTA and cements her position as an anti-games front-runner in the race to the White House. Strike Three for Games. At this point in baseball, interactive entertainment would be "out". It continues.The proof that the code existed in the game suggests that GTA creators Rockstar lied in their official statement about the controversy, in public, to a lot of mainstream press who only hear about games when something bad is going on. They didn't stretch the truth or speak around it:So far we have learned that the "hot coffee" modification is the work of a determined group of hackers who have gone to significant trouble to alter scenes in the official version of the game.In violation of the software user agreement, hackers created the 'hot coffee' modification by disassembling and then combining, recompiling and altering the game's source code. Since the 'hot coffee' scenes cannot be created without intentional and significant technical modifications and reverse engineering of the game's source code, we are currently investigating ways that we can increase the security protection of the source code and prevent the game from being altered by the 'hot coffee' mod.That won't bode well for future interactions with the "outside" world. Rockstar is at the front line: if the face of gaming is perceived as untrustworthy, it's likely that future perceptions will be marred with this brush. Strike Four for Games.Furthermore, by suggesting that their biggest fans lied, they may have created a rift in a loyal base, which could fragment the common face of games, leaving it open to more destructive criticism in the future. Strike Five for Games.But hey, I bet a few more copies of GTA: San Andreas have passed through pay points. Home run for Rockstar. Nice one.Here's more coverage, for the terminally curious.Sex - the most evil thing in GTA?(Guardian gamesblog)Hot Coffee Mod Creator Vindicated, Eyes Return to Normal Life(Game Politics)Rockstar Supports ESRB(Kotaku)Confirmed: Sex minigame in PS2 version of GTA: San Andreas(Gamespot)CJ actor denies sex scenes(Kotaku)The ESA strikes back(Kotaku)Clinton Urges Inquiry Into Hidden Sex in Grand Theft Auto Game(New York Times - reg. req'd.)Clinton wades into sex storm(BBC)Hilary Clinton: The "Mod" is for "Moderate"(Wonkette)Computer Games Developer Responds to "Grand Theft Auto" controversy(All Headline News)Yee Blasts ESRB for GTA: San Andreas Rating(Gamasutra)EDITORIAL: PS2 "Hot Coffee" Proves ESRC Lacks Credibility(Game Politics)GTA mod community sceptical over Rockstar's Hot Coffee denial(Game Politics)
Out of the dark: Steve Jobs. Photograph: Susan Rangan/APSteve Jobs was in typically ebullient mood as he announced that the iTunes music store had surpassed half a billion downloads - and announced the winning 500,000,000th downloader, who got a rather excessive 10 iPods, 10,000 free iTunes downloads and a trip to see mid-paced chart plodders Coldplay.Apple today announced that music fans have purchased and downloaded more than half a billion songs from the iTunes Music Store. The 500 millionth song, Faith Hill's "Mississippi Girl," was purchased yesterday by Amy Greer from Lafayette, Indiana."Just over two years ago, we sold our first song. Yesterday, we sold our half billionth song. WOW!" said Steve Jobs, Apple's CEO. "As we cross this major milestone, we couldn't be more excited about the future of digital music, iTunes and the iPod."His reaction to being placed a head-spinning sixth place in today'sMediaGuardian 100remains unknown.
Spam, spam, spam, spam... Photograph: Ian Waldie/Getty ImagesI don't know if you're like me, but my Monday morning email routine follows a drearily regular pattern: arrive in the office, scan emails, spot shedloads of spam that's come in over the weekend.The fantastic concoctions behind some spam does manage to cheer me up a little - what about the "true story" of a woman whose husband left her $20m? Or perhaps the man whose wife left him $20m? Or perhaps the girl whose father left $20m behind. It's not the Done Thing to admit that sometimes you like reading spam, but do I sometimes enjoy the bizarre attempts to part me from my cash? Yes. Would I miss them if they went forever? Hell, no.Most spam, really, is so pathetic that it raises neither a titter nor an eyebrow - one series of emails trying to sell me Chinese water pumps comes to mind. So, with that in mind, here's this week's competition question:What's the most pathetic attempt at spam that you've ever received?Leave your answers below. The winner gets a handyAlphashield standalone Firewall, courtesy of the manufacturers.
Apple's music download service iTunes has reached the 500m download mark, just over two years since it launched.The online music store, which dominates the nascent digital download market, today announced it had passed the half a billion milestone.After selling an additional 250m songs since January, the online store is predicted to hit 1bn downloads by December and then increase sales to around twice that by the end of next year.After launching in April 2003 in the US, iTunes rolled out across Europe from June last year.Although sales are derived from all 19 countries where the service is available, the majority of downloads are believed to come from US users.Last week the BPI, the body that represents music labels in the UK, said sales of legal downloads reached 10m in the first six months of this year.News of the milestone came as reports suggested Apple was talking to the big four record labels with a view to selling music videos on iTunes.According to today's Wall Street Journal, iTunes could begin retailing music videos at around $1.99 as early as September.In a bid to see off competition in the mobile music marketplace, especially from a new wave of MP3-equipped mobile phones, Apple is widely believed to be preparing for the launch of a video-enabled iPod.Citing unnamed sources, the paper said Apple had held talks with a number of media companies about licensing television programmes for distribution to iPods.Apple declined to comment.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The BBC is to sell its programmes to overseas viewers over the internet and may also take advertising on its website for the first time under plans to boost its commercial revenues.The director of new media and technology, Ashley Highfield, confirmed that plans to bring in extra money by selling downloads of popular programmes such as Doctor Who, Little Britain and the Blue Planet over the internet were "coming up the agenda"."It's something we've been mandated to do by our charter. It's now become possible because we have internet rights that we could charge for, and we now have the technology," he said.New technology makes it possible for the BBC, which operates the UK's most popular website, to identify exactly where its internet users are coming from. During the Athens Olympics last year, when the BBC provided hundreds of hours of live coverage to broadband internet users, it successfully tested software allowing it to restrict transmission to UK licence fee payers.Mr Highfield said that in the future the "flip side" was that the BBC could also acquire the international internet rights to big events and charge overseas users to watch them. Any such move would have to be handled through the corporation's BBC Worldwide commercial subsidiary.The BBC has previously investigated advertising to overseas users of its website, but concluded that the technology was too unreliable.Now, it is prepared to re-examine the idea. While it is unlikely that straightforward online news coverage would be accompanied by advertising, other elements of the BBC.co.uk site could be accompanied by ads if viewed from abroad.Mr Highfield said the BBC already accepted advertising on its overseas TV channels and the principle was the same.As the BBC invests an ever increasing amount in its online strategy, the director general, Mark Thompson, is looking at ways to offset the distribution costs.According to the BBC's annual report, 22.8 million of the website's 48.1 million average monthly users were overseas. It spent &#163;69.2m on BBC.co.uk, a figure expected to continue rising as the number of broadband users around the world consuming audio visual content increases.Later this year the BBC will stage a large scale public trial of its interactive Media Player (iMP) technology, aimed at providing UK licence fee payers with the means to download any programme or radio show from the previous week. It is also developing a parallel project known as the Creative Archive, which aims to provide a library of classic programmes for personal use."For the iMP trial we're having conversations with Worldwide and other commercial providers to see what a commercial version of iMP would look like," said Mr Highfield. The iMP "console" could be available through a number of partner sites.Under such a system, overseas users would be charged a one-off fee or a subscription to download programmes to their computer or television over a broadband connection.By making its iMP player one of the standard ways of viewing its programmes, the BBC could retain control of their distribution and ensure its content was well promoted. There could also be a separate charging structure for viewing so-called "streamed" content."A commercial version of iMP is one model, but we might also look at partnering with Google, for example. If we're making all this investment to make audio visual content available free of charge in the UK, if we could make some money back internationally it could help mitigate some of those costs," said Mr Highfield.
With a reputation for being robust, reliable and as sexy as halitosis, Volvos don't often feature on the wish lists of spotty 17-year-olds.So it probably says more about me than I'd care to admit that I always aspired to owning one.In fact, I'm now on to my second. A dull grey 12-year-old 940s. A clanking, grinding beast with blue velour seats, which Parker's Car Price Guide describes as: 'slab-sided, bus-like and stodgy'. It cost &#163;1,740 - though the bloke gave me &#163;40 off as the battery was flat. It'll soon have clocked up 200,000 miles. Only another 50,000 and it will have driven to the moon.This week, however, I'm behind the wheel of a rather different Volvo - the curvaceous V50, which is the estate version of the hugely popular V40. It is robust and reliable, as you'd expect, but it's also been given a beauty make-over. It costs &#163;17,548, but by the time you add up the extras, it can come in at 25 grand. It's 'passion red' and has white leather seats. Its energetic 2-litre diesel engine will take you to a top speed of 136mph, it does 0-62 in the same time Asafa Powell took to sprint 100m, and it can cover 50 miles with a single gallon.Muscular yet elegant, Volvo is hoping to win over a new generation of customers with its V50 sportwagon (it's out with the wellies and Labradors and in with the vintage trainers and goatees).The new owners will, according to research from Volvo, be between 25 and 34, and will mostly be married. They'll be 'cosmopolitan and sociable'. Many will be 'virgins', trading up for their first Volvo from a Vauxhall or a VW.They will, in short, not be 'Volvo drivers' as we have traditionally known them.And when they do make the switch they'll be very happy they did. Far from being the Anderson shelter on wheels of old, the V50 is now an indecent proposal bursting with chrome and curves. Its five-pronged 17in alloy wheels gleam like silver starfish, its grille is set forward in a menacing sharky way. It's estate end is neatly folded away.And the make-over isn't just skin deep. Step inside and you find the V50 is brimming with brio. At its heart is a unique, free-floating instrument stack which hovers above the console and covers everything from air-conditioning to security and stereo settings. Buttons are large, rubbery and tactile, and the dashboard is as clear as day.The V50 also features keyless entry, which means you don't have to root around in your pocket while balancing shopping bags on your knee. You just get in and start it up - as long as the key is on your person, somewhere. There's park assist, dynamic traction control, a detachable tow bar, built-in booster seats for kids in the back ...In short, from now on being described as a 'Volvo driver' will be a compliment.Me and my bikeNigel Bell, 250cc Yamaha ViragoViagra was unknown to me when I bought my Yamaha Virago in 1998. Now the similarity between the names is the cause of some embarrassment to me, and the Virago name has been quietly dropped from the Yamaha range. The second most embarrassing thing about my bike is the pathetically small number of miles I've ridden - I make excuses when I take her for a service: 'It's easier to jump in the car' or 'If it didn't rain so much I'd use her more often.'I'm not a natural biker. When I was young I rode pillion behind my friends, but I never got round to buying a machine of my own. Just when I was seriously thinking about it, a friend was badly injured in an accident with a car, and that put me off.Twenty years later, learning to ride was an exercise in overcoming my personal demons. Always in the back of my mind is the thought that falling off is going to hurt - a lot. But that adds to the excitement, and we all need a little bit of excitement.So the truth is that I don't ride my bike much because I'm scared. But when I do, it's a glorious thrill. It's like a drug, and although it doesn't have quite the same effect of its near namesake, it is addictive, even in small doses.&#183;Love your car? Contact us atmy.wheels@observer.co.uk
Amazon, the pioneering online retailer, celebrated its 10th birthday last night with a live concert, streamed on its website, featuring Norah Jones and the B-52s; eBay, the auction site, celebrated its 10th anniversary by inviting the B-52s to perform at its users' conference earlier this year. But the biggest celebrations are likely to be among the shareholders who bought in early and stayed on board through the lean years of 2000 and 2001. For dotcom shares are back in vogue, in America at least, and valuations are once again at eye-popping levels.Google, the web search company and the youngest of the dotcom giants at just seven years old, is valued at $84 billion - or around six times the value of Reed Elsevier, which publishes more than 10,000 journals, books and periodicals and has 3,000 websites. At $47bn, eBay's market value is almost twice that of Sears Corporation, yet the auction site's $3.3bn of revenues is less than one-sixteenth of those generated by 3,800 Sears and Kmart stores. Amazon is worth five times as much as bricks-and-mortar bookseller Barnes &amp; Noble even though its total sales - a quarter of which are electronics and other general media - are only 50 per cent larger. So, has dotcom hysteria returned, at least on the other side of the Atlantic?The performance of Google since its flotation certainly suggests it has. Floated at what some commentators thought was an inflated $85 last August, Google shares have soared to more than $300 and analysts are now setting targets of $350 or even $400. That has echoes of the bubble years of 1999 and 2000, when analysts competed with each other to set the most stretching targets for dotcom shares - targets which were rapidly exceeded as the prices soared to ever-dizzier heights.The other dotcoms are also doing well, although they are off the highs hit earlier this year. However, eBay's shares are well above the peaks reached during the bubble and, while Amazon and Yahoo have yet to get back to those levels, both are trading at more than 10 times their post-bubble lows.On the plus side, these dotcoms can claim they survived the lean years while many others - like webvan, etoys, pets.com and our own boo.com - have disappeared without trace. And all four giants can also claim to dominate their space: Google is the first port of call for most web searches; eBay has 147 million users, roughly equal to one in every 40 of the world's inhabitants; Amazon, despite intensifying competition, is still the leading internet retailer; and Yahoo has succeeded in establishing itself as the leading operator of internet communities where others such as AOL have failed.And while big traditional companies - including even the mighty Wal-Mart - are struggling to maintain their sales growth, most of the dotcoms are still on an exponential curve. At Google, although the rate of sales growth has halved in each of the last two years, in 2004 it was still running at 118 per cent. And eBay has the distinction of having been profitable ever since founder Pierre Omidyar sold the first item, a broken laser printer, for $14 in 1995. Last year, its sales and net income rose by 50 and 75 per cent respectively.However, some are now starting to question how long such spectacular growth rates can be sustained. A couple of disappointing earnings statements from eBay and Amazon, in particular, have taken some of the froth off their share prices. And investors will be closely watching the second-quarter earnings statements, due out over the next three months, for signs of what the future will hold.Scott Devitt, vice president of internet equity research at Legg Mason Wood Walker, thinks that all the dreams that fuelled the Nineties internet bubble are now coming to fruition. He sees 'massive opportunities' for switching more and more of our media viewing from the television to the internet as broadband connections get faster and faster. And he thinks eBay and Yahoo will justify their share prices - although Google, he says diplomatically, 'has not yet reached the point where its valuation starts to look rational'.If that does happen, the potential for revenue growth in some of the online companies is enormous. Google and Yahoo, for example, still generate the majority of their revenues - 99 per cent and 80 per cent respectively - from advertising, whether in the form of 'paid search' (where businesses pay to appear high up in a list of search results), pop-ups or banner adverts. And, while that revenue has been growing strongly, it still represents just 4 per cent of global advertising budgets. Yet, on average, we spend between 15 and 20 per cent of our time online - about the same amount of time as we spend watching television.Also, advertisers are starting to appreciate the greater potential of online advertising. Jaap Favier, research director with Forrester Research, points to the success of Volvo's advertising campaign in the US last year, where internet users were given the chance to win a new car if they registered their email address, which was then used to remind them about new models and offers. Volvo reports that three times more people than usual visited its dealerships after the campaign, and it retains the email addresses of millions of people who have actually expressed an interest in its products.Favier says that traditional media such as newspapers are already suffering from adverts migrating online. Many of the items in old classified 'for sale' columns, for example, are now auction items on eBay; and monster.com was last week offering 44,000 jobs in Britain alone and has sites in 22 other countries.The dotcoms are also working hard at expanding their own businesses. While the early years were all about technological wizardry, these days the businesses require more conventional management that is able to work out how services can be extended - and how the companies can generate extra revenues from them. Indeed, of the four giants, only Amazon is still run by its founder, Jeff Bezos, and there have been some rumblings among investors that he should consider standing down in favour of an outside professional. At Google, Yahoo and eBay, the founders remain on the board, but chief executives and other officers have been hired from outside the groupAmazon is perhaps most at risk from competition, both from other shopping websites and conventional retailers with internet services. Already it has expanded to offer electronic products and secondhand book sales as well as offering web services to companies such as Marks &amp; Spencer that do not want to run their own online operations. Meanwhile, eBay has recently bought shopping.com, a price comparison website that will be integrated with its own services, and Yahoo is working on new products that will help it raise more revenues from searches.Nick Evans, who runs Framlington's Netnet and Nasdaq funds, thinks there will be a lot more consolidation among internet offerings. 'Content will become increasingly important,' he says, as broadband allows internet service providers and companies like BT to compete with cable and other television channels.Will that mean more deals like AOL's purchase of Time Warner, the - now largely unwound - merger that epitomised the madness of the internet frenzy? 'That was ahead of its time,' said Evans 'And it was flawed because AOL, the purchaser, did not have a very good business model. It charged for a "walled garden" of information which was available elsewhere on the internet for free.'Generating, and growing, revenue in those circumstances remains the dotcoms' biggest challenge.Victims of hypeAmazon, eBay and Yahoo were not the only dotcoms generating excitement five years ago, but many of the others are remembered only in the annals of business books on how not to run a company, or in the websitewww.f***edcompany.com, which posts example of corporate excess to this day.Britain's most famous dotcom was undoubtedly Lastminute, whose flotation in 2000 marked the peak of the internet boom. While its website still exists, it has never lived up to the hype. Briefly valued at &pound;800 million, it was sold earlier this year to US Sabre Holdings, owner of the Travelocity brand, for &pound;577m. Brent Hoberman, one of its co-founders, remains its chief executive but his partner, Martha Lane Fox, left in 2003. Both have, however, done rather nicely out of the business: Lane Fox's stake was worth &pound;13.5m when sold; Hoberman pocketed &pound;26m.The prize for the most notorious dotcom goes to Boo.com, which managed to burn through more than &pound;85m without creating a viable business. Founded by Swedish model Kajsa Leander and her partner Ernst Malmsten, its lavish spending and expensive advertising during a short life as a business epitomise the excesses of the era.But there were plenty of other casualties. Pets. com was one of the first e-tailers to file for bankruptcy, but it was quickly followed by others, such as etoys.com (valued at $2 billion when it floated in 1999) and clickmango.com, which featured actress Joanna Lumley on its website.QXL.com, our homegrown rival to eBay, still exists, but it never really challenged eBay, which had launched two years earlier in the massive US market. Earlier this year, Dutch group Florissant launched a &pound;13.6m bid for the group. That is a little over a third of the value of founder Tim Jackson's stake when the business was floated.The dotcom frenzy sparked a similar mania among advisers: every venture capital firm had an internet team, many of whom rubbed shoulders at the First Tuesday networking forums for financiers and entrepreneurs.It also spawned a network of analysts who vied with each other to talk up stocks. The most famous was Merrill Lynch's Henry Blodget, who was barred from the securities industry for life because of claims that he was talking up internet stocks to win business for the broking firm.
Five years ago, a tenth of the companies in the FTSE 100 index were technology stocks, including upstarts like Baltimore, Freeserve and Thus. Today, there is only one, Sage, whose accounting software is at the forefront of technological development.British companies thought along the same lines as the US giants - Tim Jackson started QXL before eBay had made its British debut, while Lastminute.com seems a much more marketable name than Expedia - but they were quickly overtaken by the Americans. Away from pure internet stocks, it is again US companies such as Intel, Microsoft, Dell and Cisco Systems that dominate the market.Yet Britain leads the world in online spending, with about 7 per cent of purchases made over the internet, compared with less than 5 per cent in the US. So why are British companies so bad at cashing in on the internet explosion?Jaap Favier, research director with Forrester Research, says that is partly because the internet explosion started in the US, with its huge market. 'The US has one language, one culture and 260 million people; Europe is more fragmented. If you have a good website in the US, you have an enormous audience.'But he thinks the dominance of English is also the reason the UK is ahead of Europe - it counts for a third of all European consumer internet spending. The size of the domestic market means it is easier to finance the kind of spending on improving websites and customer service that are an essential part of e-commerce.James Roper, chief executive of IMRG, a trade body for e-tailers, says that conventional retailers here were slow to see the potential of the internet. He says that, when Amazon launched 10 years ago, WH Smith already had an award-winning e-commerce team, but it was disbanded in a cost-cutting exercise.A decade later, WH Smith is struggling to hold its sales above &pound;2.5 billion while Amazon's annual sales have grown to $7 billion. Marks and Spencer, too, squandered an early advantage in e-tailing and is now using Amazon for its order fulfilment.But Roper says there are plenty of British e-tailers making big in-roads into the market, including Screwfix Direct, which supplies the building trade, and Dabs.com, the electronic retailer.The British are also bad at bouncing back from failure. Private equity firms were burnt by the internet mania of the late 1990s, throwing money at enterprises on the strength of an enthusiastic pitch from a techie geek.These days, it is hard to interest investors, whether private equity or institutional, in anything to do with technology. Even on Aim, the market designed to foster entrepreneurial businesses, this year's hot stocks have been in old-fashioned oil and resources industries.But James Ridgewell, who manages New Star's UK Special Situations Fund, says there are plenty of innovative companies at the smaller end of the scale. He points to businesses like DAT Group, whose software to reduce the time mobile-phone operators take to launch new products, has all the big players queueing up, and Vebnet, which makes software to help companies with their personnel needs, as two potential winners. But both are so tiny that Google or eBay could easily afford to buy them from their annual marketing budget.
Here are two stories from 7/7. The sister of a colleague of mine was on the Aldgate train. She was, mercifully, uninjured in the blast. After she had escaped from the train, she stayed around helping to comfort and support those who had been injured.Another passenger was on the same train, in the carriage next to the blast. Afterwards he wrote on his blog: 'Eventually I made it to the end of the train and dismounted down the wooden ladder, something curiously I've done before. We walked down the tunnel back to Edgware Road and fresh air, finally being able to breathe properly.'I called my loved ones and told them what had happened; the news hadn't broken. I was led out of the station and expected to see emergency services. There were none; things were so bad that they couldn't make it.'The victims were being triaged at the station entrance by tube staff and as I could see little more I could do I got out of the way and left. As I stepped out people with cameraphones vied to try and take pictures of the worst victims. In crisis some people are cruel.'It was, said the Guardian, 'a new kind of story. Not in the sense of what happened, which was thoroughly and depressingly as anticipated, but in the way it was reported and disseminated. The mobile phone photographers, the text messagers and the bloggers - a new advance guard of amateur reporters - had the London bomb story in the can before the news crews got anywhere near the scene.'There was much hyperbolic talk about 'the meaning of all this'. Seasoned news executives spoke of a 'tipping point' having been reached; others wrote about 'a democratisation of the news process', the true birth of the 'citizen reporter'.The public was, we were told, 'assuming control of the newsgathering process to a hitherto unimagined degree'. The BBC's director of news reported that within minutes of the first blast the newsroom had received images from the public. They had 50 images within an hour.The corporation's Ten O'Clock News used two mobile phone sequences shot by members of the public, and the main picture used on its online news service on Thursday was taken by a passer-by.Hmmm ... Can I be alone in having mixed feelings about all this? I think it was Heidegger who said that 'technology is the art of arranging the world so that we don't have to experience it'.I find it astonishing - not to say macabre - that virtually the first thing a lay person would do after escaping injury in an explosion in which dozens of other human beings are killed or maimed is to film or photograph the scene and then relay it to a broadcasting organisation.Especially when one realises what was in this 'amateur' material. Some of the cameraphone video clips sent to ITV News, for example, were so graphic as to be 'unusable', according to the channel's editor. I haven't seen the clips, so can only imagine what they contained.But I can guess: images of human beings blown to pieces, missing limbs, intestines, perhaps even heads - sons, daughters, mothers, fathers, brothers, sisters whose privacy has been invaded in the most intrusive way, even as they lay dying.I suppose there will be arguments about how this imagery and footage is justified because it conveys so vividly the horrors of which terrorists are capable. But I don't buy it, and I don't think broadcasting organisations should either.Such arguments are merely a retrospective attempt to dignify the kind of ghoulish voyeurism that is enabled by modern communications technology.In his memoirs, Graham Greene recalls how, while confined to hospital as a young man, a boy in the bed next to him died suddenly. He recounts how, while sympathising with the child's parents, he found himself also observing their frantic grief, and concluded that in every novelist's heart there must be 'a sliver of ice'.But at least Greene was a great artist who was able to put that sliver to creative use. The same cannot be said for those enthusiastic cameraphone ghouls on 7 July. Technology offered them a way of not attending to the pain of others. Picture-messaging to broadcasters offered them the chance of 15 minutes of fame. But if I had to decide between the girl who chose to stay and help the victims and the fiends who vied to take their pictures, then I have no doubt as to where true humanity lies.And how long will it be, I wonder, before the mobile networks start using 7/7 as yet another argument for upgrading to a 3G cameraphone?john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
Another Code: Two MemoriesNintendo DSSet on the clearly-translated-from-Japanese Blood Edward Island, Another Code: Two Memories is about 14-year-old heroine Ashley's attempt to uncover her mysterious past after receiving a package from her presumed-dead father which leads her to a desert island. This is done with the help of the ghostly D, whose memories you need to reconstruct through the time-honoured medium of puzzle-solving and examining everything you find in each area. This works by using the stylus to tap things that look interesting and trigger simple conversations between characters, as well as all sorts of trickery involving the DS itself. There are minor irritations and countless ways to get painfully, head-bangingly stuck, but overall Two Memories is an unusual and atmospheric adventure that joins a growing list of genuinely inventive titles for the DS.&#183;Nintendo, &#163;30Halo 2 Multiplayer Map PackXBoxRegular Halo 2 players (and, judging by the constantly bulging servers on Xbox Live, there are rather a lot of them) will already have found their way round all the multiplayer maps, learnt the locations of all the guns, grenades and invisibility shields and proceeded to ruin the fun for all their friends. To help level the playing field briefly, the Halo 2 Multiplayer Map Pack contains the four new levels drip-fed to online players over the past few months, as well as five totally unseen areas. It also updates your Xbox with the slightly rebalanced weaponry that Live players will already be enjoying, which, at &#163;15, is an essential purchase for Halo 2 warriors lacking an internet connection.&#183;Microsoft, &#163;15
Advance Wars Dual StrikeNintendo DSAlthough sadly not available here until November, Japan is currently basking in the glory of a new instalment of the extraordinarily addictive Advance Wars series. Retooled for the two screens of the DS, the game's classic strategic air, sea and land engagements see your tiny cartoon armies handle high-altitude fighting on the top screen and use of the stylus to drag and drop your units on the lower. New commanding officers and a raft of new units including miniature cruise missiles and stealth bombers add to what is already one of the most honed rule sets since chess. Featuring new and more difficult maps, plenty of wireless multiplayer options and several original play modes, including a fast-paced, real-time battle mode, the countdown to November starts here.
Anyone who thinks selling gig and festival tickets on eBay is evil (hiya Bob) might like to visitwww.scarletmist.comin future - this ethical ticket exchange seeks to introduce buyers to sellers who can only flog their tickets at face value.Here are some other cunning developments among music fans. Download a piece of software ataudioscrobbler.comand it will analyse the songs you play most on your computer to recommend new music and connect you to like-minded fans.www.gnoosic.comis also good fun - type in your three favourite bands and the program will try and suggest some new acts you haven't heard of before.A similar idea but presented in the form of an astrological map can be found atwww.musicplasma.com- type in a name and a constellation of similar artists will formulate around it.
SaturdayIn-game memorialMondayBuying a new car: Would you like an optional PlayStation with that?Pro Evo sign HenryTuesdayStylish GamingSex: the most evil thing in GTAWednesdayNintendo and the age thingMore on being a gamerThursdayWhy poor Ico failed in AmericaIn the paperScotland's week of games conferences, Part 1: Women in GamesFridayHow we used to livePMSScotland's week of games conferences, Part 2: EIEF
As promised, today's episode of Scotland's August conference roundup looks at theEdinburgh Interactive Entertainment Festival.Apart from anything else, Edinburgh is the most exciting place to be in August. The icing on the cake for the sudden dearth of computer games events in the UK and Europe this year is that the EIEF calls its home one of the most dynamic cities in Britain during the most active entertainment month on the calendar. That it positions itself under the umbrella of the broad range of cultural events on display near the Royal Mile is a testament to how it hopes to position computer games (or, more accurately, the "Interactive Entertainment" in its name): as part and parcel of the high brow. If there's a place to challenge preconceptions about games and gaming in contemporary British society - as well as to celebrate the contribution of Britain's finest - this is it.Finally after two years of foothold-finding and the slog towards multi-media acceptance, the EIEF welcomes a broader entertainment spectrum in its list of delegates and contributors. This is no accident, of course; few things in this marketing-saturated world are thrown together off the cuff. The team behind the EIEF has worked extremely hard at repositioning itself away from the doom-mongering headlines and kiddie arcades (while facing these issues head on), and towards a perspective of culture.Part of this was the tactical change in moniker. Formerly known as the EIGF, this year sees the re-branding of games at this event to "interactive entertainment", which may ostracise some and support the concerns of others. What it includes, then, is any form of media that is interactive.According to Fred Hasson, co-editor of the EIEF and Founder and CEO of industry bodyTIGA, "games have been purely games up to now, but there is a realisation that the medium is an incredibly powerful one for communications. We therefore see the techniques and know how of the industry becoming more central in the delivery of content beyond entertainment."In light of this perspective is a shift from introspection to the broader media scape: "The EIEF is more forward looking in this context to reposition games as interactive content and to position the conference around their growing importance in the educational and other fields and in the delivery of content on other devices," Hasson explains.Indeed, there is substantial representation from the mobile, film and educational sectors, who view games and interactive media as platforms on which to convey messages - from marketing to mathematics. EIEF Co-editor and Gamer.tv Business Development Manager thinks this represents a huge success: "What Fred and I have tried to do, using our experience of the world of television, is reach out to the wider entertainment industry. If you look at the people we have speaking at the Festival you'll find Film &amp; TV producers, Mobile professionals, authors &amp; artists in addition to the developers and publishers you might expect to be at a games event. The world of interactive entertainment encompasses so many industries, so many walks of life that is isn't actually that surprising that we have such a broad cross section of delegates and speakers."In theprogramme, I'm particularly looking forward to NYU ProfessorKen PerlinandRevolution Software's Charles Cecilknocking heads on interactive narrative, the games in the curriculum discussion and, of course, seeing how CAA's Seamus Blackley handles the social side of online gaming."I think this years Festival offers a unique opportunity for those people to meet and talk and most importantly, share ideas," says Sharpe. "Hopefully, they'll learn from each other and go and make better games, more involving television, more urgent music. Edinburgh is the perfect venue to look toward these future trends and developments." Yes. Wouldn't that be a result.For the more casual consumers of games, and the game-culture curious, the general public are invited toGo Play Gamesand theGame Screenings. The former promises to enchant the consumer with the first hands-on of the nextLegend of Zeldaoffering, as well as showing sneek peeks of Autumn and 2006 forthcoming releases. People who are keen to get their hands digitally dirty will have the chance in two master classes: one on how to get into games and one on how to makemachinima filmsusing game engines. There's also the Scottish qualifier of theWorld Cyber Gamesfor the expert with a special appearance by pro-gamerSujoy Roy.The Screenings programme is also spilling over with exclusives, fromKing KongtoChronicles of NarniatoThe Movies. Attendees will get the chance to ask their game design heroes a question or two about their forthcoming releases and old favourites.Yes, there's a lot going on for the gamer and the game-curious in the second week of August in Scotland. What I find most appealing is that there won't be a booth babe in sight.
More gaming with the girls stuff. Tonight (15th July) thePMS clan- apparently the world's largest community of girl gamers - are running a Forza Motorsport tournament on Xbox Live. My experience of Xbox Live is pretty good, especially if you play with people you know. However, there are far too many teenage boys playing whose terms of abuse stretch only to "gay" and "girl". Nice. Checkhereif you fancy a game later.
Saturday July 9Hidden sex shame of GTA re-exposedWe are not afraidSunday July 10Odeo is go: Listen, sync, createMonday July 11From board to webApple goes Intel: Inside the big switchTuesday July 12Talk time: Paul MertonSubway switchoffPrivacy on paradeWednesday July 13FeedbackStop reading this headline and get back to workArchive.org suedApple unveils record quarterly sales and profitsThursday July 14Ebbers gets 25 years for WorldcomFriday July 15Sony overtakes iPod Shuffle sales in JapanAre bloggers ambulance chasers?'Coined the term 'weblog', never made a dime'The soccer robots are comingOptimus makes light of keyboard marking
Here's a potential solution for people who aren't geeky enough to use anunmarkedkeyboard:each key is a displayand shows what it does at the time.But this is a concept, not a product.....
