This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Hacking the online ballot boxToday, some councils will offer voting via the internet. But exactly how accountable, secure, and desirable are the online polling systems? Danny Bradbury investigates.No punches pulled in high definition warSony's dream of an early victory in the next-gen DVD format fight has been dashed by poor PS3 sales. Kate Bulkley reports.Dell unveils Feisty Fawn Ubuntu in response to customer surveyComputer giant makes second attempt to sell PCs running open source Linux. Jack Schofield reports.Newly Asked Questions:Why doesn't the US government like online gold?Because, says Charles Arthur, in its view E-Gold, a company offering an online money transfer system, 'has been a highly favoured method of payment by operators of investment scams, credit card and identity fraud, and sellers of online child pornography'.Just how powerful is the brain of a mouse?Impressively - especially when you compare it to your average desktop computer, writes Kate Bevan. In fact, your computer at home doesn't even come close to matching the power of half a mouse brain.I've got my eye on the future of gamingKeith Stuart: Sony revealed its new PlayStation Eye camera last week and although I joked at the online Gamesblog that it looks remarkably like the headgear of a federation soldier from Blake's 7, it's a pretty powerful piece of kit.GadgetsHP Pavilion tx1000 | Medion GoPal PNA 470 | ZyXEL v660We all helped to speed the demise of professional photographersRead me first: Half a dozen lurid and splodgy pictures in the local paper brought home to me the death of an honourable profession this week. I took them.The age-old problem of online inclusionVictor Keegan: People still think that online activities are too complicated, yet it couldn't be easier to use a search engine and email.It's time for inclusive e-governmentMichael Cross: The government should reflect on one reason why Britons may be reluctant to go online to officialdom, namely that the members of society most likely to need public services are the least likely to be confident internet users.TechnobileWendy M Grossman: It's time for Amazon to turn over a new leaf and make searching for books at its site a whole lot easier.Intelligent Addressing ruling provokes public spatFree our data: Two bodies responsible for public sector information go head-to-head.Taking the roleplaying game to a whole new levelInterview, Chris Avellone: Games are much more than just entertainment, argues the designer charged with reworking the classic Neverwinter Nights.Who should you blame if your kit doesn't work with Vista?Don't shout at Microsoft - it's the people who make hardware who have been slow to build drivers, says Kate Bevan.NewsbytesiGoogle for yougle | Free legal music | Celebloggers | Man v machine | Rangers help Surfers | More pirates scuppered | DAB hand deviceAsk JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit theAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
Bike stolen again? Don't try to report it through the web. The national police portal, police.uk, greeted visitors this week with the sad message: "services have been temporarily suspended". This is a big comedown for a site which, three years ago, was supposed to put us at the forefront of e-government. Britain was one of only two countries in Europe letting citizens report non-urgent crimes on the web, should we so wish.We didn't, of course. User figures were derisory. As it wasn't in government's interest to make reporting crimes easier, the police portal had almost no promotion. The fact that it represented a nonexistent organisation, the UK police force, didn't help either.No doubt the government will have another try at e-enabling contact between the public and the police. In the meantime, it should take the opportunity to reflect on one reason why Britons may be reluctant to go online to officialdom. This is that the members of society most likely to need public services - as victims of crime, for example - are the least likely to be confident internet users.Three years after the government claimed it had eradicated the "digital divide", the gulf between the e-enabled and the rest of us looks more and more like a permanent fixture. True, internet use is soaring - but most of the new traffic comes from existing users getting into more ambitious pastimes such as MySpace. The proportion of the population that doesn't use the internet at all remains stuck at about 30%. This includes the 19% classed as "digitally dismissive" - people who can't use the internet and don't want to learn.The figures appear in a strategy published last week by UK online centres, which represents a national network of 6,000 public IT training and access centres based in public libraries and other community buildings. The centres are an important part of the national infrastructure: they offer personal support, usually from within an excluded community, to people who wouldn't usually look at the internet. According to the strategy, 71% of users fall into a "disadvantaged" group; 44% are in two or more such groups.As usual, there's a snag. The centres were originally seen as a temporary resource, conceived in 1999 as part of the national programme to put government online and offer everyone (dial-up) access to the net. Since 2003, the network has been under the umbrella of the University for Industry, but most centres rely on ad hoc funding from year to year.Even this is now in jeopardy, apparently. The network is asking for solid funding over the next three years so that UK online centres can play their part in the programme to "transform" public services through IT. Although nearly everyone agrees that digital inclusion should be tackled - Britain last year signed up to a European ministerial declaration to halve the rates of exclusion by 2010 and Gordon Brown appears to be personally enthusiastic - it is unclear where the money will come from. With a tight public spending round looming, the Cabinet Office thinks the Department for Education and Skills should fund the centres. The DfES reckons the money should come from the Cabinet Office, which is supposed to run the transformation plan.The possible orphaning of UK online is not the only example of unjoined-up thinking on digital inclusion. Chairing a conference on the issue last week, Derek Wyatt MP, a redoubtable parliamentary campaigner on digital issues, observed that the money being spent to help the elderly through the digital TV switchover is to be spent on set-top boxes without return buttons which could be used for communicating with government. Wyatt described the state of affairs as "barking". Not for the first time, he is right.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
On the outside, Tee was a typical student. Living away from home was proving expensive, and he had racked up a sizable debt in a short time. Like most of his peers, he had a computer and a phone in his room - but instead of using them to study, he turned them into the tools of a 21st century criminal.In his short career as a fraudster, Tee - who is trying to rebuild his life after serving a long prison sentence, and agreed to speak anonymously - estimates that he stole as much as &pound;250,000 through a mixture of harvested credit card details, identity theft and bank account takeover. Police officials last week said the volume of online crime was so high that they could not investigate every case, and that big criminals were moving into the fast-growing field.Bill Hughes, director general of the Serious and Organised Crime Agency, told a House of Lords investigation into internet security: "Everybody has a laptop now, and it's seen as just another piece of kit, almost like a toaster or kettle. But it's not, and it can be used in another way."For Tee, who served almost four years for conspiracy to defraud, the chance to use people's ignorance against them was just too easy. "Although it sounds really flippant, it wasn't even like a part-time job - because at least in a job you have to work a few hours," he said. "Maybe it took an hour a night if I really felt like it. But to me it felt like a bit of fun and a pastime which developed into an easy way of making money."In spare moments around his university schedule - he was studying law - the young Yorkshireman would take card details lifted from insecure websites or passed on from other criminals, and embark on spending sprees that netted him cars, clothes and cash. Sometimes scant details such as a name and phone number could open the door."I used to go through different methods depending on how confident I felt," he said. "I used to call people up and pretend to be from a fraud department and just ask them for their details. But sometimes it's as easy as getting information from a local video shop."Now, 26, Tee admits that by the time he was caught he was looking into the possibility of getting bank loans and even mortgages using stolen identities."It was just a game to see how far you could go," he said. "My little party piece was that you get a card in someone's name, you hammer it. Then, within 24 hours, you call the bank up and convince them that you're the genuine person and that you haven't made those transactions - and they refund it. Then you just go to the cash machine and take it all out again." He even sent flowers to one victim, using their stolen bank details to pay for the bouquet as a callous gesture of thanks.People like Tee represent the smallest end of what is now a multibillion pound criminal industry.Statistics from Cifas, the UK's fraud prevention service, show that identity theft was up almost 20% last year while internet and card fraud rose to an all-time high of &pound;414m in 2006.Martin Gill, a criminologist at the University of Leicester, who has studied the actions and motivations of fraudsters - Tee was one of his interviewees - said the perceived ease of fraud, particularly when using the internet, was encouraging to those who commit crime."One of the things that comes through is the belief that they're not going to get caught," he said.Industry insiders say a large number of cases still go unreported because conviction has proved so difficult."The common reaction among companies selling goods is a real frustration at how hard it is to prosecute and get convictions for people who commit fraud," said Keith Marsden, managing director of 192.com, which sponsors Prove-ID, a private industrial forum on dealing with fraud. "It's a hard process to go through."Instead companies are opting for tougher security procedures and programmes to educate the public about safe internet use.But experienced fraudsters like Tee say that it is still too easy: even chip and pin, which has drastically cut physical fraud levels, can prove beneficial to the seasoned criminal. "I thought chip and pin was brilliant - now cashiers think they've got no right to look at your card. If I wanted to, I could pretend to be anyone, because nobody will ever check. It's a new opportunity for them."How to avoid scams&#183;Never give personal details over the phone. Banks should never ask for pin numbers or codes&#183;Only shop on secure websites that display a padlock or key symbol in your browser. The address should start https instead of http&#183;Only open email attachments if you are entirely sure it is necessary&#183;Be wary of suspicious-looking email. Some viruses use the name of somebody you trust as a disguise
iGoogle for yougleGoogle has had another go at trying to come up with a personalised homepage. The latest effort is called iGoogle and has gadgets/widgets.google.com/igFree legal musicPeter Gabriel, formerly of Genesis, pioneered legal music downloads with OD2 in 1999. His new venture, We7, provides free MP3s but they include 10 second adverts for four weeks.we7.comCelebloggersSony has set up a social networking and blogging site with celebrities from the music and movie industries.vaionation.co.ukMan v machineNuance has taken on top US texter Eli Tirosh and racing driver Perry "The Stig" McCarthy to show that speech recognition is faster and safer.youtube.comRangers help SurfersBT is encouraging its Internet Rangers to help teach the over 50s on Silver Surfers' day, which will be held on May 25.silversurfersday.orgbtinternetrangers.co.ukMore pirates scupperedMicrosoft UK says that since it launched its Keep IT Real campaign in February 2006, the Windows XP piracy rate has dropped from 16.7% to 12.9%, with 36m users validated.howtotell.comDAB hand deviceGoodmans has launched a DAB/FM radio that doubles as a 1GB MP3/WMA/Ogg music player and a voice recorder for &pound;70. The GMP31G7DAB can also save DAB (MP2) tracks as MP3s.goodmansdirect.co.uk
HP Pavilion tx1000This "Entertainment Notebook PC", priced at &pound;799, wants to prove its credentials in the serious and the not-so-serious areas of your life. Thanks to the swivel screen, you can either open it up and use it like a traditional laptop, swivel it up to 180 degrees for sharing or fold it back on itself, creating a touchscreen slate. This tablet format is more often seen in the business world, but HP hopes the multimedia credentials will lure the consumer market. The piano-black finish and numerous shortcut keys around the screen make it a good looking piece of kit. HP has also adapted the touchpad so that rather than being smooth, it's made up of small dimples, which takes a while to get used to. The one criticism would be the screen - brightness was poor even when running off the mains power, and the touch screen lacked the sensitivity required to use with a stylus.Susi Weaserhp.com/ukMedion GoPal PNA 470The 470, Medion's top-of-the-range &pound;300 satellite navigation system, is a successor to the well-received PNA 515. They've ramped up the size of the screen from 3.5ins to a very impressive 4.3ins widescreen. It clearly makes a difference - the quality Navteq maps are very easy to follow. The speakers are also pretty powerful for a GPS system, which ensures the 470 delivers voice instructions clearly. The touch screen interface is operated via a stylus, but it will work if you just use your fingers. Other facilities include Bluetooth, so users can make and take mobile calls via the device, some Berlitz city guides, a traffic message channel for the latest road news, and an MP3 player. If it has a weakness, it is that the maps can be slow in refreshing, which can occasionally prove distracting to the driver. Overall though the PNA 470 is another quality satnav system from Medion.Ashley Norrismedion.co.ukZyXEL v660Although it is a pretty good package the &pound;250 ZyXEL v660, which has as a headline facility VoIP (voice over internet protocol) via Wi-Fi, probably won't be making too much of an impression on the high street just yet. The good news is that it runs the Windows Mobile 5.0 operating system and so has smartphone staples like the cut-down versions of Internet Explorer, Outlook and Windows Media Player. The phone is also a reasonably good chocolate bar-style design with a very usable keyboard. The downside is that it only has a 1.3 megapixel camera onboard - most smartphones have much better models now - and just 64Mb of internal storage. The VoIP client, Sipgate, works well, but is tricky to set up and chances are you won't have many friends using the service. The company claims that Skype compatibility will follow in a few months, so if you are tempted it is probably best to wait until then. This isn't the sexiest smartphone on sale - but Skype could turn it into a contender.ANzyxel.co.uk
Impressively - especially when you compare it to your average desktop computer. In fact, your computer at home doesn't even come close to matching the power of half a mouse brain: researchers at IBM and the University of Nevada have been using IBM's BlueGene L supercomputer - which contains 4,096 processors, each using 256MB of RAM - and succeeded in simulating a small fraction of the power of just half a mouse brain."The mouse cortex has roughly 8x10&#8310; (8m) neurons and 8,000 synapses per neuron," state researchers James Frye, Rajagopal Ananthanarayanan and Dharmendra S Modha. "Assuming an average firing rate of 1Hz, the entire memory must be refreshed every second, each neuron must be updated at every simulation time step, and each neuron communicates to each of its targets at least once a second." As the team says in a gloriously deadpan way: "Modeling [sic] at this scale imposes tremendous constraints on computation, communication and memory capacity of any computing platform."However, even this huge processing effort still only managed to run at a speed 10 times slower than real time, and only for 10 seconds - the equivalent of one second of mouse-thought. Barely enough time for a mouse to register a hungry cat in the vicinity.Supercomputers are being used in other, more ambitious projects, including a collaboration between IBM and researchers in Switzerland to simulate the human brain. The aim is to provide more understanding of human cognition, including perception and memory.Flowing from this, the researchers at the Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne say they might be able to "begin to explain how the brain changed from species to another in evolution". But their work is just the beginning. They point out that the human brain has up to 100bn neurons - compare that to the measly 8m that the Nevada researchers have managed to simulate and you will have some idea of just how much of a leap in processing power the human brain would require.Would such a supercomputer develop consciousness? The Lausanne researchers are refreshingly candid on this: "We really do not know," they say. "If consciousness arises because of some critical mass of interactions, then it may be possible." That might be useful to know, given that the UK government recently suggested that we might have robots as intelligent as humans by 2050. (Are mice intelligent but not conscious? Or vice-versa?)Of course according to the Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy, mice are in fact the most intelligent life forms on the planet, "a race of hyperintelligent pan-dimensional beings who commissioned the construction of the Earth to find the question to the ultimate answer of life, the universe and everything". Maybe we should simulate rats instead.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
End of DRM?Apple couldn't drop DRM from independents' tracks previously because the minute they did the big labels would have pulled out, leaving them with no real business (Freedom of rights management, April 26). EMI is a different story - they are big enough to push a trend in a certain direction, not to just have the big boys pick up their ball and take it home. As a digital music consumer, there is nothing good for me about DRM, so this is a great step in the right direction.Graham Cox, Armidale, NSW, Australia&middot;I would like you to also deconstruct Jobs's illogical position that we still need DRM for video. The easiest prediction I'll make is that Jobs will come out against video DRM, but it will be timed to be in Apple's best interests.Jim Flynn, Northampton, Minnesota&middot;I think it's strange that book publishers seem to be moving towards stricter DRM control just as the music industry is moving beyond that debate.charkinblog.macmillan.comUnearthing OreI was arrested as part of Ore (Is Operation Ore the UK's worst policing scandal, April 26), and pleaded not guilty to "making" 204 undated, un-named thumbnail sized images that the police found in the free space of one old drive. I was found guilty, then sentenced to four months in jail. My appeal is under way, but as the CPS destroyed all the evidence used against me, I don't hold out much hope. I know of many individuals who used to have good jobs, families, own homes, who now live alone and on benefits. The cost of destroying an individual goes far beyond the cost of the prosecution process.[name and address withheld]&middot;To quote a letter last week: "If the police contact people whose credit card details appeared on Landslide's list, then let them prove these details were stolen if that is indeed the case." It is not the actual card that's stolen but the numbers. How can you prove a set of numbers was copied?Dave Nicholson, Windsor&middot;Operation Ore pushes innocent victims into a ducking stool system, in which the accused is punished irrespective of their guilt or innocence. This is an outrage. Punishment for a "paedo" crime is not simply a prison sentence; it is personal and social annihilation.Dr Kevin McManus, University of Greenwich, London&middot;Surely, it doesn't matter that the details that lead the police to a criminal's door might be inaccurate (as long as the police are ignorant of this fact). What matters is the smoking gun held in the hand of the criminal opening the door to them - in this case images of children being abused that have been downloaded on to their computer.Neil Hare-BrownSecurity Advisor, QCC Information Security Ltd, LondonSick of Wi-FiThere are plenty of well conducted, peer reviewed studies that leave no doubt that mobile phone and Wi-Fi radiation affect biological systems in ways that can lead to cancer through mechanisms independent of heating. (Are mobile phones and Wi-Fi to blame for the world's ills? April 26).Simon Densley, LondonJoystick rageDecent of Aleks Krotoski to point out the dim life of confusion and under-achievement to which we determined non-gamers condemn ourselves (Converting non-gamers is the key to civilisation, April 26). I suppose I'm just so old and out of touch that I'll never understand how the real world of infinite light, sound and colour - where everything has its own size, shape, weight, volume and heft, and where obstacles, opportunities, success and failure don't come preprogrammed - pales into tedium compared to the riches on offer if I could be arsed to spend my days punching keys and jiggling a joystick.Root Cartwright, Radlett
Lifeless desktopMy PC seems to have died: all I get on the monitor is "no signal received please check connections", but everything seems fine. Does this mean the hard drive has given up the ghost, and how can I recover the lost data?Nick BriggsJack Schofield replies:If you're lucky, the problem is the video connection. The error message could be the result of a graphics card not being seated correctly in its slot, a plug not inserted fully or a fault in the VGA cable. Try removing and re-inserting the VGA cable. If that does not solve the problem, try to start your PC in Safe Mode. This usually involves pressing F8 during the start-up sequence, but check your manual. The menu offers a range of options, so try the one that uses the "last known good configuration" before trying Safe Mode.If Safe Mode works, uninstall the graphics driver and restart the PC: Windows should then use its own driver. You can upgrade to newer drivers later. If the problem is more serious, you will have to use your ears when you reboot. Can you hear the hard drive and fan starting? Do you hear any beeps? When the PC was designed, IBM included a feature called Power-On Self Test (POST) to signal any errors. One long beep and one short beep, for example, indicated a system board problem, while one short beep means everything's OK. There is a list of beep codes at thePC Hell site.If you don't hear any beeps then it could be a power supply problem or a system board failure. Have you checked the power supply plugs, cables and fuses? The simplest, cheapest and only reliable way to recover lost data is from your backups.Otherwise you can try removing the hard drive and installing it in a different PC. The simplest way to do this is to buy an external hard drive enclosure of the correct size, so you can use your disk as an external USB drive.But if you can't retrieve your data that way, and if the drive does not spin up, then you will probably need to go to an expert data retrieval company. Expect to pay &pound;500 to &pound;1,000 - roughly the cost of a new PC. How much is your data worth?FAT problemI bought a 500GB external hard drive to back up my laptop, which has 100GB. The backup failed and stopped at 4GB. I got a message saying: "You have either run out of space, or the backup file (.bkf) is too large for this disk."Miyako AbikoJS: Your external hard drive is using the FAT file system, which cannot handle files larger than 4GB (actually, one byte less than 4GB). FAT works with lots of systems, including Windows 95/98/Me and Macs. However, if you don't need this feature, you should change it to the NTFS file system, which is faster, more efficient and more secure. This is a one-way process and requires Windows 2000, XP or Vista. Since this is a new drive, it's simplest to right-click on the icon and format it. This will delete any files it is storing. However, you can convert it to NTFS without losing any data. For instructions, seehere.Killing Spy MarshalMy PC has effectively been taken over by Spy Marshal, which appeared a couple of days ago. How do I get rid of it?Jim MorrisonJS: I'm not familiar with Spy Marshal, but there are lots of similar programs. Removing them generally involves running HiJackThis (which has been bought by Trend Micro), FixWareOut.exe and sometimes Siri's SmitFraud.exe. If you need help, there are plenty of forums that will talk you through the removal process. These include TechGuys, CastleCops and TomCoyote - pick one from the list atmerijn.org/forums. For examples of the process in action, see theTech Support GuyandLockerGnomeforums. A site called 411-Spyware also offers Spy Marshal removal, but I can't see any reason to trust it. Many rogue anti-spyware programs, such as SpyAxe and SpyFalcom, use the Zlob Trojan downloader and backdoor, which is dangerous. This is often bundled with video codec packages, as explained in anarticleon the Trend Micro site. If you have not installed anything recently, make sure you have installed all the latest Windows updates. Also, switch to IE7 or Firefox.Reliable emailCan you recommend a stable email client for home-business use? Thunderbird is excellent, facility-wise, but it is not stable. Every so often I get a random error message and it all collapses. I am already doing all the routine maintenance things that are supposed to keep it working.Andrew WhiteJS: The most stable email programs I've used are Microsoft Outlook and Eudora, and Outlook is the de facto market standard for business use. However, while I use Outlook for contacts and its terrific synchronisation features, I hate its opaque PST (personal storage) files with a passion. I've never actually had a PST file become corrupt, but it's a threat that means you have to be serious about keeping backups.Backchat&middot;Last week I mentioned ways to translate Winmail.dat attachments that arrive via email. Paul Beam says he uses Winmail.dat Reader, a free utility fromkopf.com.br/winmail. He writes: "I have it installed, and can read winmail.dat attachments by double-clicking on them in Thunderbird."&middot;Patricia Clark wanted an e-book reader. Eric Jukes says: "I have used a Compaq 3970 PDA for the past couple of years and it is great!"
Dell launched an IdeaStorm website to find out what people wanted. Thousands said "pre-installed Linux", and Dell listened. On May 1, it announced "a partnership with Canonical to offer Ubuntu on select consumer desktop and notebook products".Dell now says it will offer Ubuntu 7.04, known as Feisty Fawn, pre-installed on selected systems in the US, but customers in other countries will have to wait to hear if they can get it too. Dell UK says it is "still working out details of its global programme and will share details when it has definitive plans".Ubuntu is a version of Debian Linux that is backed by South African multi-millionaire and space tourist Mark Shuttleworth. His company, Canonical, owns all the Ubuntu trademarks (Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Edubuntu and Xubuntu) and offers paid-for support for the free operating system.Although not large enough to offer worldwide support, it also runs a Canonical Marketplace on the web, where users can look for commercial suppliers.Dell US says it will offer PC buyers the option to buy support from Canonical when they order their systems.The choice of Ubuntu is not a surprise. When Dell asked which of the many versions of Linux it should offer, 80% suggested Ubuntu.Also, according to Desktoplinux.com, company founder Michael Dell has been running Ubuntu 7.04 on a Dell Precision M90, one of his five home PCs.Of course, Dell already has a substantial Linux-based business, shipping both the Red Hat and Novell SuSE versions on its PowerEdge servers (dell.com/linux).It has been selling Red Hat since 1999 and, in a failed experiment, also offered Linux on desktops and notebooks from 1999-2001.However, making a profit on single-user PCs running Linux could still be a very tough proposition. It requires vastly more support for drivers for all sorts of graphics cards, printers and other peripherals - and Linux users naturally prefer open source drivers.Supporting home users with little or no Linux experience could also turn out to be prohibitively expensive. However, Ubuntu's focus on developing a "Linux for human beings" should help minimise the risk. Dell has been losing market share to Hewlett-Packard and Acer; whether Ubuntu can help change that remains to be seen.The company says its Linux survey attracted more than 100,000 responses, and "more than 70% of survey respondents said they would use a Dell system with a Linux operating system for both home and office use".In web terms, this is a big noise, but nobody was asked for a deposit. Converting online wishes into hard cash is another matter.Currently, Dell can ship about 40m PCs per year, which is 1.27 PCs per second - assuming 24/7 operation with no holidays or other downtime. Even if Dell sells 100,000 PCs with Ubuntu pre-installed, that will only keep the production lines turning for 22 hours.Dell would need to sell about 2.5m Ubuntu machines a year to get 1% of the PC market, which would certainly make the effort worthwhile. But if that happens, Dell could find it has several thousand cut-throat rivals who can use the same open -source code against it.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If you've recently bought a Vista PC, or upgraded to Microsoft's new version of Windows, you might have noticed that your USB ADSL modem doesn't work. Or that your scanner doesn't work. And so on. Whose fault is it? You might have been tempted to blame Microsoft - but your ire could be better aimed at the maker of the hardware.The problem is that in many cases, new versions of the drivers - low-level software that handles the communication between hardware and the operating system (OS) - haven't been written to work with Vista. Which means the hardware won't work.For example Mustek, which produces an affordable consumer A3 scanner, hasn't produced Vista drivers yet. It isn't the only offender; computer support forums echo to the sound of people complaining that their hardware doesn't work with Vista.The reason, explains David Weeks, Windows client marketing manager for Microsoft, is that Vista is built very differently to previous versions of Windows. "Drivers have always been our biggest problem," he says. "Badly-written drivers can cause conflicts - if the OS doesn't like them it shuts down."Driver interactionTo address this, Microsoft changed the way drivers interact with the operating system. "Vista isolates drivers," Weeks says. This means that drivers have to be rewritten. The end result - one hopes - is a more stable OS that crashes less.Nvidia, which makes chipsets for graphics cards, has been one of the most visible third-party manufacturers that has struggled with Vista drivers. This has been a particular issue with its high-end graphics cards, the painfully expensive 8800 series which are the first to the market that support DX10, the latest version of the graphics API.Rich early adopters - the top-of-the-range cards cost around &pound;400 - were very disappointed with game performance under Vista. Soon after the OS launched, gamers started reporting that the new card under Vista performed worse than under XP, while SLI (scalable link interface) - which uses two identical graphics cards working together to boost gaming performance - wasn't even supported under early driver releases for Vista.Nvidia still faces criticism over its claims that its hardware is "Vista-ready", with one disgruntled group of gamers threatening a class action in the US. However, it has stepped up its driver development and now says that in single-card mode, "performance is exactly the same as it was under XP". Fine-tuning SLI performance, however, has taken slightly longer.Nvidia isn't alone on the graphics front. Players of Second Life have been complaining on their forums that the game runs patchily on Vista, where the issue seems to have been drivers for ATI graphics cards - although recent updates to ATI drivers seem to have addressed that issue, according to Linden Labs' official blog.Another big issue has been with the USB ADSL modems provided by ISPs. Vista drivers for these were slow to emerge, leaving many broadband customers simply unable to get online once they'd upgraded. (That, of course, meant they couldn't download updated drivers, including those for the modem itself.)Tiscali, one of the biggest ISPs in the UK, finally posted Vista drivers for the modems it offers just two weeks ago - one a Thomson Speedtouch and the other a Sagem. AOL says it switched to a "driverless" modem last year - in other words, one that connects to the PC via the Ethernet port. AOL thus claims it "started supporting the Microsoft Vista operating system since its launch".This is disingenuous, however, as there are many AOL customers - and indeed customers of other ISPs - stuck with the older USB ADSL modems they were given when they first signed up; those are unlikely ever to get Vista drivers.One ISP said that Microsoft had been less than helpful on developing drivers for these older modems, an assertion Microsoft denies. "I do dispute that we have not been very helpful," Weeks says. "The market has known that we would be shipping Vista for the past three years and we have communicated far and wide to partners, developers and enthusiasts to review, test and feed back."Who benefits?The question to ask is: who benefits from drivers not being available for Vista? A quick scan of the blogosphere and forums reveals a lot of moaning along the lines of "bloody Microsoft, nothing of mine works with Vista" from ordinary punters right up to the BBC's business editor, Robert Peston, whobloggedin March about how he felt he'd been "mugged" as some of his hardware didn't work with the OS.However, as Weeks points out, much of today's hardware is "disposable". With printers costing as little as &pound;30, perhaps it should come as no surprise that hardware manufacturers would rather you simply went out and spent money on a new printer or scanner or modem, rather than they spent money on programmers writing new drivers for old kit. Certainly, owners of older USB broadband modems have little choice but to shell out for an Ethernet-based ADSL modem if they want to connect to the internet with Vista.The situation is even more difficult if you decide to go for the 64-bit version of Vista, which will not install any driver that has not been through the Windows certification process, meaning that fewer devices are supported. 32-bit versions of the OS will install unsigned drivers.Apple users know how new Vista users feel. When OS X launched in 2001, drivers were also an issue for the totally overhauled operating system.Is the situation bad enough to avoid Vista? Dell said last week that there was sufficient customer demand for it to reinstate XP as an option for customers ordering new PCs. But the bottom line is that most newer devices should work with Vista. In fact, my three-year-old Canon printer was detected by Vista and installed without me having to do anything at all. However, if you find that your old scanner or modem or whatever doesn't work, don't shout at Microsoft - shout at the manufacturer.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Because in its view E-Gold, a company offering an online money transfer system, "has been a highly favoured method of payment by operators of investment scams, credit card and identity fraud, and sellers of online child pornography".Now it has charged E-Gold and its parent company, Gold &amp; Silver Reserve, along with their three owners, with money laundering and unlicensed money transmission.The move brought an angry denunciation and denial from E-Gold's founder, Douglas Jackson (e-gold.com/letter3): "E-gold ... as a matter of incontrovertible fact, is the most effective of all online payment systems in detecting and interdicting abuse of its system for child pornography related payments."The problem with E-Gold, for the US federal authorities, was that absolutely anyone could create an account using any name (including a fake one), and then wire money from person to person or place to place, swapping it in and out of digital e-gold and into real currency.In a kinder, simpler world, it would be ideal. But in January 2006BusinessWeekmagazine noted US officials' concern that E-Gold was being used by criminals. (The FBI had raided it in December 2005.)That article also brought an angry response from Jackson, who said: "The article chose to focus through anecdote and suspicion only on an exception - criminal abuse - and ignores the overwhelming majority of e-gold usage."No date has been set for any trial.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
An extraordinary public falling out between the two bodies responsible for ensuring fair play in the market for official data suggests that the government's policy on public sector information (PSI) is unworkable.In a surprise move this week, the Advisory Panel on PSI (APPSI), the panel of appeal in the market,declared itselfunable to rule on a long-running complaint about a state body's alleged abuse of monopoly. Its decision prompted a strong reaction from the Office of Public Sector Information (OPSI), the market regulator, which in itsown responseaccused the APPSI of taking a "literal interpretation" of the rules.Businesses which depend on PSI such as geospatial and meteorological data say the decision could give public bodies carte blanche to abuse their monopolies.The APPSI was reporting on a complaint launched by a private firm, Intelligent Addressing, against Ordnance Survey over the state mapping agency's handling of address data.Intelligent Addressing, which operates a gazetteer compiled and run by local councils, complained in February 2006 about the way Ordnance Survey licenses its address database, called AddressPoint.Intelligent Addressing complained to OPSI, formerly Her Majesty's Stationery Office, which oversees two compliance mechanisms: the public sector information regulations and a "fair trader" scheme. In July, OPSI's report backed some of the firm's complaints. Both sides then asked the APPSI, an expert group responsible to the Department for Constitutional Affairs, to review the findings.In a 17-page report published on Monday, the advisory panel says that Ordnance Survey's AddressPoint product is not part of the mapping agency's "public task". As such, it cannot breach regulations covering the supply of public sector information. The APPSI recommends that the company take any further complaints to the Office of Fair Trading (OFT).OPSI dissented, with surprising rapidity. A statement also published on Monday accused APPSI of making a "literal interpretation". It lists three "fundamental differences" with the review, including the question of public task."OPSI is concerned not only with this procedural aspect of the decision, but also its effect," the statement said. The office "believes that Ordnance Survey's public task extends beyond maintaining its fundamental geographic databases. APPSI, in taking a more restrictive view, would remove a considerable amount of important public sector information from the scope of the PSI regulations."Locus, a trade association representing firms dealing in PSI, agreed. "This will be of great concern to private sector companies who are re-users of PSI and adds to the mixed messaging ... and apparent inaction against Ordnance Survey."APPSI's review ends with seven recommendations calling for the regime to be simplified.In the meantime, the original complaint goes on. Ordnance Survey said it is "working closely with OPSI to ensure that licence terms and conditions remain open, transparent and fair".Intelligent Addressing is still dissatisfied. "It's not anybody's fault, except possibly the government's", said Michael Nicholson, its managing director.Nicholson will now take his complaint to the OFT. However, he plans to wait until the government responds to the office's report on the commercial use of public information, published last December. The response - expected this month - is eagerly awaited by all sides.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
We get far more letters and blog pingbacks than we have room to put in print. So click through for the full text of the letters we chose from..DIGGING OREAs an Oree family who have suffered horribly over the lies spun to the public, we are grateful to you (and Duncan Campbell) for printing more of the truth about Operation Ore. We have lost: -our home (but before we did, we had people throwing eggs at the house and spray painting "paedo" on it- when I complained to the police I was told "not our problem- that's what you get for being a kiddie fiddler") -our jobs (it is not suitable for a teacher to be living with a man who possibly could have paid to view indecent images) -our savings Social Services tried to take our child and forcibly put him up for adoption (they failed); almost all our friends and much of our family have disowned us In our case, we proved fraud, but that did not stop the CPS from pursuing the case. Even if you could prove you had never heard of Landslide, that did not stop the local paper reporting about a "disgusting pervert" in the neighbourhood. So thank you. [name and address withheld]Let's get some perspective on what we're dealing with here, a rising and extremely pernicious crime against children--as indeed The Guardian reported earlier this week. If the police contact people whose credit card details appeared on Landslide's list, then let them provide evidence that these details were stolen if that is indeed the case. Such "inconvenience" is worth it to do whatever can be done to clamp down on this horrific crime. [name and address withheld]As a developer its a shame I cant sue the police for the lost of 6 computers (with EVERYTHING), all the CD's with my music collection, 2 Psion organisers (returned one month after with ALL the batteries removed for spite), the failure of my business (cost me 35k+) etc even though my case was kicked out pre-trial after 2 years on investigation. Have been beaten, banned from local pubs etc as the local press had a nice juicy story. All because on ONE computer was 2 images which were actually popups from some dodgy site. I now know EXACTLY how to destroy or mess up someone's life, just inform the police there is definitely child pornography on someone's machine and they will do the rest. Typically this happens when they come to your house first thing in the morning and remove ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING that is tech. Peter Morgan (no post town given)You quote Antonio Francisco "Nino" Tornisiello as saying he was "choked" to learn of consequences to his credit-card fraud. You have a translation problem, or Tornisello has an English problem. The Portuguese "chocado" means "shocked". That's almost certainly the intended meaning. "Choked" is merely strange. Richard Pedicini, São Paulo, Brazil&gt;&gt; The problem with the hysteria around child pornography and paedophilia is that if you're accused, your life can be ruined even if you're innocent. Plenty of employers will fire anyone as soon as they're accused. The alleged pedophile finds himself jobless, with all his computer equipment seized by police, who have no obligation ever to return it.http://meta.ath0.com/2007/04/20/operation-ore/&gt;&gt; A criminal investigation designed to help innocent victims was turned by the British police into an investigation that was criminal and created more innocent victims. Disgusting.http://thewhothismonth.blogspot.com/2007/04/criminal-investigation.html&gt;&gt; In a situation like this, the judge should have the authority to issue an order demoting the relevant law enforcement officers, and to convene a disbarment trial for the prosecutor who brought the charges.http://www.codemonkeyramblings.com/2007/04/brought_to_you_by_the_same_peo.php&gt;&gt; I suspect that paedophilia and child abuse are rarer than the authorities would have us believe. They tend to exaggerate any evil that makes the gullible eager for State protection. Paedophilia witchhunts are a wonderfully emotive tool for manipulating the masses. Judged by their actions, rather than their words, our government's main political objective seems to be constant expansion of State power. Stories like this are grist to the mill.http://lastditch.typepad.com/lastditch/2007/04/operation_ore_f.html&gt;&gt; there's no knowing how many people were mistakenly advised to plead guilty to incitement to create child pornography (the standard charge in Operation Ore when the prosecution found someone's credit card details on one of these sites but nothing on his computer) on the grounds that they'd be found guilty anyway and might as well get it over with in return for a lower sentence.http://notsaussure.wordpress.com/2007/04/21/fraud-victims-wrongly-convicted-in-operation-ore/&gt;&gt; This is, of course, an instance of everything we fear about the National Identity Register. Justice-by-database has the potential to generate injustice faster and more efficiently than any previous system. It's time to stop the machine - anyone whose credit card was compromised before August, 1999 is a potential target.http://yorkshire-ranter.blogspot.com/2007/04/next-big-miscarriage-of-justice.htmlOGGY OGGY OGGIn consigning Vorbis to the dustbin of history you manage to ignore its major base: sound embedded in applications. A rather wide variety of applications which include sounds - particularly games - use Vorbis, because it's high quality, has an excellent reference decoder, and they don't have to pay anything to use it. If it suddenly stopped existing, rather a lot of software developers would be quite piqued. See, for e.g.,http://wiki.xiph.org/index.php/Games_that_use_Vorbis. Adam Williamson, Vancouver, CanadaJust thought you'd like to know that Ogg Vorbis has widespread support in the games industry to provide in-game audio. This due to its royalty free nature. The only two games I have that use it are the Lego Star Wars Games. There are however numerous other examples. For example the recent Grand Theft Auto games. I'm sure with a bit of research you could come up with more game developers that use Ogg Vorbis. Ananda Samaddar (no post town given)Unfortunately Jack Schofield missed the boat on Ogg Vorbis. Music file formats do matter whether users know it or not. Comparing Ogg Vorbis to MP3, WMA etc is similar to comparing Linux to Windows. Market penetration will occur and Ogg will be used simply because of its better quality. You don't need to be an evangelist to see the light. You just need to have your eyes open. The majority of my music is kept in MP3 simply because that was the only lossy format at the time. I used Ogg while it was in beta; all new songs are converted to the Ogg format. Ogg has an advantage for the gaming industry as well as digital audio and video. With no associated costs and comparable (arguably better) quality than the other leading codecs, Ogg is here to stay. Unless Apple decides to drop its own format or Microsoft for Ogg it will never have the commercial market share. These scenarios seem unlikely and Ogg fits a niche market and keeps the Big companies honest. At the end of the day they are competing against free. Free doesn't add to the cost of the latest music player. On the patent front everyone infringes a patent. Patent reform is the ultimate solution. If you invent a way of achieving an objective that becomes a trade secret. Patents allow you to make that secret public and be compensated by anyone who uses your secret. It is however highly possible that two or more persons can reach a similar conclusion and create a similar solution. With patents as they are, it's first come first served. Because of this companies create large patent portfolios and use these as bargaining chips on the patent table. The problem isn't Ogg. Technically Ogg is a better, faster, smaller and less system intensive at similar bit rates. Faster CPUs, larger hard drives etc is no excuse for using an inferior product. If you argue support and large commercial backing that can be accepted by the consumer as the markets show. Also remember on the patent front the problem isn't Ogg. The problem is a patent system that does not scale in a time of digital thought. It is no longer legally possible for multiple candidates to have a similar process and solution unless one person stole it from the other. The laws of mathematics say differently. Corey Rogers, Bridgetown, BarbadosThe software patent problem only applies to the USA because here in the European Union you cannot patent software. Thankfully the European Parliament has thrown out the software patent law. So it would be nice if you mention this tiny but important fact. Benjamin Stukenberg, BrightonYou forget that, as as an operating platform becomes mainstream, the file formats supported by that platform also become mainstream. And Linux is becoming mainstream. Richard Belanger, Davie, FloridaJack Schofield's opinion is worthless drivel. Many music players support Ogg, many people use it. There are many online sites that support Ogg downloads. They might not be commercially driven but that does not make them any less legitimate. The iPod supports Ogg - in hardware. More people than you might imagine chose to replace the Apple firmware with an open source replacement which enables the full functionality of the hardware. I expect better journalism from the Guardian than "Nobody I know uses it so it mustn't be popular" parochialism. Michael Corbett, HexhamIPOD READY OR NOT (TECHNOBILE)My life isn't yet complete as I haven't found i-pod ready versions of the following: Toilet – especially the built in bidet variety with option flamethrower as loved by the Japanese Child's potty – who is going to admit having encouraging "sounds" on their ipod which get things moving? Definitely time to leave the shuffle option alone. Plant pots – plants are well known for their love of Mozart Bed Frame – for those nights of passion Laundromat – wait for spin cycle and hit those Nirvana classics If all of this soundscape experience is meant to induce various states of mind or body then using "shuffle" in the car could be disastrous resulting in various Pavlovian like responses from sudden incontinence, through mosh pit frenzy and on to unwanted priapism – all without ever leaving the comfort of your car. Truly a device for every occasion! Richard Clarke, NewportVISTA UPGRADESMy OEM is Packard Bell.. I sent my order in on 24 January, after many emails from Moduslink they validated my order on the 2 February 07, still waiting, still hoping, on the 19 April. Olly Curtis, St Mary Crayi am one of those long suffering consumers waiting for their so called 'free' upgrade Windows Vista. I bought my Acer PC near the end of Feb. and applied for my upgrade. I entered my debit card details - mine is a maestro card and this was not accepted by the Moduslink website. my browser crashed without me getting an order number which took me a few days or more to receive after emailing them several times. I assumed as they had given me an order number that they had accepted my payment details... but no. Towards the end of March i received an Email saying they couldn't ship as i had not paid and would i transfer the money from my bank to theirs. They said i must do this within 10 days or my order would be cancelled - bloody cheek. This would have cost me £20 so i had sent them a cheque by registered email instead - cost nearly £4.00. It was a further 2 weeks or so before they withdrew the money on April 16th after emailing them to say - had they received it? No. They had no knowledge of it would i check with my bank. Would i confirm my payment by sending a fax with the order number and proof of payment - copy of both sides of the check and my bank statement. Cost of fax - £3.00. So far i have spent at least £21.00 (including the cheque to Moduslink for £14.14) and i have only received acknowledgement that the order is complete but i must wait another 6 weeks for shipping. i have encountered language problems and poor English in my communications with Moduslink plus a lack of joined up thinking! I wish that I could have waited to get a PC with Vista already installed - much less hassle. I am happy with my Acer PC but unhappy with Microsoft. Tony Walker, LeicesterKate Bevan's article about the Vista upgrade was timely and should be followed up in future weeks. This has all the makings of a scandal on the same scale as the Hoover 'Free flights' fiasco. As someone who has only been waiting a few months for my upgrade, one point stood out when I read Thursday's Inside IT supplement. The paragraph about Ian Hobson showed that he was sent the same email asking for money that thousands of others received. If he had managed to transfer money to the nominated account, he would probably have ended up paying twice for the 'free' upgrade. My suspicions were aroused when I received an e-mail from Moduslink which said 'Unfortunately, we have not been able to process your order for shipment as we are awaiting payment from your bank.' It went on to request a transfer to one of the banks listed, without specifying any amount. This wording is very similar to many of the e-mail scams prevalent at the moment and I would have ignored it, were it not for the final paragraph, which included the threat 'Unfortunately, if payment is not received within the next 10 days your order will be cancelled.' Knowing that I had paid and had received confirmation from Moduslink, I phoned the (admittedly toll free) number to ask what was going on. According to the human being that I eventually reached, the message was sent in error to almost everyone on their database and the majority owed no money at all. He confirmed that my status was OK but could not give me any indication of a delivery date. I was worried about this verbal confirmation but he was unable to give me any other verification, or send an email to confirm that all is OK. I subsequently sent an email requesting acknowledgement that I owed nothing but this was ignored. So now Moduslink has the perfect get-out. "You owed money, you didn't pay, your order was cancelled as we said it would be." If I quote the date and time of the call, they will probably deny everything. Had I sent the (unspecified) amount of money to their bank, I would still have neither receipt nor confirmation of my entitlement to the Vista upgrade and would probably be throwing good money after bad. The scheme is due to end on May 31 and all the evidence seems to be that some (many?) people who are qualified to receive this upgrade are likely to be disappointed. Lenovo, the PC supplier, has closed the scheme and washes its hands of the problem, telling me that the problem lies with Moduslink. The whole thing smacks of a scam, which does Microsoft no good at all. They threw their weight behind this upgrade scheme to sustain PC sales, having failed to deliver the Vista OS in time for the Christmas season. Like many other people, I suspect, I saw this offer as an insurance policy against being stuck with an out-of-date computer system. This hunch is justified now that Microsoft has announced that it will no longer sell Windows XP after the end of this year. The Guardian should press Microsoft to say unequivocally that no-one who received a confirmation from Moduslink will be left without the Vista upgrade. If the uptake was higher than anticipated, that means more PC sales and more Vista users, they shouldn't be complaining. I can take heart in Robert Epstein's assurances until the end of May, after which it's time to call in the Heavy Squad! Rob (no post town given)]SONY'S BIG STATIONI read your article with great interest. I think that in the last paragraph you hit the nail well and truly on the head. The original PS2 sold well to start with because there was no other true, next generation console that was out at the time. Gamers that wanted to enjoy the next generation of games had to buy the PS2 however the main drive of its massive sales came from people who decided that they wanted a DVD player but felt that they would spend and extra 100 pounds to get a PlayStation2 which obviously combined the gamers as well as the home entertainment system into one package. However I feel that Sony are playing with fire this time. Blue Ray is not the definitive standard for the next generation of DVD. HDDVD could still prove to be the de facto standard. Blue Ray is technically the better standard but is a little cost inhibitive where as HDDVD is cheaper, has more resilient disks and has the backing of a fair number of US production houses. We all remember the Betamax Vs VHS wars. Beta again was the better product however VHS won through its backing from production houses and the cost element. I love Sony to bits, I find their customer services to be fantastic, their products are very reliable and as a mid priced range brand, I certainly feel that they are the market leaders, however I fear dearly for their flagship product should the marketplace move towards what appears to be the more commercially viable HDDVD option. Should this be the case, I don't think that the PS3 will replicate the success that the PS2 had and its longevity might be under threat. Craig Abrahams, BasingstokeCALCULATE LOCALWe've been making site specific and regional predictions of temperature and precipitation since 1998. Our primary scientific public outlet has been the American Association of State Climatologists (AASC), of which the article-quoted Roger Pielke Sr is a recent past president. We also organised and presented at the AAAS2006 Annual Meeting on "El Nino Predictability". On such matters as Nino's Sea Surface Temperature (SST) Anomaly our predictions on order of a decade in advance at monthly time-step have RMSE on order of 0.3-0.7. Average Absolute Error achieved on monthly basis over marginal consecutive 5 year periods are on the order of 0.3 to 0.7 C and with marginal accuracy at 10 years as low as 0.2C. We are able to predict continental regions such as US/DofCommerce/NOAA/National Climatic Data Center (NCDC) climate divisions. In the US Pacific Northwest, Oregon Coastal precipitation and from the US Southeast the Florida Keys precipitation predictions are viewable on our website. These two examples are both marine-continental transition zones as is the UK for climate purposes. The point of all this being that with suitable methods the rhythms and pulses of climate are to a significant degree predictable at meaningful temporal and spatial resolution levels. More can be seen at our websitehttp://www.dynamicpredictables.comunder Predictions. Gregg Suhler, co-founder, Managing Member Dynamic Predictables LLC, Columbia, MissouriCongratulations for your even handed article about the flawed climate models and the distorted results they yield when applied globally. It will take a great deal more of this type of journalism to inform the public sufficiently about the situation. Once the public understands the scope of the folly that their politicians and bureaucrats pursue, they may dissuade them from wasting a few trillion dollars. Keep it up. W F Lenihan, Kirkland, WA (USA)PORTABLE READING Regarding Patricia Clark's question about portable reading devices that aren't too heavy: in my day we called them books. Not too heavy, generally, and not likely to be stolen, or subject to technical problems. Jenny Welsh, LondonSTAND BYIt is unfortunately not correct to say that an appliance on standby is doing nothing. In most cases it is running a clock which is of varying importance to its functioning. It is probably not the most desirable way of powering the clock, but that is what the manufacturers have forced on us. John Batts, BanburyCan I congratulate you on an excellent article in the Technology section last week "Stand by for some home truths about power consumption"? I must say that this is one of the first times I have seen a journalist actually go and *measure* something, before reporting and commenting on it. If only debates involving scientific issues were covered in this manner, there would be a great deal less effort wasted in speculation, misuse of incomplete information, etc., etc.. Compare this to a BBC piece last year "UK 'tops energy wasters league'" (http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6075794.stm), which is guilty of the worst kind of sloppy thinking on the subject. It really is not correct to say "every little helps". I had intended to ask some of my students to make similar measurements as a result of the BBC report, but you have done it for me. I might still get the measurements done as a check! If you have *any* influence over the science reported in the main sections, *please* try to encourage your colleagues to follow your practice, or at least have measurements checked by a scientist of some repute (I, or a colleague in my department would be only too happy to oblige!). To quote from Lord Kelvin (a former professor in my department): "I often say that when you can measure what you are speaking about, and express it in numbers, you know something about it; but when you cannot measure it, when you cannot express it in numbers, your knowledge is of a meagre and unsatisfactory kind;" (1883) Dave Ireland, Dept. of Physics &amp; Astronomy, University of Glasgow,
The trick about blogging is to do it regularly. Steve Jobs, chief executive of Apple, seems to be getting the habit: now he's written aboutApple's environmental record and plans. (Bobbie also raised some of the related issues when heinterviewed Jobs in September 2005.)Apple has faced plenty ofcriticism from Greenpeace, principally, for its environmental... well, is it its record, or its announced plans, or what? Here's thechart, but as you'll see, it's more complex than it seems.Jobs leans back and then jabs with a punch:Upon investigating Apple's current practices and progress towards these goals, I was surprised to learn that in many cases Apple is ahead of, or will soon be ahead of, most of its competitors in these areas. Whatever other improvements we need to make, it is certainly clear that we have failed to communicate the things that we are doing well.British readers might feel a certain deja vu: it's not the policies, it's the presentation!But there's then a long list of chemicals and what Apple does and doesn't do. Investigating precisely what the situation is. There are some interesting lines:Apple plans to reduce and eventually eliminate the use of mercury by transitioning to LED backlighting for all displays when technically and economically feasible.Note the "where.. feasible". So it's sort of a promise.Another kicker:In one environmental group's recent scorecard, Dell, HP and Lenovo all scored higher than Apple because of their plans (or "plans for releasing plans" in the case of HP). In reality, Apple is ahead of all of these companies in eliminating toxic chemicals from its products.There's also a useful graph of recycling:A note of comparison — the latest figures from HP and Dell are each around 10% per year, and neither company has yet disclosed plans to grow this percentage in the future. By 2010, Apple may be recycling significantly more than either Dell or HP as a percentage of past sales weight.There's more, plenty more - "Today is the first time we have openly discussed our plans to become a greener Apple. It will not be the last" - and you can even download it as a PDF.There's also adeconstructionwhich delves into it in more detail. One suspects that for those willing to dig, there is a great deal to be found out about just how "green" all sorts of products are.But wouldn't it be easier just to have a "Steve's blog" page? It might even be as good as theFake Steveone.
In last week's Technology section, I wrote a little piece about Microsoft'sSilverlight, pointing out that "this is simply the thin end of a very ambitious wedge".Rather more of it became visible at this week's Mix07 conference in Las Vegas (or on the Web), where several of the demos were done on Macs. In particular, Microsoft said the next version 1.1 of Silverlight would support a subset of the .Net CLR (Common Language Runtime). There will also be a DLR (for Dynamic) supporting Python, JavaScript (ECMAScript 3.0), Visual Basic and Ruby.Miguel de Icazafrom the Mono (.Net on Linux) project commented:The release for the DLR is done under the terms of the Microsoft Permissive License (MsPL) which is by all means an open source license. This means that we can use and distribute the DLR as part of Mono without having to build it from scratch. A brilliant move by Microsoft.There's also an interesting podcast whereJon Udell talks to John Lam(creator of Ruby CLR) about the DLR. On Channel 9, Tim Heuer did a video interview:MIX07: John Lam and the Dynamic Language Runtime.TechCrunch published a useful summary by Nik Cubrilovic inSilverlight: The Web Just Got Richer. More controversially, Michael Arrington posted something and renamed itWhy Silverlight Is Important. Arrington said:For those of us watching the demos at the Mix conference the immediate importance of it was apparent -- Silverlight will be the platform of choice for developers who build rich Internet applications. It makes Flash/Flex look like an absolute toy. After the keynote, the main topic of conversation in the hallways centered on just how effectively Microsoft carried out its execution of Adobe.and also:Nik (a long-time developer) was most impressed by how small Silverlight is (4 MB) and how fast it is (it blows away native Javascript routines -- without exaggeration, Ajax looks like a bicycle next to a Ferrari when compared to Silverlight).I wouldn't go anything like that far. However, I expect that some of people who really don't have a clue what Vista can do might be quite surprised by what a subset of Vista can do on the Web.Skimming the comments to Arrington's post, there seem to be plenty of people speaking from a position of invincible ignorance. It's a bit like watching Christian fundamentalists commenting on Darwinism.Which is not to claim Microsoft won't screw up. More than a decade ago, the very sameCharles Fitzgerald(whose job at Microsoft is to see how all the bits fit together) made the case brilliantly for ActiveX, and look what happened to that.....
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
This morning's paper has an article by Bobbie and Danny Bradbury, one of our regular contributors to Technology, aboutflaws discovered in the online voting systemsbeing tested by a number of local authorities for the elections being held tomorrow (Thurs).Update:Bobbie and David Hencke reveal that the governmentcancelled a number of electronic voting schemesbecause of fears over security:An internal risk assessment, produced by the DCA and obtained by the Guardian under the Freedom of Information Act, has revealed problems in up to 70 e-voting pilots projects originally proposed for tomorrow's elections.There's a great deal more behind this than we can safely detail here, but suffice to say that we have been sent links detailing precise weaknesses and methods that might be used to crack, hack and otherwise alter what's recorded by the online systems. Systems, let's remind ourselves, that might count in narrow contests tomorrow. At the least, it would give a losing candidate something to argue in court.After all theproblems that there have been in the US, and last month in theFrench elections with e-votingsystems, one has to wonder quite what it would take to persuade people that some systems shouldn't be exposed to the Net. Postal fraud is areality- how much worse could internet voting fraud be?David Hencke haswritten on the topicat Comment Is Free. And anarticle in today's Society sectiondescribes the move towards unaccountable e-voting systems aseffectively a privatisation of our elections, as technically un-savvy election officials hand over the running of the elections to the companies that make the voting systems.The writer, Simon Ardizzone, then makes a telling point:But what is really bizarre about these pilots is that they invert the normal use of secrecy and openness in elections. You can vote in public using a phone or the internet, where anyone can see your choice and may buy your vote or even tell you how to vote. And yet when it comes to counting, instead of laying the ballots out on a table where everyone can see them, the votes will be counted inside a computer protected by commercial secrecy laws. Imagine a trial where the evidence was heard in secret, but the jury deliberated in public.Ardizzone is the producer of theHacking Democracydocumentary, which looked at the problems with the US e-voting systems. Wonder if he's planning to come over here?
Although Google has a monopoly market share of searches, there is no shortage of alternatives, and Read/Write Web has a running list of the Top 100.The one for Aprilincludes 12 new search engines, though quite a few well known ones -- Ask, Live Search, Yahoo, Vivisimo, Knuru etc -- are missing. (The Top 100 has already listed 160 search engines so they may have appeared and been dropped.)The list has been improving with user feedback, so here are my two requests, based on the belief that the really interesting search engines are the ones that do things differently. First, if a search engine is using somebody else's search results (eg Google's), say what it's using. Second, please put the metasearch engines like DogPile in a separate list.There are lots of ways to innovate in search, including how you select and spider sites, how you process and rank the results, and how you present them. A real alternative is a site that innovates in all three areas, rather than just taking Google's results and filtering them, useful though that may be.
Get your knit cap on and go 2D, one of the first music-based games is returning for a go on Sony' handheld.MCVannounces thatParappa the RapperPSP, already released in Japan, will be released in North America later this year.The "new" version features re-releases of old levels, plus a multiplayer mode and a few new tracks.No word on whether the hip hop dog and his girlfriend Sunny Funny will come to these shores, but why complain when the exchange rate is so great and the machine is region free?
I didn't have a chance to blog about theWebby awardsyesterday, but I think it's time to shout it from the rooftops -we won!woot!!!1!!!!11 etc.The Guardian scooped the best newspaper award for the third year running, beating the New York Times, Variety and the one Murdoch's after (the Wall Street Journal).In fact, it was a pretty good year for the Brits, with UK-based firms coming tops in a number of categories:Zopatopped the banking category, the BBC scooped the News and Radio categories while Man Utd won the people's voice award for sport, and Miniclip was voted best games site by the public (see our interview withMiniclip CEO Rob Small) and last but certainly not least,Last.fm, with music awards galore and best practices too.
Look at the front page ofDigg, and you might notice something funny going on.Every one of the stories that has been voted as most interesting by the users is about a single issue - the cracking of HD DVD encryption keys. This is a short code that allows people to crack the restrictions on hi-def DVDs and copy the content (a phenomenon I've written about before).After some users began posting the key on Digg, the site's owners got a cease and desist notice and started blocking stories about HD DVD - and, it appears, to delete the accounts of the users involved. But the users rebelled, and simply started swamping the site with stories about the same subject to try and overwhelm the site with brute force.It worked. Kevin Rose, the site's founder, eventually decided toignore the cease and desist.In building and shaping the site I've always tried to stay as hands on as possible. We've always given site moderation (digging/burying) power to the community. Occasionally we step in to remove stories that violate our terms of use (eg. linking to pornography, illegal downloads, racial hate sites, etc.). So today was a difficult day for us. We had to decide whether to remove stories containing a single code based on a cease and desist declaration. We had to make a call, and in our desire to avoid a scenario where Digg would be interrupted or shut down, we decided to comply and remove the stories with the code.But now, after seeing hundreds of stories and reading thousands of comments, you've made it clear. You'd rather see Digg go down fighting than bow down to a bigger company. We hear you, and effective immediately we won't delete stories or comments containing the code and will deal with whatever the consequences might be.That might be an attempt to turn the revolt around, and maybe Rose doesn't really think that there's a danger of being closed down - but it's easy to see a situation where, say, the HD-DVD consortium files a legal action against the site (Wikipedia has had similar problems - theHD DVD entryis locked "because inappropriate content was being repeatedly added").Is it a victory for freedom of expression? Is this going to end up with Digg being sued and shut? And how many of the site's users are really involved in this affair?I'm no fan of the ludicrous digital rights invoked by Hollywood on DVDs, but it isn't that hard to find the information you need on the web. Digg's a user-led site, but nobody has the inalienable right the post there. Some users are concerned that the approach has been affected by the fact that HD DVD took out some advertising on the site. Well, it might, but they were still abiding by the letter of the law. And while the law might suck, but - unfortunately - it's still the law.There's a fine line between freedom of speech and foolishness. I wonder how many of the users involved would be happy to post the encryption key on their own site, and then ignore a cease and desist order?
Driving games then, which style does it for you - realism or fantasy? Gran Turismo or Ridge Racer? Colin McRae or Mario Kart? I've always veered towards the latter, more concerned about powerslides than tweaking the engine. But I've recently spent some time withForza Motorsport 2, essentially the 360's answer to Gran Turismo, and was pretty impressed. Not so much with the graphics - perfectly fine but nothing outstanding - but with the scope of the thing. This is hardcore. A preposterously in-depth career mode, online play that allows you complete the whole single player game in multiplayer, 300 cars, 4000 layers available to create your custom paint job - yup, this is petrolhead heaven.But perhaps more interesting to those of us who don't know or care about compression ratios is the online auction house. Here you can sell - or give away - your cars and artwork in exchange for in-game credits. It's all about "empowering the community" apparently, and for once the marketing guff might be right - I can see the auction stuff becoming a popular game in itself. More traditional fans of the original will be pleased to know that the CRX imbalance has been fixed. The career mode goes into such bonnet-fiddling depth that it could be overwhelming but I've been assured that novices won't need to get their fingers dirty to succeed. If this is true then the quality of the driving and particularly the online modes - especially the community elements - could make Forza 2 appeal to more than just the car freaks. Sim or casual - how do you like your racing games?
Not content with revealing the PlayStation Eye camera, Sony has now announced Go!Cam, a new photographic add-on for PSP. Here's the press release stuff:To be released on 16th May 2007 across Europe and the PAL territories, Go!Cam promises to bring the creativity of film, photos and the fun of PSP together to create a camera for all ages and all occasions. With a retail price of €49.99 (£34.99), Go!Cam is yet another example of how PSP is a mobile entertainment system with no limits.With up to two and half hours video recording time and the ability to take and store over 40,000 photos, Go!Cam seamlessly converts PSP to a portable, functional and fun camera.Go!Cam offers a built in microphone to ensure continuous audio, the ability to change the direction of the camera lens vertically by 180 degrees and Go!Edit, an editing software package which allows users to save and edit photos, video and audio clips.Apparently, users are also able to upload images and video directly from PSP to the internet, which is quite a nice feature considering how popular moblogging is becoming - and this is bound to be a more user-friendly system than mobile phone. Isn't it?Sadly, though, nothing aboutthiscamera resembles the headgear from a seventies sci-fi show.
Unlike Xbox Live, PlayStation Network - the online service for the PS2 and 3 - is free. A good job too as it simply doesn't compare to Xbox Live's slick offering. But that may change in the future, particularly whenHome launches. The avatar-based community - Second Life on PlayStation if you're feeling lazy - looks mightily impressive, finally adding some soul to the patchy Network offering. Home has just gone into closed beta but the rest of us can get involved when thebeta process properlaunches in the summer.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
This Friday isStar Wars day- and what better way to celebrate than a ritual humiliation of your children in honour of fictional events in a galaxy far, far away?Spotted onWonderland: this excellentChewbacca outfit for babies.You can get Yoda and Leia too.Not much more you can say really, is there?
Signed up for tickets to Radio 1'sBig Weekend? Get the strange phrase "Frozen Indigo Angel" in your registration confirmation?Been watchingPaul Denchfield'sTwitterfeed, reading hisblogand wondering why the recently sacked R1 producer is getting dogged by the same nonsensical phrase?Surely it's not a BBC multi-platform Alternate Reality Game? If so, this is large-scale, people. Through a public service provider. What with this and the eco-focussedWorld Without Oil, 2007 is looking like the year the medium comes of age.To review FIA (for those who have no idea what I'm talking about):The thick plot goes that Denchfield (a real guy) was fired by Auntie Beeb for daring to bring to the corporation's attention the strange phrase on one of his R1 websites (see the first videohere). Signposts have been popping up all around the UK, from Glasgow to Cornwall, attached to radio personalities from Scott Mills to Colin Murray, and to BBC properties like Dr. Who and pop stars like the Arctic Monkeys, yet still Denchfield's been unable to get the BBC to admit that something's going on. After spending the past week or so causing a stink on various Web 2.0 platforms, he was finally able to make an appointment to meet with R1 Controller Andy Parfitt to discuss his unfair dismissal.According to the latest video, at the appointed time and place he was given only a mobile phone and a cryptic note from an FIA insider.Now what? Well, let the gaming begin.The clues are coming thick and fast. You can catch up on the latest atMetafilter, as well as at ARG-hotspotUnfiction.Paul's Twitter ishere, his blog ishereand YouTube ishere.
A group known asGamers Against Violencehas been formed in the States to promote a week-long series of get-togethers and events celebrating game culture and raising money for families of the Virginia Tech victims. It's not quite clear whether the rallies are to protest against violence per se, or the way in which videogames are often blamed for violence. The former seems too vague, the latter, perhaps, too politicised.What the events may achieve is a positive reposte to the largely inaccurate assumptions made in the immediate wake of the shootings. It might be good for viewers of the mainstream media coverage to view gamers as sociable and passionate citizens rather than isolated, nihilistic loners. But then, no one must forget, this tragedy isn't about gamers; it's about 32 lost lives and the unimaginable grief of those left behind.It's a tricky tightrope to walk, between the soapbox and the charity tin.
It's a slow news day so back to that bizarre Sony press event in Greece. The company has furnished Kotaku.com withits side of the story. Predictably, it turns out that the goat was not slaughtered onsite and games journalists were not invited to eat offal from its still warm body cavity. The goat was apparently 'sourced' already dead from a local butcher. I wish I could have heardthatphone conversation.None of this makes it 'okay' - it was still a reallyweirdthing to do and someone somewhere should have thought it through, but The Mail on Sunday's hysterical treatment, based on a secondhand irony-filled report is almost as questionable. I meanfront page news- an animal carcass at a private press event? This on the day Britain's second in line to the throne packed his kit bag and headed off to Iraq.The Mail has, of course, waged a long and often happily fact-averse war against the videogame industry for many years, but selecting this 'story' as a lead is astonishing. If the newspaper wanted to go with animal cruelty, I'm sure the RSPCA would have been only too pleased to share one of its many harrowing stories of daily animal mistreatment perpetrated on our animal-loving isle. All very, very odd.
No, I didn't see it either, but yesterday's Mail on Sundayreportedon a "depraved" God of War II press event which featured a headless goat. Makes a change from legless journalist I guess, but the Mail didn't see the funny side. Pictures of the event - due to appear in the Official Playstation mag - have been removed by a suitably chastened Future Publishing.Right then, where do we start? Clearly this is good news for Sony - sales, or at least awareness, of God of War II will increase. Notoriety never harmed a game. Future won't be happy with the cost implications, although they may flog a few more issues. And the article itself is a laughable semi-parody - "We have reproduced the spread but have pixellated the image to spare readers the sight of the goat's decapitated head" etc - and comes complete with typically outraged quotes from MP Keith Vaz. But what does this say about the games industry as a whole? Is it the vibrant, fast-growing entertainment industry - "bigger than Hollywood!" - that we often hear about or is it still the niche immature business stuck selling shlock to teenage boys?Of course, the Mail on Sunday is hardly the voice of reason, but this story will confirm what many people, and not just MoS readers, think - ie that games are a bad thing. Obviously this is nonsense but perception is important. What do you think then? Typical overreaction from the tabloid press or symptomatic of a games industry that still hasn't grown up?
"It has come to our attention that at The God of War 2 launch showcase held in Athens, Greece, on 1st March 2007, an element of the event was of an unsuitable nature," a Sony spokesperson toldgamesindustry.biz.The response follows a story in yesterday's Mail on Sunday -- only two months late, but it's a newspaper that thrives on being outraged. The headline says:Slaughter: Horror at Sony's depraved promotion stunt with decapitated goat. It includes the photo above from Sony's Official PlayStation magazine (possibly now a collectors' item) with mosaic censorship.According to the paper:Sickening images of the party have appeared in the company's official PlayStation magazine - but after being contacted by The Mail on Sunday, Sony issued an apology for the gruesome stunt and promised to recall the entire print run.Critics condemned the entertainment giant, which produces scores of Hollywood blockbusters each year, for its "blood lust" and said the grotesque "sacrifice" highlighted increasing concerns over the content of video games and the lengths to which the industry will go to exploit youngsters.Sure, but what about the depths Sony will plumb to exploit the press? The Mail says guests "threw knives at targets and pulled live snakes from a pit with their bare hands."Topless girls added to the louche atmosphere by dipping grapes into guests' mouths, while a male model portraying Kratos, the game's warrior hero, handed out garlands.Shocked readers of the Mail's Web site have made comments such as: "if it was good enough for the greeks and romans it's good enough for me. This world has become far too ethically conscious and politically correct for my liking (A Johnson, London); and "Anyway, the game is really good" (Mattias, Sweden).No British journalists were at the event, and Sony Computer Entertainment UK was not involved. So please don't phone the PR and ask why you weren't invited....Still, the controversy gave the Mail group the chance to trail some more important stories, including: William racks up a £5,000 bar bill at Harry's farewell party, and Posh finds new £11m Beckingham Palace in Beverly Hills.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Paul Allen (front, right) gives us an excuse to trot out this lovely Microsoft pic. Photograph: AP/MSJust in case you missed it over the weekend, there was a lot of talk among football fans on the south coast thatPaul Allen might be buying Southampton football club.I'm sure it was the big story for Saints fans - such asGamesblogger Greg- but of course, it wouldn't be the first time that a super-rich technology guru had bought into sport.Nintendo's Hiroshi Yamauchi bought the Seattle Mariners baseball team andMark Cuban, the entrepeneur, is the high-profile owner of the Dallas Mavericks basketball team. And, of course, Allen already owns the Seattle Seahawks (American football) and Portland Trailblazers (basketball), though it's worth wondering what Southampton has in common with America's north-west corridor.I reckon it would be fun to see Google's Sergey Brin (born Moscow, 1973) take on the might of Chelsea's Russian oligarch Roman Abramovich. Or how about Richard Branson buying out Middlesbrough (given how often they get their hands on the prize, he could rename them Virgin Reds). Or what if Jeff Bezos bought say, legendary Brazilian footie team Corinthians (because they're both very close to Amazon, groan).OK, enough of the lame jokes. Which technology superstars should splash out on sports?
For some years I have been adding data to a Microsoft Works database in Windows 98SE, and the "advanced sort" facility in Works is essential to its effective use. I have tried installing it on a laptop loaded with Windows XP Home Edition but without success. Will the same apply to Vista? Fred FinneyMicrosoft Works is still a current product. Microsoft Works 8 would be fine for XP, but you may need v8.5 if you are moving to Vista. You will probably be able to load your data into the newer version of Works on XP or Vista, but this is not guaranteed. To increase your chances, always give yourself multiple options. In this case, you should save your data as a Works file, as a dBase file (dbf is a widely supported standard) and as a CSV file (comma separated variables). You can load a CSV file into almost any database, although the process can be tedious.There are several things to watch for when saving a Works file, and you should read the first part ofMicrosoft Knowledge Base article 197894for details.Microsoft Works is sometimes bundled with new PCs either free or for a very low price. The much larger Works Suite -- which also includes things like Encarta and Microsoft Money -- can cost £40 to £50. Alternatively you can buy the programs from Amazon UK etc or hunt around for cheaper OEM versions (no-frills copies that are supposed to be sold bundled with PCs).Works is, deliberately, a simplified product: it's not Microsoft Office. Having dbf and CSV files would enable you to try a more sophisticated database or spreadsheet, although there are not many cheap or free options that are easy to use. Either way, the main thing is to avoid having to re-enter your 20,000 lines of data.
Why do we have to have the prefix "co" before our country indicator? Richard FinchInternet domain names usually end with two letters for the country code, which runs from ad (Andorra) to zw (Zimbabwe). We use uk instead of gb because uk was already in use on Janet, the joint academic network. American addresses should end with .us, but this wasn't needed in the beginning, because the net was US-only. Americans generally used top-level domains (TLDs) instead, such as com (commercial), edu (education) and mil (military).Each top-level domain has subdivisions, and these second level domain names (SLDs) are often used to indicate what kind of organisation it is. The UK TLD, now managed by Nominet, uses co (company), ac (academic) and mod (Ministry of Defence) as SLDs, instead of echoing the TLDs: com, edu and mil. Similarly, Japan uses co, ac, ed (for schools) and go (for gov), among others.Web-only backchat: Mike Ashford and Jim Hunter have quibbled about this answer. I'd hoped to skip the details, but my point was that gb is, as a matter of fact, the code "officially assigned" under the ISO 3166-1 standard (http://www.iso.org/iso/en/prods-services/iso3166ma/02iso-3166-code-lists/iso_3166-1_decoding_table.html). We don't follow the standard. You are welcome to argue with the International Organization for Standardization and Nominet about this, but it's not my fault. ;-)
A friend has recently sent me a Microsoft Word attachment that arrived in my mailbox as winmail.dat, which I am unable to open. JanetWinmail.dat files were created by Microsoft to carry formatting information for "rich text" email messages. They are in Transport Neutral Encapsulation Format (TNEF). The best way to deal with the odd winmail.dat file is to upload it totud.at/php/tnef, which will convert it for you. If you get lots, you could download TNEF (tnef.sourceforge.net) and do it yourself.Incidentally, I answered this questionmore fully in September 2001. However, I was unable to find it on any search engine, even though I knew exactly what I was looking for.Backchat: Paul Beam says he uses Winmail.dat Reader, a free utility fromhttp://www.kopf.com.br/winmail/. He writes: "I have it installed, and can read winmail.dat attachments by double-clicking on them in Thunderbird." Lesley White mentions WMDecode from Biblet Computer Services (http://www.biblet.freeserve.co.uk/). The Windows version costs $10.
I have used Mozilla Thunderbird for a few years but I miss having an outbox so that emails aren't sent immediately after writing them, like Outlook Express and Eudora had when I last used them. Is it possible to have an outbox in Thunderbird? Daggi Kröschel-WillisNot surprisingly, there isa simple extensionthat you can download to add the outbox facility. Alternatively you could think of going back to Eudora (http://www.eudora.com/).Eudora is about to switch to open source development, and Qualcomm says it will "cease sales of Paid mode Eudora" after April 30.Backchat: Christefano points out that now,according to MozillaZine: "The Outbox extension is obsolete, doesn't support uninstalling and is not recommended."Brian Marsden adds: "Thunderbird doesn't have an outbox, but does have an Unsent folder. After composing a message, select File|Send Later (or Ctrl+Shift+Return) from the Compose menu, rather than the Send button. (Unfortunately there's no button for send later, which is why it's so easily missed.) The message then gets put in the unsent folder. To send it from there, go to the main Thunderbird menu and select File|Send Unsent Messages."
Is it true that hotel card keys hold personal data and should be retained by the customer and destroyed? Name withheldIt's a lovely story and dates back to an erroneous press release from the police in Pasadena, California, in October 2003. It's false, and you canread the police's retraction.The story is covered on urban legends site Snopes (http://www.snopes.com/crime/warnings/hotelkey.asp), but will no doubt circulate for a few more years.
I've been told there is a site with the 01 alternatives to 08 premium rate phone numbers, but I can't find it. Stacey McHaleYou're probably looking forsaynoto0870.com. It's easier to find if you look for it on the moneysavingexpert.com site, which has auseful article about the topic.
"A convincing twin of Darth Vader stalks the beige cubicles of a Silicon Valley office, complete with ominous black mask, cape and light saber,"reports APofNeuroSky. "But this is no chintzy Halloween costume. It's a prototype, years in the making, of a toy that incorporates brain wave-reading technology."The AP story says:NeuroSky's prototype measures a person's baseline brain-wave activity, including signals that relate to concentration, relaxation and anxiety. The technology ranks performance in each category on a scale of 1 to 100, and the numbers change as a person thinks about relaxing images, focuses intently, or gets kicked, interrupted or otherwise distracted.Adding biofeedback to "Tiger Woods PGA Tour," for instance, could mean that only those players who muster Zen-like concentration could nail a put [sic]. In the popular action game "Grand Theft Auto," players who become nervous or frightened would have worse aim than those who remain relaxed and focused.People have been playing around withusing brainwaves to control computerssince the 1980s or earlier. The trick is to get a cheap electroencephalographic (EEG) system that is sensitive enough to produce anything meaningful. If NeuroSky has managed that, it could do OK.I have some experience of this, since one of the things I did to earn money while at university was sell my brainwaves. Literally. At the time (around 1970), it involved researchers attaching up to two dozen electrodes to your scalp, and using some messy "glue" to ensure a good connection. I found that, given a visible feedback mechanism (an oscilloscope) it wasn't hard to modify your brainwave patterns. But doing the same thing while playing GTA is no doubt a different matter.
Net users go online in China. Photograph: Greg Baker/API don't trail the Guardian's science and technology podcastScience Weeklyon here often - perhaps I should - but here's one you might be interested in.With hundreds of researchers around the world trying to find out how to take the internet to the next level, we wondered what the future was for it - and what the network might look like in a decade or so. So, we invitedJon Crowcroft- the Marconi professor of communication systems at Cambridge University and one of the net's leading engineers - into the pod to tell us what he thinks.(He also demonstrates to producer Ben that not every item we do can or indeed should have a musical introduction.)Elsewhere, we wonder whether robots should be given similar rights to humans, and find out about the effect of TV shows like CSI on juries listening to forensic science evidence. And if you're into academic spats, we also analyse thelatest rowbetweenRichard DawkinsandRobert Winston.•Listen now on your computer• Subscribefor freevia iTunes• Or usethe web feed
Although Alan Sugar is best known for firing people on television, for founding Amstrad (Alan Michael Sugar Trading) and selling PCW word processing systems, and for his former involvement with the football club, Tottenham Hotspur, he also bought a little computer company called Viglen. And it is as chairman of Viglen that he will be on hand this Thursday to unveil a new high-performance computer cluster at Queen Mary, University of London.Viglen has already published acase study (PDF)that says: "In an agreement worth over £150,000, the College invested in some 130 custom-built Viglen dual-Xeon Processor 2.8GHz servers, each with 2Gb SDRAM and 120Gb hard drive. Ordered in March 2004 following rigorously competitivetender, the machines were supplied in a 1u rack-mountable configuration and use Supermicro motherboards." [Presumably it means gigabytes, even though it says gigabits.]Viglen suppliesboth Linux- and Windows-based clusters.
LastweekI began an epic exploration into the cultural similarities (and differences) of gamers in different countries which I've unearthed by mucking around in the IGDA's Game Developers Choice Awards nomination data from 2007. I thought game design would surely be the big kahuna - more so than Visual Arts or even Best Game. Was I disappointed?Just to remind you what's going on, I took all of the votes that were sent into the IGDA's website for the Game Developers Choice Awards open nominations, split them into their relevant categories and calculated which games were voted for most by the international community (all of whom had to be full members of the IGDA) (the results are here - in words, and here - in a PP presentation).The six games in this category voted for by the most countries were: Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess Dead Rising DEFCON: Everybody Dies Loco Roco Company of Heroes Gears of WarI also thought that I might be able to tease out some of the subtle cultural affiliations between countries, and so I've done an affiliation network analysis using the social network analysis softwarePajek(great practice for my PhD research!). The results of this for the Game Design category are in the image above, commonly called a sociogram.The dots are countries and the lines between 'em are an indication of a vote for common games. The line may represent 10 common votes, but it can also mean one. Which is why I've looked a bit closer.I figured that game design would be a very culturally specific entity. The design is all about what kind of playability gamers like, and as a social psychologist I thought that cultural trends may be country specific, based upon likes and dislikes of particular genres, art, type of activity, level of difficulty, puzzle-solving style etc. It could be informed by previously popular media (games included), what's available on the shelves, what's going on in the news... the possibilities are endless.But similarities might arise, which I think is pretty interesting. What might it mean if the UK and Japan have a really similar view on what makes a good game? Maybe that could mean we'd get more Japanese game into the market because they're rated highly. For example.So, taking a look at the sociogram, we can see that gamers in Hong Kong rate design unlike everyone else (their most popular vote was for Every Carnival). And Brazil and Finland have a common interest; the game which both of them voted for was Tornado Mania! - any suggestions?But of the games who are very interconnected, which lines indicate the greatest number of shared votes in this category?Canada and the USAThe North American contingent once again share the greatest number of votes between them. They like: Civilization IV: Warlords Company of Heroes Elder Scrolls: Oblivion Gears of War Guitar Hero 2 Okami Prey Rainbow Six: Vegas Legend of Zelda: Twilight PrincessMost of these have been on the top lists throughout the contest, so no real surprises, but these are 45% of Canada's total votes. Let's take a look at the games that only the US and Canada voted for:Civilization IV: Warlords Guitar Hero 2 PreyThe UK and the USAThe next strongest connection belongs between the USA and the UK. Linguistically similar, we also share a like for five games: Gears of War Half Life 2: Episode 1 Loco Roco Shadow of the Colossus Viva PiñataIt's interesting to see that the UK isn't as integrated in the core of connected countries as it has been in the other two categories, and indeed of the five games above three of them were only voted for by one or two other countries: Half Life 2 and Shadow of the Colossus with the US, and Loco Roco with the US and The Netherlands).The UK and the NetherlandsI wasn't wrong; game design is the category which connects countries the least. The UK and the Netherlands are the third most highly connected with only two common games: Loco Roco Viva PiñataJapan and FinlandFinally, Japan and Finland share two games: Dead Rising Legend of Zelda: Twilight PrincessAny thoughts on why?Related Links:Power Point presentation of the resultsHow similar are we?Who's Like Who? Visual ArtsWho's Like Who? Best Game
Blue Monday Owners Clubbluemondayownersclub.comWhy should it only be people with classic cars who get their own exclusive owners' clubs? How about one for those of us who own FAC73? Blue Monday by New Order is the bestselling 12" single of all time - nearly 3 million were sold but it famously lost the band and record label money due to the high cost of the floppy disc mimicking sleeve by Peter Saville. "Whenever I see a copy of Blue Monday in a charity shop or at a boot sale, I have to buy it. I can't bear the thought that it might otherwise get thrown out," writes Spencer Graham, whose aim is to unite all owners of this vinyl masterpiece by inviting them to send in photos with their copy. Let's all meet on a beach and tell each other how it feels.Johnny DeeZodiacwww.zodiacmovie.comThe new film from David Fincher, director of Se7en and Fight Club, is based on the unsolved crimes of the Zodiac, a 1960s serial killer who taunted San Francisco authorities with ciphers and letters and based his killings on silent movies. Along with the usual trailers and photos, this site has a crime scene section where surfers can fulfill their CSI fantasies by zooming in on murder sites and investigating the clues left behind, plus the Timeline section with newspaper clippings, letters, postcards and actual case files used by the investigators.JDWhat we learned on the web this weekSpiderman wasaskater dudeThe final tipplesofsoon to be dead rock starsHow to secretlypick your noseSneezing childrenmakeexcellent drum machinesRadiohead needwater and petrol but are stillsucking young bloodPossibly inspired by Britney, wigs are hugelypopular with caninesThe 15 mostoutrageous claims in pop music historyVinegar isthe only cleaneryou'll ever need77 waystolearn fasterNew from Ghana:be permanently engaged in amobile-shaped coffinDodgy 1990s popbandRedNexis for sale on ebay10 reasonstowear crocsBog roll: VintageDusty SevensChewits, the post office tower and Dusty Springfield held in equally high regard.dusty7s.blogspot.comEye Of The GoofCelebrating Weng Weng (aka Agent 00), the Filipino midget spy and other rumness.mrbalihai.com/goofJunkyard ClubhouseMajoring on swank design like the Mastermind puzzle game and space-age vans.junkyardclubhouse.comBranded In The 80sbrandedinthe80s.comThe only person in the world with a full set of Goonies stickers.The World Of KaneRetro candy for the eyes and ears - including lovely 1970s stewardesses.worldofkane.blogspot.comBoo Berry Alarm ClockRecalling Alice Cooper on The Muppets and the best bits of The Brady Bunch.thebooberryalarmclock.blogspot.comSwapatoriumJellied turkey salad, savoury salad slime and other delicacies from recipe books of yesteryear.swapatorium.blogspot.com
Fans of Capcom's inventive Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney series for Nintendo DS, in which you fight for justice both in the courtroom and outside it in your quest to uncover new evidence, will be fascinated to learn that it's about to benefit from a spin-off. Capcom has announced its intention to use late night TV series Adult Swim's Harvey Birdman: Attorney At Law to create a new mash-up of the game. For those as yet uninitiated, Harvey Birdman takes a surprisingly wide range of 1960s, 1970s and 1980s Hanna-Barbera cartoon characters, gives them extra-stupid voices and backstories, then places them in a series of unlikely and surreal legal scenarios. "Puerile" doesn't really go far enough for what is a wonderfully daft piece of TV and promises to be a videogame of equally infantile magnificence.
Spider-Man 3Xbox 360, PS2, PS3, Wii, DS, PSP, PCThe thankless business of making games based on films rarely coughs up a gem, but the Spider-Man franchise has been less risible than most, with Spider-Man 2 raising smiles despite its minimal content. Spidey's third outing - with the usual authentic voice acting, sardonic Bruce Campbell narration and freedom to web around New York - contains a lot more game than 2, featuring more substantial challenges and random crime fighting. Its high points are undoubtedly the simple but satisfying bomb disposal scenes, and the fights, while samey, make you feel more than a little superhuman. Sadly all this is undermined by a glitchy in-game camera and controls that make swinging around town - the previous game's best feature - a chore, robbing it of any sense of fluidity and elegance, substituting grim clumsiness.&#183;Activision, &pound;30-&pound;50 (Xbox 360 version reviewed)Earth Defence Force 2017Xbox 360Earth Defence Force 2017 is the lurid, pumped-up all-action character-free videogame equivalent of a B-movie. That's to say, its barely sketched-in plot has you helping the Earth Defence Force beat back wave after wave of giant insects and stupidly vast killer robots, using a frankly bewildering arsenal of 150 different weapons backed up by a selection of miscellaneous tanks. OK, so a great many of the weapons are just minor variations on the usual guided missile/assault rifle/grenade launcher themes but, glued to its absurdly entertaining no-frills shooting, this sustains a tidal wave of adrenaline which sees the screen constantly saturated in ludicrous fountains of green blood and dirty great explosions - buildings collapse, huge robots advance and hours pass like minutes. If you like action, find yourself nodding off during the tedious dialogue that normally precedes the part where you just go ahead and shoot everyone, and have &pound;25 to spare, this is the Ryanair of shooters: cheap, cheerful and really gets the job done.&#183;D3 Publisher, &pound;25
MondayWorld War One and gamesPSP price cutFootball Manager goes MMOTuesdayZX Spectrum: 25 years onGeeking outAre games naturally green?WednesdayPS3 for goodHow similar are we?2009: key year for next-gen?ThursdayPS3 cameraWho's like who? Visual ArtsMobile game stuffSeperated at birth?FridayWho's like who? Best GameMobile game combats culture shock
At last, it's the killer app that mobile games publishers have been waiting for. Nipan Maniar an academic and games expert at the University of Portsmouth has developed a mobile game deisgned to help international students understand life in Britain. Including such moments of cultural awakening as 'going to the pub' and 'watching people being affectionate to each other in public', the guide is intended for those who may have spent their formative years in more reserved cultures."I found some aspects of British culture very novel, and certainly things such as interacting socially with others, say, in a pub were very different to what I was used to in my own culture in India," said Nipan who himself arrived as a student from India five years ago."C-Shock could be used to guide students through events such as registration as well as help them with basic information like getting to a bank or ATM that's closest to them. You could incorporate a whole city guide into the game so, in effect, the new student has this interactive learning tool to quickly settle into a new city very quickly"The mobile phone is the perfect delivery method for this sort of edutainment project - almost all international students will have one, while only a minority may be equipped with a DS or PSP. The game is set to be available from the university's website, although it's not clear how many handsets are supported.Personally, I think there's massive potential in the concept of cultural gaming. At every stage in our lives we're forced to learn new social rules and regulations and it would be a lot easier if there were a mobile phone simulation available. For example, I still don't know what you're supposed to do when you invite someone round for dinner and they bring their own bottle of wine. Do you open that bottle or do you put it away and open one of your own? If there were a game that could steer me throughthatminefield I'd download it before you could say 'unforgiveable social faux-pas'.
It's been a while since we asked aFriday Afternoon Question, but old traditions die hard. The sun's started to come out around Guardian Towers, I'm looking forward to the weekend and there is no better time to arse around on the internet.Now, I thought we'd kick off with a question that's more practical than ponderous: tips for productivity.Getting Things Doneis a cult among tech-types, but I doubt many of us have the commitment to actually see it through. So tell us what you think.What's your best productivity tip or application?Have you found a great way to save time, or use your days better? Do you read your emails on an iPod or have an intelligent method for sorting through wads of email?For me, the biggest difference has been simply learning to be increasingly brutal with email: each day I receive probably a couple of hundred messages, and I clear them out into an archive folder every night. They get filtered, saved, deleted and leave my main inbox view clean and clear: it has a placebo effect I find strangely comforting.Tell us your tips... the winner gets to bask in the warm glow of sharing their tips with the rest of us.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
