Robert Scoble hasreported on the Vloggiesawards for video bloggers, with links to various sites. These include a video report from triple award-winnerRox, of Beach Walks.Separately, Scoble has lists ofthe judge's awardsandthe people's choice awards.Ze Frank and Rocketboom were among the not surprising winners, butAsk A Ninjawas the people's favourite vlog. Josh Wolf sent hisacceptance speech from jail, where he ended up for refusing to hand over unpublished videotapes to a Grand Jury.
Nissan Note&pound;9,990Miles per gallon:44.1Seats:5Good for:play datesBad for:first dates'Let me get this straight,' says Adam - one of the few people I know who can afford to buy what he wants to drive rather than drive what he can afford to buy. 'You can lay your hands on any car you like, yet you have chosen to visit me in this ...' he rolls his eyes comically towards the supermini MPV which squats on the cream-coloured gravel of his extensive drive. Suddenly, I feel quite foolish. He's right, what was I thinking? Why would anyone tick through a mental list of test cars and arrive at a Nissan which costs less than Adam's annual heating bill?I decide to go on the offensive and toss him the key. He clambers in, looking like a cowed Toad of Toad Hall and, grimacing, turns the key of the 1.4-litre engine. His own Range Rover parked next to it has an engine three times the size. We ease off down the driveway and into a Cotswold landscape alight with autumn colours.The Note began life as a doodle by one of Nissan's young designers based in Japan. His wife was expecting their first child and he was depressed that he was going to be sentenced to a lifetime of driving dismal people carriers. After a protracted period of crying, screaming and, no doubt, plenty of pain-relieving drugs, his little Note was born. And the arrival has proved to be a bundle of joy to its parent company.Small cars used to be a double-edged sword for their owners. On the one hand they were chirpy, charming and cheap, on the other driving them was like playing sardines on the move. In the past decade, however, designers have found novel ways to maximise space without increasing a car's road print. This usually, essentially, means building upwards. The Note, therefore, is short but tall, if that makes sense. It offers headspace and a driving position that makes you feel like you're perched on a bar stool. And it has a gullet that swallows passengers and luggage like a pelican downs fish. To do this, designers have made use of a sliding rear seat, a twin-level boot and dozens of cubbies and neat storage areas - the sort beloved by clutter-laden breeders. The flip-up tables in the back are a sure sign that the Note is aimed at young families; all that's missing is a centralised wet-wipe dispenser.From the outside, this little MPV is a delight (though the gold-hued one I drove would take some getting used to - my four-year-old told our neighbour 'it actually was really a gold car'). It has a curving roofline, wide-set wheels, boomerang rear lights and a striking 'nose' topped off with useful headlight 'bubbles' to help with parking. It comes with airbags, CD, aircon... everything you'd expect in a bigger car but which feel like extras in a supermini. On top of that, the Note is British-built, at Nissan's Sunderland factory, which has just celebrated 20 years of production.Despite his prejudices, Adam is impressed. And at under 10 grand he's really struggling to fault it. Would he buy one? After much humming and haaing, no. And why not?'It's just too cheap,' he splutters. But not for those of us with more sense than money.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Microsoft is to introduce a sophisticated protection system aimed at preventing online fraud. The company is urging rival companies to adopt a similar technique.The system, Cardspace, has been developed to counter a major crisis facing computer users, the company said. Unless urgent action is taken, consumers risk fraudsters gaining access to banking and financial data, as computer crime contains to grow.'There has been an erosion of the principles of data protection over the past 10 years,' said Caspar Bowden, chief privacy adviser for Microsoft. 'Data storage has become so cheap, there is no incentive to be selective about what we keep and what we discard. It is easier to keep almost everything and that has had a cumulative effect. There is an approaching crisis in data protection.'Microsoft's announcement about introducing new technology to safeguard individuals' personal data comes after the news that problems of identity and data theft are reaching crisis levels in this country. Britons were also revealed to be the most spied upon people in the democratic world. Vast databases in which our DNA, health records and other information are being created and are often being accessed illegally.In its survey, the human rights group Privacy International ranked 36 countries, including the 25 EU nations, according to their ability to protect privacy. The best scores were achieved by Germany and Canada. The worst score - in terms of protecting its citizens' confidential data - went to the UK.It was against this background that Microsoft revealed at a meeting at the Science Media Centre in London last week that its new Windows Vista system, which is being marketed in this country early next year, will include sophisticated measures to make it safer to log into websites that hold personal information, such as those run by banks.'People often get "phishing" emails asking them to log in to false or spoof bank websites,' said Bowden. 'When they do this, they give away their passwords. These are then used by criminals to access the real bank website and to steal their money. Our system will include an identity recognition system that will pinpoint which websites are valid and help prevent people being defrauded.'Cardspace will be displayed on a computer screen like an opened wallet containing a display of cards. Each card will contain information about the computer user. When making a transaction, he or she will then select the card most appropriate to the type of transaction being contemplated. This will provide only the very minimum of information needed to complete the deal. The essential aim is to minimise the amount of sensitive data stored on a computer or used in transactions.'If excessive information is requested by a company, then the consumer will be warned and could complain to the data protection agency,' added Bowden. 'This will help control the way information about an individual is distributed.'However, Microsoft stressed that it wanted its system to be adopted by all other computer and software companies and that it was now in negotiations with other companies, including Apple, to agree that the protocols of Cardspace would be used throughout the industry.
In the beginning there was MySpace.com, a networking website that has attracted more than 123 million users. Two years on, a more sinister site has emerged. It began when Mike Patterson, from San Francisco, read about a father who had brutally murdered his family and then committed suicide.Curious to find the names of the children, Patterson, 25, searched the web and found a profile of the murdered daughter on MySpace. He began scanning the pages of other members whose deaths had been in news reports. And MyDeathSpace.com was born.It gives detailed accounts of how people were shot, poisoned or injured in car crashes. It also exposes convicted murderers who belong to MySpace. The site has received mixed reactions - about '75 per cent hate mail and 25 per cent fan mail', Patterson says.Most profiles are of young people killed in drink-related car accidents, and some families believe they act as a warning. A recent profile was of a teenager who had listed his interests as 'alcohol, beer, booze, cocktails, drink, hard drink, hard liquor, inebriant, intoxicant, liqueur, liquor, mixed drink, spirits, wine'.
Quality on the web is found via links, and blogs are good because they "provide a gently evolving network of pointers of interest," says Web inventor Sir Time Berners-Lee, blogging away.In arecent interview with the Guardian, alas, my attempt to explain this was turned upside down into a "blogging is one of the biggest perils" message. Sigh. I think they took their lead from an unfortunate BBC article, which for some reason stressed concerns about the web rather than excitement, failure modes rather than opportunities. (This happens, because when you launch a Web Science Research Initiative, people ask what the opportunities are and what the dangers are for the future. And some editors are tempted to just edit out the opportunities and headline the fears to get the eyeballs, which is old and boring newspaper practice. We expect better from the Guardian and BBC, generally very reputable sources)The BBC hasan audio interviewfrom Radio 4's Today programme.
Today's Guardian colour magazine, Weekend, has devoted 15 pages to Web 2.0 witha lead featureby award-winning novelist John Lanchester and interviews with many of the people behind companies such as Blogger, Digg, Flickr and Wikipedia. There are alsoaudio extractsfrom some of the interviews.Johnny Bakersays it's a fantastic feature "though you might have chosen a few others to add to the list" of interviewees. (Can't argue with that.)Drew Bsays it's good and bad. "Bad? Articles like this have been done before and better by other publications like the Business Week'sValley Boys article in August, this one fromthe FT in September, and too many to remember imho."Hm, well, we've done articles on this stuff before, and it's almost a year since I wrote a Technology section cover story on Web 2.0,One foot in the future(Thursday November 17, 2005). We also interviewed people likeEv Williams(Thursday January 31, 2002) andStewart Butterfield(Thursday March 31, 2005) even before that. We did Wikipedia inJanuary 2003.Of course, if the feature had been in Business Week, it would have attracted a lot more comment in the blogosphere.....
Like several Web 2.0 success stories,Del.icio.usbegan life as the elegant solution to a problem encountered by its creator. Joshua Schachter was working as an analyst in a Wall Street bank and writing a blog in his spare time. He got sent so many web links that he created a database to keep them in, then a web page to access it.At first Schachter tagged all the links himself with the subjects they touched on, like a manic filing clerk. But when he allowed users of the site to tag their own links, Schachter began a trend that has become one of the central themes of the new web.Now his site allowed users to tap 'the wisdom of the crowd'. Instead of simply using Del.icio.us as a place to keep a record of web pages you want to be able to find again, you could harness all the hard filing and bookmarking work of other Del.icio.us users. 'I built it because I wanted it, not because I thought it was a business or whatever,' he says.Initially developing Del.icio.us at night and on weekends, Schachter left his job to work full time on it in early 2005, and before the end of that year had sold it to Yahoo for a figure believed to be around &pound;30m. He insists his life has changed little since he received the windfall. 'The money is not really the reason for doing this. I did not buy a flashy car or a big house.' So what drives him? 'It's what can I build, what are the tools I have, what is next, how can I take it further?'What is Web 2.0?It used to be that to build a product on the web took a lot of engineering time, a lot of hardware and expensive bandwidth. It took serious cash. Now a great deal of what is necessary is passion.What is your big idea?Del.icio.us is a system for saving things you have seen on the internet, and sharing them with other people.The next big thing?We've gone from a world where things are chosen by peers of the publisher, peers of the writer ... in the future everything will be selected by the peers of the consumer.
People are always asking Jimmy Wales if he ever thought Wikipedia would get so big. They expect him to betray some sense of astonishment at the way that his website, in the space of just five years, has reshaped the terrain of human knowledge. But actually, that's pretty much what he had in mind all along. 'The fundamental idea of Wikipedia is to create and give away a freely licensed encyclopaedia in every language of the world,' he says, as if the notion were perfectly unremarkable.His initial approach was traditional. In 2000, funding himself with the millions he'd made as a futures trader in Chicago, Wales started commissioning experts to contribute articles for an online encyclopaedia, to be known as Nupedia. It was slow work, and hardly innovative: Britannica had been doing the same, in dead-tree format, for decades. That was when he heard about wikis - websites that allowed visitors to edit the content of pages at will. 'Wiki', a Hawaiian word, means 'fast'.In the free-for-all of Wikipedia, anyone can edit almost any article, or create one themselves, which means that anyone can also insert errors, or bias, or sheer mendacity. But for every error, there are Wikipedians ready and waiting to step forward with a correction; for every bias, there is a counter-bias. You can mistakenly attribute the invention of Velcro to Thomas Edison, but within minutes, or maybe seconds, someone will point out that it was a Frenchman, Georges de Mestral. If your take on the prime ministership of Margaret Thatcher tends towards the fawning, someone else will happily tilt things to something less partisan.Wikipedia is founded on a faith that if you give enough people enough freedom to meddle, the knowledge that emerges may be just as good as traditional reference books, and maybe better. Wales, 40, likes to call himself an 'anti-credentialist'. 'To me, the key thing is getting it right,' he has said, 'and if a person's really smart, and they're doing fantastic work, I don't care if they're a high-school kid or a Harvard professor.' The English-language Wikipedia now boasts 1.4m articles - more than 10 times Britannica's count - and a recent study in Nature, fiercely disputed by Britannica, found that the two publications were roughly as accurate as each other in their coverage of natural science.Extraordinarily, Wikipedia's contributors do it all for free. (It helps that the organisation is a non-profit, funded by donations.) 'If you hear about people who spend their weekends playing football, or watching football on television, that seems quite common. If you hear about people who write encyclopaedia articles on their weekends, that seems a little odd,' Wales says.Wales's particular genius was to tap into the same seam of obsession that turns people into pub bores or Mastermind champions, and channel it into something more social. The site, at its heart, is a community, albeit a community founded on vigorous disagreement. Wikipedia's anarchy does sometimes erupt into the online equivalent of violence. So-called 'edit wars' flare when contributors zealously revert articles back and forth between differing versions of the truth (about Palestine, about the size of the Death Star in Star Wars). And the site can be a vehicle for personal vendettas. Last year, a former assistant to Robert Kennedy discovered that a malicious edit had accused him of involvement in the assassination of JFK. 'We live in a universe of new media with phenomenal opportunities for worldwide communications and research - but populated by volunteer vandals with poison-pen intellects,' he responded.In these cases, Wales has to step in and place limits on the freedom to edit. But mostly the story of Wikipedia resembles that of the Wild West, with systems of government - committees who rule on which articles to keep or delete, for example - emerging from the bottom up.The project's fiercest critics tend to argue that the humanity of any writing is lost when it's created by committee, and that it is self-defeating not to make academics and intellectuals more welcome. Wales, who lives with his wife and five-year-old daughter in Florida, far from the cauldron of Silicon Valley, is unworried. There's room for everyone, he says - for encyclopaedias created by experts and encyclopaedias created by the people. 'Most of the people who are drawn to Wikipedia are the kind of geeks, like me, who love poring over information,' he says. 'And reading Britannica.'What is Web 2.0?What we do, is it Web 2.0? I guess so. Everybody says it is, but we'd been around for five years doing the same thing before everybody knew it was called Web 2.0 ... we were one of the early sites that was really about wide-open public participation as being the right tool for the web.What is your big idea?To have a free encyclopaedia in every language of the world, and I have more or less defined that to be 250,000 articles in every language that has at least one million speakers. We're a long way from that goal.What is the next big thing online?That's a good question ... when I look to the future, I look at things like video and start thinking, well, what will the impact be of ubiquitous broadband, really fast broadband, which we don't have yet? What will people be able to do with video ... I don't know the answer, actually. People say, "Do you ever think you'll have video in Wikipedia?" and we do have some ... [but] it's really hard to do collaboratively.
To catch up with the past week's posts on one spage, clickhere. Highlights include:MySpace Is So Last YearUK music fans are breaking 1709 statuteFairGame cracks iTunes using iMovieGoogle buying spree continues -- now add JotSpotWorld DAB adopts AAC, but the UK may be left behindFree Our Data: November 21 looks like a key dateWeb zooms past 100 million sitesBig win for Ask, big loss for MicrosoftHere's Johnny!!!
Ford Galaxy Zetec 2.0iPrice&#163;21,495Top speed121mphAcceleration0-60 in 10.7 secondsConsumption34.4 mpg (combined)Eco rating6/10At the wheelTony BlairTop gadgetOverhead lockersIn a wordPracticalYou could complain that the new Ford Galaxy doesn't look like much - that, in truth, you have seen one or two more memorable cardboard boxes in your time. But it is not the function of people carriers to amuse us with fins, hood ornaments and funky grille designs, any more than it is the function of the Queen to wear kneepads and go inline skating. The point of people carriers is openly to announce their pragmatism while, if we're lucky, taking a few cosmetic precautions to guard against completely resembling a mobile cake tin.So it should be more than enough to report that Ford has lavished some new care on its seven-seater bus's rear window, now a quietly curvaceous piece of tinted glass that does a passable impression of something you might find on a far sexier hatchback, while at the same time leaving you in no doubt that it is, in fact, merely the back entrance to a kind of metal family room.Inside, though, where the practical action is, Ford spoils us with not just the usual cubbyholes and underseat stowage drawers, but also some optional overhead lockers - up to three plastic, snap-shut bins arranged down the centre of the cabin and guaranteed to release your inner air hostess. Please be aware that stowed items may have shifted during the flight and could fall, causing injury.Please be aware, also, that when your children are monkeying around with the lockers, visibility in your rear-view mirror narrows to a strip approximately 1.5cm wide, meaning that the only thing you can see coming up behind you is your own rear windscreen wiper. But the must-open novelty of the lockers would eventually wear off, I suppose, even among children hopped-up beyond medical intervention on Coke and blackberry-flavoured Chewits.To drive, the Galaxy is as steady as a brick and about half as exciting - as you would almost certainly wish of a car that's likely to contain, at any one time, all the people dearest to you. Even with the overhead lockers loaded to splitting point, the Galaxy remains hunkered down to its work, absolutely determined not to make like a ball and roll down the nearest available embankment.And, for a price, Ford will stitch television screens into the backs of the front-seat headrests, enabling your children, on long journeys, electronically to entertain themselves until their heads drop off. Any reservation a parent might have about this kind of diversion is brought crisply into focus by a photograph in the glossy brochure for the Galaxy, wherein, even as the family motors snugly through snowcapped mountains of immense gorgeousness, the children are independently absorbed under headphones - the boy with a car-race computer game, the girl with a video of some fish. Seen one Alp, you've seen them all, I guess.
MondayUS candidate search results "massaged" by GoogleOblivion triumphs at Golden JoysticksFun and grumpiness in GameCityNintendo targets grey gamersTuesdayUS candidate search results "massaged" by GoogleRe-spunWhere is horror going?PS3: more shortages?More awards'Tis the season to get carvingWednesdayWii virtual console detailsUKIP sets up office in Second LifeSega reveals Virtual Console line-upThursdaySouth Park makes Wii joke40 downloadable PS3 gamesFridayPro Evo onlineGame development opportunity with the World Bank
TheUN has done it, government organisations aregetting into itand political parties arealready involved, so it shouldn't surprise me that theWorld Bankhas announced that they're going to be developing a computer game. But if you think it'll be about getting to grips with the world debit, think again: The 'Bank has announced a call for submissions for developers to come up with a game which teaches the finer points of street naming and numbering.Shows you how much I know about the World Bank.From the announcement:The objective is to develop an educational game on Street Addressing that will serve as a training tool used to demonstrate the importance of street identification and naming in developing countries. Though the subject of Street Addressing is vast and technically detailed, the scope of the game will be limited to familiarizing learners with basic terminologies, key ideas, and techniques and applications of street addressing. ...Designers are requested to create an instructional and educational game designed to help familiarize local government practitioners and adults on the concepts and benefits of addressing streets.The winners will receive a US$6,000 consultancy contact and a rather plumb line on the ol' CV.Deadline's 30 November, and as they want a working prototype, you'd better get thinking.What in the world would a game aboutstreet addressingplay like?
"The deal effectively makes Microsoft a reseller of Suse Linux, Novell's version of the operating system, and kicks off a broad technology collaboration between the two companies. At the heart of the deal is a "patent covenant" under which Microsoft agreed not to file patent-infringement charges against users of Suse Linux, and Novell agreed not to sue users of Windows," reckonsThe Wall Street Journal.Financial terms weren't disclosed, but involve various payments between the two companies, including Microsoft's paying Novell for a minimum of roughly 70,000 "coupons" that Microsoft corporate customers can convert into annual subscriptions to receive support for Suse Linux. The value of each of those coupons varies between roughly $400 and $1,500 a year, Novell Chief Executive Ron Hovsepian said. Other payments include a "running royalty" stemming from the patent covenant that Novell will pay to Microsoft, executives at the companies said.The companies said the set of agreements, expected to be in force until at least 2012, will include a joint research facility at which Microsoft and Novell will design and test software combinations, and work with customers and software developers to build and support those technologies. Microsoft also will recommend Novell's Suse Linux Enterprise for customers that want Windows and Linux. "We definitely want customers who chose to run both Windows and Linux to choose Novell," Mr. Ballmer said.Comment: Novell is involved with devloping software that supports Microsoft.net on Linux. Otherwise,Joe Wilcox at Jupieter Research's Microsoft Monitorhas more useful info abot the deal, beyond the WSJ's coverage.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Anyone else ever so slightly underwhelmed with Pro Evo 6 on the 360? Ireviewedit for the paper yesterday. It still plays a great game on the pitch but the online is poor. Laggy, no leagues, no co-op - am I expecting too much?
It sounds like a scene from the Tom Cruise futuristic thriller Minority Report. A teenager enters a record shop and a scanner hidden in the doorway instantly reads data secreted in electronic tags embedded in his clothes. The scanner clocks the brand of clothing and where it was purchased, flashing to a database which analyses what type of person would have bought that line of clothing and predicts what other products that person would like to buy. In an instant, adverts for those products are beamed to eye-level billboards for the teenager to see.But while Minority Report portrayed the world as sci-fi visionary Philip K Dick imagined it in 2054, a new report predicts that such scenes will be commonplace in Britain in just 10 years' time. Today, Richard Thomas, the watchdog entrusted by the government to protect people's privacy, sounds a strong warning that Britain is "waking up to a surveillance society that is all around us".The information commissioner warns that technology is already being extensively and routinely used to track and record the everyday activities and movements of Britons, whether they are working, resting or playing. He is also warning that such "pervasive" surveillance is likely to spread in the coming years.The first scenario of personally targeted advertising - already familiar to online shoppers on Amazon or iTunes - reveals how surveillance technology is a boon for commerce. But the potential for more sinister intrusion is also outlined in the 135-page report.In another scenario, a man drives out of his gated community and a machine records his exact departure time and the number and identity of his passengers. Under pay-as-you-drive regulations brought in to ease congestion, the man's bank account is charged automatically for every mile he travels in his car. Thousands of discreetly placed CCTV cameras, controlled by private companies and the government, monitor his journey. Remote-control spy planes fly overhead relaying images from the streets back to police.Mr Thomas is worried that many people do not realise that they are being watched, since the surveillance is often invisible or discreet. He has commissioned a report from experts to predict how technologies are likely to be used to keep tabs on people in 2016. The information commissioner wants to kickstart a debate on whether people are prepared to accept this level of surveillance.He will tell a conference in London: "Two years ago I warned that we were in danger of sleepwalking into a surveillance society. Today I fear that we are in fact waking up to a surveillance society that is already all around us."Surveillance activities can be well-intentioned and bring benefits. They may be necessary or desirable - for example, to fight terrorism and serious crime, to improve entitlement and access to public and private services, and to improve healthcare. But unseen, uncontrolled or excessive surveillance can foster a climate of suspicion and undermine trust."The report by the Surveillance Studies Network group of academics spells out some "fairly conservative" scenarios which would become reality in 2016.They predict that employees will be subjected to a barrage of biometric and psychological tests to determine how fit they are. Those who refuse to undergo the tests or are seen as being unhealthy will not be given the job.The experts believe that schools will also install a cashless card system to allow parents to pay for dinners. Initially, local councils will use this information to check that children are eating healthy food. But over time, the card will be used for other purposes, such as holding data on each child's exam results, after-school achievements, drug tests and internet use.They also predict that older people will feel increasingly isolated as relatives use cameras and sensors to check up on them without paying them a visit. Electronic chips will be implanted in some of the elderly, letting carers and family members locate them more easily.Dr David Murakami Wood, who headed the study, said: "Surveillance is not a malign plot hatched by evil powers to control the population. But the surveillance society has come about almost without us realising."Although he emphasised its benefits, Dr Wood warned: "It can create real problems for individuals - social exclusion, discrimination and a negative impact on their life chances. Unfortunately the dominant modes of surveillance expansion in the 21st century are producing situations where distinctions of class, race, gender, geography and citizenship are currently being exacerbated and institutionalised."
In case you've missed this, Phil Harrison, head of development at Sony, has been talking about the console's downloadable game service. In aninterviewwith 'semi-official' PS3 blog Three Speech, he claims that the company is funding studios to work on the platform and currently has over 40 titles in development, including flOw, shown off at the Tokyo Game Show earlier this year.Naturally, Harrison grasps the chance to favourably compare the PS3 service with Xbox 360's Live Arcade..."My strategy was to encourage developers to push the machine technically, creatively, artistically - to innovate in lots of different ways. But don't be restricted by ghettoising games into a particular genre, or a particular display mechanic, because what we've seen on other systems tend to be retro 2D games, and we're pushing the 3D capabilities of the PlayStation 3."Hmm, well, it'll be interesting to see how many developers Sony coaxes into producing downloadable games with next-gen 3D graphics engines. Presumably, a key reason a lot of games are 2D on Xbox Live is that it's less time consuming to make a visually attractive title in that format. Downloadable console games inhabit an uncertain market so few studios will want to commit a 10-20 man team to a long-term project if they're going to get just several thousand ten dollar downloads out of it.Also, gamers of a certain age positivelywelcomethe chance to play in 2D again. Re-visiting titles like Scramble and Joust on Xbox 360 has been a real treat - not all of us can be arsed with MAME and all that ROM searching. Plus, new games like Mutant Storm and Geometry Wars are anything but retro - instead they're modern games using 2D visuals to provide pinpoint, twitch gameplay. They're re-interpretations of classic game staples, but they're also totally contemporary in execution.The blog claims several developers have set-up dedicated divisions to work on downloadable PS3 games. Allegedly, there are even whole new studios being set up exclusively to work in this medium. Brave stuff if true. It will certainly be interesting to see how PlayStation's historically mainstream audience will adapt to buying games in this way.But really, there was no need to get a dig in at Live Arcade's expense. I'm no Xbox fanboy, but it's the most innovative, intelligent and well implemented community featureI'veever used. Sometimes it's just better to admit that someone got there before you and got it right.
After its largely successful lampooning of World of Warcraft, South Park has wandered back into videogame territory. In theepisodeaired last night on America's Comedy Central, Cartman is shown pacing up and down outside his local videogame store waiting for the launch of Nintendo's Wii. When his mother arrives and asks when the console will be available he replies 'three weeks' and continues pacing. 'It's like Christmas times a thousand' he later agonises.Now that Nintendo has secured the infantile satire vote, surely there's no stopping Wii?
We get far more letters and blog pingbacks than we can print, so here's the full text of those from which we selected...LAUNCHING A NEW KIND OF WARFAREI think anything it takes for this country to stay ahead, robots are whatever, i am for it, we have got to stay strong and advanced in every aspect of war and peace, if we do not then its surely death to this country......America stay strong. Jim Preston, (no post town), USSo the war mongers have new toys to play with. It proves that the Nazi mentality did not die with Hitler,It just moved to the U.S. Raul Rodriguez, Riverside CAIn response to Launching a New Kind of Warfare, if today the US were able to replace its soldiers in Iraq with remotely controlled robots and drones, it is quite possible that the strategic mission of the insurgents would shift from a war of attrition against US soldiers to blowing things up in US territory. With troops on the ground they have a way to hurt the US which may well lead to US withdrawal. If they had no way to achieve this end, and if the US were still pursuing military action in their territory through cybersurrogates, they'd have to find another way to inflict damage severe enough to bring about a withdrawal of the US. Focus could reasonably shift from visible actions (snipers and mortar positions observable by drones) to invisible actions blended into the civilian population in whatever country, with a shift of funding and talent as well. The outcome it is impossible to imagine is that those committed to extremist positions would change their minds or give up simply because robots are introduced. Once again, by advancing in an unconsidered direction for short term gains we would be increasing the very damage to ourselves we seek to avoid. We would provide an enormous new incentive to terrorist acts. I hope someone in a position of authority will think about this. Daimon Sweeney, Bellingham, Washington StateThe article on new uncrewed weapon systems fails to mention the unscrewed system now working in the White House and Pentagon. John Mays, Malibu, CaliforniaThere is no turning back the tide of technology. The love of horses did not stop the change to tanks and I do not see how we will stop robot planes, etc. However, we should be cognisant of the fact that civilization is for humans, and the use of all tools, of which robots are, must be responsible. What the definition of responsibility is with regard to these robots must be discussed both before their use and after the actual consequences of use are seen. It does seem to be rather frightening and something of a loss of valour that no longer do the warriors even have to be near the battlefield. No doubt a new set of definitions as to the qualifications of a warrior will develop, but a complete lack of the necessity for physical courage does seem to a weakening of our essence, does it not? Sam Plunkett, Los Angeles, CAMy compliment on your article, present in clear terms and issuing the cause and effect of the currents trends. Wars should not be fought be civilized people at all. Wars have always been about power, greed or religion; the latter being the greatest cause of trouble. I suppose, looking at history, war will always be a fact of life. At this time, as you well pointed out, it is becoming like a video game with civilians and the structures of civilization caught between a battles of machines with operators, like Gamers, sitting safe from the effects of the destruction. But this will be a battle for dominance of one machine over another. Perhaps human intervention by guerillas with "Antique" weapons will kill off the machines. This type of warfare is what defeated the French and USA in Vietnam, Korea, Somalia, and other armies in other places. "War" as we once knew it, a deadly conflict between armies with civilians accidental casualties, is past, archaic, finished. It has been replaced by high tech killing machines operated directly or indirectly by humans with civilians as deliberate targets as political pawns - the horror of civilian casualties used to lever mass opinion. Destruction is indiscriminate and total if possible, leaving the living civilians without food, shelter and other resources. Now the future holds forward dispassionate and impersonal war games played by any one. How about this - We take these new killing machines and put them under control of the best gamers in the world - most likely from Korea, and let the battles begin. The civvies can get out of the way as best they can. The money saved on armies, replaced by machines, can be spent training occupying forces and rebuilding the cities. It will save lives, the best gamers will be paid the highest fees for waging the battles, and the demolished cities can be rebuilt in nice new grid patterns with adequate roads for traffic, housing for survivors, good power and water supplies. Who would be the "Winner" would be obvious, he would knock out all the machines of the loser. But what would be gained, aside from cheap land and a massive clean up, undertaken by Bush's political contributors, would be debatable. I have a better idea, let's just abolish armies and weapons and try living in peace. Abolish religion so the Sunni's and Shia will stop fighting, that goes for the vicious triangle of Christians, Jews and Muslims as well. Perhaps the answer is to abolish national lines and just have countries marked by continents - no immigration between continents (Racial purity??) Universal language is Mandarin (Already spoken by more people and easy to learn) with written language in Pinyin Then there would be nothing to argue about. Well, at least you could not get at them so easily. Is this all impractical - I suppose so. But so is war. Let's take the lesser of two or three evils. Of course, we could really get idealistic and go for disarmament and peace.... No - that would not be so profitable. Isn't that what war is really about??? Vincent Treanor III, TongJin Myun, KoreaI think the good the gentlemen from the Brookings Institute needs to take it easy on the herbal tea I hear they drink over there. For heaven's sake, al-Q'aida "pointing out people too cowardly to fight out in the open", what war (car bomb kills...man blew himself up kills....) has the Brookings Institute been following? What a load of rubbish. Henry Betke, San Diego, CAThere is a more relevant science fiction story than Arthur C. Clarke's; it's "The Battle" (1954) by Robert Sheckley. The Second Coming has taken place and Armageddon is about to be fought. On one side are the demonic forces of Satan, on the other are robot interceptors, automatic tanks, robot infantry and mechanised cavalry, with the army directing the battle a thousand miles behind the lines, pushing buttons and throwing levers. In a titanic battle the robots are battered and smashed, but eventually they win through. Then The Presence appears on the battlefield. He touches the twisted, mutilated robots and they stand up, their metal made whole. They then rise into the air, surrounded by the angels of the Lord, leaving the humans behind. Given the current American mindset, this might be a useful lesson. Joe Webber (no post town given)Thank you for your informative article on the dangers of robotic technologies. Given that it's the military that first develops the most cutting-edge technologies that end up changing our lives for better or worse (for example, nuclear fission and fusion, and the Internet) we as citizens need to pay particularly close attention to robotics technologies as they are even more dangerous than the nuclear, biological, and chemical (NBC) weapons of the 20th century. Once developed, robotics technology (which will essentially be software) will permeate the world (via the Internet and open source implementations) and be available to *any* individual. Unlike the NBC technologies of the 20th century, all of the technologies of the 21st century (genetics, robotics, nanotechnology - GNR) will not be limited to well-funded governments and institutions, but to small, poorly-funded groups, and even individuals. (Please see Bill Joy's article from April 2000 in Wired magazine titled, "Why the Future doesn't need us.") The second reason for my e-mail is to let you know of an interesting book I recently read about this topic by author Bill McKibben titled "Enough." In this essay-like book, McKibben suggests that as humans we should mature and start to think of ourselves collectively as a *single* organism. And, in order to maximise the survival of that organism, McKibben suggests that we should say "Enough" and define certain thresholds in the technologies we create after which newer technologies won't improve our lives any further, and may only serve to destroy us as a species. He calls this way of thinking a new "technology" just like robotics, that we can share with each other and improve our collective lives. Serouj Ourishian, Berkeley, CaliforniaInteresting article, but most people feel comfort in the fact that as these robots as currently configured they are fundamentally radio-computer controlled dangerous toys with no consciousness. In 1991 a self controlling self programming robot called RICCI was released on the Arkansas country side. It was more like a child exploring its environment. The fundamental principles in this technology, models how the brain works i.e. - the Correlational Holographic Opponent Processing at http://u2ai.us. As such it will be difficult if not impossible to build the three laws of robotics into the memory processing system and could lead to a I, Robot revolution. The advantage of the technology is that the enemy can not use hacking to control an army of such robots. The disadvantage is when the robotic army is turned on there may be no way to turn them off and it may be dangerous to try. Ultimately, humans will be configured by brain interfaces to work in with these human-like superior intelligence so I am not concerned about a robot revolution per se, but the technologies would allow such superior performances in a man-machine system that the average person would have little choice but to join in the technology if they wanted a job. Ironically, the way one has to build the intelligent robotic systems would likely cause them to be more like moral humans should be than humans and they might refuse to kill inferior human beings. A generals worse nightmare especially when a nation with inferior weapons technology has decided to invade and conqueror your country. Ron Blue, (no post town given)Your so-called "ethical" concerns are greatly nonsensical. At the moment, we can't do anything about enemy casualties. If they choose to do something as foolish as fight us, they choose to die. We can reduce our casualties by using robots. It would be unethical to not do so. Not using robots would be the moral equivalent of killing our own soldiers. Who cares what the enemy thinks? We Americans will not build "Terminator", a robot without human supervision. In the future, we will be able to reduce enemy casualties to one or fewer. Nanobots [robots the size of bacteria] will be able to kill the enemy leader without harming anybody else. Farther in the future, nanobots may be able to repair the brain defect that makes the enemy leader a sociopath, avoiding the war completely. I call that a war with a negative number of casualties, such as -0.3 casualties. My metal insect proposal was rejected by the Pentagon. Edward Greisch, (no post town given)&gt;&gt; The problem with current military strategy is largely that the Army is too automated, even with humans, and not responsive enough to local needs and customs to develop alliances and information superiority.http://davi.poetry.org/blog/?p=802&gt;&gt; If anything, machines would be more ethical, both in reducing casualties on the side of the people sending the machines in and on the side of the people being attacked - a machine isn't going to go apeshit in a "screw the Geneva Convention" sort of way that humans are occasionally liable to.http://technocrat.net/d/2006/10/26/9577&gt;&gt; The world is changing. Change is exciting, but history has proven that it's often painful. Prepare to live the best, and worst, days of your life.http://phltech.blogspot.com/2006/10/robots-better-than-humans.html&gt;&gt; Distancing the combatants allows more brutality. The large-scale murder of civilians, political enemies and then racial extermination by Nazi troops in areas of the Soviet Union was causing emotional and mental breakdown among the troops charged with carrying it out, which led to the first true mechanisation of slaughter, the extermination camp. Few troops rebel against immoral orders, but it's unlikely robots ever would.http://lowlyseer.blogspot.com/2006/10/remote-control.htmlMASTER YOUR DOMAINJust thought I'd bring your attention to a really useful service that I usedomaincpr.com- it allows you to enter all your domain names and then emails you when they near expiry date Dan Woodroffe, LeicesterDAB AUDIO: LISTEN TO THISOver a year ago I bought a Sharp FV-DB1E DAB radio on recommendation of a review. The reception on most channels is poor to atrocious. I have the set on a bedside table. R4 and a local station are OK, but if I tune to Classic FM and some other channels and turn my body over in bed I lose the signal! If I press a wrong button or two I have to disconnect the set, remove the clock batteries, replace them, and go through the whole process of autotune. I think I've been sold a pup, (not the set) but the whole DAB business. I'm old enough to remember that when they introduced FM, we were sold the idea that the process would reduce mains-borne interference and we would get a clearer signal. Thank goodness my DAB set is also fitted with FM. Mike Mitchell, HoveEver since the inception of electronic music synthesisers and electric guitars, ears have been assailed by deliberately unnatural distorted sounds, so that two generations have become used to them, and insensitive to distortion of music produced by entirely acoustic instruments. Also, commercial music recording interests, aided by the decline of support for music in schools, have altered tastes so much that perhaps the majority of the UK population have almost no experience of their true musical heritage. So it is not surprising that broadcasters can manage with decreasing standards of sound quality. Bob Pearson, Bourne, LincolnshireThe difference between sound quality and picture quality is that people know what the original picture looked like. They can see that a better camera is getting them a better picture. For most people, the sound of contemporary music is the sound of a rotten little radio or MP3 player. I'm a piano player, so I am prepared to take trouble to be able to listen to piano music that sounds like, well, a piano. Most people neither know nor care what the music they listen to 'should' sound like. The problem is not the decline of technology, it is the decline of music to the point where it is a tinny background noise that people switch on in order to ignore. Ronán Conroy, Dublin, IrelandI agree with Jack's sentiments on DAB and quality. However, in one area it's more than adequate. DAB includes a host of talk stations such as Radio 7, Five Live, Radio 4 and Oneword. DAB is great for voice. If I want good quality musical reproduction I buy a CD. Ralph Averbuch, PencaitlandYour wisdom on the subject of technology going backwards (DAB should be the new wave…) was most welcome, but no discussion on the basic premise is complete without a mention of flat screen (LCD/Plasma) television. From an objective standpoint, for any TV broadcast; in brightness, sharpness, colour rendition and handling movement, old fashioned CRT screens are superior, at least until the arrival of High Definition, yet we have to pay three times the price for a worse picture – why? Apart from making more profit on them, I'm sure the other reason Dixons stopped selling CRT sets was because they made LCD/Plasma look bad. And don't get me started on aspect ratios - why must we have 16:9 screens forced on us for when everything is broadcast 14:9? Are manufacturers assuming that we do nothing with our televisions other than watch shop-bought DVDs? Surely a 14:9 set would give the consumer the best of both worlds – but does anyone make one? Jeremy Scroxton, Thames DittonThat was an interesting piece on DAB. Around here FM reception has always been very good. I converted to DAB ( 2 tuners, a portable and a personal radio purchased over the past couple of years) purely in order to receive the new DAB only stations. I too am disappointed in the backward step in terms of sound quality. Environmentally they are also very unfriendly as the mains sets draw a lot more current and the portable units positively eat batteries. Gary Williams, Weston-super-MareFor contemporary popular music, improvements from a 1980 CD to a 1990 CD to a 2006 CD are not especially compelling; likewise the quality loss from wide-spectrum digital to a .WAV file to a .MPG file. For classical music, those differences make all the difference in the world, but we classical addicts form too small a part of the market to be of interest to big broadcasters &amp; distributors. Peter Brawley, McComb, MinnesotaJack Schofield's article on DAB is the truth. The BBC which used to adhere to top notch sound quality standards has now gone haywire. They even use compression on Radio 3! People who spend money on real hi-fi to hear the real thing are now subjected to the pumping sound of compression. Our local BBC station [Radio Cornwall] seem, from the sound quality, to have reverted to recording outside interviews on a wax cylinder.[likely minidisk] They seem totally untrained in recording techniques. Crap in, crap out! As one BBC spokesperson apparently said in a discussion programme about the quality of DAD, " We are not here to cater for the Anoraks". Mike Bray, CamborneJack Schofield is half right (DAB should be the new wave). The real reason consumers are prepared to spend money on better quality TV and video is because the previous quality base was so low. As for still photography, if you compare the standard of the average digital 'snapshot' (e.g. bleached-out white patches on subjects' faces) to the equivalent 'Instamatic' film picture from the 70s, there has been a backward step. And don't even start me on the quality of mobile phone cameras. Similarly with audio, where convenience, novelty and device portability matter most to consumers. Sony Walkmans were great toys to own and use; the poorer sound quality of audio cassettes was considered a price worth paying. The same is true now of MP3 players. I am currently hanging on to my FM receiver - when I want digital radio, I get it from iTunes on my computer. But If AAC is to be the new DAB standard, I may yet get a DAB radio. Chris Rigby, Uffculme, DevonI couldn't agree more with Jack Schofield, the way DAB has been implemented in this country is an absolute disgrace, with the quality varying from just about acceptable to appalling. This is assuming you listen on a small portable, little point in buying expensive equipment to hear just how bad it really is. The Oneword station is particularly bad with limited bandwidth and very heavily compressed and distorted audio. It is hardly surprising, not many listeners can bear to listen to it. Where are the regulators, as far as I am aware nowhere to be seen or heard. Rather than insisting on decent quality transmissions, they appear happy to bow to industry demands to cram in more and more stations, churning out more and more rubbish. Unfortunately, digital television seems to be going the same way, with any but the main channels having limited bandwidth and heavy compression. Already there are complaints about some of the HD channels on SKY. It appears buying a new HDTV just allows you to see how bad the technical standards are. Didn't Peter Eckersley the first chief engineer of the BBC say in the 1920s 'the wider you open the window the more dirt flies in'. Even more true today. Michael Lowe, Loughton&gt;&gt; Sorry to return to Schofield-bashing again so soon but he's banging on about audio quality again and he's just wrong and it makes me sad. Now I am going to whisper something that would make his blood boil: most people couldn't care less about the quality of the audio they listen to.http://0ct0pus.livejournal.com/70198.htmlSTORAGE VAULTS (TECHNOBILE)While I appreciate we can hardly expect glowing praise in "Technobile" for BT's online Digital Vault, I do believe your article misled by overlooking some key points of the service. The article states that "BT will, in effect, be holding your stuff to ransom." Digital Vault is one way of backing up your data, not necessarily the only means. There is nothing to stop people having storing data in several locations, on an external hard drive for example. The report adds that "most ISP's offer some webspace, for starters." Yes, but not anything approaching 2GB, which BT offers for free, and definitely not 20GB of webspace for £4.99 a month. Reporter Kate Bevan says "Googlemail gives you 2GB of website per account which you can use to store stuff" - albeit as e-mail attachments, with restriction on individual file sizes. It's fine for someone with the technical know-how to convert Google and other webmail accounts into a filestore, but we just happen to think most people would prefer something simpler and easier. With BT Digital Vault you are able to drag-and-drop files over the internet. Bevan adds that "BT's move is deeply cynical". We are giving this to people for free, with the option of upgrading. I fail to see what is cynical about that. Kate goes on to claim that "BT's offering is a joke...disk space is cheap." You could invest in an external hard drive, as Kate suggests, but don't forget that an external drive is also at risk from theft, accidental damage, deletion and viruses. Kate conveniently overlooks one of Digital Vault's key features - you can access your stuff from anywhere over the internet, and enable family and friends to do likewise. Emma Sanderson Director, Value Added Services for BTWe seem to forget that there are simple storage systems available which do not rely on external hard drives, wherever they are. Simply burn copies of data, which can be mixed types, onto good quality (eg; TDK) DVD disks which store 4.7GB; several copies can be made and stored in different places so that all the eggs are not in one basket. I have stored about 8 years of photos on one DVD; I keep everything, even the out-of-focus ones, in case they might be important. When storage formats change in the future, just copy onto the new one. Ron Loewenbein, ElyLove it - spot on. Ken Hickford (no post town given)While Kate makes a good point surrounding surrounding the BT online vault service, the key criticisms should be primarily around upload rates and cost. The other criticisms simply do not hold water: * BT will presumably offer a service and guarantees around this - Gmail, hotmail, ISPs do not and can lose your data or remove service with no notice. Hedging your bets on multiple services will run the bandwidth gauntlet and dissuade people in general. * Removable hard disks can fail without warning and are generally stored near the live copy, therefore susceptible to the same fire and theft risks as the original. While there are managed services similar to BT for better value, the average home user will not be aware of these and so could force the issue of proper back-up into the market thereby launching viable alternatives. With the digital age meaning that life-long memories are now only on a drive with a 5 year lifespan, this is an issue that requires addressing now. Ross Fleming, (no post town given)I have to say how shocked I was at Kate Bevan's piece on BT's online vault service. Yes BT might have priced this a little high, and yes there maybe other ways of storing large amounts of data offsite but how many average computer users actually know how to exploit these methods... not many! I have full confidence that BT's product while not being the cheapest solution, will be one of the most secure, easy to use and straightforward services on the market. I also found it quite ironic how Kate plugged dabs.com in this article. Especially as BT owns Dabs.com! Aaron Gallimore, SheffieldWOZNIAK INTERVIEWEDAsked about the likely longevity of the iPod, Steve Wozniak (Technology Guardian 26th October) implied that multiple sales were common: "Good Lord, we just introduced this bright red one that some money from each sale helps to go fight Aids, so I had to have one of those." Didn't it occur to him to forgo ownership of yet another device and give all the money he was going to spend on a different coloured player to an Aids-fighting charity? Just a thought.... Patrick Dodds, Richmond, SurreyiPOD VS PHONES (VIC KEEGAN)I agree with many things you wrote, I have been waiting for an iTunes compatible phone, with free internet access, with a decent camera, and a palm pilot that I'm able to hook up with my PC, with a big enough screen. Something like a Walkman-cum-portable phone, come computer. Do you know of such a device, because if I switch phone contracts they normally supply for a small fee, as opposed to buy the next iPod for a further £200. Michael Bourne, (no post town given)I am as old as Vic Keegan and have been using PC's since Mr Sugar made them available to the public. I think Jack talked me through a virus removal in the eighties. So, I am seriously old. Mobile phones are something else - we all seem to need them. But I just ditched my latest Windows enabled one for my "old" one. I use the phone to make and receive calls- I have a fine camera and a PC or two plus Mac portables. Mostly I can't even see the screen on the phone. Is anyone thinking about the oldies? We have the money... Richard Hamill, (no post town given)PLASTIC GUITARSPlastic guitars are not new. Maccaferri made one in 1953, and even got Segovia to endorse it. And Ovation have made thousands of synthetic-bodied acoustics. John Morrish, CheltenhamPerhaps now guitar soundboards are to be manufactured from polycarbonate instead of wood, a suitable replacement for the expression "spanking the plank" might be "pounding the polymer". Obviously it will not induce as much tittering among schoolboys. Gary Williams, Weston-super-MareSELF SERVICE SUPERMARKETS (NOT CHECKED OUT)David Harper could avoid all his technology woes (It's the Guardian's fault, October 26) by buying his Guardian from his local newsagent rather than from a supermarket. Simple, really – and it helps the local economy. Peter Denton, TeddingtonACCENTUREI'd just like to say a big 'hear hear' to Michael Cross's article on Accenture and the NHS IT programme (19th October). A few years ago, I had the 'pleasure' of working alongside Accenture on a major IT project for a major telecommunications company. Let's evaluate their strengths and weaknesses. Strengths; producing mammoth powerpoint presentations at the drop of a hat (some running to 20 or 30 slides) for senior managers who just salivated at the various glossy graphs, projections and forecasts. The work ethic was astonishing – keeping their staff working for 18 or 20 hours a day, because of poor planning, and sneering at lesser mortals that didn't want to be committed to coming in at 2 am (as my team was asked to on more than one occasion). Apportioning blame - basically, they could find a way to blame anyone, at any time, for everything that they had done wrong. Move over Ali Campbell, these are true masters of spin. Weaknesses. The siege mentality that is Accenture. The sheer arrogance to refuse advice from anyone that wasn't big A. Total inability to work as a team. The Henry Ford production line mentality that meant that their highly paid development consultants just ploughed on with repetitive and unnecessary activities until any plan was well and truly dead – give them a box and they won't think outside of it. Inability to amend or adjust a plan until its too late to save a project (see 'working 20 hours a day' and 'apportioning blame' above). Thank you Michael, at least there are 2 of us that have doubts about this company. From a total outsiders point of view, I believe that the NHS IT programme will probably be a lot better without them, and I wish it well for the future – I've got a sneaking suspicion that it may actually turn out to be something of a success. Brian Lingley, Herne BayELECTRIC CARSI am baffled by Keith Johnston's contention (19 Oct) that "electric cars reduce the impact of emissions by 74% and 100% depending on how they are charged". This can only be true if they are charged from renewable sources of electricity - solar, wind, hydro, tidal, or, tell it not in Gath, nuclear. We are nowhere near achieving this state of affairs. Converting heat into mechanical energy, whether in power stations or cars, can never be more than around 35% efficient; converting mechanical energy to electricity in the power station and back to mechanical energy to drive an electric car is relatively efficient but can never recover the enormous waste of heat in the first stage of the process. At least in a petrol driven car the waste heat can be used to heat the car in winter. Alan Kennedy, London
Sometimes you're reminded why Google will be worth a trillion dollars before the rest of us have got out of bed.When it comes to public presentation, the company 'gets it'. For example at this year's Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, where rivals strained for 'coolness' with a parade of Hollywood stars, Google trumped them all with a Robin Williams adlib routine and a self-driving car on stage.The UN's Internet Governance Forum in Athens is a rather more sedate affair. At times it could certainly do with Williams to liven things up.Anyway, at a workshop today on copyright and access knowledge, Andrew McLaughlin, director of international policy at Google, immediately won friends by daring to entertain them. He logged on to a viral videos website and showed the audience a parody movie trailer for The Shining starring Jack Nicholson.The video is made up entirely of clips from Stanley Kubrick's copyrighted 1980 film, but with a specially added voiceover and edited in such a way that it ingeniously ceases to be a horror movie and becomes instead a heartwarming family comedy.'Is this the sort of thing "fair use" should be covering?' asked McLaughlin, referring to the law which allows material to be referenced for purposes such as criticism or parody. 'If it makes money does that change the equation?'He put the first question to the vote. A few delegates, including Microsoft's Fred Tipson, deemed the short video in breach of copyright. A huge majority judged that it was fair use and shouldn't trouble the lawyers.What do you think? You can watch 'Shining parody' here:www.liquidgeneration.com/Media/Default.aspx?MediaId=1680
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..The tangled web of governmentNext week is the 10th anniversary of the birth of e-government. Michael Cross looks at how it came to be, and asks what progress - if any - has been made.Regenerating an original Doctor WhoFans of the classic BBC series can thank a new restoration process for crisper, cleaner versions of early episodes now on DVD.Free Our Data:From postcodes to roads, we can collect it ourselvesMore and more people are joining the Guardian in demanding that we are allowed free access to data.Back to the future, with a Victorian flavourAleks Krotoski: There's a line of thought which argues that the internet will liberate the masses and allow us to achieve self-actualisation. To which I say: harumph.GamesMortal Kombat: Stronghold Legends | Canis Canem Edit | Pro Evolution Soccer 6Newly Asked QuestionsWhy has IBM taken so long to sue Amazon?IBM says it has tried more than a dozen times since 2002 to get Amazon to license five e-commerce patents, and that hundreds of companies have done so. Amazon (which has not commented on the case) seems to be the first company willing to fight.What is it really like to use a PlayStation 3?Even with your hands on one, it is hard to say. We've been testing a pre-production machine that plays games but lacks the movie playback and network facilities that are an integral part of the machine.Who's watching as we watch ourselves?Victor Keegan: Last week, footage of a girl being badly bullied in a New Zealand school playground had to be take down from YouTube. It was rightly removed because in a perverse act of glorification it had been uploaded by the gang that had committed the offence.TechnobileMichael Pollitt: A word to the wise: don't let it slip that you know something about computers.Giving Google a licence to codeGoogle's open source chief Chris DiBona talks about the joys of Linux, the cost of Windows and his concerns about the new version of the GPL.Nothing's impossible, apart from joining a Windows network at homeCharles Arthur: A long time ago, in a university fairly far away, a classmate and I were given a final-year project by our professor: see whether one could send high-frequency communications signals through the mains. The fact that this was being presented as an undergraduate project hints at how long ago it all happened.The modern wedding: now exchange vows and bonesIf saying it with flowers is not enough, you can now show how much you care with a part of your body.The rise of the plastic portersA hospital in Japan is pioneering the use of autonomous robots to replace human workers.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.LettersSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.NewsbytesOGA strikes | Rediscover your tunes | Handy form of cash | Only collect | MySpace, the manual | Pocketable recording studio | That's all, folks!
Say hello to the new bling: rings grown from bone cells taken from your (still living) partner. "Biojewellery", which began as an idea and then an experiment started in 2003, is coming to a ceremony near you.The idea was started by an advert for volunteers to donate some of their osteo-blasts - embryonic cells that prompt the building of bone through our lives - in New Scientist and Bizarre magazines. The experiment to use those to make "biojewellery" was launched in 2003 by Nikki Stott and Tobie Kerridge, designers at the Royal College of Art, and Ian Thompson, a research fellow in oral and maxillofacial surgery at King's College.Donors have to have their wisdom teeth removed so that osteoblasts can be extracted from their jawbone. Those are then grown on a Petri dish and seeded onto a ring-shaped bioactive scaffold, which dissolves as the new bone grows, replacing the porous ceramic ring.Once that is done, the bone rings are taken to a design studio and fixed to a metal band which can be personalised and shaped. The finished product is a ring created from the donor's own bone tissue."In today's society, gold is a status symbol - a sign of wealth. And it seems that a person's love is measured by the size and value of a traditional engagement or wedding ring. Biojewellery is different," says Lynsey Shaw, a 31-year-old retail supervisor from Shrewsbury whose frozen bone cells are currently being resuscitated to grow a ring she will to give to her partner in a civil ceremony.Four couples - including Shaw and her partner, Trish Barnes - were selected for the hour-long surgery from hundreds of applicants. Separating the cells from the white mineral bone material takes about another hour in a culture medium fluid. Over roughly four weeks, the thousands of harvested cells multiply into an "army" in the millions before colonising the scaffold, which takes another six weeks.The whole experience - from narratives to photos - will culminate in a public exhibition next month revealing the first commitment rings made from the material at Guy's and St Thomas' Hospital. But biojewellery has sparked ethical questions that go beyond just the use of public funds."In the first place, there might be a worry about the propriety of causing unnecessary harm," says Iain Brassington, a lecturer in bioethics from the University of Manchester who published a paper on biojewellery in the Journal of Medical Ethics. "Surgery is harmful, and in normally we would want to be sure that the harm we're causing is warranted by the benefit that we'd expect as a result."Thus one of the criteria for applicants set by the biojewellery team was to demonstrate that volunteers' wisdom teeth needed to be removed in the first place. "It's the same process that dentists use normally," says Thompson. The risks to the donor are the same as those associated with having a wisdom tooth pulled.Kerridge says his team has no plans to develop biojewellery into a commercial enterprise, but admits there is greater demand for the rings than the scope of their project. Other teams could create biojewellery for about &pound;2,000 per couple, excluding the costs associated with the dental and design facilities.The only immediate development planned is in tissue engineering. Thompson will use the bioactive ring as a base for growing larger structures by stacking multiple cellular elements onto it, with the eventual aim of replicating the shape of human bones for possible transplant.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Google's ad revenues in the UK will outstrip those of Channel 4 this year, the broadcaster's chief executive Andy Duncan said yesterday, marking another milestone in the relentless rise of internet advertising.He said the US web group would make &pound;900m from advertising in the UK in 2006, ahead of an estimated &pound;800m for Channel 4. Although Google declined to confirm whether the revenue forecast was accurate, analysts vouched for Mr Duncan's arithmetic. His projection, extrapolated from Google's first-half revenue figures, came as Time Warner reported a 46% rise in online ad sales at AOL, the US media giant's internet division.According to figures from Google's filings in the US, the consolidated UK revenues - the majority of which come from search advertising - have risen rapidly in recent years. The company made $859m (&pound;450m) in the UK last year, up from $415m the year before and $147m in 2003. Last year the UK accounted for 14% of Google's revenues.Hitting &pound;900m in 2006 would mean that Google had doubled its revenues. If its remarkable ascent were to continue into next year, it would soon have the ailing ITV in its sights: the flagship ITV1 channel's ad revenues are expected to slip to around &pound;1.4bn this year, according to analysts, and to fall below &pound;1.3bn in 2007.As a household name with global reach, Google dominates the internet advertising market in the UK. Between them, Google, Yahoo and MSN are thought to make up 75% of spending on internet ad campaigns, with Google accounting for the lion's share. The firm makes its money from two main products: Ad Words, which sells advertising slots and links on Google pages, and Ad Sense, which syndicates advertising on third party sites.A report published by media buying agency GroupM earlier in the year said that online advertising would account for a 13.3% share of a &pound;12.2bn market in 2006. Sir Martin Sorrell, chief executive of advertising group WPP, which owns GroupM, told the Guardian last week that the internet's rise was contributing to the relatively low growth rate of the UK traditional ad market. He also predicted that advertising would continue to migrate to the web to reflect the amount of time people were spending online.However, some in the online world feel broadcasting companies have exaggerated the threat from internet advertising to distract attention from structural problems within network television. They claim that search advertising has been "additive" to the overall market, and has not played a decisive role in problems at companies such as ITV, which are struggling against greater competition from multichannel rivals. Meanwhile, broadcasters feel advertisers have moved too much spending to the internet.Mr Duncan said the problems afflicting traditional media companies were not just part of a cyclical trend. "There is deep structural change taking place," he said. "If we want to protect the fantastic legacy of UK broadcasting, we need to wake up to this sooner rather than later."Channel 4 is lobbying the media regulator Ofcom and the government for help to bridge a &pound;100m gap as the UK switches from analogue to digital TV by 2012.Time Warner's internet revenues helped it to almost treble profits in the third quarter to $2.3bn and to increase revenues by 7% to $10.9bn. The company, which owns the Warner Brothers film studio and the CNN cable network, said its results were boosted by buying cable operator Adelphia Communications, and a 44% revenue rise at its cable division.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Saturday November 4 2006Google's open source chief, Chris DiBona, completed a degree in computer science after he joined Google. We described his degree as "unfinished" in the interview below. We also quoted him as saying that at Google "We won't allow the use of GPL 3 code," when he actually said "We won't allow the use of GPL 3 addenda in our code."Technology Guardian: You were behind Google Code Search (google.com/codesearch), which lets people search within public source code?Chris DiBona:Yes, and it's been really funny because a lot of people have come up with clever queries to find comments in code like "this is broken" or "shouldn't work". It's been fun.TG: What do you do from day to day?CD:I work with a small group on compliance with open source licences that we use. And on the APIs, to make sure that they are properly open, and licensed, so that we don't turn round and tell people "you can't do that" and they say "but you never told us that before".TG: Does Google use its own custom-built version of Linux?CD:Google uses the Linux kernel on our own hardware; we make our own hardware, it's very much hand-built, Intel chips and stuff. Plus we have a stack of software running on top of that. We don't use Apache for our web server, but we have some of the Apache libraries in there. And here's the great thing about not running on Windows. If you want to change your operating system and you're using Linux, well, you can just do it. But imagine if we had to tell people with whom we're competing and who don't like us very much how many machines we were using, and how much we were using them, well ... the thing is with open source and with Linux, we can control our own destiny. It's a very powerful position to be in.TG: How much would it cost in licences if Google ran on Windows?CD:We've never said how many machines we have, there are estimates out there but I'm not going to say if they're right or not, but you know, think of a big number, a big number, and then multiply that by $1,000 (&pound;526) each for a copy of Windows Server. It's safe to say it would be hundreds of millions of dollars at least.TG: Do you use the BSD licence, GPL, or what?CD:We prefer now to use the Apache licence; the BSD licence is pretty good, too. They are readily comprehensible. With open source you can use other licences; we have released code under the GPL, but we're not religious about using it.For example, we released a library to interact with Google Talk under the LGPL and BSD licences. The thing about the Apache licence, though, is that it's really easy to use. The GPL says that if you use it and link something to it, then you have to make that [thing you linked to] available as well.The Apache licence says here's some code, do whatever you want with it, but just preserve the notice in the program saying that you are using code from Apache. That's easy to comply with. The problem with open source software is that tracking its use can be very difficult sometimes. At Google we have the resources to track how a piece of open source software gets used within the organisation, but many smaller organisations don't.TG: Is that holding back adoption of open source?CD:No, I don't think so. For all the challenges of the GPL, we think that about 40% of open source software is licensed under the GPL.TG: What do you think of Larry Ellison bidding to undermine Red Hat's business model by offering to support the Red Hat version of Linux, through Oracle?CD:It's fascinating to watch. Although this isn't new for Ellison: he did a lot in 1998 saying that he would support Linux for Oracle. So Larry Ellison has been playing with Linux going way back.It fits his strategy goals: I think Oracle wanted to control their destiny too, so they wanted to have Oracle on Windows, Oracle on all sorts of platforms. It's hard on Red Hat's stock. But we'll see. It's not trivial to support all that stuff. Though Oracle, I think, makes more money from services than licences on its actual software.TG: Why are you reading operating system licences if you're not a lawyer?CD:I went to Google for an interview and they asked me "if you worked here, what would you do?" And I said I'd make sure the licences were in compliance. They said OK, and I got us into a very good place in terms of compliance. Then the founders asked me to solve a problem: that computer science students weren't doing any programming over the summer vacation.They gave me a target number of students to get doing stuff, so I worked out how much you'd need, and that produced the "Summer of Code" (code.google.com/soc). The first year was 2005, which cost $2m (&pound;1.05m) and got 400 students, and this year it cost $3m and got 630 students.TG: You said in another interview you were impressed by one entry last year, a database of genes. What was there that made you say 'wow' this year?CD:The most powerful one, the most important, was to enhance libgaim, which is a library used in instant messaging (IM) systems. The person added QQ support, which is the biggest IM system in Asia. That's important because we can now talk to friends in China.The great thing about that project is that it means that library becomes part of 20 IM programs. But there were so many good ones this year. They came from 90 countries, 70 currencies - this matters, you'll see - 456 schools ... British entries, there were 20 accepted from about, I think, 150.TG: Google famously says employees should spend 20% of their time on a pet project - what's yours?CD:Oh, it works out more like 4%, because I'm so busy. It sounds frivolous ... I try to get new imagery into Google Earth, such as the Firefox crop circles, and the Burning Man festival. Unique aerial things, basically. But they only show up at a particular magnification.TG: What else are you working on?CD:We're also working on large scale data repositories, with academics, to take large scale datasets and move them between people; and we keep a copy of the data. There's a digital sky archive, which is about eight to 13 terabytes. There's a lot of schools where if you tried to download 8TB it would take forever. These, you can just load them into a big hard drive and take them over.TG: Do you talk to other companies like Amazon or eBay about how they handle lots of data and open source?CD:They always want to know what Google does. But I don't talk to many very large companies any more. If Amazon or eBay or Yahoo! called, I wouldn't turn them down. But everybody is an open source user.TG: What's Google's position on version 3 of the GPL?CD:We worry that the new version is going to reduce the influence of the Free Software Foundation on open source, and that's bad. The provisions in v3 make it extremely hard to maintain compliance. That's because it allows the addition of free-form written addenda to the licence with specific permissions.Let's say I'm company A and I release my code under GPL 3, and say, "Here it is, but acknowledge my trademark." Now, what if I don't want to acknowledge your trademark? I've got to remove that code you put in. As people remove and add addenda, the software itself becomes extremely difficult to understand, and functionally incompatible.TG: It sounds like the tower game where you pull wooden blocks out of the stack and somehow it still stands up.CD:Yeah, and software's like that anyway. It would be one thing if there were bitflips, like the Creative Commons - "license this with attribution", or "without attribution" - but GPL v3 as it stands doesn't. And then there's the DRM [digital rights management] stuff which is a little inconsistent. I'm no fan of DRM, but it's telling people what they can do with their software. It says you can have DRM, but that you must provide the signing keys for it. What's the point of that? You might as well just offer the keys, in which case why have the DRM at all? But at Google we can deal with this: we won't allow the use of GPL 3 code. That's the great thing about software - you don't have to use it, right? You can build you own or just not use it. Nobody's forcing you.&#183; Curriculum VitaeAge35EducationComputer science degree (unfinished), George Mason university, Washington DCCareer1993Information management administrator, US State Department 1995 network adminstrator, Howrey &amp; Simon lawyers, Washington1996Computer security specialist, Tandem fault-tolerant computers1998Private consultant in cryptography1998Marketing executive, VA Linux and editor/author Slashdot2003Co-founded gaming development company Damage Studios and Konstrux Technologies2005Google, open source program managerFamilyMarried, one child (and one expected)Bloghttp://egofood.blogspot.com/&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
There was an unexpected Chatterbox breakdown yesterday, so we've cranked it up early today in order to absorb any surplus chat.
Last week, footage of a girl being badly bullied in a New Zealand school playground had to be take down from YouTube, the hugely successful video hosting site now owned by Google. It was rightly removed because in a perverse act of glorification it had been uploaded by the gang that had committed the offence. But it could easily have been taken by an onlooker and used as evidence against the gang. Surveillance is now expanding too fast for its effects to be fully understood.Last week, AT&amp;T became the latest company to launch an internet-based service enabling you to monitor what is happening in your house remotely from a mobile phone or computer. The sensor can pick up doors or windows opening or even water leakages and take the appropriate action . This has benign uses, from monitoring aged relatives to trapping intruders. But how happy would you be if a burglar hacked into it to see who was at home? Last week, bloggers revealed that simple Google searches had given access to more than 1,000 surveillance cameras around the world in restaurants, laundries and other places - of the kind that let their owners control them remotely. Is this an outrageous interference into private lives - or not? Britain leads the world in CCTV cameras. Maybe the quid pro quo should be that we have access to all but the most sensitive of these cameras that are monitoring us? It may even help the cameras' owners to have extra eyes scanning for wrongdoing.An American conceptual artist, Hasan Elahi, who had been wrongly interrogated by the FBI a few years ago, has gone a stage further by practising self-surveillance. It could become a trend. He has a tracking device attached to him which records on his web site (voluntarily, but with the aim of keeping the FBI off his back) exactly where he is together with photos and other records. This may become common in future. As web cams shrink in size and price and the cost of storage keeps falling, it will be possible to have a tiny camera on your spectacles or ear which records the whole of your life to a remote website, including images of potential assailants.Any worries that this might soon lead to a 1984 situation can be discarded. It already has, though citizens don't seem to be very worried. Far more details of our private lives are kept on databases around the world than Orwell ever dreamed of. In Orwell's 1984, surveillance was by the government. These days, instead of one Big Brother there are thousands of little brothers. If you had access to all the data that banks, mail order houses, police, Inland Revenue, social services and supermarkets have about your lifestyle you might be very surprised. CCTV cameras watch you in public spaces, electronic cards constantly feed personal data to remote computers and your company may well be monitoring your emails - and this is without mentioning Google's potential profile including the websites you have visited, the content of emails, your friends on MySpace, chat rooms visited and so forth. What would the CIA give for that?Two things stop this from becoming a scandal. First, most of us acquiesce because the benefits of catching criminals and terrorists so far outweigh the disadvantages. Second, very little of this information from so many scattered sources is brought together. But it isn't because the government doesn't want to. The information commissioner, Richard Thomas, admitted to the Times last week that we lived in a surveillance society and that his worst fear was of all the state-sponsored monitoring systems - health records, police files, tax files, the child register and so on - linking up to one electronic Big Brother. It won't happen overnight, but as a result of unknown decisions taken at different times. We probably wouldn't be aware that it had happened.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Once again, the Sony PlayStation advertising machine is in full swing in the run-up to the release of the PlayStation 3 machine in Japan and in the US (don't get me started on what happened to us). For more information on how the thing runs, check outGreg's preview. But prepare to be disturbed by the latest in the line of freaky advertising spots."The Baby"is reminiscent of thecold turkey hallucinationsEwan MacGregor experiences in the film Trainspotting. A fake infant makes unearthly sounds, cries and uses its (assumingly) PlayStation 3-enhanced abilities to levitate the machine. Already the subject of countless spoofs on video sharing siteGoogleYouTube, it reflects their penchant for forcing their products into the public's consciousness by aligning it with their worst nightmares.And you know, it works. Like their other superb advertising campaigns throughout the ages (I cannot for the life of me find the links to previous Sony advertising posts we've made on the gamesblog), The Baby is compelling, memorable and downright creepy.While I may take issue with some of theirbusiness decisions, I can't fault the PlayStation team on their creativity.I Love Bees, theviral marketing campaign launched for the Xbox's Halo 2, while successful in certain circles, has nothing on this.
The software company at the heart of the NHS &pound;6.2bn IT overhaul added &pound;30m to its revenues in 2004 in a move that had the effect of misleading the stock market, the Guardian can reveal, following the lifting of a gagging order which has prevented the publication of an investigation into accounting irregularities at the firm.The investigation discovered that questionable accounting at iSoft can be traced back to 2002. It suggests the company's non-executive directors past and present, including Sir Digby Jones, a former non executive director and former director general of the Confederation of British Industry, were called to deflect questions about the company's accounting.ISoft is now being investigated by the Financial Services Authority and the accountancy profession's disciplinary body. The authorities indicated yesterday that the information gathered by the Guardian in 2004, but suppressed for two years, would be reviewed as part of their continuing investigations.A spokesman for the FSA said: "We will consider all material provided to us that appears to the FSA to be relevant to its ongoing investigation."For two years, iSoft claimed information the Guardian had found relating to &pound;30m in revenues came from confidential company papers containing errors that were later corrected. Yesterday iSoft's new management conceded the information in the original documents seen by the Guardian was accurate. The &pound;30m figure was much higher than investors had expected. The glowing full-year results reported in June 2004 pushed iSoft shares to a new high of 446p. A week later five directors and a company founder sold shares worth &pound;44m.ISoft confirmed that it had recognised the revenue in its 2004 accounts. But it said yesterday: "Given that the FSA is currently investigating the company's financial reporting, notably in the financial years ended 30 April 2004 and 2005, it would be entirely inappropriate for us to comment on whether we think that the company misled the stock market in any way in 2004."ISoft's three founders, the late Roger Dickens, Patrick Cryne who stepped down as chairman last year and Steve Graham, suspended from his position as commercial director, made more than &pound;80m from share sales. Mr Cryne went on to buy a stake in Barnsley football club and he and Mr Graham control Vale Royal Abbey golf club in Cheshire. Tim Whiston, who left his position as chief executive in June, also cashed shares worth more than &pound;5m last year.The company has used controversial accounting procedures to book revenues before being paid on subsequent occasions. In 2005 the company booked a cash advance from the Department of Health of &pound;58m, helping it to meet City expectations. Earlier this year, a similar upfront government cash amount was paid to the company - though it was not as much as iSoft had been banking on, and a deep profit warning followed.These payouts, for NHS work yet to be carried out, were agreed to by the DoH in exchange for longer-term cost savings. They are not in breach of accounting rules, nor is upfront recognition of software licence revenue illegal.Earlier this year iSoft's new management team said its accounting policy on recording income had to be changed. It had to adjust the accounts for earlier years plunging the company into a &pound;344m loss for the year ended April 2006. An internal investigation identified accounting irregularities in 2004 and 2005. "The current management of iSoft is keen to see fair and accurate reporting of this matter and has released the Guardian from the undertaking obtained two years ago," it said yesterday.The openness of the new management team, headed by John Weston who joined as iSoft's chairman a year ago, is in stark contrast to the attitude of executives in 2004 who launched a determined campaign to prevent the Guardian publishing the information it had gathered and which led iSoft, ultimately, to seek court protection.ISoft told the Guardian yesterday: "The company recognised approximately &pound;30m of revenues from the National Programme in the financial year ended 30 April 2004 under the accounting policy for revenue recognition that was in force."However, City analysts, after a meeting with the company, believed income from the project would be minimal in its financial year ending April 30 2004. Their forecast was for income from the National Programme for IT to be &pound;2m-&pound;5m in the year to April 2004.
I run a small business from a Dell notebook PC, and the issue of data storage and backing up files is important to me. Can you give me some options to check out, and let me know if there are any web-based options? Ian MountfordEverybody should always have backups of their data. There are two fairly simple ways to do this, and you should probably use both. The first is to burn important files to CD or DVD, and it's a good idea to make a straightforward copy of vital files at the end of business every day. The second option is to buy an external hard drive that can be used for daily or for continuous backups. For many years, I've recommended Centered's Second Copy, but Novosoft's Handy Back-up (www.handybackup.com) is among the many alternatives. SeeFriendly Computer Helpfor a round-up.Today there are two more alternatives that can help. You can easily copy essential data to a USB memory stick or "thumb drive" and carry it around with you, and you can also store files online. Xdrive (www.xdrive.com) which has been around for a very long time, has been bought by AOL, and offers 5GB of free space. There's a list of alternatives atwww.all-the-free-space.com/alpha.phtml. BT has just announced Digital Vault (www.btdigitalvault.bt.com), but it does not look competitive with Xdrive.Web extra: Since you are running a business, however, you should do a proper risk assessment. This means identifying your assets (data, software, hardware), the major threats (hardware failure, data corruption, theft, vandalism, lightning, fire, flood etc), and their likely impact on your business. To get going, read theGuidelines for Computer Securityat Central Queensland University, especially the annex on risk assessment. You will probably decide that essential financial and customer data need to be backed up off-site.You can make backup simpler if you organise your hard drive so that all the essential files are stored in just one or two directories, so you don't have to back up the whole drive. This also minimises the problem of forgetting to back up very important records because they are stored somewhere obscure.
After purchasing the 2007 upgrade to Norton Anti-Virus, I was somewhat miffed to be told by the installation process that it would only install once I had removed Zone Alarm. Nothing was said on the box about any compatibility problems. Having no choice, I did what was asked, but I certainly won't be buying any more Symantec AV products. However, now the 2007 upgrade has safely been installed, can I re-install Zone Alarm? Peter MathersNorton Anti-Virus 2007 contains some elements of a firewall, and appears to clash with Zone Alarm. You may be able to re-install Zone Alarm if you disable NAV's worm protection (via the Virus and Spyware Protection Options page). However, there's no way of knowing what Symantec is doing "under the hood" in undocumented ways that Microsoft does not support, so this is not the optimum solution. You could switch on the somewhat limited firewall in Windows XP SP2, or ask Symantec for a refund and find a different solution.Backchat: Peter Smith says: "When I upgraded to Norton Internet Security 2007, I was required to uninstall Webroot's Spy Sweeper first. It seems Internet Security can't tolerate much competition! I am also pretty unhappy that I'm barred from downloading the upgrade from a US site for £26.70, and instead have to pay Symantec £39.99 for the privilege of living in the UK." Steve Knight says he installed Norton AntiVirus 2007, "ignored the warning re ZoneAlarm Pro and everything works just fine".Bob Hattersley says he has also tried upgrading from Norton Internet Security 2005 to 2007, and after many problems, returned to the 2005 version. "I wasted a day at least, and quite a lot of hair. I have no complaints about Symantec support - they responded quickly, and gave me a refund without arguing - but this software seems to be toxic."Joan Zilva says she has also had problems with Norton Internet Security 2007. "Unlike Bob Hattersley, I have wasted about a week -- and a fortune in phone calls -- with Symantec. Like him I returned to my 2005 version, but my disc seems corrupted and threatens to cut me off at the end of this month instead of a year later. Despite numerous and lengthy attempts, the technical department can't cure it. My money is being refunded. And I've done nothing about Christmas yet!"
Is there anything I can do to prevent Google from downloading revisions to its toolbar without my knowledge or consent? Apart from the irritation factor, I had the toolbar tweaked to meet my needs. The new version does not allow me to restore these features, one of which no longer exists. Denise Scott FearsYour web browser has access to the web, and the Google Toolbar works inside your browser, so there's no simple way of stopping it. Someone calling himself GooogleToolbarGuerilla was working on ways to deny updates, by disconnecting from the internet and setting the Google folder to deny access. He posted details in Google Groups (seeGoogle Toolbar IE Help, Something's Broken) but these messages have been deleted. Searching for GooogleToolbarGuerilla (and clicking "repeat the search with the omitted results included") may still find them in Google's cache. However, these approaches are disputed.Otherwise, Google can do whatever it likes with its own properties, including Google and Gmail, and you have no choice, except take it or leave it. Similarly, you can do what you like with your own PC. Google behaves as though Google Toolbar is part of Google, rather than part of your PC. If you don't like that, uninstall it.Update: Google Groups said the messages had been deleted at the time I wrote this, but they are there at the moment. Sorry, I have no explanation for this oddity....
No hope for AmericaSo the warmongers have new toys to play with (Launching a new kind of warfare, October 26). It proves that the Nazi mentality did not die with Hitler, it just moved to the US.Raul RodriguezRiverside, CaliforniaIf today the US were able to replace its soldiers in Iraq with remotely controlled robots and drones, it is possible that the strategic mission of the insurgents would shift from a war of attrition against US soldiers to blowing things up in US territory. With troops on the ground they have a way to hurt the US, which may well lead to US withdrawal. If they had no way to achieve this end, and if the US were still pursuing military action in their territory through cybersurrogates, they'd have to find another way to inflict damage severe enough to bring about a withdrawal of the US.Daimon SweeneyBellingham, Washington stateYour so-called "ethical" concerns are greatly nonsensical. At the moment, we can't do anything about enemy casualties. If they choose to do something as foolish as fight us, they choose to die. We can reduce our casualties by using robots. It would be unethical to not do so. Not using robots would be the moral equivalent of killing our own soldiers. Who cares what the enemy thinks? My metal insect proposal was rejected by the Pentagon.Edward GreischMoline, IllinoisIf anything, machines would be more ethical, both in reducing casualties on the side of the people sending the machines in and on the side of the people being attacked - a machine isn't going to go apeshit in a "screw the Geneva convention" sort of way that humans are occasionally liable to.http://technocrat.netDomain securityJust thought I'd bring your attention to a really useful service that I use -domaincpr.com. You enter all your domain names and it then emails you when they near expiry date (Why it matters to master your domain, October 26).Dan WoodroffeLeicesterSounding offI agree with Jack [Schofi eld's] sentiments on DAB and quality (DAB should be the new wave, not medium wave, October 26). However, in one area it's more than adequate. DAB includes a host of talk stations such as Radio 7, Five Live, Radio 4 and Oneword. DAB is great for voice. If I want good quality musical reproduction I buy a CD.Ralph AverbuchPencaitlandSorry to return to Schofield-bashing again so soon but he's banging on about audio quality again and he's just wrong and it makes me sad. Now I am going to whisper something that would make his blood boil: most people couldn't care less about the quality of the audio they listen to.http://0ct0pus.livejournal.comSafe and easy storageWe seem to forget that there are simple storage systems available which do not rely on external hard drives, wherever they are (Technobile, October 26). Simply burn copies of data, which can be mixed types, onto good quality (eg. TDK) DVD discs which store 4.7GB; several copies can be made and stored in diff erent places so that all the eggs are not in one basket.Ron LoewenbeinElyI came, I saw, iWozAsked about the likely longevity of the iPod, Steve Wozniak (I didn't want to run companies, October 26) implied that multiple sales were common: "Good Lord, we just introduced this bright red one that some money from each sale helps to go fight Aids, so I had to have one of those."Didn't it occur to him to forgo ownership of yet another device and give all the money he was going to spend on a different coloured player to an Aids-fighting charity? Just a thought.Patrick DoddsRichmond, Surrey&#183;Read all this week's letters in full at blogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
There's a line of thought which argues that the internet will liberate the masses and allow us to achieve self-actualisation. "With technology," the proponents exclaim, "economies will spiral upwards, national boundaries will dissolve and people will work only for self-enlightenment!" And today's mighty panacea, often referred to as "user-generated content", will bring joy to the world and peace to us all.To which I say: harumph. Thanks to a reality check provided by an excellent analysis of the social impact of the telegraph in Tom Standage's The Victorian Internet, I've lost my idealistic vision of a utopian digital future.Standage argues that today's "electronic superhighway" is the heir to the more revolutionary 19th-century "highway of thought". Like today's utopians, the telegraph's development was accompanied by cries that it would hold the answer to human fraction and foible. But in the end it was unable to stop the advance of the 20th century, economic downturn and its own inevitable downfall. It only helped spread the news faster.Today, we have the benefit of hindsight, right? User-generated content is different. With modern day interactive technologies, we're taking control of our social worlds from within.To an extent I would agree. But arguably its current success is down to the fact that it's a booming business model. In games, the most successful products seamlessly blend developer-led interaction with sandbox-style playpens so players can imagine that they're leading their characters on an enlightened path towards personal glory. Now the shelves groan with games with a disproportionate amount of sandbox, and little play.Similarly, MySpace, YouTube, podcasts and other bits of social software ply their trades by ensnaring us with platforms which promise us voices in a miasma of big-business owned media. They're reality TV-plus, in which millions clamour for space in a new hierarchy that functions without any apparent gatekeepers. But these spaces are increasingly being taken over by London stock exchange traders with agendas. Viva which revolution?So slow down, utopians. While I'm excited about the modern opportunities for self-exploration and the benefits they bring, I'm also humbled by the lessons the Victorians learned.Today's advances may seem like giant leaps to us, but rather than assume they're the answers to all our problems, we should recognise our own achievements as baby steps in an ongoing march towards a better future.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Along time ago, in a university fairly far away, a classmate and I were given a final-year project by our professor: see whether one could send high-frequency communications signals through the mains. After all, he suggested, if one could do so and usefully detect the signal, you could send data between rooms in a house. The fact that this was being presented as an undergraduate project, rather than something you'd buy off a shelf in a shop, hints at how long ago it all happened.Anyway, after some weeks - probably months - of warily blasting various frequencies over a mains voltage circuit containing a huge rheostat (to mimic the wiring of a house) and seeing what could be reconstituted, my colleague and I came up with our conclusion: it couldn't be done. High frequencies just dissipated in standard mains wiring; it was a hiding to nothing.Which is probably why it's a good thing I moved into journalism, where one reports what other people have done. Today you can buy products for &pound;25 which will indeed shoot the high frequencies necessary to run, say, an Ethernet network through your home. I tried a set from Solwise. It's very simple: start with a computer or Ethernet router (the latter these days often doubles as a modem for your broadband). Plug an Ethernet cable into the router. Plug the Solwise plug into the mains. Plug the Ethernet cable into it. Now go into another room, plug in another Solwise plug, connect an Ethernet cable, and voila: you have a full-speed Ethernet link, as though you'd run a cable to the other room. Solwise also sells a wireless connector, which can take your wireless network into rooms your existing one won't reach, or give you a wireless network where none was before.The joy is that, to use the magic phrase, it just works. Unlike so much home networking stuff which demands mystical information like MAC addresses for computers and passwords and hexadecimal, you don't have to install any software; your computer or other device just thinks it's plugged directly into the router.I used this to play with Elgato's nifty EyeHome product, which lets you browse media files such as pictures, music and movies from a Macintosh on a TV interface. This, too, just works: once on the network, the EyeHome spotted my notebook and built up an index of files. I watched the first episode of Lost on a widescreen TV, and could concentrate on the narrative rather than being annoyed by pixellation or authenticating with some far-off server.It led me to wonder quite what Apple, which pre-announced its to-be-renamed iTV media viewing product in September, actually intends to do. There's an Ethernet port on the iTV, but also the suggestion that it will be wireless. Some busy folk have uncovered what they think is an 802.11n chip - that is, a superfast wireless chip, capable of up to 540 megabits per second - in some of the latest Apple hardware. Might the iTV use 802.11n to stream its "near high-definition" video?Seems promising; yet two things don't quite tally. While 802.11n puts 802.11g (54Mbps) and 802.11b, aka Wi-Fi (11Mbps) into the shade, it won't be finalised before 2008. Apple could include 802.11n in its iTV, and then update it over the internet (as it did with its use of the earlier 802.11g specification). It would a messy compromise, but could work.But here's the real problem. To sell in any volume, the iTV will have to be cross-platform. Which means it will have to play nicely with Windows' networking. In my experience, this never happens. Putting a Windows machine onto a network is a nightmare of impenetrable questions with multiple possible answers, all wrong. Auto-discovery might work, but 802.11n won't be on Windows machines for some time. You'll be better off with Ethernet - in other words, using something like those plugs to do something I thought impossible all those years ago.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Mortal Kombat: Stronghold LegendsPS2, &pound;29.99, cert 18+Midway, 4/5It's easy to diss Mortal Kombat for being a one-trick pony. Yes, success was always based on gratuitous violence and catchphrases, but it was perfect for MTV sensibilities and has always remained true to its roots. This latest version allows you to play as almost any character from the series (around 62!) and adds a new training mode with an unusually rich storyline. Naturally, the red pixel count remains high - particularly now you can customise your own fatalities - and there's also classic and new moves, costumes and combos for every character. Graphically, it's clearly the best looking MK game yet. So, nothing new in terms of fighting mechanics, but for a greatest "hits &amp; kicks" package, this takes some beating.MACanis Canem EditPS2, &pound;39.99, cert 15Rockstar Games, 4/5Even though it's no longer called Bully in Europe, Canis Canem Edit (or dog eat dog) has generated plenty of outrage in certain redtops and on breakfast television. Which would leave anyone who has played the game to conclude that the spirit of Mary Whitehouse persists somewhere in the ether, as it is utterly innocuous. As young Jimmy Hopkins, thrust into the tough New England boarding school Bullworth Academy, you get to navigate an at times hilarious storyline which evokes Grange Hill and Nigel Molesworth rather than Grand Theft Auto. Jimmy must fulfil a multitude of tasks (most of which involve protecting fellow pupils from bullies), attend his lessons (in which he plays mini-games to acquire abilities - English enables him to talk, rather than punch, his way out of sticky situations) and collect and acquire objects. Weapons are generally along the lines of stinkbombs and itching powder, although a baseball bat is occasionally available. For once in a game, the humour hits the spot, but there is one annoying flaw: an intermittent tendency for the camera to go haywire when performing interior missions. Whatever the Moral Majority say, Canis Canem Edit will only teach 15-year-olds anything about bullying if they were raised away from all human contact.SBPro Evolution Soccer 6PS2, Xbox 360, &pound;39.99, cert 3+Konami, 4/5The latest Pro Evolution Soccer is still the pinnacle of virtual footy. Touch, feel, movement - PES6 has it in spades. Enhancements include refs who actually allow some physical contact and more player control over shooting and heading. This is especially true of the sublime PS2 version, which packs in a lot more content than the 360 effort. Yes, the 360 version looks great but it lacks many of the features of the PS2 version - extensive multiplayer, more grounds - and feels like a lazy effort. This is especially true when you consider online, normally so integral to the 360. Not here. Rudimentary options and laggy play are a huge wasted opportunity. If you can ignore all this, then you'll find a football game that is still top of the pile. Let's hope Konami is less complacent next year.GH
The lawsuits which IBM has just filed against Amazon for patent violations (http://tinyurl.com/ykgtmo), are not the beginning of the story, just the beginning of the end. IBM says it has tried more than a dozen times since 2002 to get Amazon to license five e-commerce patents, and that hundreds of companies have done so. Amazon (which has not commented on the case) seems to be the first company willing to fight.IBM is a corporate giant - $91bn (&pound;47.8bn) turnover, 330,000 staff - and has a big business based on US patents. It managed to take out 2,974 last year, or 57 per week, and has stockpiled 31,995 over the past 13 years. Nobody has read, much less understood, more than a fraction of these. However, IBM already rakes in $1bn a year from patent licensing, and is looking to make more.In the Amazon case, the stakes are high. IBM's patents include "storing data in an interactive network," "ordering items using an electronic catalogue" and "presenting advertising in an interactive service". These could be considered fundamental to e-commerce on the web. If the patents stand up, it could let IBM impose what amounts to a tax on online shopping.Whether they will stand up is now a matter for the courts, and IBM has chosen carefully by filing two suits in different courts in the Eastern District of Texas. According to an Associated Press report: "Texas has become a frequent site for patent cases because districts there move quickly and are perceived as relatively responsive to intellectual property claims."IBM's claims over things that now sound obvious could have created a storm of protest. However, Amazon may have attracted less sympathetic support than expected because it owns a patent on one-click purchasing. Other online retailers, such as Apple's iTunes Music Store, have to pay Amazon to licence what could also look like an obvious business method.Whether IBM wins or not, patent attacks are not going away. Patent holders are being encouraged by a huge growth in payouts.Firms are now being set up, such as Nathan Myrhvold's Intellectual Ventures, solely to acquire and exploit patents. In this brave new world, owning patents can be far more profitable than winning the lottery and less hazardous than robbing banks.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
OGA strikesFollowing WGA (Windows Genuine Advantage), which checks copies of Windows to see if they are legitimate, Microsoft has started OGA (Office Genuine Advantage), to check Office.http://tinyurl.com/y2usmtRediscover your tunesThe Filter - "backed by music pioneer, Peter Gabriel" - is smart software that looks at your listening habits and creates playlists. The first version is for Windows XP and iTunes.www.thefilter.comHandy form of cashAs part of a government project, Todholm Primary School in Paisley, Scotland, is using Fujitsu's palm-based PalmSecure biometric identification system as "an exciting new way to pay for school meals".www.fel.fujitsu.comOnly collectFinally there's a home online for people who collect Northern Irish hospital badges, Strawberry Shortcake, scrimshawed whale's teeth, six-sided coffins etc ...http://squirl.info/MySpace, the manualPeter Buckley has written The Rough Guide to MySpace, published today.www.myspace.com/roughguidetomyspacePocketable recording studioIn the US, Boss has launched the Micro BR ultra-portable four-track recording studio with built-in drum machine plus a guitar input - and it also doubles as an MP3 music player.www.bossus.com/micro-br/That's all, folks!The 13th Bradford Animation Festival will be held at the National Museum of Photography, Film and Television from November 15-18, 2006.www.baf.org.uk
A growing number of organisations are deciding that if the Royal Mail and Ordnance Survey won't free the data that they have collected with public funds, then they will do it themselves.This week sees two new initiatives, one to map the country's roads, and another to map postcodes independently of the Royal Mail, to route around the complex licencing schemes both are wrapped up in; and perhaps eventually, suggests one organiser, to "optimise" Britain's road networks for a time when oil is too expensive to be used to fuel passenger cars.With 1.8m postcodes in the Royal Mail's official Postcode Address File (PAF), recreating them might seem like a pointless effort. Yet that's the thinking behind Postcode Lite (www.npemap.org.uk), which within a month of starting has already collected more than a thousand postcodes and "liberated" 631 - or nearly a third - of the two- and three-character prefixes used in postcodes to identify a location.It is doing this by getting site visitors to plot their location in England and Wales, on out-of-copyright Ordnance Survey maps scanned into a database. (Scotland and Northern Ireland are planned for the future.) "You need only give the first part of their postcode, and if we can collect locations for all of these parts then we can create a database that is good enough for many applications," explains the site, which will accept partial postcodes.Another site aiming to create a free postcode system is freethepostcode.org, which asks people with GPS systems to record their longitude and latitude at a postcode, and enter it into the database. That specific pairing, since it was not created by the Royal Mail, can then be used without paying a fee.But postcodes aren't the only mapping fruit that impatient would-be users of data want. Phillip Tann thinks if the Ordnance Survey won't make its data about roads available for free, he'll generate it - and make that free instead.Next week Dr Tann, who is managing director of Autopoietic Systems Tann Ltd (ASTL), a telemetrics and IT company based in County Durham, will launch The People's Map, inspired by Guardian Technology's Free Our Data campaign.ASTL provides vehicle tracking systems to companies. "We have 25 vehicles fitted with systems, and we've already mapped out a large part of the road area of the north-east," he says. GPS systems in the vehicles send back details of their location and speed to ASTL's database, which can build up a picture of the road network.The database could go beyond the Ordnance Survey data, by showing average speeds on different roads: "Some parts of the M25 don't get above 25mph at times," says Tann. "You could boost the volume of traffic that could flow smoothly on the road. The end result is that if you run out of oil and cars are all solar-powered, we have to optimise the roads."&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Even with your hands on one, it is hard to say. We've been testing a pre-production machine that plays games but lacks the movie playback and network facilities that are an integral part of the machine. The launch games we've played do look impressive, especially when viewed on a high-definition TV, but there is nothing on display that Microsoft's competing Xbox 360 couldn't produce. In fact, upcoming Xbox 360 titles such as Gears of War offer superior graphics to anything we've seen so far on PS3. However, the PS3 titles do compare favourably to the initial 360 games; a complete comparison will have to wait until next year when developers will have had more time to get grips with the system.But while it is hard to get a conclusive feel of the games, the console itself is easier to assess. Build quality is high, with touch sensitive buttons and a weighty substantial feel. The PS3 has built in power supply - unlike the 360's huge power brick - which makes it a much tidier package. The curvaceous styling can't disguise the boys-toy aesthetic, although the target audience will lap up the shiny black case and chrome finish. Perhaps more importantly for a console that has designs on being a serious movie player, the PS3 runs very quietly - especially when compared to the noisy 360.The new controller takes a little getting used to, mainly because it feels so light. In fact, it is almost too light and feels slightly cheap compared to the rest of the hardware.Games are only one part of the PS3, with Blu-ray movie playback almost of equal importance. The unit we tested couldn't play movies or go online, so testing was impossible. But the minimalist menu system that allows access to all the features of the PS3 compared well to the 360's equivalent.So, after a tortuous gestation period, the PS3 is almost here. We've been quite impressed with what we've seen so far, even without any of the multimedia or network elements that will be a huge part of the PS3. The games may offer little new, but they have a visual polish uncommon in launch titles. The real test of which console is best comes next year when the PS3's movie playback and online facilities arrive along with the beast itself.
An unpopular government is running out of steam. Everyone knows the prime minister will be gone within months. A young and charismatic opposition leader is making hay over public service failings. Desperate to recapture the agenda, ministers have announced an initiative based on the latest IT.Yes, it's 1996. Ten years ago next week , John Major's Conservative administration unveiled Britain's first national e-government programme. A green paper called Government Direct ("e" was not yet a business buzzword) set out a vision of citizens paying their taxes, receiving benefits and taking part in the democratic process via new electronic channels.Government Direct was the first green paper to appear as a CD-Rom; if you were lucky enough to have an internet connection, you could download it in Word 6. As a media event, it had to compete with the release of the Spice Girls' first album and Bill Clinton winning a second term in office. Within months, its brand name was airbrushed from the history of government reform.However Government Direct's ambition - to create public services centred on the person who needs them rather than the bureaucracies that supply them - survives. A decade on, after spending several billion pounds building websites, the government is only now getting to grips with many of the challenges the green paper set.Government Direct was the work of five adventurous minds in the Cabinet Office. Colin Muid, one of the authors, has fond memories of the programme. He was lured from running IT systems at the Home Office to join a government 'skunkworks' at the Central IT Unit, which had been set up by Michael Heseltine, then deputy prime minister.Feasibility study"We were asked to look at how to change government through IT," remembers Muid. The collegiate atmosphere in the unit's Albert Embankment office was a refreshing change from the Home Office grind. "For the first time in my career, there was no 'business as usual' soaking up my time. We were put together to think outside the box and get our heads around what might be feasible."Muid had a personal reason for wanting to improve government: vivid recent memories of his father's sudden death. "Helping my mother deal with it really struck home. I had to go to the town hall, notify the Inland Revenue; each time they took you through the same set of questions. It was a nonsense. Faced with a situation like this, people's lives are made so difficult because bureaucracy operates for the benefit of the institution, not the citizen." How much simpler, he thought, if all the relevant offices were connected electronically.Several jurisdictions around the world were already putting e-government into practice. Singapore had branded itself the "digital island", while the Canadian province of New Brunswick was daringly issuing hunting licences on the web. The British government's main effort was a web portal open.gov.uk, launched the previous year as a directory of public service organisations. The pioneers were mainly in local government - notably Rutland, where the community website rutnet.co.uk served a county that had refused to die when Whitehall abolished it in 1974.Government Direct looked at the big picture. It set out a premise that within 10 years, most citizens would interact with government electronically, with the help of smart cards, via public kiosks, digital TV and touchtone phones. The team recognised that joined-up bureaucracy would involve sharing citizens' personal information; it decided that this would be accepted if citizens believed the government was committed to "ethical processing".Glimpse of the futureTo give ministers and the media a glimpse of the future, the team assembled a collection of projects demonstrating electronic access to government. Exhibits included electronic kiosks from the London borough of Newham, an online service providing government forms and leaflets for business and Scotland's computerised land and property information system SCOTLIS. At the launch, it was announced that information about the Citizen's Charter written by John Major, left, would be made available on British Telecom's new Touchpoint kiosks. The green paper launched a three-month public consultation, attracting 300 responses, many from the IT industry. The main concerns were the threat to privacy from joined up IT systems; some critics saw the emphasis on smart cards as an identity card programme in disguise.The Cabinet Office pressed on regardless. In March 1997 it announced its response to the consultation under the gung-ho headline: "Green light for government armchair revolution". But time was running out for any revolution with John Major in charge. Just two weeks later, the May 1 general election was held and Labour won its landslide.Labour, which had described Government Direct as "too little, too late", came to power saying it wanted to modernise the government machine. In the run-up to the election, several ministers had visited the IT unit and voiced enthusiasm for its ideas. Muid remembers the transition as "pretty smooth ... the people we were speaking to had a huge appetite for using technology to change government services". The previous October, Tony Blair set the pattern of things to come by announcing his first e-government target: to have 25% of services "e-enabled" by 2008.One enthusiast was a young adviser, Liam Byrne, formerly with Andersen Consulting. In a 1997 report, Information Age Government: Delivering the Blair Revolution, published by the Fabian Society, Byrne proposed 24-hour e-access to government services, which he estimated would save &pound;3.5bn a year. However, it took two years for Byrne's ideas to become policy, in the 1999 paper Modernising Government. This set a 2008 deadline for "e-enabling" 100% of public services.The following year, the prime minister brought the "e-enablement" target, by now almost synonymous with government on the web, forward to the end of 2005. This was in line with the European Commission's Lisbon agenda - however, unlike most other countries, the UK committed itself to "e-enabling" every single possible government transaction. The e-government programme, says Muid "became obsessed with targets". Responsibility for meeting them was given to a new Office of the e-Envoy, which absorbed both the IT unit and its technical counterpart, the Central Communications and Telecommunications Agency. At one stage, it employed 400 people.Led largely by local government, the target was met. A decade after Government Direct, Britons can now order their car tax and report broken street lights on the web. This autumn for the first time, everyone in England has been able to register for school places on the web.For all the talk of radical reform, however, government bureaucracy of 2006 is much the same as it was when the Spice Girls were in the charts. The latest rebranding of the e-revolution, under the name Transformational Government, is wrestling with the same questions raised by Government Direct - how to orient services around the user, how to authenticate citizens' identities electronically and how to share data in a legal and ethical way. We are no closer to creating a one-stop death notification service for the bereaved.Back in 1996, Muid says, "We were saying 'let's clear up this mess'." And what about now? "Now? We've got a digital interface to that mess."&#183; Online bureaucracyGovernment Direct set out seven principles for electronic public services. These were:&#183;Choice Electronic delivery to become the preferred option.&#183;Accessibility Services available whenever and wherever required, including by people in remote areas, with limited mobility or whose first language is not English.&#183;Confidence Information collected from citizens and businesses should be safeguarded.&#183;Integration Linking processes so that boundaries between government agencies are invisible to the user.&#183;Rationalisation Sharing resources and personal information, subject to the law.&#183;Open information Publicly available data readily accessible electronically in convenient and useful forms.&#183;Fraud prevention Individuals and companies dealing with government should be securely identified.If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
British health workers may be troubled by recent upheavals in the NHS, but in Japan some hospital staff are being challenged by a more profound concern: the threat of being replaced a machine.At a total cost of &pound;250,000, the Aizu Central Hospital in Aizu-wakamatsu has just bought two porter droids and one receptionist robot which started work last weekend, answering spoken enquiries, carrying luggage and guiding visitors and patients to their destinations.The wheeled, 1.5 metre high autonomous robots move through the 900-bed hospital with the aid of a laser-based motion detection system. Sensors measure the distance to the legs and feet of surrounding people 40 times a second to avoid collisions, and the robots follow coloured stripes on the hospitals corridors for direction. The robot porters can also find their way to the nearest power point when low on battery power.For now, they are destined only to work in tandem with flesh and blood staff. But their makers envisage future hospitals, offices and shops filled with uncomplaining droids that never take a tea break."We expect that the robot industry will grow into one equal to that of the car industry," said Shiro Fujita, the director-manager of the Tmsuk robot corporation that built and supplied the drones. "Healthcare work will be an important part of that industry."Lacking human characterBuilt by a special "service robot" division of Tmsuk - Japan's largest industrial robot manufacturer - the robots' purchase is being hailed as the first proper commercial deployment of androids, or second-generation robots, of this sophistication. Owing to their expense such droids are generally only leased out.Costing around $100,000 (&pound;52,600) robotic HelpMate hospital porters made in the US have been on the market for nearly a decade, but lack the humanoid characteristics many expect from androids, and are usually only available on hire."A service robot market has not yet been established. But we believe that the introduction of our three hospital workers is the first step in the development of a fully-fledged Japanese android industry," says Fujita.The company is now in talks to sell similar droids to a major Japanese department store, and is developing a wheelchair-like robot that would replace hospital porters, it said.The Japanese government is responding to this first wave of second-generation robots by drafting guidelines that will deal with the public safety issues of autonomous robots working alongside people. "It's important we insure the safety of the public in this new area," said a government spokesman. Presently there are no laws or guidelines governing the use of robots in public spaces.Tmsuk's wheeled androids are able to listen and respond to questions even when spoken in the local dialect. However, unlike their equivalents in Isaac Asimov's science fiction novels such as I, Robot (with the famous Three Laws of Robotics), they do not have any sense of avoiding harm to humans, by action or inaction. "But the robots do not have a means to protect themselves, and they only obey orders given by human beings," said Fujita.Brought up on likeable robots such as Atom Boy, Japan is more accepting of robots than western sensibilities. One survey shows that 83% of Japanese thought they would be able to live with robots.Although expensive now, prices should fall when companies such as Toyota, Honda and Fujitsu start mass-producing second-generation robots.Toyota recently set up a robots division and intends to start selling next-generation household robots in 2010 to help people receive visitors, raise children and provide nursing care for sick and elderly patients."Robots were first developed to work where humans found the work dirty, dangerous or too hard," says the head of Honda's humanoid robot research and development team Kazuo Hirai. "The next generation of robots will co-exist with humans."Fujitsu, which markets its own ENON droid, designed to work in offices and shops, foresees the worldwide service robot market growing to 100bn yen (&pound;446.6m) by 2010.Cute and friendlyJapan is particularly keen to develop robots to help care for the elderly because of its rapidly ageing population and lack of recruits, says Joseph Engelberger, the founding force behind industrial robotics, and considered the father of the modern robotics industry."We need multitasking robots that can think for themselves and do something useful. Working robots have to be something more than this," he says, referring to the Tmsuk robots. "The Japanese like to put a face on things, to make them look like a humans or animals."His box-shaped HelpMate robot is a far cry in appearance from Japanese commercial androids such as Tmsuk's hospital workers with their cat-like heads and human-shaped torso."We chose a cat's shape because we want the robot to have a cute, friendly appearance," said Fujita. "Children in particular seem to love being with the robots. So far they have proved a big hit with the staff and the public."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Saving your dataI run a small business from a Dell notebook PC, and the issue of data storage and backing up files is important to me. Can you give me some options to check out, and let me know if there are any web-based options?Ian MountfordJack Schofield replies:Everybody should always have backups of their data. There are two fairly simple ways to do this, and you should probably use both. The first is to burn important files to CD or DVD, and it's a good idea to make a straightforward copy of vital files at the end of business every day. The second option is to buy an external hard drive that can be used for daily or for continuous backups. For many years, I've recommended Centered's Second Copy, but Novosoft's Handy Back-up (www.handybackup.com) is among the many alternatives. See Friendly Computer Help (http://tinyurl.com/bm7zu) for a round-up.Today there are two more alternatives that can help. You can easily copy essential data to a USB memory stick or "thumb drive" and carry it around with you, and you can also store files online. Xdrive (www.xdrive.com/) which has been around for a very long time, has been bought by AOL, and offers 5GB of free space. There's a list of alternatives atwww.all-the-free-space.com/alpha.phtml. BT has just announced Digital Vault (www.btdigitalvault.bt.com), but it does not look competitive with Xdrive.Norton v Zone AlarmAfter purchasing the 2007 upgrade to Norton Anti-Virus, I was somewhat miffed to be told by the installation process that it would only install once I had removed Zone Alarm. Nothing was said on the box about any compatibility problems. Having no choice, I did what was asked, but I certainly won't be buying any more Symantec AV products. However, now the 2007 upgrade has safely been installed, can I re-install Zone Alarm?Peter MathersJS:Norton Anti-Virus 2007 contains some elements of a firewall, and appears to clash with Zone Alarm. You may be able to re-install Zone Alarm if you disable NAV's worm protection (via the Virus and Spyware Protection Options page). However, there's no way of knowing what Symantec is doing "under the hood" in undocumented ways that Microsoft does not support, so this is not the optimum solution. You could switch on the somewhat limited firewall in Windows XP SP2, or ask Symantec for a refund and find a different solution.Google Toolbar upgradesIs there anything I can do to prevent Google from downloading revisions to its toolbar without my knowledge or consent? Apart from the irritation factor, I had the toolbar tweaked to meet my needs. The new version does not allow me to restore these features, one of which no longer exists.Denise Scott FearsJS:Your web browser has access to the web, and the Google Toolbar works inside your browser, so there's no simple way of stopping it. Someone calling himself GooogleToolbarGuerilla was working on ways to deny updates, by disconnecting from the internet and setting the Google folder to deny access. He posted details in Google Groups (see Google Toolbar IE Help, Something's Broken) but these messages have been deleted. Searching for GooogleToolbarGuerilla (and clicking "repeat the search with the omitted results included") may still find them in Google's cache.Otherwise, Google can do whatever it likes with its own properties, including Google and Gmail, and you have no choice, except take it or leave it. Similarly, you can do what you like with your own PC. Google behaves as though Google Toolbar is part of Google, rather than part of your PC. If you don't like that, uninstall it.Backchat&#183;Last week, Shaun Durham asked about using VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) over Wi-Fi with his SPV M3100 mobile phone - Orange's version of the HTC Hermes running Windows Mobile 5. Phil Collerton has been using another version of this phone for "push" email. He says: "I travel every week to European countries and email access is far cheaper using GPRS roaming instead of BlackBerry roaming. One gripe is that I have not succeeded in getting the device to use Wi-Fi hotspots in preference to GPRS for email, although I do use mobile Skype whenever possible. The quality varies, but is no worse than desktop to desktop Skype."
I know too much about computers. More than is good for me around here. When somebody else's computer goes wrong – a program locks up or the broadband stops working - you can guess who they call first.Read the manual? It's easier to pick up the phone. Try switching the computer off and on to clear the fault? Far too simple when they can pester me instead. Take regular backups? You can bet your failing disk drive that nobody ever does that.I didn't ask to become the local but unofficial IT support. My mistake a few years ago was to let it slip that I "knew" about computers, and the word slowly spread. Of course, I did spend some time in my career programming the things and, later, writing about them, which eventually proved more fun. But I really don't want the job of fixing other people's problems when I'm meant to be writing.Take the man who runs an upmarket bed and breakfast from his lovely Grade II listed house. When I went to a funeral several months ago, afternoon tea was held in his beautifully restored barn. I spotted a wireless router by an oak beam and casually mentioned that I used the same make. Big mistake.I've since had several phone calls from him along the lines of "my computer locks up", "I cannot get a signal", or "should I install the software again?" Politely and very patiently, I've dealt with his calls while wondering why he didn't read the manual or isn't calling a real expert instead.His latest call for help proved a hoot. When he told me his broadband had failed, I suggested reading the manual, looking closely at the router's status lights when turning it on, and a call to his broadband service provider. I heard no more and he told me a few weeks later that somebody had plugged in a telephone without a microfilter.Other events also stick in the memory. Like the time I found porn links in somebody's browser history while showing that a new dial up connection I'd installed was working. Or the defective motherboard battery. The pirated software that would make Bill Gates gnash his teeth. Does nobody ever buy a program any more?I don't mind the pub landlord asking me about his problematic PC when I'm propping up the bar. Although I like to switch off from all things IT in the pub, you sometimes just cannot escape it.He just wants to get the job done and, like me, he really hates computer problems getting in the way. His latest battle was with a sluggish Microsoft Word; a quick reboot soon fixed that. And whereas other people might not always remember to say thanks, he also knows that I have a weakness for wine.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
You might not think of Lycos all that often, but apparently it is "the fifth most popular portal in the US, consistently ranked as a top 20 US Web property, with more than 6 million monthly unique visitors using LYCOS Network Search". It's a healthy chunk of business, and now Lycos says it is going to get its search results from Ask.com, instead of from Microsoft Live Search.Search Engine Watchhas just posted the press release.The switch is going to increase Ask's market share and decrease Microsoft's -- and Microsoft is already doing badly in the search market.Comment: We recently interviewed Ask's CEO, Jim Lanzone. See:What happened after they killed the butler
"There are now more than 100 million web sites on the Internet, which gained 3.5 million sites last month to continue the dynamic growth seen throughout 2006. In the November 2006 survey we received responses from 101,435,253 sites, up from 97.9 million sites last month," reportsNetcraft."The 100 million site milestone caps an extraordinary year in which the Internet has already added 27.4 million sites, easily topping the previous full-year growth record of 17 million from 2005. The Internet has doubled in size since May 2004, when the survey hit 50 million."(Click image for larger version)
Perhaps you've noticed theFree Our Data campaignthat's been running in the Technology section since March. And now, here's a key date: November 21, when the European Parliament will decide whether to pass the Inspire directive, which mandates that government agencies should make their data available for free to each other.That's got the Ordnance Survey rather upset.In thisTimes interview, Vanessa Lawrence, its chief executive, sounds off on it:"We cost £100 million a year to run," she says. "We don't make massive profits but we make enough to cover our costs, pay the Government a 5.5 per cent dividend and to invest in what our customers want. If we move to free data then it would be taxpayers' money which is used to pay for our work, and I believe that our taxes should not be used for things that can be sustained in other ways. I feel strongly that we should be able to continue the job we do in the way we do it."Well, yes, it would be taxpayers' money paying for it. Unlike now, when taxpayers' money pays for (near as dammit) half of it (because half of the OS's revenues come from sales to local government and other government organisations), and private companies pay for the other half, and who knows what might be generated by private companies - a la Google Maps - if we could all get our hands on the data for free?A group I've never heard of called the Taxpayers' Alliance - TPA - (though its chief executiveused to be an advisorto very-right MP Bill Cash) has posted on its neo-blog (since you can't comment to correct their errors of fact) agrumpy complaintthat could have been channeled from the mind of Paul Dacre, editor of the Daily Mail. Though we have to say it'sneatly rebuttedby Heather Brooke on the Your Right To Know blog:TPA claim that public and private organisations are "happy to pay", but what of the budding businesses and good ideas that never even got off the ground because they couldn't afford the [Ordnance Survey] fees? There's a thriving, tax-paying mapping industry built on the back of the geospatial data provided for free by the US Government. The mapping industry in Europe is comparatively moribund.At the same time, we agree also with Heather's other point: we don't want to see OS privatised. It performs a useful, nay, vital function; in the private sector it couldn't perform as well. What's needed is an OS which delights in getting the best data possible for everyone, and making it available for everyone who has paid for it - which would be all of us, through our taxes.Meanwhile, let's keep watch on November 21.
As expected, the World DAB Forum meeting in South Korea has adopted the AAC+ codec for DAB digital radio, according toCoding Technologies.However, the UK may be left behind with an outmoded and underperforming technology based on the old MP2 codec, which (at the low bit-rates used here) results in Britain's DAB radio sounding worse than FM. At least, that's the best I can say today, having been told by Ofcom's press office that "we don't have any plans to adopt [AAC+] in the UK."This could mean almost anything. It could mean that Ofcom isn't ready to say anything, hasn't made a decision, or doesn't have a clue what's going on. I just hope it doesn't mean that, having made a bad decision, it's going to stick to it regardless, because in my view, AAC is unstoppable.AAC/AAC+ has already been adopted for Digital Radio Mondiale, andas I pointed out in a recent column, is used in the Apple iPod/iTunes system. Lots of radio stations, including Virgin, are already "broadcasting" using AAC because they are doing it over the Web. And as Coding Technologies points out:MPEG-4 aacPlus is already standardised in all digital mobile TV technologies, including DVB-H, MediaFlo, ISDB 1-seg and T-DMB, the worldwide standard based on DAB. In addition, aacPlus is a standard feature in a growing list of more than 200 media/entertainment products from companies such as Nokia, Motorola, Sony Ericsson, Alcatel, Casio, Hitachi, Kyocera, LG, Siemens and Toshiba. Coding Technologies estimates there will be more than 100 million mobile devices supporting aacPlus by the end of 2006.Australia chose AAC+ for its DAB standard even before the World DAB Forum announcement.Using MP2 might have been a good idea in 1995 but today it makes no sense at all.The question is whether the UK is going to move to AAC+ with the rest of the world or be left behind. The obvious way forward is to support both MP2 and AAC+ in parallel until MP2 can be turned off -- which will eventually make current DAB radios obsolete. As Coding Technologies says:In Europe, markets with a slow adoption of the DAB standard can easily switch to aacPlus, immediately offering new opportunities to broadcasters. In established markets such as the UK, the use of both the new audio codec alongside the existing Layer-2 allows broadcasters to add new services in the available spectrum.I had hoped that that was the line Ofcom was going to take. And maybe it will, later. After all, if the UK canconsiderturning off FM, making tens of millions of radios obsolete, it should have the guts to do the same for the pitiful 3.5 million DAB radios sold in the past decade.In the meantime, if you are planning to buy a DAB radio, ask whether it can be upgraded to support AAC+. If not, does it come with a money-back guarantee?
The website of the Internet Governance Forum, which is discussing how to make the net available and reliable in the developing world, suffered a rather embarrassing crash.
What are Google up to at the Internet Governance Forum?Today the search engine-cum-intergalactic empire formed what UN wonks like to call a 'dynamic coalition' on the issue of free expression and access to knowledge.Its partners include everyone from Sun Microsystems to the Brazilian government to Egypt's Library of Alexandria. The emphasis is on questions of copyright and intellectual property which, let's face it, is pretty crucial to Google's billion dollar business model.Andrew McLaughlin, director of international policy at Google, told a sparsely attended press conference: 'Copyright and copyright protection really matter. It's important that people can put material on the net and feel they are protected and get rewarded for what they create. At the same time it's important to balance consumers' access to knowledge.'The important thing to hear is that this is about a robust, sustainable, balanced copyright system that will promote freedom of expression and a public sphere of information. Copyright protection should be strong and adequate to the needs of copyright owners, and at the same time we're really trying to think ahead with the interests of the developing world in mind, so it serves the needs of the next billion people coming online in the next few years.'The unofficial leader of the group is Robin Gross, a 'cyber lawyer' and founder of IP Justice: www.ipjustice.org
"All 41 of GNER's electric and diesel trains now have Wi-Fi on board, offering passengers the ability to surf the internet and send and receive email throughout the East Coast Main Line route," says the company."The news means GNER now operates the world's biggest fleet of wireless internet equipped train carriages, and Britain's first all-Wi-Fi train fleet. The project was due to be completed in May 2007, but has now been finished more than seven months ahead of schedule."It's free for first class passengers but expensive otherwise: from £2.95 for half an hour, to £9.95 for 24 hours.If you are going to be stuck on a train for 24 hours, of course that would be good value -- if you have the battery or mains power to make use of it.
