Greenpeace has published a second edition of itsGreen Electronics Guide, and this time, Nokia (7.3) is at the top, with a slim lead over Dell (7.0) and Fujitsu-Siemens (6.0). However, Apple is still bottom, and making "no progress". TheApple entrysays:For a company that claims to lead on product design, it is perhaps surprising to find Apple at the bottom of the scorecard - moving down from 10th place. While other laggards have moved upwards in the Guide, Apple has made no changes to its policies or practices since the launch of the Guide in August 2006. The company scores badly on almost all criteria. Apple fails to embrace the precautionary principle, withholds its full list of regulated substances and provides no timelines for eliminating toxic polyvinyl chloride(PVC) and no commitment to phasing out all uses of brominated flame retardants (BFRs). Apple performs poorly on product take back and recycling, with the exception of reporting on the amounts of its electronic waste recycled.Comment: It's odd that Apple appears to have done nothing to defuse this situation, because it could raise its score dramatically without changing itsproducts, just by making somestatementsabout committments and intents.
I have been wanting to replace my six-year-old Windows Me laptop for some time. I was looking forward to Windows XP, but now wonder if I should wait for Vista at the end of January. Jenifer BlairSince you have no experience of Windows XP at the moment, I don't see any point in learning it. You might as well make the great leap forward to Vista, which will probably carry you through the next six years. There may be some teething problems, but Vista has gone through extensive beta testing and your normal use of the machine for web and word processing is unlikely to push it into unknown areas.Vista needs around twice as much memory as XP -- go for 1GB or more -- and a better graphics card for all the visual effects, but the standard XP machine is likely to have the same spec as a standard Vista machine by the end of January.Even people who want an XP machine may want to wait for Vista, because there could be some bargains around as laptops that aren't quite up to spec are sold off.
When I travel, I usually take copies of my photos on CDs and show them on my laptop or someone else's PC, but wonder if there is a simpler way. I have looked at the DigiMate III 40GB Photo Bank but I am not sure whether this is what I need. Carola LangfordThe DigiMate III is a lot like a portable music player except that it doesn't play music. It appeals to photographers because it lets them transfer photos from various storage cards to the big DigiMate hard drive without using a computer; the empty cards then go back into the camera to take more photos. If you don't need memory card support, you could use an ordinary MP3 player to display photos, though you might want to look at the Archos models with 4.3in LCD colour screens. These double as music and video players, and would enable you to produce slide shows with background music and transition effects.If you don't actually need a device that displays photos, then USB memory drives are the cheapest and simplest way to carry lots of pictures around.Backchat: Graeme Shaw says an alternative to the Digimate III is theVosonic 8360, which can read most memory cards.
I recently downloaded Avast antivirus software and deleted five files. Now when I boot up, an error message says: Windows cannot find "C:\Program Files\Common Files\Microsoft Shared\Web Folders\ibm00003.exe" etc. How can I stop this message appearing? Is the file important? David SweeneyProbably ibm00003.exe (the number can vary) was part of the W32.Spybot.Worm -- a Trojan used to steal passwords -- so the first thing to do is to change all of yours, especially ones connected with home banking and shopping. The Trojan was set up to load with Windows Explorer, and now you have (correctly) deleted the file, Windows is simply telling you it can't find it. You need to tell Windows to stop looking for it.Possibly the simplest way is to download HiJackThis. Close Internet Explorer and other applications and run HJT to scan your computer and produce a list of things that are being loaded. Almost all of these will be fine. However, there should be a line that says: F2 - REG:system.ini: Shell=explorer.exe "C:\Program Files\Common Files\Microsoft Shared\Web Folders\ibm00003.exe". Check this line and click Fix Checked.Symantec says that W32.Spybot is "a family of worms that spreads using the KaZaA file-sharing network and mIRC" (Internet Relay Chat).
Best GadgetsMP3 playersApple iPod (&pound;250)Still way ahead of the pack. The enhanced screen, additional storage (the top-end model is now 80GB) and improved battery life give it the edge over its rivals.SanDisk e270 (&pound;130)The year's surprise hit. Not as elegant as the iPod nano, but a great 6GB player packed with useful features such as an integrated voice recorder, video playback and an SD card expansion slot.CamerasNikon D80 (&pound;700)The latest in the D series of digital SLRs is winner. Nikon has taken the bare bones of the popular D70 and added extra megapixels (it is now 10.2), a large monitor and in-camera editing facilities. Other DSLRs that caught our eye include the Canon EOS 400D and Sony's DSLR-A100.Nokia N93 (price subject to contract)Yes, I know it is also a phone, but the 3-megapixel camera in the N93 highlighted why makers of compact cameras should be looking over their shoulders at new phones. The images the N93 takes are excellent, it has plenty of compact camera-style facilities and the video quality is the best seen on a mobile. Sony Ericsson's K800i and LG's 5-megapixel KG920 also upped the ante in the cameraphone market.TelevisionSky HD (price depends on package)Thanks to Sky and Telewest, high- definition TV finally reached the UK this year. Sky's package is the more comprehensive of the two. Picture quality is generally superb, especially on the sports and documentary channels. The BBC's output, also on the Sky platform, has some real gems too.Mobile phonesT-Mobile MDA Vario II (price subject to contract)This Windows-based PDA-style handset set is fast becoming the first choice for those who want to access the web on the move. As well as all the usual Windows staples (Outlook, Media Player etc) it has HSDPA connectivity for download speeds that are up to four times faster than 3G, and a quality Qwerty keyboard.Sony Ericsson W950iArguably the first phone really to offer an alternative to the standalone music player, the 950i has 4GB of storage, a superb screen that can display album artwork, an RSS reader and excellent battery life. Get it via 3's just launched X-series tariff and you can make free Skype calls, too.MiscellaneousION USB turntable (&pound;120)A vinyl turntable that connects to a PC via USB. It offers a very quick and efficient way of transferring music from your records to a hard drive.Vodafone Mobile Connect Modem (price depends on package)The first HSDPA modem (offering download speeds of up to 1.8Mbps) that connects to a laptop via USB. It is very easy to use and you can swap it between PCs. And unlike a lot of its rivals, it also works with Macs.Sony HDR-HC3 (&pound;700)The first almost affordable high-definition camcorder. Picture quality is outstanding. It is, however, a little fiddly to use.Wait until next yearBlu-ray/HD-DVDThere's no denying that the next-generation DVD players deliver superb quality high-definition pictures. But it is probably worth waiting a while until there is more software available and a clearer view on which, if any, of the two formats takes a lead before investing.Philips WACS 7000 (&pound;600)This revamp of the excellent WACS 700 wireless music system should land in spring. It now has more storage, iPod compatibility and the option of an alarm clock that wakes you up with your favourite song.AvoidiPod shuffle (&pound;55)OK, so it might be small and cute, but you really are better off buying a music player with a screen or maybe even a flash memory card for your mobile phone.Samsung Q1 Mobile PC (&pound;800)Ultra mobile PCs may look great and boast some innovative features. But &pound;800 for a keyboard-less PC?LG KG810This is just a poor version of the Motorola RAZR.
Every week we get more letters and blog pingbacks than we have space to print on paper. (Boy, we really did this week.) Here's the full text of those from which we eventually made our choice.IS VISTA A SAFER WINDOWS?*sigh* No it won't ('Will Vista keep my PC safe?', November 30), for the same reason as always. Each version of Windows has to support the legacy software or cause customer meltdown, and the kernel simply isn't written for security, but features. Sure the malware writers attack it because it has market domination ...but also because it's EASY. I moved to Linux several years ago, and my laptop runs OS X, and I have *never* had an exploit. The security warnings and patches get issued before any exploits are written. So if you want a pretty desktop, by all means go Vista, but you are committing yourself to living in a cesspit. And i have no sympathy for you. Eleanor Lister, South Sydney Greens, AustraliaWI-FI: FEEL SAFE?I'm glad you ran this article, and I understand that you are trying to remain fair and balanced, I respect that. Unfortunately, the question of EMF Sensitivity is pretty silly. Gear Factor in the Wired Magazine (http://blog.wired.com/gadgets/2006/12/can_wifi_make_y.html) made a pretty good argument when they said "to claim to be sensitive to Wi-Fi specifically isn't a claim about being sensitive to electromagnetism: radiation on these wavelengths is ubiquitous, and removing Wi-Fi from your home is like removing a single violin from an orchestra." Also, 2.4 GHz falls under the category of non-ionizing radiation, so there is almost no chance of it being able to cause cancer the way people think "radiation" can. Felix Sargent, San Rafael, CaliforniaIs the Kate Figes who claims to suffer from Wi-Fi sickness the same Kate Figes who also protested against mobile phone masts, and neglected to have her children vaccinated against MMR? What a surprise. David McKeegan, Coventry[It is incorrect to say she 'neglected' to give her children the MMR vaccination. An older child received the MMR vaccination; Ms Figes chose to have a younger one given separate measles, mumps and rubella vaccinations - Tech Ed.]Can you explain to me why Sir William Stewart has recommended a precautionary approach in connection with the roll out of microwave communication technology - presumably he is worried about something? Microwaves interact with the rotational component of water's heat capacity. This excess rotational energy then dissipates throughout the medium as translational and vibrational energy and there is a general increase of the temperature of the medium. The microwaves penetrate soft tissue - this is a fairly loose term, but the point being made that it can get into the body where it can do some damage There are lots of papers that deal with biological effects - for example check out the work of Prof Ross Adey and Lai - you'll have to cast your net wider thanpubmedand WHO [for theEMF studies database]. You are right to ask for a clear link between biological effects and ill health - this is a point to be debated - but if I see work that indicates that an EMF wave can cause changes in calcium efflux from cells and that microwaves can cause double strand DNA breaks then I think that we should be diverting some of the billions made by this technology into a substantial independent research programme. Ian Dring, Dartmouth, DevonThe issue of people getting sicker when they participate in experiments, as you are suggesting, is a big one, and I don't think any of us should take this on if it jeopardises our health. There is another way to look at research, which includes "clinical evidence" and self-reported symptoms, which I know the mainstream scientific community likes to dismiss. But who is to say that the ONLY way to prove an effect is through randomised Controlled studies ? If we only accept one way of approaching this topic then proof is always going to be seen as inadequate, because really sick people will not come forward for testing and others who are only just beginning to be sensitive will not produce the results you expect to prove your case. By the time these people do produce severe symptoms it may be too late for them to return to health. In drug trials only HEALTHY volunteers are recruited for the early stages, and these are carried out with the intention (so they say) of finding a way to help sick people recover. You could question the ethics of taking sick people and experimenting on them to make them sicker. It is not as if we have a treatment that can instantly restore health after one of these tests, so volunteers know that they will not go away feeling terrible, and perhaps put back their recovery. I have been treating ES for a few years now and I always emphasise to everyone affected that avoiding the "allergen", in this case EMFs, is essential to allow the body to heal.I believe the first rule of medicine is "do no harm", and for good reasons. No-one would expect someone with peanut allergy to "try one" in the interests of seeing whether or not they are affected by this food stuff. It is helpful to think of ES syndrome as being in some ways similar to an allergic reaction. It is also true that not everyone is going to show symptoms when exposed to peanuts, so not everyone is affected by eating peanuts, but we fully accept this is a life-threatening allergen for some people. We also accept, again from clinical experience, that people who are going to develop an allergic reaction to peanuts often don't have their most serious episode until their second or third exposure. So the first exposure is like a warning signal, and if heeded and precautions exercised the allergic person will not get sick. In the case of ES, they are asking people to make themselves sicker IN THE NAME OF SCIENCE. When did science become so de-humanised ? Patty Hemingway, LondonI would love to participate [in a test for EMF sensitivity] and to score highly to prove to you and your scientists, but I dread the consequences which will abound later the same day - arrhythmia, right eye throbbing, right ear buzzing as load as an alarm clock, adrenaline overload to name a few symptoms. I will then need a treatment which at £100 both dents my overdraft further and risks the health that I do still rebuild on every day. If you can think of something more palatable to a true EHS then please do contact me again. Otherwise, I will live my quiet life with its simple pleasures away from anything remotely high tech. So I may decline this time. Sarah Dacre, London&gt;&gt; The debate, naturally enough, centres on the whether radio waves can have the claimed effects. What many, including the Guardian, ignore, is that to claim to be sensitive to Wi-Fi specifically isn't a claim about being sensitive to electromagnetism: radiation on these wavelengths is ubiquitous, and removing Wi-Fi from your home is like removing a single violin from an orchestra. Victims like Kate Figes, then, must surely be claiming a physical sensitivity to the data that Wi-Fi signals encapsulate. What else is there to distinguish IEEE 802.11 from everything else chattering on between 900Mhz and 5.2Ghz? Signal strength, perhaps?http://blog.wired.com/gadgets/2006/12/can_wifi_make_y.html&gt;&gt; I am not opposed to the notion that some people are electromagnetically extra sensitive. It's only reasonable, in fact, that that could be the case. But it's easy to prove through double-blind studies. Simply turning off a Wi-Fi gateway in a classroom because a teacher complained about it, and having that "solve" that teacher's problem is ignorance incarnate because hundreds or thousands of signals from other devices in similar bands are still operating, possibly at higher levels, in the same space.http://wifinetnews.com/archives/007162.html[We will return to this subject in a later issue. Kate Figes has written anarticle about her concernswhich you can find on the Guardian's Comment if Free site. - Tech. Ed]SHUTTING DOWN VISTAIn "How many people does it take to turn off a Vista PC?", Charles Arthur asks how many people it took Apple to turn off OS X. The answer is four. Seehttp://arno.org/blog/2006/11/design-of-mac-os-x-shutdown-feature.htmlMark Vanderbeeken, Turin, ItalyI read this article with amusement. The last paragraph struck me though. I quote: "The lowest common denominator, the simplest and least controversial option" Where I work, we call this the "Option 2", with vague pretensions to Catch 22, and the logic goes something like this: Option one is always the throwaway option, the do nothing option, there simply to make up the numbers. Option three is the most expensive, most elaborate option, there to scare the life out of the manager/person in charge of budget, because it is sure to do everything, but cost the earth. So one is left with Option 2, the option that offends no one, the blandest, safest, beige-est option, designed to cause no earthquakes. It always gets the go ahead, because no one can criticise it. But the end result is that no one can say anything good about it either. It is what it is: inoffensive, harmless, charmless, lukewarm water. It happens in all corporations all over the world. Tom Kan, LondonSECOND LIFE&gt;&gt; Talking to Alan Patrick over at Broadstuff I have been coming to the conclusion (and I think maybe this was his idea) that SL is too difficult to use to hit the mainstream and that there is space for something that has an easier learning curve. That could bring more people in and they might be people who were more interested in embracing the types of commercialism that is so upsetting many SL residents.http://www.theequitykicker.com/2006/12/01/second-life-grows-up/&gt;&gt; Aleks Krotoski has a great piece about digital violence over at Second Life where that blossoming virtual community is now under attack by opportunistic and malicious … programs. It's not only art that imitates life, it's virtually impossible to escape our human inadequacies even when humans are not physically present in the environment.http://joeduck.wordpress.com/2006/11/30/techmeme-paid-blogging-and-zunes/
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too at http://technology.guardian.co.uk/weekly/ and deals, among other topics, with ways to stop phishing, offers the gadgets of the year (and of no year), which games console to buy, a 'leak' of details about Apple's iPhone, sculpture with computers, and our Christmas appeal.Can banks elude online sharks?Criminals often steal account details via fake websites. Danny Bradbury investigates whether different registration rules could stem fraud - or if ".bank" would do it at once.Christmas charity appealHelp generate energy cheaply, renewably and on a small scale.Playing games in a green and pleasant landKeith Stuart: It is a quiet irony of videogame technology that the more complex the hardware, the more games we'll see based in natural, organic environments.The coolest gizmos to grab this ChristmasMP3 players, cameras, mobile pones ...Mio A701PDAs with integrated GPS have been around for a while. The Mio A701 raises the bar in that, given its size, it is more of a smartphone than an oldschool PDA.Samsung Z560In many ways the Samsung Z560 - which is the first standard handset, as opposed to a smartphone, to sport HSDPA functionality - is a real breakthrough.Sony VRD-MC3Moving your video from tape to DVD can be a time-consuming and tricky business. Sony has recognised this and delivered the VRD-MC3, a DVD burner that it claims makes transferring video from any source (camcorder, hard disk, VHS) on to DVD a breeze.Should you buy a Wii or an Xbox 360, or wait for the PS3?It depends on your self-image, or that of the person you're buying it for.Is Kevin Rose right about the details of Apple's iPhone?Given his track record, he very well might be. Early in September last year, Rose posted on his Typepad blog about an upcoming product from Apple: a new slimline form of the iPod, which he said would be called the "nano". People scoffed.Citizens' democracy is having an impactVictor Keegan: About 15 months ago I went, rather dutifully, to a meeting about digital rights in London's Soho. I was amazed to find quite a big crowd talking animatedly about a subject that was difficult to raise in polite conversation at the time.TechnobileKate Bevan: The only woman who would buy pink gadgets is Paris Hilton - and who wants to be like her?Ordnance Survey comes under renewed pressureThe mapping agency faces criticism as OFT prepares to publish its study into the commercial use of public-sector information.Computers transform the cutting edge of sculptureTechniques hundreds of years old are being updated and made faster and more accurate by laser scans.My PC's year of living dangerously onlineJack Schofield: Jim Allchin, the departing boss of Windows development at Microsoft, accidentally caused a stir when he was reported as saying that Vista did not need antivirus software. He said no such thing.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants tomailto:tech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.NewsbytesSafer for i-Kids | Microsoft previews Expression | Final Fantasy III | Ronaldinho signs for Lenov | IBM sues over fun-sized mainframes | BitTorrent adds studios | Alcatel-Lucent
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday December 11 2006In the article below, we gave the price of Nintendo's Wii console at &#163;129.99. That should have been &#163;179.99.It depends on your self-image, or that of the person you're buying it for. Nintendo's Wii goes on sale in Europe tomorrow with its innovative motion-sensing TV remote-like controller. At &#163;179.99, it's the perfect family-friendly console with family-friendly games.That's not to say you can't make hardcore games for the Wii. The universally appealing epic Legend of Zelda: The Twilight Princess and the more grown-up Metroid Prime: Corruption prove that you can. But if when you look in the mirror you see a hardcore gamer in need of the highest technology on offer, then you would be better off with Microsoft's Xbox 360, which costs around &pound;200 for the core system with no extras.If you've not got a 360 and can bear the delayed gratification (since you've had an entire 12 months to buy one already) you might want to wait until next March, as rumours abound of a possible Xbox 360 price cut - perhaps to coincide with the European release of Sony's PlayStation 3. Microsoft must be somewhat reluctant to drop the Xbox 360's price, though, as it has only just started (in the past fortnight) making a profit on each console sold. Merrill Lynch Japan Securities recently estimated that Sony will make a loss of $240 (&pound;121) on every PS3 sold.Nintendo, meanwhile, is crowing - it refuses to play the loss-leader game and boasts of making a profit on every console or handheld it sells. Under the bonnet, the Wii is very low-tech, but the innovative thinking that led to its mould-breaking control system effectively masks its weediness. And perversely, that lack of power means developers can create games for it without needing large (and expensive) teams of programmers, artists and animators.The PS3, which will arrive in Europe in March, is a fine machine bristling with technology that will, eventually, outgun the Xbox 360. But it only has two compelling launch games - Resistance: Fall of Man and MotorStorm - and buying it means paying &pound;425 to have a console nobody else does: unless you have pre-ordered, you stand no chance of getting one of the first to arrive in the UK.At the moment, Nintendo and Microsoft look like the big winners in the next-generation console wars. Nintendo is set to make the most money, while Microsoft garners the most credibility among gamers. Sony won't be joining the party in any significant way until late next year.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The debate over which is the more powerful next-gen games console has been raging for over a year, but in the last few weeks we've finally been able to pore over some first-hand evidence. The Call of Duty 3 conversions to Xbox 360 and PS3 are more closely comparable, perhaps, than many fanboys on either side would have predicted. More interesting is the unspoken rivalry between Gears of War and Resistance: Fall of Man - two showboating FPS titles with similar themes and environments.One thing has become clear. Totting up specs isn't going to help us choose a winner. On paper, PS3 has more raw processing grunt than Xbox 360, but at the moment - with second generation titles under their belts - developers seem to be extracting more performance out of Xbox 360. That's natural considering their greater experience with the platform. The question is, how much further can Xbox go?Frankly, the only views that matter in this debate are those of programmers who have experience with next-gen hardware. So this week I spoke to Richard Hackett a head of technology atBlitz Gamesabout his experiences with both machines. He feels that CELL has an ace up its sleeve and it's not something you might have predicted...The debate over graphics on Xbox 360 and PS3 is still raging online, with developers coming out on both sides to claim superiority. As an independent developer how do you compare the two formats in terms of visuals?In essence the two systems are actually fairly closely matched in terms of graphics. The jump to HD is a major step up in visual quality and that is delivered by both systems. The difference between 720p and 1080i will be fairly academic for some time as there are very few mass market TVs out there at the moment that support native 1080 resolution, and I'm not sure the average consumer sees the difference between them anyway.At Blitz our cross platform technology enables us to develop simultaneously for both systems and spend our time playing to the strengths of each. Of course developers have had longer to get to grips with the X360 but you can be sure we won't see the full potential of the either system and especially the PS3 for some time yet.One developer haspublicly(although anonymously) stated that Xbox 360 - in games programming terms - is the better machine as the GPU is more powerful, providing greater pixel and vertex processing horsepower. Do you concur at all? Is this really what it all comes down to?The X360 GPU is slightly more flexible due to the subtle differences between the respective architectures of the nVidia and ATI chipset. Certain shader restrictions are lifted or easier to work around on X360. The bandwidth of the X360 GPU is pretty massive too, though partly this is balanced out by the differences in VRAM layout of the two systems that means the Xbox needs to move graphics data around the system more than the PS3 does. While the GPUs are fast and have a big impact on the visual quality and level of game effects, other factors such as general processing power and memory architecture also come into play.I've heard that third-party PS3 developers are currently under using the machine's seven 'SPE' processors. How are you planning to employ them? Do you have specific tasks in mind for specific SPEs as some first-party developers seem to be doing?It does seem that developers have been slow to make use of the SPEs, especially those coming from other platforms perhaps with existing game engines.At Blitz we are not reserving SPEs for specific tasks but have implemented a more dynamic system that automatically dispatches processing to each SPE making best use of the available resources. It works something like a distributed computing system, SETI@home being a famous example of that kind of technology. For instance in one of our projects we have hundreds of enemies on-screen and the processing for their animation and AI is split up and automatically sent to each SPE dynamically whenever there is processing time available.So how do you see PS3 titles developing, visually, as we see the second and third generation of games? What specific new visual elements will we see?As a result of the kind of processing power we have available we're going to see a lot more procedurally generated effects and dynamic visuals than we've seen before. This means not all game visuals will be created by an artist in the traditional way, an increasing amount will be created in real-time from algorithms and parameters.To make sure the artists stay in control and we don't resort to graphics created only by programmers (which is often a bad thing), we're working on systems for artists to create and edit these systems themselves without needing a degree in Software Engineering.Is there anything you're able to do, visually, on PS3 that you can't on Xbox 360?Certain procedural effects are easier to create on the PS3 because of the power of the SPEs. Effects like water simulations, especially when you move beyond simple surface effects to fluid dynamics require the kind of algorithms that are really suited to the CELL architecture. Having said that the slightly more flexible GPU and unified memory model on X360 allows some neat tricks that level the playing field somewhat. It will be interesting to see what emerges with video processing and EyeToy as well - CELL is designed for streaming and image processing applications in mind. I think we'll see both new visuals and game play out of that.As an aside the audio technology running on CELL created by the guys in the SCEE Technology Group in London is pretty amazing, opening out loads more possibilities for real-time audio effects to enhance the visuals, something that is often overlooked but is an important part of increasing gamer immersion.
Zelda, Company of Heroes, Psychonauts, Oblivion, erm, Superman Returns - yes, it's Game of the Year time again. The three of us will be announcing our Top 5's later in December - mainly because we couldn't agree on five between us - but in the meantime use this blog to let us know what we should be including. And yes, we're looking for the worst game of the year too. So 2006 then, what games would get in your top 5 and which one deserves ridicule?
"MySpace is teaming up with Sentinel Tech Holding to build and deploy within 30 days a database that will contain the names and physical descriptions of convicted sex offenders in the United States. An automated system will search for matches between the database and MySpace user profiles. Employees then will delete any profiles that match," reportsAP.Image-recognition software and other techniques are being considered to identify sex offenders who do not use their real names. In the meantime, [John Cardillo, MySpace CEO] said, the database technology won't catch everyone but "will be highly effective". He declined to elaborate or provide any quantifiable targets.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
"Microsoft wants to make its Windows operating system available on the One Laptop per Child (OLPC) notebook computers, OLPC chairman Nicholas Negroponte said at the NetEvents conference in Hong Kong on Saturday," according toVNUnet."I have known [Microsoft chairman] Bill Gates his entire adult life. We talk, we meet one-on-one, we discuss this project," said Negroponte, vnunet.com can reveal."We put in an SD slot in the machine just for Bill. We didn't need it but the OLPC machines are at Microsoft right now, getting Windows put on them."Comment: Unfortunately, VNUnet seems to assume Microsoft is putting Windows XP on the machines, which is unlikely though (withXP Embedded) possible. Much more likely is a version of Windows CE, which is already used in mobile phones (as Windows Mobile), and which is "shared source".However, Microsoft already tried this. CE was used in theAMD PIC third-world computer, which flopped. The main appeal of running "real" Windows XP on a $300 laptop, rather than a $150 OLPC, is that users can pirate expensive mainstream software, especially Microsoft Office, Photoshop, and loads of games. They can't do that with CE, so what's the point?Footnote: Another report from the same event,Negroponte: Laptops are like "fat people", says:Explaining his analogy, Negroponte explained that as fat people use most of their muscle to move their fat, conventional laptops need more ever more muscle to move the fat of bloatware on them. This makes them prone to instability, Negroponte said: "My (conventional) computer, Crashes five times a day."This is odd. Negroponte is a Mac user. Hasn't he upgraded to OS X?
Wonderlandreports that Shawn Fanning, creator of peer-to-peer filesharing site Napster, has announced Rupture, a kind of "MyWoW" or social networking space for players of MMOG World of Warcraft. From an article inBusiness Week:Using an add on or a software download, Rupture taps into the game to automatically pull together character names, profiles, and resources, and publish them on a personalized site. Rupture will also pull together stats to create individual and guild rankings and provide a place for guilds to organize their playing. As Rupture tracks each member's playing over time, these personalized profiles evolve. And players will be able to chat in groups or with other individuals and download other addons and game demos.Back in the day, Ipostedsomething about the marriage between MMOGs and social networking sites, and the resulting comments were overwhelmingly negative (to the point of causing someone very rudely to snore). Most people didn't want this at all. Then again, there weren't 7 million people in Warcraft back then. Does this announcement, and the realities of negotiating through a phenomenally huge world, change anyone's opinion?
"Yahoo! Inc, a leading global Internet company, today announced a reorganization of its structure and management to align its operations with its key customer segments -- audiences, advertisers and publishers -- and more effectively leverage Yahoo!'s significant strengths to capture future opportunities for growth," saysYahoo's press release.Terry Semel, Yahoo's chairman and CEO, tries toexplain what it means, without actually mentioning the elephant in the room. Fact is, Google's shares are up to around $500 while Yahoo's have sunk below $30. Google has a licence to print money, and Yahoo doesn't.There are big reports inThe New York Timesand theLA Times, among others.The main loser seems to be Lloyd Braun, "who joined Yahoo two years ago with ambitious plans to develop original programming for the Internet from a base in Santa Monica, Calif. He scaled back his plans after run-ins with Yahoo's management ... over budgets," says The New York Times. According to the LA Times:Braun said his resignation was not prompted specifically by the restructuring. "I accomplished most of my goals in coming here," he said. "I'm really ready for another challenge, perhaps one that combines old media and new media."Comment: Have we said goodbye to the idea of Yahoo becoming a major source of programming, like a Web-based TV channel? Did anybody care?
Sony Computer Entertainment America has made the first batch of downloadable PSone classics available on its PlayStation Network service. US gamers will be able to purchase Cool Boarders, Crash Bandicoot, Hot Shots Golf 2, Syphon Filter and Tekken 2 via PS3 (at USD5.99 each), then download these to PSP via a USB cable. This line-up differs substantially from the Japanese selection which features Resident Evil: Director's Cut, Silent Bomber and Mr Driller. More infohere.It's a bit of a convoluted business at the moment, but Sony says that it'll offer a direct download service for PSP owners soon - as well as a selection of retro downloads specifically for PS3. Obviously, PS3 will also offer a selection of new downloadable titles... and it seems PSP will too: Sumo Digital told me last month that they're working on a downloadable title for Sony's portable console.In the meantime, we'll probably get a different selection of retro PS3 to PSP downloads in Europe. I'm guessing Wipeout will top the list.
The Microsoft product naming system has come up with another stunner: Windows Presentation Foundation/ Everywhere. It looks as though this takes a subset of the Windows Vista graphics system (WPF, formerly code-named Avalon) and makes it usable on the Web. This should make it much simpler to code Web-based Windows applications. However, since "Windows based" and "Web applications" is never going to fly beyond a corporate firewall, WPF/E is needed so anyone can run the things in a browser.The announcement of the preview version on ScottGu's blogsays:WPF/E delivers a small client runtime that enables AJAX developers and designers to deliver richer, cross-platform, interactive web experiences. It will allow applications to go beyond what can be done with pure HTML today, and will enable sites to significantly improve the client user experience by blending HTML UI, Dynamic Vector Graphics, Animation and Media into a seamless cross-platform browser experience.The features include 2D vector graphics, audio/video playback, advanced text rendering, animation and other graphical effects, excluding 3D graphics.Also:This first CTP [community technology preview] runs on both Windows and Macintosh systems (both x86 and PowerPC), and supports IE, FireFox and Safari browsers.So, there's no support for desktop Unix and Linux users, but it's assumed that will follow.There's also aChannel 9 video about the project.Comment: It's not clear where this fits into a universe where Flash, Java, the W3C'sSVG, Ajax and Java are already in use. It's also not clear where WPF/E fits into the standards world, if anywhere. In the short term, then, it could well be a cute piece of demo-ware that no one actually uses for anything serious. In the long term, however, its close relationship with Vista means WPF/E probably isn't going away any time soon.Either way, I think the Microsoft Windows Presentation Foundation/Everywhere in-browser user experience plug-in would stand more chance of success if it had a snappier name, like Flash, Ajax and Java. Is WPF/E going to be pronounced "wipfie"? Even calling it Avalon would be an improvement.
Some shoddy and inadequate reporting at TechCrunch's CrunchGear blog has at least prompted Microsoft's Mac Business Unit to post more info about the new Microsoft Office XML file formats. Mac Mojo, theOffice for Mac Team Blog, confirms:The Mac BU WILL issue free, downloadable file format converters that allow users to read the new Microsoft Office Open XML Format. We announced that publicly at WWDC, and nothing has changed.And it adds:We are running on target and expect to release a free public beta version of the file format converters in Spring 2007, with final converters available six to eight weeks after we launch our next version of Office for Mac (which, as previously reported, will be available 6-8 months after general availability of Win Office.) The next version of Office for Mac will natively read the Open XML Format; users of the current version of Office will have converters in order to maintain compatibility with the new Office for Windows.The sensationalist and misleading CrunchGear post claimed, in its title,Use MS Office On A Mac? You're About To Get Screwed. Unfortunately, the author couldn't be bothered to look up the XML format specs and remained regrettably ignorant about them being simple zipped packages. (Hint: unzip them and there's a marked up XML file inside.)Then there's CrunchGear's appalling ignorance of the importance of the new XML file formats to Apple and Apple users in general. Putting the real content in open standard marked-up XML instead of old and almost impenetrable binaries will make cross-platform and cross-application compatibility both easier and more reliable. And Apple is participating in the process: along with the British Library, Intel and other supporters, Apple is on the ECMA International Technical Committee (TC45) that's setting the Office Open XML standard formats.It looks as though CrunchGear has simply swallowed this "story" fromAPC mags X-Factor, which postedThe lock-out begins for Office Mac users. Perhaps this is the kind of thing that Mac fanboys appreciate. However, if CrunchGear wants to retain any mainstream credibility, it will have learn not to regurgitate this sort of rubbish.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Nick Carr must get lots of letters, because he's done a back-of-the-envelope calculation and figured out that Second Life avatars "consume about as much electricity as your average Brazilian". (That's Brazilian person, not beauty treatment.)He picks up on a post by Tony Walsh who wonders'Is Second Life sustainable ecologically?'There's a certain amount of approximation, but it starts with Linden Lab having 4,000 servers, all running all the time, which "house" (embody? virtualise?) about 15,000 avatars in Second Life - though the number is growing.A quick bit of totting-up (we haven't checked his numbers, so corrections welcome) and reckons thatan avatar consumes 1,752 kWh per year. By comparison, the average human, on a worldwide basis, consumes 2,436 kWh per year. So there you have it: an avatar consumes a bit less energy than a real person, though they're in the same ballpark.And then he goes on...if we limit the comparison to developed countries, where per-capita energy consumption is 7,702 kWh a year, the avatars appear considerably less energy hungry than the humans. But if we look at developing countries, where per-capita consumption is 1,015 kWh, we find that avatars burn through considerably more electricity than people do.More narrowly still, the average Brazilian consumes 1,884 kWh, which, given the fact that my avatar estimate was rough and conservative, means that your average Second Life avatar consumes about as much electricity as your average Brazilian.Not the wax kind, either. If there's one topic that's going to be increasingly important in the coming years, it's going to be processing power per watt - and, I suspect, whether the consumption of that watt is actually necessary.
When will the retro revival end? Actually the latest blast from the past is fairly interesting if only because the new media will make it much harder to cheat - yes, theFighting Fantasybooks are coming to the DS and PSP. Ian Livingstone, co-creator of the books said, "Fighting Fantasy built up a huge, worldwide fan base over the years. We believe that players will really enjoy the adventures in a new way on DS and PSP. Fighting Fantasy's interactive structure is ideal for bite-sized chunks of gameplay which is important for these devices."Massive in the 80s - worldwide sales of 15 million - the books will bring back slightly embarrassing memories of dice and fantasy to plenty of 30-something men. How the books will work on handhelds is not clear - will it be a text based adventure or a more traditional RPG? So, whisper it then, but what was your favourite book? SurelyCitadel of Chaosright?
Everybody loves Wii. I think it's safe to assume that now. But there's something worrying within the pervasive success of this unassuming machine. As you know, the console ships with Wii Sports a collection of fun little sporting mini-games designed for quick, accessible entertainment. If purchasers fork out for an extra controller they also get Wii Play, another bunch of tiny challenges. That is a lot of instant gratification gameplay, right there at the start of a new generation. And as Wii has been on the 'Gadgets of the Year' lists of most technology magazines, newspapers and lifestyle rags, the machine is pretty much setting up the mainstream agenda for the industry. For may people re-introducing themselves to videogaming after several years of intermittent SingStar abuse, is that agenda going to be defined by mini-games?This feels very much like the current situation with Reality TV: it's quick and cheap to produce and there are almost no barriers to entry, which means customers are sucked in very fast. And, like the spike in blood sugars after a fast food hit, the thrill of the experience is as brief as it is addictive. When one reality TV experience is over, viewers seem ready, extremely quickly, for the next. Hence our TV schedules are filled to bursting point with cheap, mindless reality formats.Mini-games work our cranial pleasure centres in the same way, jamming them with instant fun, but always leaving you wanting more. It's all about quantity. It's all about surface enjoyment. It is possible to get good at Wii Sports, but really, in the way the mainstream media wants us to play games, that's almost beside the point. We are being diverted onto a highway of cheap electronic thrills - five minutes of guilty fun, quickly forgotten en route to some place else. Mini-games are snacks, they are not 'destination venues', to use the parlance of the restaurant trade.There's been a real assumption in a lot of Wii coverage, that this is what Nintendo's console is all about. You don't have to be any good, just wave the controller around and have a laugh. The instant availability of two big mini-game packages may compound that - as might the downloadable retro games. So when a lot of new Wii owners come up against Zelda, which is going to require hours of effort and exploration (and is actually more indicative of the Nintendo philosophy - quality, engrossing entertainment for all) - is that going to clash with expectations? Will consumers be willing to make that investment?
The Daily Starhas included a special pull-out section on computer games in the run up to what is anticipated to be a bumper gift-giving season. Their Top 40 list includes all of the major players; nothing unexpected or left-field. But one thing doesn't sit well with me, and that's their category delineations. Sure, it makes sense to have "Shoot-em-ups," "Sports," "Racing" and "Action/Adventure" but their genres fall down with the erstwhile distinction between "Kids" and "Girls".Sure, the Star has never been at the frontline of women's rights, but the so-called "girls" games category they list doesn't sit well under my controller-calloused thumbs. According toMCV,The Star's top 40 games of the year list reads: ...Kids: Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy Cars Nintendogs Viva Piñata Happy FeetGirls: The Sims 2: Pets Tomb Raider: Legend Nintendogs Animal Crossing: Wild World SingStarNow, lest it appear that I'm Star-bashing, I am all-too-aware that they're not the only group which speaks of "girls" games in the same breath (and without any apparent pause) as "kids" games. Indeed, most everyone automatically assumes that girls should have their own special selection. But why must they (almost) all be for under-6s? Their "Family" category also seems only to be distinct from what girls supposedly like thanks to the appearance of Guitar Hero. How's that?!And in fairness, where are the "Boys'" games? Or are we to assume that the rest of the games on the list are all for the boys?I'm making a wild guess that the primary readership of the Star is male, so perhaps this supplement - while a welcome treatment of gaming in the mainstream press (hey, at least it's not suggesting that the sick filth is banned) - is intended for Dads lost for a present to buy little Jane (or her mother, also presumably a girl) in the forthcoming gift-giving season. It wouldn't be the first time this kind of techno-guilt trip has resulted in chart-success;Barbie Fashion Designer, the anathema of pink gaming and the bane of any female gamer's self-image, managed to sell a phenomenal number of CD-Roms when it was released in 1997 because forward-thinking fathers thought it was appropriate to get their daughters something computerised as they were also purchasing an interactive entertainment for their sons (or themselves, if we're to believe that "boys" and "grown men" are the same, as suggested by the Star).Grumble.Anyway, if Dadsmustpurchase something digital for Little Miss Molly, they may as well go for the ultimate in gender-specificity. Unfortunately, theSwarovski-encrusted pink DS Litehas already sold out at the exclusive fashion boutiqueMultipazz.
I was away on a press trip last Friday so missed this telling corporate reshuffle at Sony Computer Entertainment. Ken 'Father of PlayStation' Kutaragi has been made chairman and group CEO of the company but is being moved away from the day-to-day running of the PlayStation empire. That hands-on role will now be taken by Kazuo Hirai who previously ran Sony Computer Entertainment America.According to theofficial release, "Ken Kutaragi will continue to oversee the entire SCE Group as chief executive officer, and will fully exercise his power to reinforce and further accelerate the development of the PlayStation business". The suggestion is, he will be in charge of the longterm strategic planning (hmm,PlayStation 4? Not out til 2010 apparently...), while Hirai-san will concentrate on the minutae of getting the darn PS3 units into the hands of gamers.Analysts are divided over the nature of this 'promotion'. Some see it as the sort of respectful and subtle form of admonishment common in Japanese business - the PS3 roll-out has hardly been a smooth process after all. However, there are theories that Kutaragi is being prepared for a much more significant role within Sony. Speaking to theNew York Times, regularly quoted industry analyst, Michael Pachter, says that the move is "either a Machiavellian scheme to get rid of Kutaragi or they're grooming him to replace Sir Howard [Stringer]". "I think it's the latter," he then concludes.
Unfortunately, this doesn't mean Britain has done anything particularly interesting. Still, according toThe New York Times:Online advertising is racing ahead in Britain, growing at a roughly 40 percent annual rate, and is expected to account for as much as 14 percent of overall ad spending this year, according to media buying agencies. That is the highest level in the world, and more than double the percentage in the United States.The major part of the difference may be size, given that the UK is much smaller than, say, California. We therefore have more national advertising online, whereas in the US, local advertising is still a major force.Perhaps The New York Times could have a look atMr Dowling's excellent World Nations page, which gives the size of various countries compared to US states. The UK, for example, is "slightly smaller than Oregon", while Germany is "slightly smaller than Montana" and Monaco "about three times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC".In the context of the European Union, pretty much all UK advertising could be considered local....
Internet applications should follow game mechanics in order to make them compelling and addictive, proposedAmy Jo Kim, online community building guru, at this year's Supernova. And taking Kim's ideas forward, analystMax Kalehoffhas applied the essential elements of every game to the video sharing serviceYouTube.1. Collecting. The most successful games involve the collection of items like artifacts or tools. The human drive to show off collections is what drives addiction and convincing experiences. Over at YouTube, collecting occurs in numerous ways, such as uploading videos, and creating favorites and playlists.2. Points. Points are the second critical component, because people will continue a certain behavior to gain more points. Points could include, for example, page views and eBay ratings. Points can demonstrate a game's value, create a social experience, define achievement levels and punctuate the experience. Points make it hard to stop playing. And if you're a video uploader on YouTube, a high number of views, comments and e-mail-forwards are gold!3. Feedback. The next key aspect is feedback on how you're doing, whether auditory, visual, or other. Feedback draws attention, accelerates mastery, increases enjoyment and induces flow. In terms of feedback on YouTube, viewing and sharing metrics are key, but so is the passionate, colorful commentary that follows. Even seeing your own video on the micro screen, knowing it's discoverable by millions, is an important form of visual and auditory feedback.4. Exchanges. Next are explicit or implicit exchanges, or interactions, such as trading or gifting. Successful interactions feel like a conversation and also induce flow and foster a compelling experience. Again, YouTube is a human-empowered recommendation machine, and to give a recommendation, in any way, is a gift among video viewers and creators.5. Customization. Finally, customization increases investment and creates barriers to leaving. The greater the investment, the harder it is to exit. If you're a video creator, your ultimate investment is your videos that YouTube hosts, followed by the audience and all the personalized functionality and data in YouTube's personalized accounts. These include subscriptions and subscriber stats, groups, messaging, friends and contacts, channel settings and general preferences settings.Indeed. If YouTube does it, who else does it too? Well, the first one's obvious: eBay. The reputation system there is second to none, inspiring thousands of spin-off applications.Any successful marketplaces, including Web 1.0 stalwarts like Amazon.com, do it too. But then this proposition begins to thin out. MySpace and other social networking software do it, sure.Social virtual worlds like There.com and Second Life (which recently had itsfirst winner, Anshe Chung) do it as well. Yet other contemporary 2.0 beacons, like Flickr and del.icio.us, don't meet all of the requirements. These sites have been purchased by the big boys for loads of money, but have they captured the imaginations of the masses like YouTube and others who apply game-like foundations?I hope to see more game-like elements in future internet applications;in fact, I agree with Kim. Their succesess depend upon compelling a new generation weaned on interactivity, and there's nothing more interactive than computer games. If all the trendspotters are correct, the way we have historically consumed media (i.e., without the game-like mechanics) will soon be as dead as the dinosaurs, and a whole new paradigm, based upon the lessons learned from Space Invaders to Legned of Zelda, will rise out of the ashes.
F-Secure has spotted an outbreak of a Javascript exploit that uses flaws in Apple's Quicktime tograb MySpace profile data.It's not easy to explain, but it's a form of phishing: you visit what looks like a normal MySpace page, but the links have been altered to take you off-site (though that still looks like MySpace). There, a Quicktime .mov is downloaded to your system and runs a Javascript file that changes your MySpace profile.The aim: to steal lots, and lots of MySpace login details. And it seems somewhere around one-tenth of MySpace users might have been affected.We were wondering why, and then read theSpyware Guide blog entry, which points out thatClicking the image will take you to a site called Vidchicks - as you can see from this screenshot, the site contains numerous Zango videos (including a popunder that displays many more), and the sole purpose of this Phish attack seems to be to drive traffic to this content. Of course, the webmaster will profit for each piece of Zango Adware installed.We're beginning to wonder whether George Bush is going to get around to declaring in a State of the Union speech that Zango belongs to the Axis of Evil. Despite being sanctioned by the FCC (though that was aslap on the wrist, according to spyware gurus Ben Edelman and Eric Howes: the FCC wants $3m of "ill-gotten" profits paid as a fine, but Edelman and Howes say "With annual revenues on the order of $20 to $40 million, and with three years of operation to date, we find it inconceivable that Zango has made only $3 million of profit." TheFTC was hardly overjoyedeither)Mewanwhile people who make money through its affiliate program are pulling stunts like this. An affiliate scheme for loading peoples' computers with spyware? That'snevergoing to lead them to commit illicit acts, is it? Surely not.In the meantime, Apple needs to fix the Javascript hole in Quicktime sharpish, while MySpace would be smart to ban Quicktime movies. And Zango... hang on, isn't there going to be a Trident nuclear system going unused soon?Update:theghettowebmaster pagesays MySpace tried to stop this by blocking the domains initially being used for the spam.. but the spammer then got around it by changing the domains that the phishing exercise points to. The GWM's conclusion: "I'll say it again: this is not going away until MySpace bans QuickTime embeds."Or until Apple gets its security in gear, but even then it might be too late. ActiveX controls for embedded content in web pages, Javascript for embedded content in Quicktime movies... is there any pattern here?
It's so rare these days to hear a developer say what they actuallythinkthat God of War designer David Jaffe deserves somekind of medal for thistired and emotional performancefilmed by GameTrailer.com and posted on YouTube. In a five minute interview held during a party at the Playboy Mansion, Jaffe criticises his own PSP conversion of God of War, announces God of War III and insults a Sony marketing rep who stands beside the unsteady developer though the entire off-message rant. Jaffe also states that he doesn't think the GoW combat system is as good as Devil May Cry's. "I'm just a B-level developer, I know that!" he cries.Jaffe is more complimentary about Sony's online gaming network which he hopes will match Xbox Live. He also has lots of ideas for the Sixaxis controller. I suspect the Sony marketing chap had one as well - forcible insertion into Jaffe's seemingly unstoppable mouth...
Online betshop Paddy Power has released itsodds list for the Christmas videogame number one. Clear favourite Need For Speed Carbon is predicted to romp home at 8/13 - not great odds if you were hoping to retire on the proceeds of a modest bet. The next challenger is EA again with FIFA 2007 at 4/1. After that you're looking at a 10/1 threeway between Zelda, Gears of War and Eragon.Any dark horse outsiders worth a punt? Let's face it, no one stands a chance with Need For Speed around - the series has dominated the Christmas charts for the last three years. Oh okay then, put a quid on Zelda if you're feeling frisky (and like to donate money to betting establishments).
Ask has createdAskCity, by combining its maps with information from CitySearch, another product owned by the same company, IAC.TechCrunchhas had a preview and says:Key categories are Businesses and Services, Events, Movies, and Maps &amp; Directions. The three pane interface allows users to conduct multiple searches, revise itineraries, create multi-point driving or walking directions (only Yahoo and Ask offer multi-point directions). Restaurant reservations are linked via OpenTable, event tickets can be purchased through Ticketmaster (another IAC property) and soon they will integrate movie ticket purchases through Fandango. Searches can be refined by neighborhood, cuisine or movie genre.Over at GigaOM, Om Malik has aninterview with Ask boss Jim Lanzone, who says:AskCity is a new local search application from Ask.com. It has been under development for the better part of 2006. AskCity is available for all US cities, though the content is deepest in the top 50 markets. We plan to take the product international in 2007.Update: The New York Times now has extensive coverage withThe Retooling of a Search Engine.
Computers should make health care services more efficient, but there are obvious worries about privacy. A story inThe New York Timessays:Bill Clinton's identity was hidden behind a false name when he went to NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital two years ago for heart surgery, but that didn't stop computer hackers, including people working at the hospital, from trying to get a peek at the electronic records of his medical charts.The same hospital thwarted 1,500 unauthorized attempts by its own employees to look at the patient records of a famous local athlete, said J. David Liss, a vice president at NewYork-Presbyterian.And just last September, the New York City public hospital system said that dozens of workers at one of its Brooklyn medical centers, including doctors and nurses, technicians and clerks, had improperly looked at the computerized medical records of Nixzmary Brown, a 7-year-old who prosecutors say was beaten to death by her stepfather last winter.Comment: Quis custodiet ipsos custodes?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
I'm a couple of days late with this, but what the heck, it's Monday morning. The organisers of theInternational Mobile Gaming Awardshave announced their longlist for Game of the Year, 2006. This isn't your usual motley crew of dull console conversions and bubbly casual titles - it's a genuinely thoughtful collection of innovators, several making use of the promisingFlash Liteplatform, rather than Java.Stuart Dredge of Pocket Gamer, has writtena quick run throughof the entrants, including some massively multiplayer titles and plenty of imaginative one-thumb experiences. Unfortunately, it seems several are from Korea and Japan and are therefore unlikely to launch in the UK. Also, any title that boasts over-the-air multiplayer is probably a no-no for Europe's complex mish-mash of competing operators, standards, services and languages...
The biggest surprise this weekend? Yup, Zelda on the Wii - the controls actually work. They really do. And I was really worried beforehand. Previous plays on the demo suggested that the controls were fiddly, imprecise and essentially rubbish. Zelda is so important to me that I'd even pre-ordered the Gamecube version - essentially the same game - just in case. But after only a couple of minutes with the Wii version it became obvious that the controls would work. In fact it's hard to imagine pressing buttons to do a spin attack now rather than lightly shaking your left hand.The game itself? Well, I'm 7 hours in and things are only just starting. Those who felt shortchanged by Wind Waker are unlikely to be disappointed here. What may disappoint, at least initially, are the graphics. Not that they are bad - the lighting and style is reminiscent of Ico in places - but the lower resolution comes as a bit of shock after Hi Def gaming on the Xbox 360 and PC.Of course, it doesn't help that Nintendo only bundle a godawful composite cable in the box, meaning image quality is the lowest of the low. I'll grab a component cable on Friday which should make a big difference but Nintendo should have least bundled a SCART connection - more on this in another blog. For now I'm just happy that Zelda on the Wii plays so well.
Yahoo has justlaunched a new TV pageinto a storm of criticism both on its blog and round the web, as summarised by Yahoo's ownJeremy Zawodny.As usual, the problem boils down to idiot web designers, in this case,waving a fluffy Web 2.0 banner. But as Paul comments: "I'm tired of AJAX being used as a replacement for quality design."Zawodny muses:This all leaves me wondering a bit. Like you, I'm trying to figure out how this could have happened. Why was there no trial period so that die-hard tv.yahoo.com users could voice their opinions before being forced to use the "improved" interface? Why did we manage to toss both "simple" and "useful" aside and substitute "flashy" for them?
Astra TwintopFrom&pound;16,995Miles per gallon:46Seats:4Good for:Seeing doubleBad for:Domestic troubleRemember the board game Mouse Trap? It was a Heath Robinson affair in which little mice moved among the wonky pillars of an elaborate trap. If you landed on the wrong square, a cascade of 25 interlocking parts clicked into action, eventually catapulting a diver high into a bath tub which would then bring a basket rattling down on your squirming mouse. It took hours to set up and, when it worked which was almost never, caused squeaks of delight all round.Today, you can re-experience that same sense of childish wonder by pressing the roof button on Astra's Twintop. Vauxhall's workhorse, which has been the dull yet reliable backbone of police forces and car-hire companies for years, has reinvented itself as a sleek and chic vehicle for the upwardly mobile motorist and, as befits its new station, now comes complete with a folding steel roof. The coupe/cabriolet, as these split-personality cars are called, has revolutionised open-top driving in Britain. Fancy some wind-in-the-hair, arms-in-the-air fun? Easy, turn your car into a cabriolet. Feeling a little less extrovert? Turn it back into a coupe. It's two cars for the price of one. Though having the double option could be a nightmare for the chronically indecisive and, for people like me who have a partner who doesn't like having their hair 'blown about so I like deranged', a source of permanent marital conflict.The Astra's origami roof takes just 32 seconds to perform its rigorous opening and shutting procedure - meaning we rain-lashed Brits can now 'go topless' in less time than it takes George Bush to say his own name.Along with Volvo's V70, the Twintop is one of only two cars that have a 'three-part hood'. The conventional two-section tops have wider panels which means the roof needs more space to be stowed. This in turn means you have a smaller boot, less leg room in the back and a car with an ungainly rear end.The Astra's triptych-like roof, on the other hand, escapes these shortcomings as each panel is smaller. But it does mean the opening mechanism has had to become so complex it makes Fermat's last theorem look like child's play. Press the button and the car whirrs and clicks ominously. The boot opens and the roof cracks in three before heading skyward. Then, at about the 15-second mark, two great scapula-shaped pieces of bodywork suddenly spin out sideways before rotating slowly back into place. It's almost too much. Every part of you just knows that those plastic covers will be broken, jammed, bent or snapped off by prying adolescent hands within months. Until then, though, you get to drive a vehicle which manages to be a showstopper before it even leaves the carpark.The Astra comes in three specifications, and with a range of three petrol engines and a diesel. I drove the 2-litre turbo petrol engine, the pick of the bunch in terms of performance, but its consumption (just 24 mpg) belongs to those dark pre-Stern days. The perky diesel, however, delivers at least 46mpg. Which will save you enough money to send your wife to the hairdresser.martin.love@observer.co.uk
For the past week's posts, clickhere. Highlights include:A look at the OLPC user interfaceThe Windows Shutdown crapfest77% of us never watch online video'It'll be gone in six months', says Andy Ihnatko of ZuneYouTube vs. Google Video vs. Revver2006 Sexiest Geeks: Call for NomineesRichard Stallman speaks about GPLv3 and the Novell-Microsoft dealAlternative Reality Gaming -- the white paperGoogle admits defeat on Google AnswersA voluntary code of practice for bloggers?Russia agrees to shut down Allofmp3.comWireless technology made me sick, claims author Kate Figes$100 laptop making progressSony replaces PlayStation chief Kutaragi after delays
You're peering into a restaurant trying to decide whether it will satisfy or sour the palate. Your phone beeps with a message from a friend. 'You must try the sushi,' it says. 'But the wines are probably not to your taste.'It wouldn't be telepathy that revealed where you are. It might be a product called Socialight, which claims you can pin a virtual note on a physical place so it will show up on a friend's phone when they pass nearby.Socialight makes use of mobile phone networks' ability to pinpoint the loca-tions of individual handsets. A phone owner can create a virtual note, or 'StickyShadow', and 'attach' it to the street where they are. It will then be stored on Socialight's server and sent to friends' phones when they visit the same street. The technology has been tested in New York, Chicago and Los Angeles.Companies can use the service too, but will that mean a bombardment of spam? No, according to Simon Davis, chief executive of Socialight UK, which launches the free service next year. 'There are lots of phones that know where you are, so it's about putting these together without driving consumers insane,' he said. 'The entire system is "opt in" and you can unsubscribe from channels when you want.'
Even with all the gadgets and gizmos available today our plans are still frequently halted by our own stupidity and forgetfulness. What do you do when you realise you have left the house without setting the VCR for the final episode of Celebrity Strictly Dance Me Out of Here Dancing? Or that you have left a vital report lying uselessly on the printer instead of in your briefcase for a meeting? Until now, you issued a string of obscenities and went back home. But with the launch of a new range of services for mobile phones launched yesterday by mobile phone network 3, an all-in-one solution has arrived.Now, not only can you get unlimited internet access, free Skype calls and instant messaging, you can get all your television channels on tap and remote access to your home computer files. It is the perfect present for the person who has everything but would also like it concentrated into a handset less than two inches wide. I, on the other hand, think we should have arrested the march of progress sometime after the Spinning Jenny and before the Amstrad, but no one listens to me. Which is how I end up with a new mobile phone equipped with all the relevant services.For a while, however, when the two men come round to set up the necessary equipment and give me with a tutorial in the ways of the Nokia N73 and the X-Series, it looks like the additional services might not be forthcoming, thanks to a variety of unforeseen problems caused by the distances between my computer upstairs and Sky box downstairs and by the unwillingness of my router to cooperate with this quantum leap into a truly telecommunicative age. How people will fare with only the standard customer service line in similar circumstances is worth considering.Two hours later, they have cut the Gordian knot of wires and problems by connecting me up to a SlingBox (which allows the phone to access your home television service, in my case Sky) not in my home but in one of their offices.I set up Skype and MSN accounts and download the Orb software that allows remote access to PC files. I am ready to spend the day but a few clicks away from - well, everything. To someone who has never held a Blackberry before, it is a daunting prospect, but the design is sufficiently user-friendly and easy to navigate that after half an hour's familiarisation, it feels almost natural. The train journey into town for a meeting passes quickly with the distraction first of Scrubs and then of a podcast from The Onion's website ("President Bush has spilt coffee on the computer that has all the government's files on it. A White House official said he has cleared the president's schedule for the next month so that he can type them back in.")While listening to that, I send my first ever MSN message ("Hello! I am technological now"), checknationalrail.co.ukfor train times and track a potential Christmas present for my sister oneBay.There's no question than portable TV and internet access will ease the literal and metaphorical passage through life considerably - especially for those constitutionally incapable of remembering to carry timetables or an A-Z, and especially once the frustration caused by having to text rather than type everything has eased. I can't access my work email, however, although I can remotely from any PC, which is very annoying, and instant messaging only works intermittently, though I am told this is because Microsoft is upgrading the service. After the meeting, I have coffee with a friend and am able to show him all the pictures of another friend's baby that I have stored on my desktop and as attachments to web mail.Of the 130 million Skype users in the world, I know one, but this is enough for me to make my inaugural Skype call on the way home. I can hear him but he can't hear me, but we deduce that this is his microphone's fault, not mine. I put the headphones on and start watching the news instead. The woman sitting next to me says: "That all looks quite fancy." I explain about the X-Series. She looks impressed and appalled at the same time. I know how she feels.To have so much entertainment, information and communication constantly available is amazing, fantastically convenient, exhausting and oppressive. It is the end of dead time but also of down time. We will doubtless sign up in droves.
Audi Q7 3.0 TDI QuattroPriceFrom &#163;37,330Top speed134 mphAcceleration0-62 in 9.1 secondsConsumption26.9mpg (combined)Eco rating2/10At the wheelBill ClintonTop gadgetReversing cameraIn a wordLargeThe Q7, Audi's new seven-seater, high-end sports utility vehicle, is one great big hunk of bus. Most SUVs are content to dwarf everybody else's car. This is the SUV that dwarfs everybody else's SUV.I had the car for a week, and I remain quietly suspicious that there were rooms in it that I never went into. It is exactly 1,733mm high and around 17.5 miles long. Its width automatically renders obsolete all known UK car parking spaces. By all means park at your local Asda. But be prepared to exit and re-enter via the sunroof (optional).Who needs seven seats anyway? Families of five, funnily enough - the reason being that children tend, from time to time, to want to take friends with them, forcing the family unit beyond the standard saloon-car seating arrangement.One method of coping is, of course, to discourage your children from forming friendships. But it seems wrong somehow. Meanwhile, the old ways of playing Mother Hubbard on wheels - triple belting, lap stacking, taking it in turns to crouch in the footwell - are these days officially frowned on by the police. Thus families of five and up looking reluctantly towards seven-seat MPVs, many of which, in practice, take only five people and two garden gnomes. Or, more sensibly, they choose estates, such as the Volvo V70 or Mercedes E-Class, which have pop-out, rear-facing twin seats in the boot.Alas, initially a must-have, kill-for-a-ticket experience, facing backwards in a car seems to lose its appeal to children at around the age of 10, at which point (at least according to the car companies) they begin to require their own electronically adaptable, forward-facing seat behind tinted glass with fold-down tray table, air-conditioned 45-litre-capacity stowage bin and personal 12-volt power point.Hence the Q7, which offers most, if not all, those facilities in a setting that positively aches with wallet-cracking luxury and faultless German engineering. The fact that there are seven seats but only six cup holders is the sole technical miscalculation of which the car is guilty.And because of its size and wadded insulation, the Q7 provides its driver with a spectacularly complete illusion of safety. A rear shunt, one assumes, would be a distant skirmish in a far-off land. To climb aloft in the embossed-leather cabin is to appear to put on an impenetrable armour, and so sweetly is one lulled by the car's velvety, all-terrain suspension that all the pertinent and pressing arguments to the contrary - the fact that avoiding accidents is more complicated in an SUV than in smaller, quicker-witted cars; the wildly increased chances in any SUV of a nasty roll-over - tend to melt away like butter in a pan.But do you have it in you to be this lofty? Reaching down to extract the ticket from an automated barrier becomes an act of magnificent condescension. Altogether the position the Q7 invites you to take up in relation to the rest of the world is definitively "de haut en bas". You might as well go around with your tongue sticking out. In fact, maybe they should reform the car's grille so that it accurately represents a protruding tongue. It would hardly overstate the car's most overt message.
My sister and I are both in our late 60s and would like to put on our Christmas lists some of the new "mind-improvement games" to keep our grey cells going as long as possible. We are both computer-literate. I wonder if you can find out what is out there, as we are not sure where to start.Jacky Wilkinson, Seaford, East SussexThere was a really interesting piece in the New Scientist, almost exactly a year ago. It told the story of Richard Wetherill, a retired university lecturer who could think eight moves ahead in chess. But one day, he found he could only think five moves ahead and so he went to see a neurologist at University College London's Institute of Neurology to be tested for signs of early dementia and he passed every test: even under a brain imager his brain looked entirely normal. But two years later, he died and when they performed an autopsy on him his brain was riddled with plaques and tangles - the hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease. Apparently, the disease was so advanced that that amount of physical damage in most other people's brains would have "reduced them to a state of total confusion".The piece went on to talk about "cognitive reserve": simply put, a way of exercising your brain so that it stays active and can stave off damage and decline (after the terrifyingly young age of 25, our "mental abilities" start to slow down). I know you're not asking about avoiding Alzheimer's, by the way, but I thought this was useful to see how the brain "stays young".So what can you do? The more you use your brain, the better shape it will be in, so exercise it (more on this in a moment). Exercise your body also, because cardiovascular exercise protects and strengthens the brain's white and grey cells. They are actually all part of the same cell, but if you imagine a tadpole, the head is the grey cells, and these store information; the tail is the white cells that carry information between the grey bits. Both are important.Avoid alcohol, which kills brain cells and you never grow new ones (you're born with as many as you'll ever have - all you can do is work on the connections). Now then, what "games" to play? While watching TV is nice, anything that involves just sitting in front of a screen (and that includes a computer one) has the opposite effect of exercising your brain, unless you play chess or do crosswords while you're on the computer.There are loads of places to play chess online:www.chessclub.com,www.gameknot.com,www.letsplaychess.com. What's nice is that you play against real people: interaction and problem solving are important for brain exercise. That said, can I suggest you put a real chess set on your wish list? That way you and your sister can play together;www.chessbaron.co.uk,0800 288 9056, is a nice place to get them as it sells all sorts, from just &pound;19.99 (although I am strangely attracted to the Ami Elizabeth Staunton set, &pound;119.95).A fantastic game is Brain Trainer, &pound;29.95 (www.firebox.com,020-8678 6112), invented by a Japanese neuroscientist. It's a hand-held "computer game" which basically involves doing sums, but it also tests you on mental agility and memory, and there are different levels. I am completely addicted to trying to get my score past the damning "average".Another thing you should look at is Perplex City (www.perplexcity.com,available from Hamleys, Borders, Harrods), a compulsive alternative-reality game (I have just spent half a day getting sucked into it). You either enter the worldwide game by buying puzzle cards, solving the clues and entering the answers (only if you want to, but I think that's a great part of the fun) into the website to climb up the "leader board" (you're looking for a "lost cube" worth &pound;100,000), or you can buy the Perplex City board game, &pound;24.95, which really gets your brain working but limits you to your own front room.Finally, the IQ collection, &pound;7.95 each (from Firebox as before), is a "low-tech but highbrow" puzzle set - a collection of practical conundrums to solve. It's the sort of thing that, as one user said, is "the most frustrating contraption in the universe". So you have to get balls through hoops and undo rings: the sort of games that end up with your brain exercised but you may wind up stamping your feet on the floor like a frustrated toddler.Just a quickie: you can buy some very worthwhile and beautiful Christmas cards fromwww.sreepurcards.org(order by December 6) - all the proceeds go back to the destitute women and abandoned children who made them.Shopping problemsContact Personal Shopper, The Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER or email:annalisa.barbieri@mac.com
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, column, Wednesday December 6 2006In the article below we described uSwitch.com as a "consumer watchdog". It is, in fact, a price comparison site, owned by the US company EW Scripps. It makes money, among other ways, by selling customer "leads" on to a range of utilities suppliers.The country's largest provider of telephone directory inquiries, 118 118, has admitted defeat in the battle to persuade consumers to pay for phone numbers, with the launch of a free service.The scrapping of BT's monopoly 192 service four years ago led companies to scramble for a slice of the market, hoping to make millions. But confusion among consumers about what they were being charged and a reluctance among many to pay at all, led people to stop calling.From Monday, the existing operator service 118 118, whose adverts featuring mustachioed joggers have infuriated as many people as they have amused, will be supplemented with a new number - 0800 118 FREE, or 0800 118 3733. Calls from a landline phone to the number, which uses automated voice recognition technology rather than operators to trace numbers, will be free. But mobile users will still be charged by their network.Having found themselves charged as much as &pound;2 to find a phone number, consumers have been abandoning directory inquiries since the market was deregulated in December 2002. More than 100 companies originally bid for the right to use six-digit numbers starting with 118 to run new services, but only about a dozen serious players remain.The UK market is dominated by 118 118, which receives 42% of all directory inquiry calls, and BT, with 26%. Both have spent millions on advertising but while consumers might remember their numbers, they are calling them on fewer occasions. Before the telecoms and media watchdog, Ofcom, opened up the market to competition, nearly three-quarters of British adults said they had used 192. Last year only 40% of adults said they had called a new 118 service.Research by Ofcom this year showed that British consumers still believe the 192 service was cheaper and better and that increasing the choice of provider was "not that important".As a result of consumer turn-off, companies have struggled to make money out of 118 numbers, despite the impact some people believe the services have had on their bills. The Number UK, the firm behind 118 118, recently saw profits plunge 96%. Its parent company, US-based Infonxx, this year dumped plans for a $1.1bn (&pound;563m) stock market flotation.The growth in broadband access, with more than 11m UK homes using high-speed internet connections, has also had an impact. The web, where most of the information available on 118 services is free, is the first place many people look for a phone number.The Number is hoping to reverse this trend with its new free service; 0800 118 FREE will only give out numbers - and callers will not get numbers texted to their phones or be connected with their requested number. The old 118 118 service, meanwhile, will continue to charge while offering extras such as a text-a-question service which will answer any query on any subject. "Firstly, we need to bring people back to directory inquiries," said a spokesman for 118 118.The ending of the 192 monopoly has not been a complete disaster, according to Chris Williams of consumer watchdoguSwitch.com. "You can get the number texted to your mobile phone or be put through to the person or company you want to call. These value added services were not there under the old 192 system," he said. But he admits consumers are confused about how much calling a 118 service will cost: "That is probably not helped by the fact that the costs change fairly regularly. Always check to see how much it will cost before calling and chances are there will be some cheaper way of getting the information you need."
MondayO rose, thou art cancelledGame On goes next-genVirtual world millionaireLaunch timeTuesdayVirtual worlds and cyber friendsDS beats PSPWednesdayWii and PS3 sales round-upRadio 1 does gamesMore fun in hospitalPlanet of the handheldsThursdayGames of the yearDemanding older gamersFridayWii arrivesWii, Wii, Wiii all the way home
I am looking to buy a new flat screen monitor and with a screen size of ideally 20 inches. I primarily use my PC for work (data analysis and report writing) however I also watch movies off it. Inaddition, I would like a monitor that has an input for a games machine such as an Xbox 360 or PS3. Any suggestions? Jack Gowan
MyWiialsoarrived yesterday and it was cracked open as soon as it came through the door. Well, not literally, of course. I'm not a lunatic.First things first, the thing is TINY. After the behemoth of the 360 filling up the space under my telly, this little baby can easily slip in to the left of my TV. Very easy to set up, and the Wiimote (sadly called the Wii Remote in the literature) is quite possibly the easiest thing to hold ever. The sensor bar, which reads the signal from the wireless controller, is sadly attached to the machine by a wire, but thankfully a very long one, which means I can place my Wii quite a distance from the TV if I was so inclined.Next, I headed to the Mii channel, the thing I admit I'm most excited about (yes, even more than Zelda, which arrived as well). Here you create avatars (or "Miis" - how divisive) from an enormous template of facial tics which you can use to caricaturise yourself, your loved ones and anyone else you'd like to play/have appear in a game. The default looks remarkably like my friend Emily as, strangely, most defaults do.The wireless controller kinda freaked out a bit when I sat down on the sofa, about 3 metres away from the sensor, so I was forced to generate my creations standing. It was a bit fiddly, but incredibly sensitive. Wow. My wrist hurts today though, and I think there may be a future queue of Wiimote users in every local GP's office.Right, after the various Miis were created (for multiple accounts, multiple creators), I set about the sports games. They lived up to the hype - Tennis (Breakoutin nicer clothing), Baseball (reminiscent of an updated version of my oldIntellivisionfave), Bowling (better than Monkey Bowling inSuper Monkey Ball!), Golf (highly sensitive, and not really my pair of patterned trousers) and Boxing (fiddly and erratic, but a great workout nonetheless, although not as sweat-inducing as NIke/Sony'sEyeToy Kinetic).Amusingly, the new Wiis appeared in the minigames. Very clever, Nintendo. But I worry about the reactions of parents/concerned non-gamers who see kids thwacking caricatures of their Mii friends/teachers/celebrities. Well, I don't really, but thought I'd give it some lip service.Sadly, I couldn't get online so had to play on my own. Still, there was plenty to do in Wii Sports, so Zelda didn't get put on until around 10pm.Zelda's a lovely looking game, with Game Cube-era graphics. The interaction on screen happened primarily with the use of the "nunchuck" controller which is plugged into the Wiimote. The game is Very Zelda thus far, but frustrating as well. Lots of running around not doing much. Hopefully it won't turn into the vast expanse that Tomb Raider II did. Or Zelda: Windwaker did for that matter.At the minute, the Wii seems very much like a casual gamer's machine. The guy who's fixing my windows hadn't heard of it, but when I told him the Wii was Nintendo, he commented, "Aren't they a bit kiddy, with characters with big heads?" Interesting.As Greg said, I'll also continue to post as new impressions of the new console as they arise. The rest of you'll be able to get your hands on one next Friday.In the meantime, take a gander atthese picsof Wii gaming gone horribly wrong (if you can get through the mega traffic jam).
The Reuters bureau in Second Life hasinterviewed Reggie Fils-Aime, "Mr Nintendo America". You can either listen to the audio or read a transcript....
Hard to know what's really happening here, butBloomberg is reportingthat "Ken Kutaragi, the developer of Sony Corp.'s PlayStation game console, stepped aside from day-to-day management of the unit after production delays forced the company to slash shipment targets."Kaz Hirai, head of the U.S. game division, will take over as president of Sony Computer Entertainment, the Tokyo-based company said in a statement today. Kutaragi, 56, will become chairman of the unit. Jack Tretton, now co-chief operating officer of the U.S. division, will replace Hirai.Sony Chief Executive Officer Howard Stringer is counting on the PlayStation 3 to revive a company that has lost almost half its market value in the past six years. Kutaragi, a 30-year Sony veteran, cut 2006 shipment targets by half in September because of parts shortages.Comment: The PlayStation 3 has been a disaster from top to bottom, and the hardware is being sold at a huge loss. Worse, because of production problems, it's running a poor third in the next generation stakes. Itr's hardly surprising if Howard now feels Ken has to be kicked upstairs. Whether Kaz Hirai is capable of rescuing the PlayStation 3 is another matter.
Walter Bender, left, and Nicholas Negroponte Photo: New York TimesThe $100 One Laptop Per Child Project is making progress, reportsThe New York Times:The project now has tentative commitments for three million computers and will begin large-scale manufacturing when it reaches five million with separate commitments from at least one country each in Africa, Latin America and Asia. Based on current negotiations, Mr. Negroponte says he expects that goal to be reached by mid-2007.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
My PAL Wii arrived yesterday. I was out so didn't get a chance to unpack it until 11pm so these are very early impressions. The packaging is very Apple, while the console is small, especially when compared to the PS3 and 360. Set up was easy with the surprisingly stylish sensor bar looking right at home on top of my 32" LCD.The wiimote felt more solid and "right" than it previously did, probably because all the demo units I tried had wired controllers. The real test will come with Zelda and I'm slightly more hopeful now that the controls will work. I didn't get a chance to play Zelda - that journey will kick off tonight - but Wii sports, included with every console, is a bit of a treat. Tennis and bowling appear to be the highlights but boxing felt a bit unresponsive. Of course, multiplayer is key for these games and most people are likely to splash out for another controller - I know I will.Wii was clearly designed to appeal to non and lapsed gamers - initial impressions suggest they may be onto something. I had to literally prise the controller out of my wife's hand - not something I've ever had to do with the PS3 or 360. So very early days then but the Wii has made a promising start - more impressions next week.
