ModelAstra Twin Top Design 2.0iPriceFrom &pound;20,740Top speed147mphAcceleration(0-60mph): 8.3 secsConsumption(combined) 29.7mpgEmissionsCO2 (g/km): 228 (road tax band G)At the wheelDavid HasselhoffOn the stereoDavid HasselhoffEn route forMalibu beachThey'd rather walkAnyone in urgent need of fresh airThe man who delivered the Astra asked me if I had any questions about it. I asked him how to turn it on, because in my experience car manufacturers like nothing better than to mess with one's assumptions on this point. I've been in cars with labyrinthine security protocols, cars with keys that have no locks. I didn't want to spend a half hour sitting there with the alarm going off while I read the manual. Not this time.No, he said, it's just an ordinary, key-like key, which operates in the normal fashion. Ah, Vauxhall: straightforward, simple, familiar; no sudden freaking out about how to turn the headlights on or the radio down. The spare, functional dash was identical to other Astras I've driven. Yet this Astra does come with a difference: it's an Astra Twin Top.A twin top is a convertible with a solid steel top, in this case a fully automatic one. This creates all kinds of headaches, of course. The mechanics involved are complex. The boot space needed to store the roof components is large and often leaves designers with no choice but to produce an unattractively large-arsed vehicle, or one with only two seats. Vauxhall has got round this by having a three-section steel roof that retracts and stows compactly at the press of a button. You can also put the top down from outside, using the key. You can even put it up or down while the vehicle is moving, as long as you're going less than 18mph.Unless you're me, that is. When I pushed the button, nothing happened. I tried the key; the windows went down a bit, but that was all, apart from three short pips from the dash. Why didn't I ask the bloke about the bloody roof? It was time to consult the manual.The three short pips, I learned, are the car's way of telling you that the roof cannot or will not retract for some reason. I tried everything I could think of for an hour, and then I gave up.The next time I got in the car the roof retracted without protest in a fantastically complicated process that took 26 seconds to complete. It was all very entertaining, the kind of show passersby might stop to watch. Unfortunately I only saw it happen twice: once when it retracted, and once when it went back up.During my brief spin with the top down I was impressed by the throaty growl of the 2.0 litre engine and the almost alarming response of the accelerator pedal, but for the most part I was left to assess the Astra Twin Top in foul-weather mode. As a coupe it's perfectly serviceable, although it felt rather cramped inside and I became conscious of a certain restricted visibility. The rear window is tiny. This was probably partly psychological, a kind of claustrophobia born of sheer frustration. Squeezing in four seats along with the boot and the compartment into which the roof wouldn't go, is quite an achievement, but a back seat assignment would definitely be considered the short straw by anyone over five-foot tall. And while it's a sleek enough shape with the roof on, it looks much sharper in open-top mode. That I never got to open the roof while driving is one of my life's most profound regrets.I was left with the overall impression that the twin-top idea is a lot like the washer-dryer idea: inherently desirable in principle, but troublesome and unreliable in practice. You will see from the picture that Simon the photographer managed to get the top down all by himself, but it took him another hour (apart from the fruitless hour we went at it together) to figure out that the weird hook on the end of the boot divider had to be clicked into an "up" position before the roof would agree to move. There was nothing about this in the manual, and it does not explain why it worked for me the one time and not the others, but I'm prepared to admit it's my stupidity, and not the fiddly, unrobust fussiness of the whole design which is at fault. If you're thinking about buying one, don't even think about leaving the showroom until the man gives you a little demonstration
Amid the gloom that came with Tour de France winner Floyd Landis's positive drug test was one lighter moment. In one report of the affair, in which Landis showed positive for testosterone after his remarkable solo win in the Alps on stage 17, it emerged that the American was lucky not to have been breathalysed and test positive for alcohol as well.After his dramatic collapse on the previous day, when he slumped from third to 11th and seemed out of contention, Landis apparently went for a couple of consolatory beers with friends and later knocked back four whiskies. Not exactly what the team doctor would prescribe as a "recovery drink".Of course, the current predicament of professional cycling makes one more suspicious than ever of being spun a yarn - perhaps the boozing story is meant to quell speculation that Landis might have been given some kind of artificial "pick-me-up" following his disastrous stage 16. But it seems more likely he was just drowning his sorrows.Tour riders live like monks during the season, denying themselves treats and obsessively managing their weight while burning tens of thousands of calories in the saddle. The temptation to binge, if you think the entire purpose of your season has gone up in smoke, must be almost irresistible.And for those of us whose livelihood does not depend on keeping our body fat below 5%, the temptation to drink and ride is even stronger. Arguably, one of the unspoken advantages of riding a bike, as opposed to driving a car, is that you can get away with having a couple of beers without losing your licence. This is not to condone drink-riding in the slightest - I know someone who needed extensive dental repairs after crashing into a bollard while cycling drunk - but the working assumption is that, unlike drink-driving a car, the only person the pissed cyclist puts at risk is him or herself.The problem is, of course, that being able to get away with it doesn't make it a great idea. Well into the 1970s, racers sometimes took a few sips of brandy towards the end of a race, in the belief that the temporary euphoria would aid them, but the truth is that alcohol does not enhance performance. (Even if it was boosted by testosterone, Landis's stage 17 ride now appears all the more miraculous, since he must have had a hangover.) Apart from the burden alcohol places on the metabolism, it also impairs balance and speed of reaction. Most dangerous of all, it disinhibits, encouraging risk-taking behaviour.I like the "buzz" as much as the next person, but it's a false friend: the last thing we need is to feel invulnerable.&#183;On Your Bike! The Complete Guide to Cycling by Matt Seaton is published by Guardian Books, &pound;16.95Bike doctorAll your cycling questions answeredDear Matt,I have been cycling for over a year now, and bought a new bike last October when I realised I was going to be a full-time cyclist. However, I still feel new to this game, and would like to know how often I should have my bike serviced. Is once a year OK? How often should I pump up my tyres? I have also heard that I should wash my bike regularly. Is there anything else I should be doing?Monique Corless, via emailAn annual service is fine if you do some work in the meantime. Definitely top up the pressure in your tyres at least monthly; get an upright pump to take the sweat out of it.Regular cleaning is a great idea if you can face it. The most useful thing you can do is clean the chain. It's a nasty job, but the most hassle-free way is a Park Tool chain cleaner, which clips over the chain and brushes it with eco-friendly solvent (bought separately). Relube afterwards.In general, the more you practise the art of cycle maintenance, the longer parts last, and the less you spend on servicing. And then there's the Zen thing.
Children would rather get muddy outdoors with friends than play computer games, a survey shows today. Playing outside was favoured by 86% of children, and 72% said they wished they could do so more often.The results have been published to mark Playday, an annual celebration of children's play, coordinated by the Children's Play Council with Playboard Northern Ireland, Play Scotland and Play Wales. Most of the seven- to 14-year-old respondents (82%) liked to play in parks instead of streets. The report, by Stuart Lester and Martin Maudsley of Playwork Partnerships, involved 543 children.
There's a new movie-making contest in town. Blizzard, makers of the phenomenon that is World of Warcraft, have announced their second (what appears to be) annualSummer Movie Contest, in conjunction with Xfire.From the announcement:To take part in the contest you will need to make a movie using Blizzard's World of Warcraft and submit it to one of four categories: Short Film, Comedy, Drama/Action, or Dance/Music Video by Friday, September 15th, 2006. Once we have all the submissions, winners will be decided by Blizzard, Xfire, and a community vote!There's $23,000 worth of prizes to be won. Egads, get your director's chair out!
Following on from the closure ofMyCokeMusic, the soft drink manufacturer has decided it Would Like To Buy The World... a track from iTunes.Reuters says:In Britain, Coke will distribute 70 million song codes inside packs of Coca-Cola and Diet Coke that can be redeemed for tracks at the iTunes store, where they usually sell for 79 pence ($1.47) each."Mycokemusic.com was the first to the market, but we've decided that everybody is great at something," said Chris Burggraeve, Coca-Cola's director of marketing for the European Union. "Apple is undeniably the leader in this field."That commercial link-up is likely to draw a fair bit of attention, boosting iTunes' numbers and bringing even more people to Apple's table. But I was drawn to the response from Wippit, the smaller, leaner music service, which always entertains.its probably unexpected for us to say this ... but we welcome this promotion. The bigger the better as far as we're concerned. It will boost the market, encourage more legal downloading, introduce new music and as Wippit is compatible with iPods it allows us to tuck in tight in their slipstream and watch our non-compatible competitors (that's everyone else) fall back a little further. In short, Wippit is set to gain from the ground lost by our other competitors.Our subscribers get unlimited downloads from a selection of 60,000 tracks for the price of about 35 two litre bottles of Coke. That's like a 1,700 song giveaway per bottle and a much lower risk of tooth decay.* (*not clinically proven).Some readers already expressedtheir love for Wippit. But will more really come their way from this?
How's this for opportunism - the corpse of E3 is not yet cold, it hasn't even stopped twitching, but already the videogame vultures are circling with alternative offers. "I'm sure you've heard the announcement that E3 is downsizing next year from a zoo of 60,000 attendees to a smaller, more manageable invitation-only crowd of 5,000. Good for them! But what does that mean for you?" asks the email that arrived in my in-tray late last night from theAustin Game Conference."If you're looking for a great event to cover that would be happy to have your journalistic-prowess, look no further than Austin, Texas, September 6-7-8," it goes on to offer. And then one final poke at E3's bloated body, "what we lack in booth babes, we offer in top notch headlining speakers..."This, I suspect, is just the beginning...
I think font-based news has been vastly under-reported on this here blog, something I am going to rectify with the following.MonotypeandLinotype, two of the biggest operators in the business, are getting in to bed together. Monotype - home of stalwarts like Times New Roman and Arial - will take over Linotype - owner of Helvetica and others. Quite whether this means we'll see Times New Helfrutiger arrive on the scene is anyone's guess.
Like any gossipy blogger, I enjoy a bitchfight when it breaks out - and even more so when it's betweenSo I was amused to log on today and see that Gawker's tech ragValleywagand Michael Arrington ofTechcrunchare going at it again.(more navel-gazing bloggy chin-scratching nonsense after the jump).Valleywag's had a few recent pops at Arrington, but given the site's snarky nature and Techcrunch's rising star I suppose them's the breaks - especially when you're the darling of the frenzied web industry for covering every new release in Boom 2.0. Arrington, meanwhile, is quickly developing a reputation as humourless and needlessly thin-skinned.After recently walking out of a popular podcast because hedidn't likecommentatorNicholas Carr, Arrington now says Valleywag is"lame"because it started asking questions about his investments.On TechCrunch's About page, the note on disclosures says that Arrington will "occasionally advise and/or invest in companies that may be written about on TechCrunch. Any conflicts are always mentioned if I personally write about that company." He lists a handful of "current disclosures" but it's hard to know whether this is the full list, or merely those about which Arrington has written.It's true enough that Valleywag's Nick Douglas doesn't seem to like Arrington very much, an opinion which is sometimes justified given Techcrunch's amazing ability to make even the most inane Ajax service seem like it could be the second coming of Christ. But we'd be fools to think that at large portion of Valeywag's interest wasn't competitive jealousy.However, seeing as that about page doesn't seem to qualiy as full disclosure, I can't see how Arrington is justified in saying it's not fair that people are trying to see exactly who he invests in and who he doesn't. He may not like Valleywag, and Valleywag may not like him, but that doesn't mean these aren't legitimate lines of inquiry.Techcrunch has a lot of readers, many of them - perhaps - investing in startups that he's writing about. Perhaps he should go straight and tellexactlywhat he's up to.(And hey, even if hedidlist a series of investments, there's nothing wrong with somebody contacting companies to make sure the list is correct.)Don't get me wrong, Valleywag often takes cheap shots at people who don't deserve it. But it's essentially a diary column; an attempt to cause trouble and wind people up. And a writer complaining that he's being looked at too closely doesn't seem very Journalism 2.0 to me.
Dear Matt,I have been cycling for over a year now, and bought a new bike last October when I realised I was going to be a full-time cyclist. However, I still feel new to this game, and would like to know how often I should have my bike serviced. Is once a year OK? How often should I pump up my tyres? I have also heard that I should wash my bike regularly. Is there anything else I should be doing?Monique Corless, via emailAn annual service is fine if you do some work in the meantime. Definitely top up the pressure in your tyres at least monthly; get an upright pump to take the sweat out of it.Regular cleaning is a great idea if you can face it. The most useful thing you can do is clean the chain. It's a nasty job, but the most hassle-free way is a Park Tool chain cleaner, which clips over the chain and brushes it with eco-friendly solvent (bought separately). Relube afterwards.In general, the more you practise the art of cycle maintenance, the longer parts last, and the less you spend on servicing. And then there's the Zen thing.
So everyone has an opinion on the demise - sorry,evolution- of E3. It had to happen: for the last few years it's been a bizarre, noisy and hugely expensive simulacrum of a tradeshow benefiting no-one but the news sites that managed to make a few bucks selling E3 DVDs. I will not miss the crowds, the whooping masses hollering at game videos - E3 symbolised the whole image-is-everything approach to game development that has been strangling the creative life out of the industry for years.Or did it?Indie developer Greg Costikyandraws our attention tothe small publishers and developers who camped out in the event's tiny Kentia hall - likely to be left out of the forthcoming media festival, these companies will no longer find such an astonishingly large audience for their wares.Greg suggests going in the other direction and turning E3 into a huge consumer event: "...something more like GenCon or Leipzig. Throw the "trade only" restriction out the window, open it up to actual gamers, charge them enough to make big bux for the ESA, ramp up attendance from 40k to 100k plus, and make it an event where publishers market to consumers as well as the trade."No, things are better this way. The likes of Leipzig, Tokyo Game Show and the Edinburgh Games Festival put a different cultural spin on the games industry - this can only be a positive thing. Perhaps we will see a proliferation of small specialist shows cropping up - we already have events dedicated to casual games, sex in games, indie games... It's thelong tail theoryagain - lots of small, tightly targeted events replacing the mainstream leviathan.I also think that the death of E3 will be good news for videogame magazines. A single, all-consuming mass media event in which everyone got everything at the same time only ever played into the hands of the internet games sites. But an industry in which publishers choose their own times to reveal new products puts the impetus back on magazines to work deals and haggle for exclusives. Once again it might be possible to maintain a relevant, vibrant news section for 13 issues a year.
I weep over the lifeless husk that was E3.That's a lie. I hated it.Here are a few words I wrote on it a few months ago, when the event was still fresh in my mind.For three days in May, everything in the games industry grinds to a halt, as the interactively obsessed descend on a sunny patch of cement in Los Angeles to witness and to celebrate the next revolutions in interactive entertainment. To survive, they must have stamina, painkillers and resistance to a profound amount of hype because E3 is a non-stop rollercoaster of sales pitches and self-congratulation.Personally, I have scant tolerance for the rush and bumble of E3. Walking through the Los Angeles Convention Centre during the event is like falling into a giant blender with a string of Christmas lights and the large proportioned occupants of Nuts magazine. No matter how much I would love to get lost in that sensory orgasmic soup of hysteria, I just can't fall into step with the seventy thousand eager fans responding like zombies with ADD to every baying call of "Look at me!". If I must be around that many people, I'd rather spend three days in the mud in a field in Wiltshire listening to over-produced mainstream pop than jostling with a guy whose shirt says, "You had me at Halo" for access to two minutes on a controller.Perhaps my reticence to attend the show is because I don't feel I'd get anything new out of it that I wouldn't be able to gain from watching the river of video from the comfort of my own office. Any hands on access, statistics or insights from developers are dutifully blogged/photographed/published by people who are there, so why spend the cash to get out to LA and be manhandled by pressing crowds when I can get the press releases delivered to my RSS feed?Ultimately, the reason E3 holds no interest for me is that it's about the new games that are coming out and nothing more. It's a series of sales pitches. E3 is about the public face of the industry, not the brains behind the innovations.The job of the people who man the booths is to try to court and wow the tens of thousands of congregated journalists with flashy stage dressing and two and a half minutes of allotted game time. To that end, column inches have profound social capital in events like these. Unless you're part of the elite journalist bracket, trying to get your hands on the key titles and systems is like chasing smog through the San Fernando Valley. Ironically, the best vantage point is away from the epicentre, and not in the thick of it. If you don't have the clout or the blagging power to get behind the scenes, you're stuck in a 4 hour queue with no escape. You may as well be downloading the proceedings from home.What other events have to their credit that E3 doesn't is that they're not just about flogging, they're about examining what has been done well before and what can be done better in the future to produce new and innovative experiences. The talks which dominate other industry shows provide insight into the processes behind the creation of games which capture the public's imagination. Now that's my kind of games event.E3 is a glorified press briefing. It's nothing more than three days of showboating, providing journalists fodder to contemplate during the barren summer months when publishers slow down the flood of game releases. But ultimately, this annual display of bravado is a necessary evil to gain the attentions of mainstream media sources, and in this objective it's been hugely successful. Thankfully, for the sake of sanity, there's only one E3. Pass the aspirin.
Hot on the heels oflast week's settlement by Kazaacomes news that one major label is dealing with a peer-to-peer network. According tothe BBC, EMI is licensing its entire US catalogue to Mashboxxx, the as-yet-unreleased filesharing service started by Grokster boss Wayne Rosso.David Munns, chairman and CEO of EMI Music North America, said: "When it rolls out, Mashboxx will be a no-obligation way for fans to really immerse themselves in discovering music, turning their friends on to what they like and getting excited about artists and music they've not yet heard."It has the potential to be a very good revenue stream for those who make their living from creating and investing in music."I still can't work out if this is the industry changing its tune, or just singing the same old song.But it's interesting that poachers like Rosso are turning gamekeepers. Shawn Fanning, the kid (man?) behind Napster, now runsSnoCap, another legal filesharing service that's still in its formative stages. But previous attempts to go legit have struggled without the support of the industry. Can things change now?
No wonder they're pulling out of E3 in their droves - videogame publishers have started to announce their first quarter figures for 2006 and they're not pretty. With profits like these, it's a wonder most companies can afford the airfare to LA, let along a gazillion dollar stand filled with booth babes and 500" plasma screens.Last thursday, THQ meeklyreportedfirst quarter losses of USD 12.1 million with sales at USD 138.8 million, down from USD 158 million for the same period last year. However, the company was quick to point out that these figures were actually better than expected thanks to the strong retail performance of its Cars tie-in. So that's okay then - it's good to see that movie conversions are still winning the hearts of gullible gamers everywhere.Later Sega Sammyannouncedthat it's net profit had nose-dived by 93%, with earnings falling from 10.7 billion yen this time last year to 779 million yen. The company has blamed a downturn in sales of its pachinko slot machines, but expects things to pick up for Christmas.Meanwhile, there was mixed news for Sony. The companyrevealeda net income of 32.3 billion Yen for the first quarter, but this was mostly down to the resurgent consumer electronics division and the success of the Da Vinci Code movie. In the videogame sector, sales are down 29%, "as a result of a decrease in hardware unit sales of PlayStation2 and PSP, as well as a decrease in PS2 software sales," the company explains in its press release. PSP sales down? Oh dear...Not everyone has fared so badly. Vivendi hasproudly drawn attentionto a 5.8% increase in revenues for the first half of the year - thanks in no small part to the incredible success of World of Warcraft. The company also claims to have done well out of Ice Age 2 and back catalogue titles like (surely not) Bulletproof: 50 Cent and Crash Tag Team Racing.Finally, Ubisoft has a big smile on its corporate face this week afterfilinga first quarter revenue figure of 70 million euros, an increase of 62% on the first quarter of 2005-2006. key titles in this impressive showing have been Ghost Recon Advance Warfighter and Heroes of Might and Magic V. The company is expecting it's good fortune to continue through the rest of the year with the likes of Splinter Cell Double Agent, Rayman Raving Rabbids, Red Steel and Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas on the way.So the message for the industry is this: keep making movie tie-ins, fantasy RPGs and stealth shooters.Oh crap.
Followingyesterday's blogconfirmation has come through that E3, previously the world's largest and most important videogame event, has beendownsized/rebranded/obliterated. The new event, which aims to attract 5000 rather than the usual 60,000 visitors, will be held in a hotel rather then the LA Convention Centre and focus on media and meetings. While he avoided the obvious reason for this - EA and the other big publishers pulling out due to the cost - Doug Lowenstein, president of the organising company, did mange to spin something positive out of it.Some companies were frustrated because E3 was such a huge, sweeping event it became increasingly difficult to get their messages out.Of course, this all sounds great in theory. But in reality the large events that will be held by the big publishers are likely to dominate media attention thus negating any supposed benefits from the new E3. It looks like Tokyo and the increasingly important Leipzig event (at the end of August) will be where announcements are made, with smaller events, such as London's Game Market, finding a niche. You could argue, of course, that the games industry is more confident in itself these days - games are bigger than Hollywood etc - and therefore has less need for brash statements of intent. But, let's face it, E3's collapse was down to high costs rather than over confidence. Now if only we could get a decently sized event in the UK, maybe along similar lines to ECTS circa 1999. We can dream eh?
Finally, I'm all set up and ready to offer our first official Gamesblog online gaming session.Next Monday at 8pm, I'll be hosting Ghost Recon on my Xbox 360. Telewest has kindly agreed to increase my broadband connection to 10meg so I should be able to offer quite a stable GRAW environment.If you're interested in playing, please leave your GamerTag below, then come online at 7.50-ish. I'll invite you all in and we can kick off. I'll provide another chance to sign up on Monday during the day.For PC gamers, I'm organising a Battlefield session later in the month - more on that later.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Ah the wonder that is YouTube. A bastion of the useless and the profane. Yet in amongst the videos of people snorting cornflakes through their noses or mouthing off at faceless Xbox Live opponents, there are some fantastic nuggets of gaming gone by.I'm not talking Mario here.Many of you may know that Prey, the latest first person shooter to capture the hearts and minds of gamers during this sweltering summer, was in development for almost 10 years - making it a primary contender for the title of "Longest Game In Development To Have Actually been Released".Here's what it looked like in1997. And here's what it looked like in1998.Prey is one of the lucky ones. Not only was it eventually released, but it's been a critical success.CNethas compiled examples of titles that have languished in development until their eventual demise. Is anyonestillworking on Duke Nukem Forever?viaAeropause
I've been reading up on Ken Kutaragi recently. Spot the odd quote out:"A new chapter in computer science is about to begin.""Today's videogame graphics look like computer graphics. Our goal is to achievea film-like graphics qualitythat won't make viewers conscious of or annoyed by the fact that they are indeed looking at computer graphics.""Cell will make possiblea transformation in entertainmentlike that from novels to movies.""With built-in broadband connectivity, microprocessors that currently exist as individual islands will be more closely linked, making a network of systems act more asone, unified 'supersystem'. Just as biological cells in the body unite to form complete physical systems, Cell-based electronic products of all types will form the building blocks of larger systems.""Just think of the Apollo program that sent human beings to the moon, or Celera's project to analyze the human genome. Not every engineer has the chance to participate in such projects that canimpact the course of the history. Cell is exactly this kind of project."Update: Well done PhilWal, who points out in a comment that the second entry referred to the PlayStation 2....
Many British politicians have heard of California, and Tony Blair made history by being the first sitting prime minister to visit the place. Better than that, he met a bunch of leading tech-company businessmen for a lunch of filet of Painted Hills Natural Beef, fresh local halibut and organic vegetable strudel at Cisco.Blair said he wanted to talk about what governments could do to foster innovation and keep abreast of the rapid pace of technological change, reports theSan Jose Mercury News: "What I'd really like to do is learn from you: Things we do right and things we do wrong."Seated around an arrangement of tables were [John Chambers, chief executive of Cisco];David Gardner, chief operating officer of Electronic Arts;Hector Ruiz, chief executive of Advanced Micro Devices;Vint Cerf, chief Internet evangelist for Google;Shantanu Narayen, chief operating officer of Adobe Systems;Jim Ward, president of LucasArts;Jonathan Schwartz, chief executive of Sun Microsystems;John Hennessy, president of Stanford University;Steve Jobs, the chief executive of Apple Computer; andMark Hurd, chief executive of Hewlett-Packard.A spokeswoman for Blair said some other, unspecified, valley executives were invited but were unable to attend.Comment: And my reply would have been that Silicon Valley has been a phenomenon for at least 35 years, and it would have been a better idea to find that stuff out before becoming prime minister....
As seen on TV....
The giant E3 games trade show is being downsized, or something short of cancelled, according to duelling reports on the Web.The main spat seems to be between Ars Technica (E3 game trade show not cancelled, but will be downsized) and Next Generation (E3 Finished as Big Exhibs Pull Support), but NG says: "Calls to ESA [Entertainment Software Association] staff are not being returned at present."No doubt a clearer picture will emerge later...Los Angeles is obviously part of the problem, so perhaps it's time to move to, say, Leipzig? AsGamesIndustry.bizreported recently:Europe's largest videogames show, Games Convention, has announced that 367 exhibitors have signed up for this year's event, making it into the largest GC yet - with over 150,000 people expected to attend over the four days of the expo.The event, which attracted 134,000 visitors in 2005, is also expecting to see a major increase in the number of consumers travelling to attend Games Convention during its public days, which run from the 24th to the 27th of August.TheGames Convention Developer Conference(GCDC) will also be held in Leipzig.Not long ago, the trade was dominated by the three great US shows: Comdex, CES and E3. Comdex has gone, E3 may be going, and CES has already got too big to handle.The Germans, however, seem to be able to keep these things going, examples being CeBIT in Hannover, Photokina in Cologne, IFA (Internationale Funkausstellung) in Berlin, the Frankfurt Book Fair, DRUPA in Dusseldorf, and about 500 more.TheLeipzig Trade Fairhas been going since Otto the Rich founded it in 1190, which puts E3's brief life in proper perspective.
Mysterious Polish developerNibrishas released a few morsels of new information about its Wii-bound gothic adventure, Sadness. Several months ago, the studio announced that the game would be entirely black and white - but left it pretty much at that.Now it's been revealed that the plot covers events, "from before the outbreak of World War I" and that the game features monsters culled from Slavic legends. However, according to the company's press release, different players will encounter different creatures depending on the choices they make in the game. The developer has also revealed that the game will have no traditional menu screen - the idea being to create a true sense of immersion from the very beginning:"We aim at completely intuitive behaviour of the player - just as in life. Every choice a player makes is essential - if you experience traumatic events in your life, they are in you all the time. The same is going to be with Sadness. We want the player feel he participates in events, not only a game"Hmm, black and white, no menu screen, branching storyline... the world ambitious doesn't cover it really. It is to be hoped, however, that this isn't just about a studio hyping up a game with impossible ambitions before offloading a much less remarkable end product. Fable owners may remember the original plans for the game as a totally open moral adventure, following an intrictaely definable hero through a free-roaming landscape in which every decision has enormous ramifications... That's not quite what transpired when reality reared its ugly, dramatically scaled-down head.What we do know is that Nibris has outsourced elements of the game to help with the workload, bringing inFrontline Studiosand 3D animation specialists,Digital Amigos.So, is this going to be Silent Hill meets Sin City with Deus Ex-esque open-ended gameplay? Or just Resident Evil with the colour turned off?
In the same way that you can't help but want to punch a footballer who complains about "fatigue" when they have to play more than one game a week - bless their poor millionaire tootsies - the annual moan from the games industry about the trip to E3 seems like a pampered whinge. After all, how much of a hardship can it be to spend a week in LA playing games and going to parties? But - honest guv - E3 is a stupidly busy week and that's just reporting on it as a journalist. The real hard work is elsewhere - every developer you meet has a horror story about the rush to get code finished for the show.So theweekend rumoursthat the event has been cancelled, or at least downsized, due to publisher disagreements over cost/benefit are important not only to industry types. While E3 has faults at least everything is under one (very large) roof. The little guys share floor space with the big guns and get a rare chance to make some noise in front of thousands of media. If the rumours are confirmed - we should hear later today - then we can expect numerous publisher specific events which, while undoubtedly a more relaxed environment to check out the latest titles, will be lacking the variety and possibly the really big announcements that characterise E3. Of course, the chances are that the big publishers are bluffing and that something will be sorted for next year. Despite the queues, noise and sweaty attendees I think I'd miss E3 if it gets cancelle...on second thoughts, maybe not. E3 RIP?
The old approach of turning off JavaScript is getting harder and harder as it's used by more and more "Web 2.0" sites that use asynchronous JavaScript for "Ajaxing"-- including Gmail and all the new portal offerings from GYM (Google, Yahoo and Microsoft). Times have changed: we originally turned JavaScript off to avoid idiot Web designers' pointless tricks. But in the future, we may have to turn it off because it's a security nightmare."JavaScript is bad for security, a real disaster," David Wagner, a professor of computer science at the University of California at Berkeley, said at a recent event. "We're stuck with JavaScript at this point. AJAX means more JavaScript, and we're going to be stuck with it longer."CNet is getting heavily into this idea at the moment, and an article warns thatJavaScript opens doors to browser-based attacks.Security researchers have found a way to use JavaScript to map a home or corporate network and attack connected servers or devices, such as printers or routers.The malicious JavaScript can be embedded in a Web page and will run without warning when the page is viewed in any ordinary browser, the researchers said. It will bypass security measures such as a firewall because it runs through the user's browser, they said.According to Jeremiah Grossman, chief technology officer at Web application security company WhiteHat Security: "The users really are at the mercy of the Web sites they visit."Attacks aren't widespread, Grossman said. "JavaScript malware is still cutting-edge, and nobody really knows what you can do with it," he said. "Liken it to the early days of an e-mail virus -- that's where we're at now. I think we're going to see (many) more attacks."Another article coversThe security risk in Web 2.0."We're continuing to make the same mistakes by putting security last," said Billy Hoffman, lead engineer at Web security specialist SPI Dynamics. "People are buying into this hype and throwing together ideas for Web applications, but they are not thinking about security, and they are not realizing how badly they are exposing their users."There's also aFAQ: JavaScript insecurities, which provides a round-up.Footnote: This clears up one little mystery, which is how JavaScript got its name. It is a mystery because it was originally written by Netscape as LiveScript: it has nothing to do with Java. The FAQ says:Bill Joy, one of Sun's co-founders, takes full responsibility for the name JavaScript, which was a "bad decision," he said at a recent event. "I was the one who let Netscape name it JavaScript," Joy said. "They called me on the phone. They were in a panic, and they wanted to use the name. I was on a family outing; I wasn't thinking."Since Microsoft is now using Live all over the place -- Xbox Live, Windows Live etc -- Ballmer can be duly grateful.
TVR SagarisPrice:&pound;49,995Top Speed:195mphSeats:2Good for:Blazing trailsBad for:Blazer countryFor most of us, daily decisions usually revolve around food (a lasagne readymeal or the remains of last night's shepherd's pie), clothes (novelty T or crumpled office shirt), and rental DVDs (Nanny McPhee or Hideous Kinky)? For the members of Ecurie25, however, life's dilemmas are more supercharged: a Ferrari F430 Spider for the weekend or the Aston Martin DB9 Volante?Ecurie25, a supercar club which opened six months ago, is the brainchild of Erik Fairbairn and Flora Heathcote. 'He's the petrol head,' says Flora, 'while I look after the lifestyle side of things.' And what a lifestyle it is. Its aim is to offer the fun, freedom and flexibility of driving a variety of the world's finest cars, without the headache of depreciation, servicing and insurance. Clearly, such a lifestyle does not come cheap - a year's fees will cost you &pound;8,700. This buys you points which can then be exchanged for driving days. 'Basically,' says Flora, 'a member can expect up to 40 driving days a year' in any of Ecurie25's stable of head-turning motors. In Hollywood terms, these cars are A-list; in playground terms they're alpha kids.The club is based in London's Old Street, a throttle's blip from the Square Mile, from where most of its members are drawn. To experience at first hand the thrills and frills of belonging to Ecurie25, I've been given honorary status for the weekend.After much lip biting, I step past the Bentleys and Porsches and opt for a vehicle which brilliantly sums up the club's philosophy - a TVR Sagaris. (It's something you're dying to drive, but which you'd never want to own.)If ever a car could be described as tumescent, this is it. With its swollen wings and sculpted bonnet, the Sagaris is in every sense an extreme machine. It's a challenging and uncompromising, Blackpool-built, fibreglass sportscar that's powered by a colossal, gurgling, 406bhp engine. Its twin, right-angled exhausts produce the kind of spluttering boom that makes grown men groan. It does 0-100mph in eight seconds and it's named after a weapon - a Persian battle axe, which seems to sum up TVR's approach.Ecurie25 specialises in organising weekend driving itineraries and arranges all the reservations its mollycoddled members may require to fully escape the rigours of corporate leadership. So, to fully appreciate the 'lifestyle' side of its business, Ecurie25 checked my wife and I into Stoke Park golf club, deep in the heart of Buckinghamshire's clinking G&amp;T belt. The stunningly beautiful hotel is where, you may recall, Hugh Grant takes Renee Zellweger for a romantic break in Bridget Jones's Diary. It's also where James Bond defeated Auric Goldfinger on the 18th in Goldfinger back in 1964. Money, it seems, actually can buy you happiness.On Sunday afternoon, the door closing on our weekend's escape, we return home.I hand over the keys of the TVR, pull on my helmet, start up my little Vespa and tootle dreamily back to reality. The lasagne, I think to myself, and maybe Nanny McPhee ...ecurie25.co.ukstokeparkclub.com
'Groundhog Day' - not the annual festival in Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania, nor the cult film with Bill Murray - is a music video by a previously obscure Miami hip-hop duo called Mayday! It could also be a blueprint for students of marketing seeking to hit the internet jackpot.In the early hours of one May morning, the four-minute film was uploaded on toYouTube, the website on which more than 70 million videos are watched every day. By the following day the video by Mayday! had been seen by two million people, making it one of YouTube's all-time greatest hits.The success was due to viral marketing at its most cunning. The record company behind it, Southbeat, was founded in partnership with executives fromWebdate.com, a dating site. From this and other sites, it had access to a database of more than three million people, all of whom were sent emails urging them to watch the video.Then there was internet pornography. On several X-rated websites, a message was posted encouraging users towatch 'Groundhog Day'. One said: 'Our friends from Mayday have a sick video. I need you to watch it, rate it, comment on it.'As the New York Times observed: 'This marketing tactic reverses a familiar internet ruse: a surfer innocently looking for pornography might find himself staring at a non-pornographic music video rather than vice versa.' Touch&eacute;.
Joseph Dobbie is someone to feel really sorry for. He met a girl at a party, sent a dreadfully poetic 500-word email to her, she forwarded it to her sister and her sister forwarded it to some friends. Then her friends forwarded it to the world. By last Sunday his email was in my inbox and by Monday he was all over the papers - the latest victim of a technology which allows us to be highly entertained by emails featuring idiot stockbroker shag-braggers and wantonly cruel about people like Dobbie. One email even read: 'Let's see if we can get him in Metro [the free London newspaper] on Monday.' We did much better than that.I can't exactly stand in judgment. I forwarded it on to a couple of friends, the subject field reading: 'I feel really bad about forwarding this ...' as though that makes it better. Actually it's worse: I was only number seven on the chain of emails, which came from my boyfriend, which came from his mate, which came from the sister's mate. Since a lot of my friends are journalists, I could conceivably be the reason it reached the media. I sort of feel bad, but even though I've seen his picture in the papers, it's as if he doesn't exist, which encapsulates the alarming beauty of the internet: when you've pinged that email off into cyberspace, you can easily delude yourself into thinking it's vanished into the ether, never to be read. This, of course, is a long way from the truth.Joseph may not feel any better, but there but for the grace of God go most of us. I could probably be fired for some of the things that have emanated from my outbox. My productivity has been seriously compromised by hours spent wondering whether referencing Chekhov in an email to a potential pull will make me look erudite or geeky, and questioning whether, 'Yeah, party was fun. Felt well hungover today though. best, T', means, 'Let's engage in a meaningful relationship that will definitely result in children,' or, 'Was she the really drunk one who told the same story twice in 10 minutes?'All of which poses the question of how to flirt, score, start a loving relationship in an email without scaring the recipient or, alternatively, coming across as so cold as to be almost pathologically uninterested in other human beings. I frequently find new and exciting ways to make a fool of myself, especially concerning boys, and preserving such moments in written form is one of my favourite ways to do so. This flirtatious email etiquette guide is based on my own sorry experiences, with help from some equally inept friends.1 Never use capitalsOr if you must, use them sparingly. You are far too busy and important to worry about such piffling matters, you have hundreds of other more interesting people to send emails to, who are all a great deal more attractive than the recipient of this particular one. That you might have to go through your tirelessly constructed email that obviously took you the best part of a working day to write and remove any accidental capital letters is beside the point. Occasional spelling mistakes are also a good thing, the odd 'hte' or 'adn' emphasises that spellcheck is for losers with too much time on their hands. However ...2 Your punctuation must be perfectThis is for two reasons: good punctuation makes any writing flow better, thus adding to the impression that you are clever, witty, glib and likely to be extremely good company over a bottle of wine &agrave; deux. Second, bad punctuation enrages some people and they will never go out with you if you email: 'they're is going to be a party next weekend if youd like to come', as they will think you're very stupid. And they'll be right.3 Observe the two 'two' rulesAlways wait two hours to reply to an email - you may be hyperventilating with joy that they've expressed interest in having a pint 'at some point', but waiting two hours will (hopefully) prevent you from writing something rash, such as, 'when? now?' And if you write them two emails in a row and don't get a reply, don't write again. Don't ever be tempted to write: 'We've had trouble with our servers today and so I just thought I'd send this again since you haven't replied to the last couple of times I sent it so I just thought I'd be sure just in case you didn't get them.' It makes you look mad.4 Don't get overexcited by a large volume of emailsI enjoyed what I took to be the beginning of a promising e-romance on the basis that I'd exchanged approximately one email every 10 minutes with a lovely-looking man at work for about two weeks, only to be told at the end of our one and only evening in a bar that I had 'rather different expectations' than he did, especially since he had a girlfriend. I thought 'kindred spirit', he thought, 'I am bored by my job and she makes inaccurate references to Chekhov, how diverting.'5 Do not send highly personal and/or explicit emails from workYes, it's all very enticing, the thrill of being caught etc but - take it from someone who knows - when you accidentally delete an important document and have to call IT to recover it, you don't want some stranger reading your 'I really want you right here right now' emails. Emailing about having sex where you shouldn't is illicit and fun. Having that nice, fatherly Barry who helps you retrieve files when you crash your PC know exactly what and where you next plan to 'do it' and what underwear you are planning to wear, is not.6 Do not be fooled into thinking that a charming, hilarious and sweet email equals a charming, hilarious and sweet senderDo not be fooled into, oh, I don't know, sleeping with someone on the first date on the basis that a couple of weeks of apparently deep and meaningful emails are equivalent to actually getting to know someone. You might not notice that they are, in fact, a bit of a git who clearly spent just as long as you did artfully creating a personality for himself that was about as far removed from reality as your own nebulous e-personality, hence your complete mismatch.7 Don't nick an attractive stranger's email address from a group emailThis is what Dobbie did and look where it got him. There is nothing scarier than an email that starts off, 'You don't know me but ...' As a one-time sender (note to self: when really pretty boys don't chat you up at a party, it's because they don't fancy you) and one-time recipient ('We were at university together but I never plucked up the courage to talk to you ... I was the one who dressed in army fatigues. Do you like war games?'), it's a lose-lose for all concerned.8 Don't get annoyed by being made to wait for a responseThe rule is that people you are trying to impress may be left for up to four days without an answer. This ensures the sender is left hanging on for a return email, unless of course they are equally cool. Being left hanging means one of two things: they're a bit of a player or they really like you and are scared of coming on too strong. Good luck at figuring that one out. If they answer, after a suitably long pause, 'fine. tuesday?' then they are a player. So you've got problems.9 Don't be deliberately cruelDon't dump someone over email. Don't forward heartfelt but unwanted declarations of love. Don't, as a friend of mine did, wait for someone to return from backpacking and create a fake email address to convince them they are going to have a Mexican lovechild. Karma is a wonderful thing and we are all just one accidental 'send to all' away from universal ridicule and a P45.10 And, finally, don't send 500-word, Dobbie-style emailsEver. And never include sentences like this, of Dobbie's: 'I know that it makes me feel good to believe that maybe, if you are ever upset, knowing that I will be keeping your smile alive might help you through' to people with mean sisters who might forward them to horrid journalists. Like me. Trust no one and good luck.Original MessageFrom: Joseph DobbieSubject: Lady of the cakeHello Kate, It's Joe - we met at Andrew's party ... It was wonderful to meet you on Saturday, and I wonder if you would consider meeting me for coffee sometime; maybe at the Tate Modern? OK. This is where my common sense is telling me to stop - keep it simple and positive, Joe ...This is the part where I throw caution to the wind; the part where I listen to my heart and remember that I should live my life as an exultation and revel in the opportunity to try; the part where I refuse to apologise for who I am; the part where I trust that the lady I met on Saturday night is, as I suspect, able to see sincerity where others would see cliche ...
His handle, revealing the number of the beast, appears to have been well chosen. Mark Bedford, the man who yesterday emerged from the shadows of cyberspace to become every parent's nightmare, used the pseudonym Supalover666 to enter online chat rooms and allegedly looked for young girls to groom.Yesterday, as details of Bedford's apparent methods of operation emerged, the allegations against him provided a disturbing insight into the manipulative world of the paedophile.Police claim that Bedford would try to win the girls' confidence by posing as one of them. He would claim to be a 15-year-old girl interested in rugby, music, singing and dancing. If that approach failed, he would try another tack: hacking into their email accounts to gain access to their 'buddy lists' (which detail their online friends).As soon as Bedford, an unemployed 21-year-old from Ottawa, Canada, had online access to the youngsters, he turned nasty, according to police. Girls as young as nine were threatened with rape, bodily harm and even death if they failed to co-operate and perform sex acts on their webcams.It is also claimed that Bedford, who - unusually - is suspected of acting alone, threatened to post their images on websites or show them to family members if they refused.The size and scale of the alleged crime has shocked those involved in the investigation. 'I have never seen this many victims involved and it's safe to say that, in this early stage of this investigation, we're looking at well in excess of 100,' said Ontario Police Detective Sergeant Frank Goldschmidt, who led the nine-month investigation.Although Bedford lived with his parents in Canada, many of his victims are alleged to have been in Britain, in particular Kent. More clues are likely to emerge as police sift through his computer, floppy discs, CDs and other items that were seized in a raid on his home last Wednesday.Anne Widdecombe, Conservative MP for Maidstone and the Weald, expressed concerns at the revelations. 'Why weren't their parents monitoring the computers?' she asked.Tomorrow Bedford will appear in court in Ottawa charged with two counts of luring a child by means of a computer, two counts of possessing child pornography and three counts of making child pornography. In addition, he was also charged with two counts of distributing child pornography and three counts of extortion.Bedford's father, Gary, told the local press he was 'totally devastated' by the allegations facing his son. 'We were totally blind-sided. We had no idea what was going on.'Goldschmidt, too, says he is stunned. 'It just seems that some of the kids who are involved in this type of activity these days really don't feel like they're doing anything wrong, because they're in the comfort of their own home,' Goldschmidt said. 'It amazes me to this day that parents allow their children to be locked up in their bedrooms with state-of-the-art computer equipment and then they get involved in this type of activity.'But such cases are becoming increasingly common at a time when police fear that more than 50,000 potential sexual predators are online at any given moment. Police hunting missing schoolgirl Hannah Rodrigues fear she may have been lured to London by a man she met in a chat room.Last month, Lee Costi, 21, was jailed at Nottingham Crown Court after persuading a 13-year-old girl to perform sex acts for him to watch via webcams, after contacting her through a chat room.The girl had been flattered by Costi's attention: 'He kept saying how beautiful I was and how he liked me,' she said.An examination of Costi's computer found more than 350 logs of online conversations with young girls in chat rooms, as well as with paedophiles around the world.Police tracked down two girls whom he had groomed for sex when they were 13 and 14 respectively.Costi admitted three counts of having sex with children, three of internet child grooming, five of making indecent images of children and one of possessing 43 indecent images of youngsters.The court heard that Costi used one particular chat room, along with Microsoft's popular MSN Messenger online instant messaging service, to contact young girls. Other internet services are also attracting concern.Whereas a few years ago, children were simply swapping emails in chat rooms, now they are swapping photos and videos on a range of popular community websites such as MySpace and bebo.com. The sites say they take child protection issues extremely seriously, but already some schools have banned pupils from placing their details on such sites, for fear that they will become magnets for paedophiles and inappropriately sexual discussions.The government's internet child protection watchdog - the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre (CEOPC) - has also said it is looking into the new community-style websites and is pressing their owners to protect youngsters.The centre, staffed by experts from children's charities and law enforcement officials, provides a single point of contact for the public, police, and internet companies to report targeting of children online. It also offers advice and information to parents and potential victims of abuse 24 hours a day.CEOPC, which is based in London and has up to 100 staff, is now carrying out investigations using 'undercover' officers posing in chat rooms as young girls in an attempt to snare paedophiles. But such operations are expensive and are therefore extremely limited.CEOPC played a role in Bedford's arrest. 'While it is not appropriate to comment on this particular investigation, our message is simple,' a spokesman said yesterday. 'To the sex offender, our message is clear. We will track you domestically and across international borders, and will use strategic partnerships and legislative powers to do all we can to bring you to account.' The simple fact is law enforcement cannot keep up with children's demand for the internet. Research suggests that almost two thirds of 13- to 17-year-olds in Britain have pages on sites such as Bebo at a time when many parents are ignorant of what their children are doing online.In addition, children appear not to have heeded warnings about those they meet online. Studies show one in 12 of the eight million children in Britain who have internet access has gone on to meet someone after he or she first made contact online.But the use of webcams is changing the dynamics: paedophiles no longer have to meet their victims in person. Last year, an American teenager, Justin Berry, hit the headlines when it emerged that, since the age of 13 he had earned hundreds of thousands of dollars by undressing and performing sex acts for a paying web audience of more than 1,500 people.Justin, who had a distant relationship from his father, enjoyed the attention. His admirers urged him to put together wish lists on Amazon so he could choose whatever he wanted. 'They complimented me all the time,' Justin said. 'They told me I was smart, they told me I was handsome.' Eventually Justin agreed to meet one of his admirers who ended up molesting him.'We've been aware of the use of the webcam and its potential use by exploiters,' Ernest Allen, chief executive of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, told the New York Times. 'But this is a variation on a theme that we haven't seen. It's unbelievable.'The paper's investigation into the world of pay-per-view webcams showed there were at least 585 such sites created by teenagers. With webcams costing as little as &pound;20, the technology is affordable for practically everyone and, with the advent of 3G mobile phones, anywhere.Echoes of the Berry phenomenon emerged in Britain last year, when pupils as young as 14 at a school in Suffolk set up a Give Yourself a Treat website, showing themselves in provocative poses, leading to concerns the short-lived site would be targeted by paedophiles.Justin's case horrified America and became a major talking point on television chat shows. The true scale of the furore became apparent two months ago, when the US Congress debated banning the sale of webcams to those under 18.However, the idea has been dismissed by online child protection experts.'It would never work,' said John Carr, an internet expert with the children's charity NCH. 'I'm afraid that it really comes down to parents knowing what their children are doing and warning them that paedophiles exist. If they really feel that their children are unsafe, they have to remove the webcams.'To the uninitiated, it seems almost inconceivable that a stranger could persuade - let alone force - someone else to remove their clothes and perform sex acts via the internet.But those familiar with their modus operandi are not surprised. 'These guys are very clever,' Carr said. 'They are adept at manipulating young people, playing on their emotions, building friendships. Children don't think they are talking to a stranger at all.'Dos and don'tsWhat parents should tell their children about using the internet:&#183;Remember people online might not be who they say they are.&#183;Never use your real name in chat rooms - pick a special online nickname.&#183;Never tell anyone your phone number or address, or give out any personal information about yourself or your family.&#183;Never send photos of yourself.&#183;Never respond to nasty or rude messages.&#183;Stop any conversation immediately if you start to feel uncomfortable or suspicious about how it is going.&#183;Don't open any attachments or use any links if you don't know the person who sent them.&#183;Avoid sites that are meant for adults.&#183;Never agree to meet someone you have met only through a chat room.&#183;Speak to your parents if anything is worrying you about the net.Source:The NSPCC
For all the past week's posts, clickhere. Highlights include:Consistency versus Google's wow factorMySpace becomes blank spaceNetscape v Digg: Does Web 2.0 pay?What next for Kazaa?IE7 will come on auto-update
"Microsoft on Thursday showed a prototype of a mobile phone-based computer that could one day find a use as a cheap PC for emerging markets," reportsCNet."The FonePlus device, shown off in Redmond, Washington by chief research and strategy officer Craig Mundie, stems from discussions that began at the World Economic Forum in January. To create the computer, Microsoft combined its Windows CE operating system with a phone that could then be connected to a television display and a keyboard."Comment: It's not clear why Microsoft had to show a prototype. It could have fished out an obsolete Toshiba e740 which, way back in 2002, had a small bolt-on accessory that allowed users to connect a standard PC monitor and keyboard. (I suggested it could be a PC replacement in myComputer Weekly column.) Alternatively, Microsoft could have used one of the many other Windows CE-based PDAs that already have built-in mobile phones, which have been around even longer. There are plenty of fold-up keyboards for these devices, if they don't already have one.It's not news that Windows CE is a more than adequate personal computing platform. In the past decade, it has been widely used for exactly that purpose in various appliances, handhelds and numerous subnotebooks such as the Psion NetBook. It's also not news that CE could take personal computing to the third world: CE is used inAMD's Personal Internet Communicator (PIC), which is designed for exactly that purpose.It's not a technical problem. The issue isn't whether or not Windows CE can do the job, it's whether you can get anybody to buy it. Dozens of companies have produced interesting and innovative CE-based computers that have instant-on, long battery life, decent built-in handwriting recognition as standard, and numerous other features ... but people have always ignored them and bought overweight, hot-running Intel or AMD x86-based PCs that run real Windows instead.Fact is, the standard Windows PC provides access to millions of applications and games at a low cost -- often for less than the real cost of a smart phone, where the high price is disguised by massive usage charges. (It costs me 2p a minute to phone Malaysia from London, and 12p a minute to phone my son in the next room, on his mobile.)I'm not against trying to replace x86 Windows with simpler machines, and I've tried quite a few myself -- including at least six CE-based devices, and a couple of Palm Treos. I'd like to see Microsoft make it easier to connect a PC keyboard and VGA monitor to a smart phone or PDA, the way Toshiba did, only better.However, in the end, it all comes down to what real people buy with real money. The market will change quickly enough when someone comes up with a product people actually want.
Last week, the Chicago Tribune publishedPain in the pod, which is by now pretty much a standard newspaper piece -- iPods fail but people still love them. However, it included the following paragraph:An Apple spokeswoman, Natalie Kerris, said iPods have a failure rate of less than 5 percent, which she said is "fairly low" compared with other consumer electronics. "The vast majority of our customers are extremely happy with their iPods," she said, adding that an iPod is designed to last four years.According toiLounge, that last bit isn't right. The Web site says:Apple spokeswoman Natalie Kerris has confirmed to iLounge that she was misquoted in a Chicago Tribune article on failing iPods. [cut] Kerris said she told the reporter that the iPod was designed to last "for years"--not "four years."
I Love The Yetianonymousphilanthropist.com/jots/yeti.htmlEvery image, news story, cartoon or product associated with the mythical snow creature can be found on this incredible website. Whether or not the yeti exists and, if he does, whether he's a humanoid, furry ape, polar bear or robot remains uncertain. But if you'd like to be directed to the best place to purchase some fluffy yeti slippers, play a yeti-based platform game or enjoy some yeti art, this is the place. Among the links and images is the occasional music on mankind's relationship with the abominable snowman. What, the author wonders, do people talk about when they dress up as a yeti?Lily Allenlilyallenmusic.comLily Allen is doing an excellent job of upsetting the alternative establishment on her blog. According to the pop gob du jour, Edith Bowman is "a trollop", Bob Geldof is "sanctimonious" and Dirty Pretty Things singer Carl Bar&acirc;t "a twat". Excellent fun and a pleasant change, as most pop stars are far too eager to be liked by their fellow celebrities. As well as showcasing her opinions, Lily's website is great for anyone in two minds about buying her album, which is streamed here along with a nice mix of her favourite music. The message board is interesting, too, especially the thread concerning her father, Keith, who remains unknown to most visitors. "Was he in The Young Ones?"Stormbreakerstormbreaker.comThe movie, just out in the cinema, is that rare thing a film that does justice to the book (part of Anthony Horowitz series for young adults). The website doesn't quite rise up to the challenge, but it's still great fun with ads for spy gadgets and covert zit creams popping up as pages load, and an infuriating game involving our bicycling hero, Alex Rider, and his attempt to foil global destruction by leaping over postboxes. Also useful is the Homework Mode, which guilty young surfers can press in order to fool their parents that they're really doing their algebra homework.
The domestic football season is only a week away, but online people are still mulling over the World Cup and one incident in particular: Zinedine Zidane's psychopathic goat moment when he butted Italian defender Marco Materazzi.For those of an intellectual bent, the New Yorker studied the serious implications of the event (tinyurl.com/g7mea), while Wikipedia provides a link (tinyurl.com/jseaj) to all the news coverage.Elsewhere, it provided an opportunity to have fun with Photoshop: The Register (tinyurl.com/qxfrl) imagines how TV viewers around the world saw the event;somethingawful.comreplaces Zidane with MC Hammer;materazzibreakdance.ytmnd.comconverts the whole sorry affair into old school hip-hop moves; and Sudokuz (tinyurl.com/ f7pnv) have invented an appealing ZZ v MM butting game.
MondayOnline game blinds playerAMD + ATI = ?Grey gamers boost NintendoReinforcing stereotypes?TuesdayHot Scots get news siteTake Two dodges Hot Coffee finePS3 depositSmile customers like retro games shockerWednesdayGiant joystick on exhibitionPing Pong at onePS3 doubters get desperateThursdayAdult learning - videogame-styleCultural differences in gamelandFridayVideogames help Iraq veterans"Always on" is a turn offPress trip taleFew videogame brands make top 100
Interbrand has released itsTop 100 brands of 2006- and it's interesting to see how the big players in the videogame industry stack up against other consumer giants. Microsoft, of course, performs the best, scorching in at number 2 - but it cheats by having something to do with operating systems as well as games. Sony rumbles in later at number 26 (up two places from 2005!), which doesn't sound great but, hey, it's above Budweiser and Nike. Nintendo, meanwhile, makes do with 50, down one from the previous year, but still reasonably impressive.No EA? Apparently not. Tellingly, one of the key criteria in deciding on the top 100 is, 'what percentage of a company's revenues can be credited to a brand...' Is the EA Sports logo what drives people to buy its games en masse, or is it the names and faces of the sports stars the company pays to appear on the boxes? Or is it that the games are really good and no one cares who publishes them?The scarcity of videogame giants on the chart isn't really that surprising. There are only two other media entertainment brands on the list: MTV and Disney. Buying the right fizzy drinks, cars and credit cards is still more important to us than anything else.
"Don't miss Millwall vs Oldham Athletic" said the ludicrous spam I got from Ticketmaster this morning. As if, eh? I got a better offer a couple of weeks ago though. Come to Normandy, visit some D-Day sites, meet veterans and play the new WW2 RTS gameCompany of Heroes, it said. Oh, and fly out there in a Dakota DC3 too. Yes, here was one press trip that was hard to refuse. I wouldn't normally blog about these things, but this trip was so gloriously over the top that it deserves a mention.I've been out in Normandy for the last two days with about 50 other journalists from around Europe. The powerful and moving sites of the first day - Omaha beach cemetery etc - jarred with the Company of Heroes presentation the next day. Hearing about how great it was to "blow shit up" in the game and watch "guys get thrown 30 feet in the air" seemed crass after what we had seen the day before.The game itself? Pretty good actually, and certainly playable enough to keep me interested for a few hours yesterday afternoon. The action was intense and varied - a level that gave you ten minutes to reinforce three bridges before an imminent German counter attack was as tense and chaotic as you would hope for. The AI seems better than average too. Idiotic tendencies yes, but with the troops hitting the dirt rather than charging into the enemy, things are better than the strategy norm. But you know what? It's still only an RTS game - that most conservative of genre. Yes, it plays well and yesRelichave a great track record but I still can't see Company of Heroes appealing beyond the hardcore. Presumably this was why some of the lads and other consumer mags - and me - were on the trip. I can't see your average Loaded reader being interested though.You have to wonder how much the event cost. The journey back saw us tailed by a spitfire while flying over the white cliffs of Dover - lovely stuff. Presumably resurrecting Churchill to welcome us home was beyond even the budget for this event. You had to keep reminding yourself that the game was a PC RTS and not a new 360 blockbuster. But let's face it, I wouldn't have mentioned Company of Heroes on this blog until much nearer release if I hadn't been and I'm sure it wouldn't have got a chance of a feature in Loaded etc either. So for THQ it was probably (a lot of) money well spent.
"This is a supplementary document for Chapter 1 from my bookMac OS X Internals: A Systems Approach. A subset (about 30%) of this document appears in the book as the first chapter with the title Origins of Mac OS X," writesAmit Singh."The document is titled A Technical History of Apple's Operating Systems. Whereas the book's abridged version covers the history of Mac OS X, this document's coverage is considerably broader. It encompasses not only Mac OS X and its relevant ancestors, but the various operating systems that Apple has dabbled with since the company's inception, and many systems that were direct or indirect sources of inspiration."Comment: The download is a 3.1MB PDF.
Intel Unveils World's Best Processor says anIntel press release, released yesterday."The Core 2 Duo processors are simply the best processors in the world," said Paul Otellini, president and CEO of Intel. "Not since Intel introduced the Pentium processor has the industry seen the heart of the computer reinvented like this. The Core 2 Duo desktop processor is an energy-efficient marvel, packing 291 million transistors yet consuming 40 percent lower power, while delivering the performance needed for the applications of today and tomorrow."Google News has more than 400 stories, such asSpeedier Intel Chips Take Aim at AMDin the LA Times. I covered it yesterday, ahead of the launch, inIntel raises the bar as AMD drops prices in chip battle.Comment: This was the first major Intel chip launch to cover pretty much the whole PC industry, including Apple. More than 550 Windows PC manufacturers have signed up, but I'm told Apple didn't show up on stage at the press do in California. There's no reason why it should: it's not taking Intel's marketing money and putting bongs in its Mac ads. Steve Jobs will probably get far more press coverage than Intel-plus-550-PC firms by making exactly the same announcement separately, perhaps on August 7.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Gamepoliticsand others have brought to my attention the latest in the power-hungry console debate, with news that may have implications for the design of always-on home console services.According to an article inThe Timesfrom a few weeks ago,The Government is to outlaw standby switches on televisions and video and DVD players to cut the amount of electricity wasted in the home.At the minute, the environmental directive is focussed on electronic items other than games machines, but according tohttp://www.gamesindustry.biz/content_page.php?aid=18441"&gt;gameindustry.biz, the government has turned its once-blind eye towards the little bundles of electronic joy that reside in front of the (always on) TV, and may make standby mode illegal. The reason? A report says that 70 million of energy is wasted in the UK every year because of games machines on low power.Gamepolitics points out that this may have implications for Nintendo's future connectivity plans. From the post:Specifically, Nintendo's much-ballyhooed "always-on" content update feature could be threatened. This WiiConnect24 feature is expected to ship demos and content updates to your Wii while it's not in use. It will also permit other types of game interactions. For example, fellow Wii users might be able to visit your Animal Crossing town even though you are not playing at the time. ... The Wii, however, will be providing an integral part of the system's service in a low-power mode far preferable to leaving it on full-power as you have to to download with, say, XBox 360.While they believe that we gamers should rally the government against such a heinous breach on our civil rights, I say balderdash. Instead, we should put pressure on the makers to create products with lower energy consumption.
Of course, we've all heard about videogames being used to train soldiers before they go into combat - but now it looks as though they may be able to help those returning from warzones.An interesting articleon the Business Week website looks into a new treatment for Post-Traumatic Stress disorder being explored at the futuristic-sounding Virtual Reality Medical Center in San Diego.Here, soldiers returning from the Middle East with PTSD symptoms are being guided through simulations of basic operations in Iraq. They start out on routine patrols through towns and villages but later progress to battle situations. This sounds rather harsh and even counter-productive, but the theory is that by facing traumatic situations in a safe environment, soldiers can be coaxed into managing their feelings. As the article explains:"The aim is to get patients to draw on their meditation training to regain perspective - and stay calm - when a stimulus causes an emotional response. 'The idea being to be in the high-stimulus environment for a long period of time, maintaining low psycho-physiological arousal,' [Dr Dennis Wood] says. 'The person then can take that learning in the therapeutic environment and transport it out or generalize it to day-to-day life.'"This therapy is part of a wider project instigated by the Office of Naval Research, which is currently funding several experiments in virtual reality treatment. Interestingly, the developer of training sim-turned-consumer videogame, Full Spectrum Warrior, is currently helping to create a specifically emotional simulation of the war experience, "incorporating the sounds, visuals, feelings, and smells from Iraq." You can read more about this projecthere.It will be fascinating to see if this therapy provides new insights into bringing emotional resonance into games. Videogame designers have learned a lot from war - what, if anything, will they be willing to learn from its psychological aftermath?
Microsoft'sIE blogsays: "To help our customers become more secure and up-to-date, we will distribute IE7 as a high-priority update via Automatic Updates (AU) shortly after the final version is released for Windows XP, planned for the fourth quarter of this year."Also:If you decide to install IE7, it will preserve your current toolbars, home page, search settings, and favorites and installing will not change your choice of default browser. You will also be able to roll back to IE6 at any point by using Add/Remove Programs in the Control Panel. Finally, users who have AU turned off will not be notified.Corporate users will be able to block the download, but Microsoft wants it widely installed for security reasons.Comment: Since Microsoft has made IE part of the operating system then it makes sense to distribute it via Windows Update. But since IE7 is still a long way off, I'd recommend IE users upgrade toMaxthon. This is based on IE so it renders Web sites the same way, but it offers tabbed browsing, mouse gestures, RSS reading and other features still missing from IE6. (I'm assuming that, by this time, you've already got or at least triedFirefox.)
America's music industry has finally got its way with Kazaa, and squeezed $100m out of the filesharing network as well as a promise to filter out copyrighted material from its services. There's a story onMediaGuardian[reg reqd].Under the terms of the deal, Kazaa's owner Sharman Networks will pay the world's four major music companies - Universal Music, Sony BMG, EMI and Warner Music - more than $100m and has undertaken to become a legal download service."There are very substantial damages being paid - in excess of $100m - and Kazaa will go legal immediately. They've had time to prepare for this," said John Kennedy, chairman and chief executive of the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry.The EMI Music vice chairman, David Munns, added: "This is a victory for anyone in a creative industry that has had their works stolen and distributed through an illegitimate P2P network.Score one to the labels, then. But the difference here is that - unlike Napster and Grokster before it - Kazaa isn't being shut down. In fact, it seems that the record industry may take a stake in the firm.Will it work? Analyst Mark Mulligan of Jupiter Research makes a good point when he saysthis is about two years late.Kazaa isn't what it used to be. Whilst all the behind the scenes legal wrangling has been going on Kazaa's reputation among the file sharing community has plummeted to potentially irreversible depths. Sharman Network's strategy of Spyware bundling with the Kazaa app resulted in massive consumer backlash.Despite Kazaa's attempt to see the silver lining in the big black cloud, however, ("This settlement marks the dawn of a new age of cooperation between P2P technology and content industries which will promise an exciting future for online distribution in general and Kazaa users in particular," *cough*) it looks like there's not much left in it for them now. Other copyright-breaking services will take over their crown, while legal services are already a long way ahead in the legit market.Is it time it simply shuffled off to meet its maker?
Idel.icio.us'dthis earlier in the week, but About.com's coverage of thecultural differences between the U.S. and the Japanese releases of Mario 2are worth a closer look. Among other titbits, Aaron Stanton covers the differences to the characters, their actions and their surroundings.Why did they do it?Nintendo had decided the actual Mario 2 was too difficult for an overseas release and pulled the title and modified [a game called] Doki Doki [Panic] insteadWhilst slightly miffed that the title had been decreed "too hard" for the market of my youth, subjective difficulty isn't the only reason games are amended (or just plain not released) for overseas audiences.GoreNot the Al variety, but the bloody guts mainstays of many computer games. The biggest cultural difference in this category lies between Germany and the rest of the world. Most computer games companies, to avoid being placed on a German "index" which disallows the advertisement or sale of products deemed inappropriate, change the graphics of their products for this market. Thus, in the infamous car gameCarmageddon, players run over zombies who spout green goo from their wounds rather than human depictions, who spout red. They also have to wear leiderhosen. No, I made that last bit up.Role Playing GamesLess modified than simply not released, there are thousands of Far Eastern role playing games which never make the cut for Western audiences, primarily because of the difference in how we want to experience our fantasies and how they wish to experience theirs. According to Wikipedia, Western RPGs are set in a fayirie fantaysie type of environment, with bawdy barmaids and lots of rats. They tend to be dark, brooding, and the action often takes place in a location where at least one of the main characters has to be English. Tolkien-obsessed. Bleargh.Far Eastern RPGs, on the other hand, are often set in colourful spaces which feature a mix of traditional "Eastern history and mythology". They also take manga and other highly stylised content as their inspiration, whereas we take elves, warriors, etc, etc, etc.A good summary of this difference ishere.DesignAsRenexplains onTerra Nova, there's some evidence to suggest that people form the West and people from the East differ on more than game content; we also differ on what we pay attention to. This may have implications for the types of games we each prefer. He eloquently explains findings of a study by (Western) Prof Richard Nisbett:One of conclusions of Nisbett's work is that given an image a Westerner will tend to focus on prominent details where as someone from Asia will take in the images as a whole and the relationship between things - they tend to give a more overall, complete account of a scene.He continues:Another point that Nisbett makes is that Westerners tend to assume linearity but Asians assume circularity. For example he gave in a recent interview was a stable set of circumstances a Westerner will tend to think that this signified a trend and that things will continue in the same fashion but an Asian will tend to think that it is indicative of the potential for change and ultimate return to some pre-existing state.CharacterChris Pruett does a great job exploring the cultural differences between Japanese and American computer game characters in an article for Interface: The Journal for Education, Community and Values. Among other things, he highlights that the top game characters in the US in 2004 were Ratchet and Clank, Sam Fisher, Master Chief, Carl Johnson, and Gordon Freedman, and the top game characters in Japan in 2004 were Solid Snake, Ryu Hayabusa, "Joe", Mario and Samus Aran.Why? One of his conclusions is that American audiences want "extremification", exemplified by angrier and more masculine portraits on video game boxes. As he explains,The replacement of comical characters with more realistic, mature equivalents remains a typical approach for Western importers, even though many Japanese games are censored for content deemed too risqu for American audiencesHe proposes that this difference reflects the target market who the companies expect to buy their games. He continues:The proliferation of masculine, angst-filled, non-comic-booky characters in video games may in fact be a reaction to American stereotypes about who games are for.Nintendo of AmericaAccording tothis excellent overviewof the censorship systematically conducted by Nintendo of America during its market dominance from the mid 1980s to the early 1990s, there were countless games which were modified for the US' more "sensitive" palate. NOA took games from their Japanese releases and turned them into sterilised husks of their former selves based upon these content guidelines:Although exceptions may be made to preserve the content of a game, Nintendo will not approve games for the NES, Game Boy or Super NES systems (i.e., audio-visual work, packaging, and instruction manuals) which:include sexually suggestive or explicit content including rape and/or nudity;contain language or depiction which specifically denigrates members of either sexdepict random, gratuitous, and/or excessive violencedepict graphic illustration of deathdepict domestic violence and/or abusedepict excessive force in a sports game beyond what is inherent in actual contact sportsreflect ethnic, religious, nationalistic, or sexual stereotypes of language; this includes symbols that are related to any type of racial, religious, nationalistic, or ethnic group, such as crosses, pentagrams, God, Gods (Roman mythological gods are acceptable), Satan, hell, Buddhause profanity or obscenity in any form or incorporate language or gestures that could be offensive by prevailing public standards and tastesincorporate or encourage the use of illegal drugs, smoking materials, and/or alcohol (Nintendo does not allow a beer or cigarette ad to be placed on an arena, stadium or playing field wall, or fence in a sports game)include subliminal political messages or overt political statementsSome of their more dramatic additions/subtractions include:clothing nude statues in Castlevaniaremoval of "blatantly random and gratuitous violence" in Maniac Mansionchanging a character's name from "Vodka Dunkenski" to "Soda Popinski" in the game Punch Out!removing crosses willy nilly from in-game hospitals, cemetaries and churchesAnyone have other examples of culturally-imposed modifications?
"As part of the settlement in the click-fraud caseLane's Gifts v. Google, we agreed with the plaintiffs to have an independent expert examine our detection methods, policies, practices, and procedures and make a determination of whether or not we had implemented reasonable measures to protect all of our advertisers. The result of that is a47-page report, written by Dr. Alexander Tuzhilin, Professor of Information Systems at NYU. The report was filed with the court in Texarkana, Arkansas, this morning," saysGoogle's blog.The bottom-line conclusion of the report is that Google's efforts against click fraud are in fact reasonable. At several points in his report, he calls out the quality of our inspection systems and notes their constant improvement. It is an independent report, so not surprisingly there are other aspects of it with which we don't fully agree. But overall it is a validation of what we have said for some time about our work against invalid clicks.At Search Engine Watch, Danny Sullivan has an excellentAbridged Versionthat extracts the most significant quotes from the report and raises objections.Comment: Since Google's revenues are wholly dependent on clicks, click fraud is the one thing that could sink the company -- and since every click is a matter ofintent, there's ultimately no way to eliminate it completely. Google's very survival depends on it eliminating as much click-fraud as possible, and the company must be pleased by the praise Dr Tuzhilin heaped on its team. However, he also gets to the heart of Google's problem with this remark:This conflicting dilemma between advertisers' right to know and Google's inability to provide the appropriate information to advertisers because of the security concerns is part of the Fundamental Problem of the PPC [pay per click] advertising model.This one is not going to go away -- especially not when click-fraud becomes much more sophisticated than it is today. Which will happen, because there's a lot of money in it.
A Skype press release hit the wires the other day, announcing Skype 1.5 for Mac OSX. Eagerly we scanned it, and found.. no mention of video calling. This seemed strange (well, maybe not) since Skype for PCs has had video since December, and Steve Jobs has been showing offvideo chats over iChat since June 2003(and boy, doesn't that one get boring quite quick).It's not that we have a lot of use for video chat, you understand. Just that it would be nice to feel Mac users had something approaching feature parity. (Personally, I've made two video calls over iChat. Both were to confirm that the thing worked - once for the stuff on my end, the other time for the stuff on the other person's end.)However a little ferreting by thePowerpagehas turned up the link to the "preview release" (can nobody say "beta" anymore?) of the Skype video version for the Mac. "So you've found the Video Preview of Skype for Mac," the page admits, as if sighing.Sodownload it with glee, noting the warning thatThe Video Preview of Skype for Mac is only recommended for experienced users and should not be used on a production system that you depend onwhich you just know is the sort of lingo they use to mean "Hey, easily-flattered! Come over here and try our new stuff!"We should also note that Ed Parsons (of Ordnance Survey) haspointed outRoutebuddy, for the Mac-surplused and GPS-deprived. Nice one, Ed.
"India has decided against getting involved in Nicholas Negroponte's One Laptop Per Child scheme - which aims to provide kids in developing countries with a simple $100 machine. The success of the project depends on support, and big orders, from governments. The loss of such a potentially huge, and relatively technically sophisticated market, will be a serious blow," reportsThe Register.The Indian Education Secretary Sudeep Banerjee told The Hindu: "We do not think that the idea of Prof Negroponte is mature enough to be taken seriously at this stage and no major country is presently following this. Even inside America, there is not much enthusiasm about this."However, "Nigeria has officially ordered and paid for one million of the One Laptop per Child (OLPC) devices, according to the Nigerian Vanguard newspaper," reportsVNU Net."Production of the devices will start once five to 10 million have been ordered and paid for, according to the OLPC website."
Should I install the Windows Genuine Advantage update - which has been downloaded-- or not? What would be the consequences of not downloading it? Caroline CopnallThis is a tricky one, because the update could (perhaps mistakenly) identify your copy of Windows XP as "not genuine", in which case Microsoft will send you "periodic reminders" to get a legal copy. I have installed WGA without problem, but it is optional, and requires you to agree to a "supplemental" EULA (End User License Agreement) which sends Microsoft "your Windows XP product key, hard drive serial number, PC manufacturer, operating system version, Windows XP product ID, PC BIOS information, user locale setting, language version of Windows XP, validation result and whether the installation of this supplement was successful". None of this identifies you personally, and it isn't really an invasion of privacy (seehttp://www.microsoft.com/genuine/downloads/PrivacyInfo.aspx), but it feels intrusive.If you are on the net, any website will know some of this information, and can probably find out more. You may have given an online supplier access to all your email, your address book, any text you create in an online word processor, and a record of your web searches -- in which case, worrying about your hard drive serial number is probably not productive.The benefits of WGA are small. They include "free updates from Windows Update" -- which are already free -- plus various downloads and special offers, such as software discounts (http://www.microsoft.com/genuine/downloads/WhyValidate.aspx). The downloads include the beta versions of Internet Explorer 7 and Windows Defender, Windows Media Player 10, Photo Story 3 for Windows etc. There's nothing you can't live without.I expect Microsoft to tighten the noose on pirate software, so it becomes more difficult to operate a non-validated version of Windows. However, critical security updates will probably always remain free, because unpatched machines taken over for relaying spam and viruses hurt every Windows user, and therefore Microsoft, not just the PC's owner.
What will clean sticky finger marks off discs that no longer work after a child has handled them? Stanley RussellA very small amount of mild soap and clean water will generally do the job. However, if it's a case of rescuing a number of non-working discs, it is probably worth buying a circular CD cleaning kit with a spray-on cleaning fluid -- Maplin stocks one for 2.99 -- or a packet of moist disc wipes. As you'd expect, Mr Clean PC (www.mrpcclean.co.uk) offers a wide range of products.You should use a lint-free or microfibre cloth that won't leave fibres behind: an old well-washed hanky might do at a pinch, but don't use paper tissues, which are both abrasive and disintegrate*. Also, make sure you don't grind any bits of grit into the disc surface. But even badly scratched discs can often be rescued using special machines that grind away a little of the surface. This is often a problem with PlayStation 2 discs so your local games shop may have a deal with a company that offers the service.*Free Web-only advice: for the same reasons, never use paper tissues to clean your ears!Backchat: N Cook says: "You failed to mention the most important thing: Always clean data/audio or video CDs in a radial sense, not circumferentially, so that any microscratches are across and not along the data paths."
Looking at the dot pitch figures for monitor screens, does a higher figure indicate that the screen appearance is finer and more easily read, or is that a decreasing number? Frank JohnsonThe dot pitch of a monitor tells you the distance between pixels in millimetres, so smaller is better. A dot pitch of 0.28 offers more resolution than a dot pitch of 0.31.Alas, it's rarely quite that simple. First, some manufacturers quote "horizontal dot pitch" because this gives a smaller number (0.866 times smaller) than measuring the diagonal. Second, the dots on the screen are created by holes in a mask behind the screen, and some manufacturers quote the "mask pitch" instead - another smaller number. Third, you can't compare numbers between traditional monitors and Sony Trinitron-style models that use a mask with vertical stripes: this should be called a "stripe pitch".Finally, the dot pitch is an indication, but not a guarantee. A well-designed and well-made monitor will probably outperform an inferior model even if the dot pitch says otherwise. Dot pitch isn't a lot of help in choosing a monitor, but if you use it, make sure you are comparing like with like.
