It's a good day for retro gamers, with two mouthwatering re-releases hitting the news. First up, Sega has released an iPhone version of legendary scrolling shooterGunstar Heroes. The original Megadrive title, developed by shoot-'em-up master, Treasure, has apparently been faithfully converted, with the addition of Bluetooth multiplayer. It's a typically frenetic and uncompromising 16bit blaster with an interesting customisable weapon system and basic melee combat, and it'll set you back £1.79.Spelunker: the 1983 platformer has been given an HD makeover for the PlayStation Network.Elsewhere, retro games specialistTozai Games, has just launched a 're-imagining' of the seminal 1983 platformer, Spelunker, on PSN in the States.Originally devised by lone coder Tim Martin, the game became a hit in Japan in 1985 when Irem released a Famicom version. The action takes place in a huge cave hiding a valuable artifact in its deepest reaches – determined to recover the treasure, the player uses bombs and flares to disperse barriers and enemies, which include bats with posionous droppings. The game was, like many early platform titles, insanely difficult at times, with many a 'leap of faith' moment – usually ending in death.The remake, which boasts 3D graphics, 100 new levels, and multiplayer modes, was originally released in Japan, but the appearance of a US version suggests a European release won't be far away.Then, of course, it will be PSN Chuckie Egg...
Second world war papers published by the UK's most famous codebreaker, Alan Turing, are to go under the hammer today.Technology giant Google has donated $100,000 (£62,700) towards the bid by Bletchley Park Trust, home to the National Museum of Computing, late on Monday. The second world war codebreaking centre is campaigning to keep Turing's work on public display.But the donation still leavesBletchley Park's fundabout £400,000 short of auctioneers Christie's £500,000 valuation. The collection of Turing's papers, thought to be the most complete record of the codebreaker's work, goes under the hammer at 2pm today. Christie's said the collection was "unparalleled" and "unlikely to be repeated".Gareth Halfacree, the technology journalist who organised online support for Bletchley Park's bid, said the works belong to a public collection "where people can appreciate their significance". There was a danger, Halfacree added, that the documents could be bought by a private collector and never seen again."These are handwritten notes by Turing and are thought to be the most complete collection in the world," he said."We have people trying to get in touch with Microsoft and Apple to see if they can replicate Google's generosity. This collection belongs in a museum on public view where people can appreciate their significance."The likely bidders are tech companies from Silicon Valley, just months after going public. It's the sort of thing they'd like to have on their wall. I just hope whoever buys it donates the papers to Bletchley Park."William Newman, the son of Max Newman, a friend and Bletchley Park colleague of Turing, said the documents represented "the most complete collection of Turing's works in the world".Turing, often dubbed "the father of the computer", created a machine that could crack the German Enigma code while stationed at Bletchley Park during the second world war.The Manchester University scientist committed suicide at the age of 41 in 1954, two years after being sentenced to chemical castration for having a sexual relationship with a man.Last year the then prime minister, Gordon Brown,was forced to apologise on behalf of the governmentfor Turing's "appalling" treatment after an online petition gained thousands of signatures.Christie's yesterday turned down Bletchley Park's appeal to bid for the papers before the auction in the hope of securing them for the museum. The auctioneers said that it would only consider withdrawing a lot from auction "if the appeal were to make a serious offer".One of the earliest personal computers, the Apple-1, will also go under the hummer alongside Turing's work. Steve Wozniak, the Apple co-founder, may attend the auction on London's King Street, the Guardian understands.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Okay, you may well have already seen this as it's gone 'viral', as I believe they used to say about these things. It's a sketch from the Israeli comedy show Eretz Nehederet (A Wonderful Country) involving a peace negotiaton between the pigs and the birds from the multi-million selling smartphone game,Angry Birds. Is this the first time a massively successful casual title has been used to parody the concept of the international peace process?Warning: contains swearing.
Join Aleks Krotoski, Jemima Kiss and Tom Loosemore for 30 minutes of debate and discussion about the latest technology headlines. This week, Tom, the former head of 4iP and Ofcom insider, lays out the implications of Ed Vaizey's vision of a two-tiered internet future: what effect will his attack on net neutrality have on the digital content industry and the average web user in the future? Jemima thinks Vaizey wants to please all of the people all of the time, and critcises his speech for making many threats and few promises.The team tackle the dangers of Facebook: its new Messages service marks yet another way the social network is building a walled garden around the web experience for its of users; Messages could provide a solution to information overload for 500 million Facebook account holders, but how much does it endanger the openness of the web? Or will the next generation eschew Facebook for another online hotspot in the future?Steven Johnson talks to Charles Arthur about where good ideas come from, and discusses the ways we – and the web – foster innovation.And Tom describes what's happening with Direct.gov.uk, in the runup to the release of a report from UK digital champion Martha Lane Fox.Finally, what are your technology highlights of 2010, and what do you predict for 2011? We're recording our holiday specials and want to feature your highs and lows. Let us know in the comments below.
Character customisation has become a fundamental element of game design over the past few years. Many online titles allow players to personalise their onscreen characters, vehicles and weapons, often through the use of quite powerful editing packages. Call of Duty: Black Ops is the latest example, offering gamers the chance to paint their clan tags on guns and to create their own graphics for targeting reticules and character badges.But creative freedom is always open to abuse and this week, the Director of Xbox Live Policy and Enforcement has been explaining Microsoft's decision to ban CoD players who use the customisation mode to draw swastika badges for their in-game avatars. In an unusually forthrightblog post, Stephan Tolouse criticised 'contrarians' who point out the symbol's pre-Nazi origins and who see the ban as an attack on free speech. He claimed Microsoft's stance was one of, 'fundamental respect'.The Xbox LIVE profile and in game content you create is accessible by everyone.  You do not have the context inside of it to explain your long winded contrarian view that your pithy text that violates the Terms of Use or Code of Conduct is actually intended to change people's minds about a commonly held understanding.It's not political correctness, it's fundamental respect. If you think the swastika symbol should be re-evaluated by societies all over the Earth, I think that's great. Your Xbox Live profile or in game logo, which doesn't have the context to explain your goal, is not the right place to do that.Tolouse has clearly had to deal with a range of justifying arguments...Some have suggested that because the game itself displays swastikas – specifically in the Zombie co-op map entitled 'Kino der Toten' – it should be acceptable for players themselves to adopt the imagery. The Microsoft representative counters by drawing a distinction between game and custom materials: "that's content that you know that you are getting, because it is rated content. It's there as part of the experience, not making a statement. Using it as your emblem is different."Elsewhere, there are arguments that all religious symbols should be similarly banned, due to the numerous instances of bloodshed carried out in the name of major faith systems. There are some who even claim an aesthetic appreciation. On oneBlack Ops discussion foruma contributor named 'w Nightmare w' protests: "I am not looking for a reaction I just like how the Swastika plus eagle shield looks on my AK-47, why is that such a big deal?"It is a complex argument about morality and censorship, and like the debate that exploded around misogynistic and homophobic gangster rap in the nineties, it tests the boundaries of the term 'free speech', its myriad interpretations and the types of opinion we are prepared to protect under its banner. The unavoidable suspicion is that a vast majority of CoD users who choose to deface their game with this symbol aren't doing so because they want to make a point about its Neolithic origins, or its importance in Hindu and Buddhist semiology (likely to be one of the reasons why Japanese publisher, Square Enix, decided to remove the swastikas from the game before its release in Japan), they're doing it for the shock value, or because they consider it cool to align themselves with neo-Nazi ideology.Most of my friends rarely play shooters on public servers because the voice communications are rife with homophobic and racist abuse. Whether it is representative or not, it is a damning and depressing indictment of 'game culture'. So does Microsoft's direct action in this case send out a message that this behaviour is unacceptable? Or are measures like this always going to be interpreted as corporate bullying, especially considering Microsoft's complicated public image – part benevolent game system provider, part merciless capitalist behemoth?Ultimately, the question becomes: is Microsoft right? I think it is. Do you?
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Though some might find this surprising, it pains me to write a negative review. I know what it's like to labour over something and discover that it doesn't come up to scratch - and that the reasons why it doesn't come up to scratch were staring you in the face if you'd only looked up to think about it.First impressionsWhich is why it pains me to tell you that I'm not going to be positive about Novatech's nTablet, "the UK's first Windows touch screen tablet" - with a 10.1" 1024x768 screen, 2 USB ports, 1.3 megapixel webcam, microphone, "up to" five hours' battery life (it did manage that in my tests), 802.11n/g/b Wi-Fi, Bluetooth 2.1+EDR, microSD card reader, and mini VGA display output. All this for the rather tasty price of £350 - that's £170 less than the much-hyped Samsung Galaxy Tab, while having twice the screen size.The reason I'm going to have to be negative about it is nothing to do with the hardware, which is perfectly fine. It's the software. Windows 7, which it runs, definitively proves that there is a difference between a touch-screen operating system, and a tablet operating system. Windows 7 is, certainly, a touch-screen operating system. What it isnotis a tablet operating system.What, you might ask, is the difference? You discover this pretty much as soon as you start up. There's that brief flash of the bootloader - MS-DOS has never really gone away, has it? - and then you're in Windows.Now on a 12" screen or above, 1024x768 means that the typical menu item or dialog box has control buttons (the "OK" or "Cancel" ones) that are easily fingertip-sized. You could control those with your hands, no problem. And of course if you're using a netbook, then you have a keyboard attached, so you can move around using the tab button, if there's no mouse to hand.On a tablet, though, you've got no keyboard and no mouse. It's you and your fingers versus the interface design.What's in a touch?Turns out that a lot - and I mean alot- of the interface elements on Windows are simply too small once you put them on a 10.1" screen to be easily controlled. They're too close together to avoid accidental taps; back buttons are too close to home buttons, the close/minimise/expand window widgets that you're so used to are just a finger smudge apart, and it turns into a vicious game in which you have to plan your angle of attack if you're going to hit the button you want.Worse comes, though, when you try to do things like browsing and emailing - the two processes that we take as the essentials of most tablet use, or at least of basic Windows functionality.Entering a URLis puzzling at first: where's the keyboard? You'll find the software version lurking  at the sides of the screen, showing just the tip of one edge. Touch it again and it pops halfway out; touch it a second time and you have it displayed on the bottom of the screen. You can adjust its size, which is a blessing, except that if you make it too small then you won't be able to operate the keys. And I found it very difficult to type on, though arguably that's just a feature of software keyboards on tablet screens.The actual browsing experience was good enough, though even here there were irritations aplenty lying in wait: trying to swipe the screen through a browser page was fraught with the risk of accidentally hitting a link, at which point you'd have to try to stop it or hit the "Back" button, which brought its own risks of hitting the "Home" button, in which case you'd need to hit the back button twice, assuming you could hit it twice in a row.Email and other vicesEmail was much the same; the operating system makes no concession - and takes no prisoners - over the fact that it's running on a tablet. It's the same email you'd get on a system with a keyboard. (I should point out that Novatech does offer a plug-in keyboard to go with the nTablet. The only problem with that is that the tablet plus keyboard works out rather more expensive than just buying a 10" netbook, so there's no advantage there apart for the fact that you can type in portrait mode - which, though entertaining and occasionally useful, isn't a prime reason for buying a tablet.)Add to that the fact that you can't get the variety of apps you can for a tablet (whether from Apple or running Android). That's part of the point of those devices' portability: you trade their limited usefulness for the concentrated focus on doing one thing or another, without having eternal messages telling you that "Windows Software Updates are ready for you" or that "New hardware has been detected".Tablets are not the place for fiddly messages like those; imagine trying to dismiss one of those dialogues but instead of hitting the "x" to close the box, hitting the main part of the message and so unwittingly being taken to the program with the message you deemed unimportant. If you want to imagine the future of the human race using Windows 7 on tablets, think of a finger pressing down on the wrong part of a dialog box forever.Compared to Android?Compare and contrast the large, finger-friendly buttons that you get on Android tablets and the iPad. Those has plenty of breathing room around them because its well-known that fingers fill many more pixels than a mouse pointer. Plus, of course, you get apps designed for finger-based interaction. Win-win.There's also the problem that the Atom processor has keeping up with orientation: though the nTablet is sensitive to orientation, and will adjust the screen display to portrait or display as required, there's a brief period of darkness while it turns the screen off and on again when you turn it through 90 degrees. I've not come across that on any other tablet I've tried, whether iPad or Android. It's disconcerting, at best.The upshot of all this is that using Windows 7 on the nTablet is a hugely frustrating experience. Though there are few tablet-friendly elements - tap to zoom, pinch and pull to squeeze and contract, and the keyboard pops out when you touch a text field - it's not enough to make up for the fact that Windows was designed to be driven by a mouse and keyboard, not your fingers. Add to that the inevitable lags you get when you do touch something (because it's powered by an Intel Atom, not a Core 2 Duo or similar) and you have a recipe for intense, enduring, teeth-grinding bad user experience.Steve Ballmer has been insistent that there will be Windows 7 tablets available around Christmas; and the company has told all who approach it, whether press or manufacturers, that it's not going to allow Windows Phone 7 to run tablets. Both are strategic errors. Windows Phone 7 could make a fantastic tablet operating system (you'd get more on the front page, apart from anything), whereas Windows 7 is just awful. And manufacturers aren't allowed to run Windows 7 Starter (which would put a bit less strain on the processor) because that's only for netbooks, and doesn't support multi-touch.Worst at the lastThere's worse: Novatech is hoping to aim the Windows version at "educational customers" - in other words, teachers and children (and particularly the people who buy kit for them to use). To which all I can say is: NOOOOO! Unless, of course, you want to persuade children that computers are frustrating as well as boring, in which case go right ahead.There isgood news, though, some light at the end of the tunnel. The nTablet will also come in a dual-boot form able to run Android 2.2 (the version I tested didn't). That, I think, will be much more pleasant: from trying Android on a couple of 7" tablets (ie slightly under half the screen size of a 10" tablet), it's an elegant,tablet-friendlyoperating system - and the latter is a point that I can't emphasise enough. Windows might be fine for desktops. But it is not for, and you should never buy it on, tablets. You'll regret it, mark my words.Pros:the first Windows 7 tablet we've seen; larger screen than the iPad; cheaper than rivals; dual boot to Android 2.2Cons:finger controlincrediblydifficult.Overall:two stars for Windows, but for£350it could be a good buy with Android - certainly a lot cheaper than the Samsung Galaxy Tab - but we didn't test it on that setup.Availability:via Novatech's websiteSpecifications:• 10.1" Multi-Touch capacitive screen• Intel Atom N455 1.6GHz processor• 1GB 133Mhz DDR3 Memory• 32GB SSD Hard Disk Drive• 3G Modem Included• Gravity Sensor (detects orientation)• Aluminium Chassis• Mini VGA Out• 2 x USB2 Ports• Bluetooth V2.1+EDR• WiFi 802.11b/g/n• Micro SD Card Reader• Audio Out• 2 x 1.5 Watt Speakers• Built in Microphone b• 1.3MP Webcam• 725g Weight• 14mm Thick• Up to 5 hours Battery Life, depending on power mode &amp; usage
A recurring question in discussions of digital copyright is how creators and their investors (that is, labels, movie studios, publishers, etc) will earn a living in the digital era.But though I've had that question posed to me thousands of times, no one has ever said which creators and which investors are to earn a living, and what constitutes "a living".Copyright is in tremendous flux at the moment; governments all over the world are considering what their copyright systems should look like in the 21st century, and it's probably a good idea to nail down what we want copyright to do. Otherwise the question "Is copyright working?" becomes as meaningless as "How long is a piece of string?"Let's start by saying that there is only one regulation that would provide everyone who wants to be an artist with a middle-class income. It's a very simple rule: "If you call yourself an artist, the government will pay you £40,000 a year until you stop calling yourself an artist."Short of this wildly unlikely regulation, full employment in the arts is a beautiful and improbable dream. Certainly, no copyright system can attain this. If copyright is to have winners and losers, then let's start talking about who we want to see winning, and what victory should be.In my world, copyright's purpose is to encourage the widest participation in culture that we can manage – that is, it should be a system that encourages the most diverse set of creators, creating the most diverse set of works, to reach the most diverse audiences as is practical.That is, I don't want a copyright system that precludes making money on art, since there are some people who make good art who, credibly, would make less of it if there wasn't any money to be had. But at the same time, I don't think that you can judge a copyright system by how much money it delivers to creators – imagine a copyright system for films that allowed only one single 15-minute short film to be made every year, which, by dint of its rarity, turned over £1bn. If only one person gets to make one movie, I don't care how much money the system brings in, it's not as good as one in which lots of people get to make lots of movies.Diversity of participation matters because participation in the arts is a form of expression and, here in the west's liberal democracies, we take it as read that the state should limit expression as little as possible and encourage it as much as possible. It seems silly to have to say this, but it's worth noting here because when we talk about copyright, we're not just talking about who pays how much to get access to which art, we're talking about a regulation that has the power to midwife, or strangle, enormous amounts of expressive speech.Here's something else copyright can't and won't do and doesn't do: deliver a market where creators (or investors) set a price for creative works, and audiences buy those works or don't, letting the best float to the top in a pure and free marketplace. Copyright has never really worked like this, and it certainly doesn't work like this today.For example, it's been more than a century since legal systems around the world took away songwriters' ability to control who performed their songs. This began with the first records, which were viewed as a form of theft by the composers of the day. You see, composers back then were in the sheet-music business: they used a copying device (the printing press) to generate a product that musicians could buy.When recording technology came along, musicians began to play the tunes on the sheet music they'd bought into microphones and release commercial recordings of their performances. The composers fumed that this was piracy of their music, but the performers said: "You sold us this sheet music – now you're telling us we're not allowed to play it? What did you think we were going to do with it?"The law's answer to this was a Solomonic divide-the-baby solution: performers were free to record any composition that had been published, but they had to pay a set rate for every recording they sold. This rate was paid to a collective rights society, and today, these societies thrive, collecting fees for all sorts of "performances" where musicians and composers get little or no say. For example, radio stations, shopping malls, and even hairdressers buy licences that allow them to play whatever music they can find. The music is sampled by more or less accurate means and dispersed to artists by more or less fair means.Fair for all?Of course, some artists argue that the sampling and dispersal are unfair, but it's a rare artist who says that the principal of collective licensing is itself a form of theft. No one wants to get a phone call every 15 minutes from some suburban barman who wants to know if playing their 20-year-old hit on the karaoke machine is going to cost 15p or 25p in licence fees.There is an ancient copyright agreement that Victor Hugo came up with called the Berne Convention that most western nations are parties to. If you read the agreement closely, it seems to make this whole business of blanket licensing illegal. When I've asked international copyright specialists how all these Berne nations can have radio stations and karaoke bars and hairdressers and such playing music without negotiating all their playlists one at a time, the usual answer is: "Well, technically, I suppose, they shouldn't. But there's an awful lot of money changing hands, mostly in the direction of labels and artists, so who's going to complain, really?"Which is by way of affirming that grand old Americanism: money talks and bullshit walks. Where the stiff-necked moral right of a copyright holder to control usage rubs up against the practicalities of allowing an entire industry's capacity for cultural exchange and use, the law usually responds by converting the moral right to an economic right.Rather than having the right to specify who may use your works, you merely get the right to get paid when the use takes place.Now, on hearing this, you might be thinking: "Good God, that's practically Stalinist! Why can't a poor creator have the right to choose who can use her works?" Well, the reason is that creators (and, notably, their industrial investors) are notoriously resistant to new media. The composers damned the record companies as pirates; the record labels damned the radio for its piracy; broadcasters vilified the cable companies for taking their signals; cable companies fought the VCR for its recording "theft." Big entertainment tried to kill FM radio, TV remote controls (which made it easy to switch away from adverts), jukeboxes, and so on, all the way back to the protestant reformation's fight over who got to read the Bible.Given that new media typically allow new creators to create new forms of material that is pleasing to new audiences, it's hard to justify giving the current lotto winners a veto over the next generation of disruptive technologies. Especially when the winners of today were the pirates of yesteryear. Turnabout is fair play.So the best copyright isn't the one that lets every creator license every use of her work piecemeal. Instead, it's the system that allows for such licensing, except where other forms of licensing – or no licensing at all – makes sense. For example, in the US, which has the largest, most profitable broadcast and cable industry in the world, the law gives no compensation rights to rightsholders for home recording of TV shows. There's no levy on blank cassettes or PVRs in exchange for the right to record off the telly. It's free, and it has conspicuously failed to destroy American TV.There are whole classes of creation and copying that fall into this category: in fashion, for example, designs enjoy limited or no protection under the law. And each year's designer rags are instantaneously pirated by knock-down shops as soon as they appear on the runway. But should we protect fashion the way we do music or books?It's hard to see why, apart from a foolish consistency: certainly, every currently ascendant fashion designer who'd benefit from such a thing started out by knocking off other designers. And there's no indication that fashion is under-invested, or fails to attract new talent, or that there is a lack of new fashion available to the public. Creating exclusive rights for fashion designers might allow more money to be made by today's winners, but these winners are already making as many designs as they can, and so the net diversity of fashion available to the world would fall off.It's all about balanceBack to the question: what does a good copyright look like?Well, it's got to be both evidence-based and balanced. For example, if architects come forward with the claim that they need to be able to control photos of their buildings or no one will invest in an architect's education, they'd better have some pretty compelling evidence to back up that claim. On the one hand, we have the incontrovertible fact that today, prospective architects spend a lot of money on professional training without any such guarantee.Of course, it's easy to imagine that more people would enroll in architecture schools if designing a building gave you a copyright in its likeness – everyone who wanted to photograph a public road would have to pay you a licence fee for the use of "your" building. But given that there's no evidence that architecture programmes are wasting away for want of students, and given that architects seem to be thriving as a trade everywhere, the evidence suggests that we don't need to give architects these rights.That's evidence, but what about balance? Well, say that tomorrow, the number of architects did shelve off radically, and no one could find anyone to draw up plans for a new conservatory or mansard roof anymore.How could we save architecture? Well, we could give architects a copyright in the likeness of their buildings, and essentially put architects in the rent-collecting business: rather than devoting all their time to designing buildings, architects would spend most of their time sending legal threats to sites like Flickr and Picasa and TwitPic whenever some poor sod uploaded a picture of his flat's exterior Christmas decorations and inadvertently violated the architect's copyright.This would certainly make more money for some architects (especially ones whose buildings were situated near public webcams – everyone who operated one of those would have to stump up for a license!). But the public cost would be enormous. Instead of the mere absurdity of coppers going around ticking off tourists for photographing public buildings (as though bombing was a precision undertaking, requiring that terrorists photograph buildings in detail before wandering into them with bombs under their coats and blowing themselves up); we'd have vast armies of private security guards representing the far-flung descendants of Christopher Wren and that miserable bastard who designed the awful tower-block at the end of my road in 1965 or so, hassling anyone who took out a camera to snap a picture of the car that just ran them over, or their kids adorably eating ice-cream, or their mates heaving up a kebab into the gutter after a night's revels.Google Street View would be impossible. So would holiday snaps. Amateur photography. Fashion shoots. News photography. Documentary film-making.Essentially, the cost of recording your life as you live it, capturing your memorable moments, would go to infinity, as you had to figure out how to contact and buy licences from thousands of obscure architects or their licencees. Surely in this case, the costs outweigh the benefits (and yes, I'm perfectly aware that certain European countries were stupid enough to give architects this right – there are also places in the world that prohibit women from driving cars, where they chop down rainforests to graze cattle, and where the used car adverts feature florid men wearing foam cowboy hats screaming into a camera – if everyone in France jumped off the Eiffel Tower, would you do it too?).Making copyright work right onlineSo a balanced and evidence-based copyright policy is one that requires creators to show a need for protection, and also that the protection sought will deliver more benefit than the cost it implies.How would this apply to the internet? Take music downloads. By the music industry's own account, the pay-per-download systems only capture a minute fraction of the music traded on the net. But a blanket licence that ISPs could opt into that entitled the ISP's customers to download and share all the music they wanted would deliver evergreen profits to the record industry – without necessitating spying, lawsuits, and threats of disconnection from the internet.If the price was right, practically every ISP would opt into the system, since the cost of the legal headaches attending the operation of a service without such a licence would be more expensive than getting legit. Then we could focus on making the collection and dispersal of fees and the sampling of music downloading as transparent as possible, bringing 21st century metrics to bear on making sure that artists are fairly compensated (rather than spending vast sums figuring out which music fans to send legal threats to this month).Now, take $300m CGI summer blockbuster films: if the producers of these things are to be believed, the ongoing capacity to produce glitzy, big budget productions demands that services like YouTube be shut off (see, for example, Viacom's lawsuit against Google over YouTube).If this is true – I'm no movie exec, maybe it is – then we need to ask ourselves the "balance" question: YouTube's users produce 29 hours of video every minute and the vast majority of it is not infringing TV and movie clips, it is independently produced material that accounts for more viewer-minutes than television. So, the big studios' demand amounts to this: "You must shut down the system that delivers billions of hours of enjoyment to hundreds of millions of people so that we can go on delivering about 20 hours' worth of big budget film every summer."To me, this is a no brainer. I mean, I love sitting in an air-conditioned cave watching Bruce Willis beat up a fighter jet with his bare hands as much as the next guy, but if I have to choose between that and all of YouTube, well, sorry Bruce.The rejoinder I hear from the film industry in these discussions is downright bizarre: they cite the fact that all those billions of hours' worth of material on YouTube cost very little to make, and consequently, YouTube is able to pay very small sums of money in ad revenue and still get all that video. To hear an industrialist damning a competitor because he's figured out a way of making a competing product that costs a lot less is just weird. There is no virtue in spending a lot of money.Anyone can do it. Spending small sums of money to make something great – well, that's just magic.
Protester at the presence of the EU-IMF team in Dublin. Photo byinfomatiqueon Flickr.Some rights reservedTerror stalks the streets! Right? We - myself and Jemima Kiss - have landed in Dublin, which is in the midst ofthe most gigantic financial meltdownbecause the banks lent vast sums of money to people to buy cowsheds in the middle of nowhere, or buildings in the middle of somewhere, and then discovered that, ooops, nobody wants to buy that cowshed or building, and the money's run out, and they're having to go cap in hand to Europe, which ain't pleased.That should be the sort of atmosphere that would leave tech startups moaning into their Guinness (mm, Irish Guinness) grumbling as all the young would-be entrepreneurs head for balmier pastures overseas, and foreign companies up sticks in search of pastures new, right?Wrong. Having met a group of entrepreneurs and venture capitalists this evening, the picture we got back is that• the banks not having any money to lend isn't a problem for startups, because banks are never your first (or even second or third) port of call for funding for an internet startup. "I told all my investors that there's a 90% chance that they'll never see their money back - but that if it does come back, then it'll come back 20 times bigger," said Caelen King ofWhatclinic.com. "Can you imagine making that pitch to a bank?"• foreign companies aren't really going to relocate somewhere else, because there isn't anywhere else that offers Ireland's combination of the lowest corporation tax rates in the Eurozone at 12.5% along with an English-speaking, generally well-educated workforce. Even if the corporation tax rate were raised by a few percentage points - which wouldn't solve Ireland's debt crisis or push the rate up to the same level as the UK, where George Osborne intends to lower it to 22% - you still wouldn't have the English-speaking voices on the support lines. Microsoft and Apple are among the companies which use Irish staff for support. Thethreats to leave Irelandif the corporation tax rate emanating from Microsoft, Intel and Hewlett-Packard (and Merrill-Lynch and Bank of America) look like standard bluster which have the added benefit of propping up the Irish government in its negotiations with Europe. Don't forget that big foreign companies like the status quo of low corporation tax rates; they don't give a damn about what life or the economy is actually like in the country, as long as someone answers the phones.• though the big companies can have a spinoff benefit for startups - by providing some training for people to go into their own business - some of the big names such as Google don't actually do any development work here, so there's no technology benefit to the economy. Instead, Google (and soon Facebook) simply have administration and sales centres in Ireland. For Google, and other companies, the location brings the benefit of tax avoidance measures such as thedouble Irishand theDutch sandwich. (It's intriguing how reluctant Google has been to let us see its Dublin offices - not at all like its developer-heavy London offices.)• the startup companies here can focus on the rest of the world - and that really does mean world. They have an international outlook which means that while it's true that the local economy is in the doldrums due to the hangover from the bank lending spree, they can look abroad for their revenues. Internet startups don't have to be reliant on local business; it's the internet, after all.We're sure to learn more from a mammoth session talking to a vast array of local startups on Tuesday: it's packed with interviews with some of Dublin's tech stars, and topped off with a meety up for nearly 200 developers, entrepreneurs and the odd VC. We'll be talking to, amongst others:Cloudsplit, which monitors spending and performance of cloud-based services; online games firmJolt; and recruitment social networkWorky.We'll also be talking toEnterprise Irelandfor an overview of the scene here, plus Louis Ravenet, chief executive of games firm2PaperDolls, whowaded into the bailout discussion todaywith unequivocal support for Ireland's tax regime and its benefits for businesses and the country's economy."Office space, skilled employees, and living expenses are very low in Ireland at the moment, due to current economic woes," wrote Ravenet on Monday night. "This, in spite of being the European technical support and distribution hub for most American companies. And we would profit by recalling that, despite the current market perturbations, Ireland has spent a decade making heavy technical investments in cloud computing infrastructure, most of it barely tapped."So, superb capacity, along with a blessedly cool environment (lower temperatures mean less cost in maintaining massive server farms) equals lower cost for superior cloud infrastructure. For web service providers, communication companies and just about any business with a pulse,  this lower costs provides a competitive advantage."For now the message that we're getting from the ground is that while the Irish government and the Irish banks and anyone who relies on public funding in the republic indeed has problems, tech startups have their own reasons to be cheerful. It's a relief, after all the gloomy news, to hear some people who aren't throwing their hands up in despair. And they haven't even had a royal engagement to cheer them up.Then again, they do have the Guinness - which, we can assure you, does indeed taste better in Ireland.
Salary proposal. Photo byrossbreadmoreon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPaychecks Exposed: Google, Apple, Facebook and More &gt;&gt; CNBCApple, Facebook and Google recently agreed to drop a non-compete clause from their contracts (because the government told them to). Now their staff are potentially poachable. Turns out Google pays less than others, according to Glassdoor.com.Big Data. New Physics. &gt;&gt; Jeff JonasA man of few words, but they're well-chosen.Verizon Wireless really screwed up the Samsung Tab with pricing and policy &gt;&gt; ZDNet"..moments after leaving the store, I read the fine print on the Verizon Wireless receipt. I have just now confirmed what the Samsung Tab will really cost me to operate on Verizon Wireless's network."First off, if you purchase from Verizon Wireless and decide that the Tab is not for you, you will be hit with a $70 restocking fee. If that's not bad enough, if you return it after three days of having purchased it, you will not be credited back your $35 activation fee either. Oh, did I forget to tell you about that fee? Yeah, in addition to the price of acquisition, Verizon also throws a $35 activation fee onto your first bill."The above would be bad enough, but it gets worse. The receipt that you get when you purchase the Tab has an estimated monthly bill on it. Since I opted for the $20 per month for 1GB, the first estimated monthly payment was a whopping $88.36!! Needless to say, this sounded alarm bells so I called Verizon Wireless to discuss it."nefarioustim's particles at master - GitHubVery cool Javascript particles animation code. Also seethe page that shows it running.NHS.uk allowing Google, Facebook, and others to track you &gt;&gt; Wilted buttercup"TheNHSis allowingGoogle,Facebook, and others to track yourhttp://www.nhs.uk/browsing habits, regardless of the fact that people use the page to seek medical advice. It was recently pointed out to me that theNHS Choices website'ssocial features include the Facebook Like button (see e.g. thepage on Testicular Cancer). Due to thefact that the standard method of Facebook Like button deployment is intrusive to say the least, I thought I would look into identifying which third party companies have been given permission to track users on NHS Choices, and my results are rather disconcerting.Editing your Google Docs on the go &gt;&gt; Official Google Docs BlogAssuming you have the screen real estate and the patience, you can now edit your Google Docs on the train. Remember when you used to laugh at the people editing Word documents on Windows Mobile phones?Connecting the Dots of the Mortgage Meltdown &gt;&gt; OrgnetStunning visual representation of how many mortgages were tied up in one synthetic CDO. Made possible by the US SEC having such detailed filings. Does the FSA or other UK government agency offer the same?New Asprox Facebook Spam Campaign &gt;&gt; M86 Security Labs BlogPretends to be from Facebook security. Imagine if Facebook were a bank. Though with all those virtual credits, it sort of is.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
All government websites could be scrapped and replaced with a single domain where people will be able to log on and file their tax returns, apply for housing benefit or monitor their child benefit payments, ministers indicate today.Francis Maude, the Cabinet Office minister, said he wanted to scrap all paper-based applications for government schemes or those that require lengthy face-to-face interviews and get services online to save money and improve the smooth delivery of services, ultimately through a single government website.The move, largely a continuation of the previous government's digital policies, has already prompted criticisms that some people without internet access could in effect be barred from government services.Ministers are planning a network of help centres in post offices to help those without access.Responding to a report on digital inclusion by the founder of Lastminute.com, Martha Lane Fox, Maude will today announce that a new executive director of digital engagement will be appointed to the Cabinet Office to champion the move online.Maude said that digital technology would drive efficiency and improve services. "We are in a situation where there are contracts we inherited that effectively limits the number of people who can use some online services – and where you cannot apply for the majority of forms of benefits online, at all. This is inconvenient, expensive, wasteful and ridiculous and it can not continue."This does not mean we will abandon groups that are less likely to access the internet: we recognise that we cannot leave anyone behind.Every single government service must be available to everyone – no matter if they are online or not."Lane Fox's report backs the idea of a single government domain to replace the current 750 websites that operate throughout Whitehall.Maude's response says: "I agree in principle with your proposal that over time government should move to a single domain based on agile shared web services. However, as your report makes clear, this will be challenging for government and I will need to consult colleagues before we make a final decision about how to proceed. To take these and other cross-government issues forward, I intend to set up a new ministerial working group on digital reporting to the cabinet economic affairs committee."There has been criticism that the forced migration to online systems would leave people who aren't online disenfranchised. Age UK said there were 6 million people over the age of 65 who did not have the internet at home."We work with a lot of older people to get them on online," a spokesman said. "But we have to accept that there are a lot of people out there who do not use the internet and we need to make sure that we do not further isolate them in any way."The government wants post offices to offer services to help people who don't have the internet to access its services.Lane Fox, who is the government's official "UK digital champion", said: "For years, businesses have been using digital communications to improve services and engagement with their consumers. Government should take advantage of the more open, agile and cheaper digital technologies to deliver simpler and more effective digital services to users, particularly to disadvantaged groups who are some of the heaviest users of government services."My report outlines specific measures to improve the amount and quality of transactional services the government provides. But this is just the beginning: the government must look at more dramatic measures – such as syndicating and opening up information and services to other organisations – to be able to offer genuine improvements to consumers, taxpayers, business and citizens in the UK."
A lot can be done in 140 characters. Earlier this year, when Indonesian minister Salim Segaf Al-Jufrie was spotted driving in a bus lane in Jakarta, he was photographed by an angry, and likely traffic-bound, resident. The picture was posted on Twitter, instantly attracting thousands of comments, many calling for his resignation. But the minister responded quickly. "Thanks for all the response and input on today's incident," he tweeted. "It's a valuable lesson for me and my staff." The next day, he reported his own law-breaking to police and was fined 500,000 Rupiah (£35).There is no doubting Twitter's popularity across Indonesia, a country of more than 235 million people spread across 17,000 islands. A study by internet analysts ComScore has found that Indonesians are the most prolific users of Twitter on the planet: 20.8% of internet users aged over 15 tweet (Brazil ranks second with 20.5%). In the US, where the largest number of tweets still originate, the figure is just 11.9%.Twitter suits Indonesia for a number of reasons. For a start, mobile phones are cheap. There is already a strong sense of community. And English is widely spoken, particularly on the nation's most populous and tech-savvy island, Java. Even for those who prefer to tweet in their native tongue, Bahasa Indonesia and other regional languages use an internet-friendly Roman script. But Indonesia is diverse and varied: while President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono may be a steady, if not prolific, tweeter, millions of people living on islands distant from the capital's digital epicentre have never even used a computer.Where it is popular, Twitter is driven by celebrity and a growing love of new technologies. "Indonesians like to be with others, and above all, they like trends," Arifin Putra, an Indonesian actor active on Twitter, told the Jakarta Post. "If someone says this is the next cool thing to do, then everybody is going to follow."
As a boxed, single-artist music game, this is great. The only things you could really say are wrong with it are that it's boxed, and it only covers a single artist: you'd have to be into Robbie like an especially invasive parasite for this package to offer sustained musical pleasure.When you could get a delicious pop pick'n'mix from a rival title supported with downloadable tracks, this is the equivalent of loading up your little paper bag with nothing but strawberry bootlaces. Achingly self-aware strawberry bootlaces, in this case, with a tendency to slip into Loaded mag sniggers. ("Give no head, no backstage passes." Oh Robbie you card.)Still, the strawberry bootlace is a decent sweet, and this is a decent game. The tracklist comes up light at 26 songs (with eight albums to pick from, this disc could have been much more generously filled out), but it's a well-balanced selection. There are big ballads like Feel to wrap your lungs around; rocky ones like, er, Rock DJ; some Swing When You're Winning standards; and even a few of his late period efforts at faking up a David Guetta electro sound, for if you're completely incapable of being embarrassed by sharing in someone else's failures.We Sing uses the tried-and-true pitch bar method, so you can see your delusions of tunefulness smashed up as you play, and it offers enough in the way of awards and unlockables to string you along nicely in single player. At the end of each song, you get a breakdown of your vocal prowess: notes hit, missed, too-high, too-low, which is brilliant for geeking out on your performance and chasing that next achievement. Multiplayer comes with battle and duet options, so will be handy for settling intra-fanclub arguments about who loves Robbie best, and for harmonious reconciliations afterwards.Karaoke mode gives you the songs without the scoring, and if even that sounds a bit too competitive for you, there's the option to hunker down and just watch videos of your hero. It's definitely a better idea to get your Robbie-stalking jollies in these extras than the bizarro, Fred Flintstone-a-like Robbie Mii that introduces the mostly-serviceable singing lessons. Ropey looks aside, at least it's got the real Williams on vocal duty with encouraging snippets. And if that sounds like more undiluted Robbie that you can take, well, this game was never really meant for you, Barlow.• Game reviewed on Wii
Owners of the iPad can today bump their tablet computer up to multitasking mode, as a slew of new features come to Apple mobile devices.Apple today released the iOS 4.2.1 upgrade for the iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch. More than 100 new features make the iPad upgrade, including the long-awaited use of multitasking, unified inbox and folders.Among other things (see below), the company is also rewarding its early adopter customers with a free Find My iPhone feature, although users of older models either have to buy MobileMe or dig deep for a new device.The main features of iOS 4.2.1:Find My iPhone as a free App Store download. Note: for iPhone 4, iPad and iPod Touch 4th Gen. only.Multitasking for iPadFolders for iPadUnified inbox for iPadAbility to rent TV episodes on iPad. Note: US only for the time being.Enhanced security support for businessesGame Centre for iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch, allowing users play against friends onlineAirPlay for iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch, for streaming music, videos and other content wirelessly to Apple TVAirPrint for iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch, for sending documents to printSteve Jobs, quoted in Apple's typically ebullient release, says the upgrade makes the iPad "a completely new product". Handy, what with Christmas around the corner, but he goes on:"Once again, the iPad with iOS 4.2 will define the target that other tablets will aspire to, but very few, if any, will ever be able to hit."Typical bullishness or impotent posturing? The market will decide in due course – but where do your battlelines lie?
It's amazing what a year can do. The original Divinity 2: Ego Draconis was released in 2009 but suffered from a general lack of polish and unfavourable comparisons to genre-companion Dragon Age.One year on and with a hefty lick of paint and an expansion pack Divinity 2 returns and this time deserves to gain a far wider audience. It should at the very least appeal to RPG fans looking for something prettier than Fallout 3 and more expansive than Dragon Age.Dragons? Knights? Vengeful flames? Yes, we're very much in classic D&amp;D territory here and Divinity 2's old school credentials are clear from the off. A hackneyed fantasy story soon sees you choosing between a warrior, priest, mage or ranger. Then it's off into the world for swordplay, sorcery and smooth talking. OK, the latter is spoilt by some poor voice acting but there is far more to this game than flaying ye olde goblins. Mind reading – a neat ability to gain new quests or find otherwise hidden items – for a start.On the whole though Divinity 2 follows the standard RPG template of combat, questing and exploration and does so with surprising panache. For example skills can be flexibly applied to your character allowing you to mix some nice mage spells with, say, ranger archery.Once you are out in the world you have relative freedom to explore. Venturing off the beaten track almost always rewards the player with a dungeon to loot or a quest to solve. At the very least there will be enemies to defeat and often tough ones too. Divinity 2 doesn't hold back in offering a challenge. Grinding – killing enemies in hefty numbers – is essential to complete some quests. A lack of quest markers or hints is similarly old-school. Many will be put off by this but it is refreshing to find a console game that doesn't treat you like the Xbox 360 is your first experience of gaming.The lack of handholding generally will make you despair or smile, probably depending on your age. Older gamers will enjoy a nostalgic – if occasionally painful – trip down memory lane as regular saves are needed to avoid losing progression. This is a long way from the glowing trails and forgiving combat of the Fable games. Generally though it works. There are some overly obscure objectives at times but finally finding a hidden tower in a valley feels much more satisfying than simply following a breadcrumb trail.Once you put some hours in the game starts to open up with the ability to take on dragon form. New enemies and quests now take place up high. On the ground the action continually gathers pace and the original game alone is likely to take 30-50 hours to complete. The expansion pack promises a similar amount. You may get frustrated at times by some tricky foes but you won't feel short-changed by this game.Then there are the graphics. The character visuals may disappoint but the landscapes are beautiful. Yes, we're talking classic fantasy/medieval but the green hills, dark forests and rugged mountains are a pleasure to explore.Downsides? Not least the lengthy loading times that occur as you leave houses and dungeons. 30 seconds is not unusual. The plot is hardly a classic too. Despite this there is much to love here. Traditional it may be but Divinity 2 Dragon Knight Saga is an excellent RPG that is up there with the very best on the Xbox 360.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Ah the joys of commuting during the British winter. The indeterminate delays, the relentless cold, the bloke sitting behind you coughing his guts out onto the back of your head – it's the circle of hell that Dante and Virgil wisely decided to skip on their voyage into the underworld.To help get you through the next couple of months, here's a selection of the finest new smartphone titles – perfect for those mid-commute snow storms. All of these will provide a few minutes of respite from the misery … as long as your fingers don't freeze to the screen.Alert Safety Boom(Woojijuice, iOS initially free with in-app payment to unlock extra missions)Developed by ex-staff from defunct UK developer Mucky Foot, Alert Safety Boom is a bomb disposal game merging the car hot-writing mini-games from GTA Chinatown Wars with the fiddly object manipulation fun of the Trauma Centre titles. You need to use your array of tools to snip wires, replace batteries and break switches on a series of increasingly complex devices, with the touchscreen allowing some interesting interactions (including unscrewing bolts by actually using an unscrewing movement on the screen). The interface isn't always as reliable as it should be, especially as the challenges hot up, and it's not always clear what you need to do next on each phase of the disposal project. But it certainly engages, and the comic book story sequences between missions are amusing.Bubble Bobble Double(Taito, iOS, £2.99)Taito has already brought its talismanic dinosaurs Bub and Bob to iPhone courtesy of a neat Puzzle Bobble update. Now, the veteran Japanese publisher has transformed the original Bubble Bobble platform title into a compulsive touchscreen puzzler. Here, Bub is travelling through space, fending off enemy invaders; he's fixed in the middle of the playing area so there's no movement involved – you just need to tap on incoming enemies to fire a bubble at them, then tap again to burst it, hopefully taking out any other nearby baddies in the explosion. The game starts off at a sedate and enjoyable pace, but the challenge ramps up considerably when greater numbers of encroaching monsters turn up in an array of formations. It's basic stuff, but the skill is in creating combos of bursting bubbles and ensuring you hoover up all the bonus fruits. The fast-paced stages and lovely visual effects ensure you're always playing for ajust a teeny bit longer. And you can choose to re-experience the classic Bubble Bobble coin-op as well. Lovely.Dynamo Kid(Orange Pixel, iOS and Android, £1.19)Right now, there are plenty of smartphone platformers having a bit of a play about with touchscreen control dynamics, but this is a particularly well-constructed example. It looks like a fairly traditional cutesy sideways scrolling platformer, except – as in cult indie hitCanabalt, or Adult Swim'sRobot Unicorn Attack– you have no control over movement; your character just runs and it's up to you to clear his path. Tapping the Kid makes him jump and tapping enemies knocks them off the screen. Meanwhile, you'll often encounter walkways that appear as faint sketches – these need to be swiped to colour them in and make them passable. It sounds all cute and playful, but this is in fact an unrelentingly hardcore platformer that tests your multi-tasking skills to the limits. Sadly, the touch controls don't always register as quickly as the game demands, which is frustrating, but Dynamo Kid is slick and enticing enough to keep you coming back for more rather than chucking your iPhone across the train in disgust.Go Usagi(Destigo Games, iOS, £1.19)Remember Chu Chu Rocket, the brilliant Dreamcast puzzler? No? Well, this cute little puzzle title is a dead ringer for the cult Sega title. Your job is to direct a group of rabbits through a maze by placing direction tiles that guide them toward the exit. You can also use the tiles to divert the enemies patrolling each stage – and the fewer arrows you use, the better your rating. The 36 nicely-designed levels get very fiendish very quickly, so there's a considerable mental workout in store. You can also opt to try the free nine-level Lite version if you're not yet ready to commit funds to rabbit conservation.Shoot to Kill: Addictive as Hell(Vivid Games, 59p (iPhone), £1.19 (iPad))As video game scenarios go, this should be a familiar one. You're a soldier stuck in Hell, but with plentiful ammo and an array of weapons you should be able to blast your way out. What follows is a top-down multidirectional shooter in which you simply tap on incoming enemies to blast them into chunks. Tilting the screen reloads, while touching the icon in the bottom left switches to your special weapon which offers more destructive power to deal with harder foes. It's relentless stuff and perfect for twitch gaming fanatics who like it when the odds are stacked insanely against them. The control system can sometimes struggle to keep up with the number of targets on screen, but this is decent, bloody retro carnage and the social networking and multiplayer options add a modern tinge. There's also a free version so you can dip your toe into the inferno first.Flick Kick Football(PikPok Games, Android, iOS, 59p)Released on iPhone over the summer, PikPok's beautifully made freekick simulator is now available for Android devices. The aim is to score from a series of increasingly difficult freekick positions by swiping across the screen to bend the ball around defenders and the flailing keeper. Yes, that's all there is to it (apart from a bonus if you manage to get the ball just inside the post) – but the implementation is so slick, the interface so natural, scoring is a genuine pleasure. There are rugby and American football versions available, too, if you find yourself addited to, erm, ball flicking.Kosmo Spin(Simogo, iOS, TBC)It's not out til early December, but I had to include this lovely, idiosyncratic puzzler from Swedish studio Simogo. You're a character named Nod who must save a small planet, populated by breakfast cereal people, from invading aliens. A flying saucer orbits the world chucking down balls, and you simply run around the surface heading them back into space, while collecting the globe's endangered inhabitants. The visuals are beautiful, skilfully applying the currently trendy handicraft look to create a look that's part Little Big Planet, part Katamari Damacy. Gameplay-wise, the ultra intuitive touchscreen controls – just swipe the screen to spin the planet – will remind mobile veterans of Gamevil's legendary NOM; but others will just enjoy the immediacy of the set-up. And the music is lovely too. The perfect time-killing treat for style-conscious smartphone owners.Game Dev Story(Kairosoft Co, iOS, £1.79)We're a bit late with this as it was released in September, but if you haven't played Kairosoft's captivating game development sim yet, download it right now (or at least try the free Lite version). The idea is straightforward: you're the president of a start-up game studio and your job is to knock out hit titles, expanding your workforce and building a healthy fanbase in the process. Hiring the right staff is essential, as is getting licensed to develop for the hottest consoles and exploring the different genres on offer. While you play through the 20-year career mode you get a sort of comedic history of the games industry with consoles like the Virtual Kid, Sonny PlayStatus and my favourite, the Senga Uranus, popping up and fading as you go. It's not the most challenging or cogent business sim you'll ever play, but it's joyfully constructed and amusing (brilliantly, the most expensive form of advertising you can purchase is a marching band). Most gamers will be happy to forgive its idiosyncracies as they take shot after shot at the Triple A bigtime.Flee(Frugal Games, Android, 85p)If you grew up in the 1980s you'll remember the vast array of handheld LCD games from Nintendo's iconic dual-screen Donkey Kong to the myriad Mattel and Grandstand releases. Now, indie developer Frugal Games has recaptured those heady days of extraordinarily limited interaction withFlee, a driving game devised to exactly mimic a handheld classic. The player's role is simply to move left and right to avoid the oncoming cars, but it's the design sensibilities I love – the display perfectly replicates the monochrome purity of those classic devices, even going as far as to add its own brush-aluminium-style surround and buttons. Plus, when you press the screen you get a simulation of the old LCD distortion effect, and the display and surround even become smudged as you continue to use the game. Okay, it's more of an excuse to reminisce than an actual game experience, but 85p is not much to ask for an hour or so of nostalgic fun.CarneyVale: Showtime(Gamebit Game Lab, Windows Phone 7, NA)This hugely challenging combination of vertical platforming fun and ragdoll physics has been around for a couple of years, winning Microsoft's Dream-Build-Play indie game design competition in 2008 and appearing on Xbox Live. The new Windows Phone 7 implementation is crisp and challenging, making the most of the device's touchscreen interface. Your job is to get your circus athlete to the end of each event, launching him from swing to swing while popping balloons and avoiding hazards. The well-implemented physics give credibility to the challenge – which becomes considerable after the use-friendly opening levels. At the moment, Showtime is one of the best titles available for Windows Phone 7 and its Xbox Live functionality, including a range of Achievements, shows off some of the promise of the platform.
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 20 NovemberPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (40)PC (3)Wii (2)22 (–)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (45)13 (–)Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit(PG)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (47)PC (3)Wii (2)14 (2)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (39)PS3 (31)Wii (11)PSP (8)85 (3)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)66 (12)Wii Party(3+)Wii (100)77 (19)Wii Sports Resort(3+)Wii (100)708 (6)Professor Layton And The Lost Future(7+)DS (100)59 (4)Kinect Sports(12+)Xbox 360 (100)210 (8)New Super Mario Bros. Wii(3+)Wii (100)34Leisure software charts compiled by Chart Track, &copy;2010UKIELtd
Facebook, LinkedIn and other social networking sites represent "one of several threats" to the future of the world wide web, its founder, Sir Tim Berners-Lee has warned.Some of the web's "most successful inhabitants", such as Facebook and large telecoms companies, have begun to "chip away" at its founding principles, Berners-Lee wrote ina Scientific American journal essaypublished today.Social networking sites that do not allow users to extract the information they put into them is a "problem" that could mean the web is "broken into fragmented islands", he said.Googleaccused Facebookearlier this month of leaving its 600 million users in a "data dead end" with their contact details and personal information "effectively trapped".Although Facebook recently began allowing users to download profile information including status updates and photos, the world's most popular social network has been roundly criticised for leaving users' network of contacts "walled" inside its own site.Berners-Lee warned that such a "closed silo of content" risked leaving the web "fragmented"."The web evolved into a powerful, ubiquitous tool because it was built on egalitarian principles," he said. "The web as we know it, however, is being threatened in different ways. Some of its most successful inhabitants have begun to chip away at its principles."He added: "The more you enter, the more you become locked in. Your social networking site becomes a central platform – a closed silo of content, and one that does not give you full control over your information in it."The more this kind of architecture gains widespread use, the more the web becomes fragmented, and the less we enjoy a single, universal information space."Berners-Lee also said there was a worry that a social networking site could become "so big that it becomes a monopoly, which tends to limit innovation".Facebook registered its 500 millionth user in July, havingsigned up 250 million new usersin the preceding 12 months.October figures from online metrics firm comScoresuggest Facebook now has 620 million users around the world, with more than 33 million in the UK.Berners-Lee also criticised companies that opt to build mobile or desktop applications, such as Apple's iTunes or smartphone apps, rather than create apps that sit on the web alongside other websites. "Open standards drive innovation," he said, adding that the tendency for publishers to create apps for smartphones such as the iPhone is "disturbing"."The iTunes world is centralised and walled off," he added. "You are trapped in a single store, rather than being on the open marketplace. For all the store's wonderful features, its evolution is limited to what one company thinks up."Other companies are also creating closed worlds. The tendency for magazines, for example, to produce smartphone 'apps' rather than web apps is disturbing, because that material is off the web."The web's inventor also reiteratedhis support of net neutrality, following communications minister Ed Vaizey's speech last week. Vaizeyappeared to give the green lightfor internet service providers (ISPs) such as BT, TalkTalk and Virgin Media to begin charging content companies such as the BBC for preferential treatment in their delivery to customers.However,Vaizey has since said he is in favour of net neutrality, adding that his speech was misinterpreted.Berners-Lee criticised Google and US telecom company Verizon for itsconceptual agreementforged in August that appeared to exempt mobile access to the internet from the net neutrality principles, which recommend that there should be no favouritism for connecting to certain sites."Many people in rural areas from Utah to Uganda have access to the internet only via mobile phones; exempting wireless from net neutrality would leave these users open to discrimination of service," Berners-Lee said."It is also bizarre to imagine that my fundamental right to access the information source of my choice should apply when I am on my Wi-Fi connected computer at home but not when I use my cellphone."
The much-touted darker tone of JK Rowling's last Harry Potter book at least has one welcome effect: the obligatory licensed game supporting the book and film can at least claim to be something resembling a game, rather than a meticulous reconstruction of Hogwarts with a few vaguely game-like elements tacked on.Deathly Hallows Part 1 is a third-person action-adventure effort in which you play the eponymous, now-teenaged, wizard as he re-enacts (generally in tandem with Ron and Hermione) various iconic encounters from the book. This time around, the gameplay mechanic involves taking on hordes of enemies by firing spells at them, chucking potions and, in the case of Death Eaters, unleashing an Expectum Patronus. There are also periods of sneaking around underneath the Invisibility Cloak.While this should please gamers more than previous Harry Potter instalments, that doesn't mean it's particularly good. The control system (which has a handy target lock-on) is perfectly serviceable, and the game's structure – with long storyline passages punctuated by groups of three missions which you can undergo in any order – makes sense. And you do have to think about which spell to assign to your wand. But the actual process of casting spells at enemies is very repetitive and, frankly, a bit dull.Graphically, it's a tad disappointing, too. The one interesting aspect of the game is confined to the Xbox 360 version: a set of challenges (presented as an annex to the main game) which support Kinect, and in which you aim and pick spells and defend yourself from incoming ones, using different hand gestures. One suspects that legions of long-suffering parents will find a Kinect topping their offspring's Christmas lists as a result.Harry Potter fanatics might find the mere chance to re-enact their hero's exploits sufficiently exciting to allow them to overlook the game's shortcomings. But the unconverted won't be able to ignore its general overall shoddiness and its one-paced gameplay. The Potter franchise, of course, is so overwhelmingly popular that Deathly Hallows Part 1 is almost guaranteed to take the video game charts by storm. But when you play it, you get the feeling that everyone involved with the franchise will be secretly relieved when the whole juggernaut finally grinds to a permanent halt.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Mike Schroepfer in October 2007. Photo byadactioon Flickr.Some rights reservedEver wondered what it's like to be an engineer inside Facebook? We got an exclusive interview withMike Schroepfer, vice president of engineering at the company, who has previously been named one of the50 most important people on the web, to ask him how he gets things done in an organisation that's not only growing fast - but also setting the pace when it comes to a lot of web implementations.Schroepfer is in charge of a team of 500-odd developers who do everything on the site - and, as he explains, if a new recruit hasn't changed something on the site within their first week, they begin to look at them askance, and wonder if something's wrong.But that doesn't mean it's a monolithic organisation: instead, teams tend to work in groups of three to five on small, short projects. As for management structure - well, there's the developers, and there's Mark Zuckerberg. And that's about it...Where were you before?I joined Facebook in the summer of 2008 - before that I was at Mozilla.What was the attraction?It was a combination of amazing influence - I had done interesting things but there were a lot of unanswered questions about where the company [Facebook] could go.You're in charge of a team at a company that famously does things fast. How far out do you plan what projects you're going to assign people to?In general our projects are very iterative - often they last one or two months. Facebook Messages was bigger and longer [Mark Zuckerberg said that a team of more than 15 people worked on it more than a year] so we had to make a longer-term commitment. Others are about working on a piece of technology that has a huge effect on [site] performance. So for example there's Hiphop [which compiles the interpreted scripting language PHP into runtime C++] which took two years to finish.So we're looking at making the web servers more efficient, which is something we have to invest in.How many projects do you have going at once?It's hard to tell, because we have them running all the time, but they might be just a singe person or two. The answer I guess would be somewhere between several dozen to 100 at once.How do you know if they're running to plan? The big problem as organisations like Google or Microsoft get larger is keeping what they're doing synchronised.Well, intuition is what gives us the ideas for what to do, and data tells us if we're getting it right. We iterate to find out if a project's doing it right. Or you might make something live and then you look at whether people are using it frequently, or whether they use it once and don't come back.If they don't come back then we probably didn't get it right. It's a constant process of iteration. The longer it gets before you get in data from the outcome, the worse it's going to be if it's not right.Where's the centre of gravity in the projects among the developers? Are people writing for mobile, or for HTML5, or what?Mobile is certainly important, and increasingly important. From the products we have launched there's increasing emphasis on mobile. So when we had Facebook Messages it launched on mobile and on the web at the same time. We have 200m people using Facebook on mobile; in some countries they only access it via mobile.We're also making huge enhancements to the systems through investments such as Hiphop and server software, because that makes the cost of operating lower, or leads to speed improvements.The third thing that's important is capability in machine learning, because it allows better creative experiences.How do you decide on the getting the balance between what's commercially important - what will bring in cash from ads - and what's just "cool"?We're trying to run the company in a growth and investment phase. We can invest in R+D but there do some opportunities where you can show more ads, so how do we balance it. A lot of projects that we are working on focus more on getting more users to the site and have an engaging experience so that they come back and recommend it to their friends.It's easier to build a business model on a big site than a small one. So our efforts are aimed at getting more people to come to the site for longer. We're trying to make sure that we generate enough revenue that we're never blocked from doing something by commercial considerations.But for example we're the largest photo sharing site on the web. So that has some benefits.How do you balance the cost of doing something against the time it will take and the benefits it might bring? How do you decide the balance?It's about 80-20 - the 80% on user-focussed growth, 20% on cost-saving, revenue-growing projects. So for example we've now added high-resolution photos to the site, which adds to the cost of the infrastructure, because we have to store those photos.But we have people who are very good at projecting out into the future how many photos people will upload, where the cost of disk space is going, how much we can afford to allow, and so on. Sure, the cost of disk space is halving every year, but if we use up twice as much per photo... and so on.You said earlier that you're focussing on machine learning. What's that for?Deciding what stories to show you when you log on and look at your wall, for example. There's only a limited number of stories we can display there, so we need to know based on what you like and what there is what to show you. Or to figure out what ads to show you. And for security, to detect whether somebody is sending out a suspicious number of friend requests, or spamming people, or sending spam links.You bought a company called Dropio earlier this month. What did you buy them for?It was a file-sharing site, but we bought it for the technical talent and the team. They're going to work on different projects. They're led by an exceptional entrepreneur.In practice, most of our teams are about three to five people. So that if you build a service then you can leverage our huge user base. Early startups have the problem of getting the product out into the market. We don't have that problem. So by joining us, they trade up to our huge leverage.As companies get bigger, they face the problem of decisions having to flow up and down management, and inevitably things ossify - it's been like that for Microsoft, and there are signs of it at Google. Is there a way to avoid that at Facebook?(laughs) Yes, we don't have the layers of management approval! We don't pass things up and down the chain. The team working on the product development makes the decisions. If there's a problem or if they think it merits it then they will talk to Mark [Zuckerberg] directly. We try to do a good job of setting out the context of the task and release people to get on and do it. People are pushing new features and code to the site every day. It's really about trying to remove barriers and reduce friction in development.Doesn't that though leave a huge potential for a really catastrophic mess?Yes, and that has happened. But with financial information or sensitive data, we have automated tests before we release code that will change what's done there, and we make changes on those things only very carefully.But most of the things we do aren't in that category. The precise size of profile pictures, the colour of a link or element, or how photo uploads work: that's not going to cause a disaster. The worst that will happen is that you lose a photo or you need to take something off. That's bad, but it's not a company-ending catastrophe.And we aren't changing privacy controls very often, and we take great care with that. Great care.How do developers get oriented when they join?We have an introduction to the team culture, where we've set up a boot camp, which lasts the first six weeks. No matter what role someone comes in as, they go on it, so they understand the code stack, and we encourage people to try their hand, to push changes up to the site; so that if you haven't made a change to the live site in first week, well, we'd think actually that's wrong.What tools do you develop in?There's a wide proliferation - we use C++, Java and PHP. The back end is built in C++, the messaging in Java. We build in and leverage open source where we can, and when we build code then we try to release it as open source where we can.What do the team develop on?Everyone gets access to a development Linux server. For themselves, they get a choice of Windows or Mac laptops. Most of the developers are using Macs - I think it's because they have a good selection of command-line tools.A lot of people have suggested that you're biting off more than you can chew with Facebook Messages - the developer of MIMEsuggested in a blog postthat it's a world of hurt. Do you think you can do it?We're trying to get enough of it done so that people understand it. Messaging is a challenging problem in general. I think that more than integrating email, what's interesting is focussing on the people side, so it's not one app for IM, one app for email, one app or phone for SMS. Rather than doing things by subject, or thread, it's done by person.But email's going to be a bigger problem?We're already supporting POP email. IMAP is just a matter of time. The difficult thing is actually the user experience.
My gaming weekend was dominated by three games. Donkey Kong Country Returns, Divinity 2: Dragon Knight Saga and Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood. Donkey Kong is a great slice of retro loveliness on the Wii that works especially well at this time of the year. Or is just me that gets nostalgic about Nintendo at Christmas? Like the original though this is a real challenge - prepare for some festive cursing.Equally challenging is Divinity 2: Dragon Knight Saga. This is an excellent RPG that may have slipped under a few radars. My review will be up soon but fans of old-school RPGs should definitely check this one out.The rest of the time was spent with Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood - mainly in the multiplayer mode. Compared to the bluster and carnage of – say - Black Ops the multiplayer here is tense, tactical and accessible to gamers who don't have 20 hours a day to practice headshots. Pulling off a successful assassination is hugely satisfying and you get the impression that Brotherhood's multiplayer will gather a large fanbase.Anyway how about you? How was your gaming weekend?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
The communications minister, Ed Vaizey, has insisted to the Guardian that he is in favour of net neutrality, and that his speech on the subject has been misinterpreted.Ed Vaizey, who last weekgave a speech on the internet and regulation (PDF)to an FT conference, told the Guardian that "I say 'don't block input' [to the internet]. It's my first principle." He added that he thought people who criticise him for abandoning net neutrality haven't read his speech: "I say the same as Berners-Lee."However Berners-Lee was less sure when the Guardian asked him. "There's no passage in [Vaizey's] speech where he says he's against net neutrality," he said. "We have discussed it on the phone. But I can't say yet that we're entirely in line."The passage in Vaizey's speech which sparked controversy last week, titled "The open internet", was titled "Net neutrality", and noted that discussions on the topic have "particular resonance" in the US because some areas have fewer choices of ISPs and "ISPs could have total control over which services and applications a consumer has access to, and could give preferential treatment to those they favour." Vaizey noted that there are different discussions on the topic in other countries, including Canada, Norway and the European Union.In the key passage, he said: "Consumers should always have the ability to access any legal content or service. Content and service providers should have the ability to innovate and, most importantly, to reach end users ... This could include the evolution of a two-sided market where consumers and content providers could choose to pay for differing levels of quality of service."The comments sparked a furore as his words were seen as allowing a two-tier internet in which companies would have to pay to get their content to arrive in timely fashion - a complaint thatErik Huggers of the BBC made last monthover the corporation's iPlayer catchup service.Berners-Lee, who haswritten at length on the webin the latest edition of Scientific American, previously set out his principles on net neutrality in apersonal blog postin June 2006, in which he wrote that:"Net neutrality is this: If I pay to connect to the net with a certain quality of service, and you pay to connect with that or greater quality of service, then we can communicate at that level."He continued:"... net neutrality is not asking for the internet for free, or saying that one shouldn't pay more money for high quality of service... Freedom of connection, with any application, to any party, is the fundamental social basis of the internet, and, now, the society based on it."The key difference is that Vaizey mentions content providers - where Berners-Lee does not. That subtle difference could leave space for ISPs to charge content providers.When challenged on this, Vaizey insisted "but I say don't block input. It's my first principle."Notably, Berners-Leeretweeted a linkto a Guardian article in which the singer and entrepreneur Peter Gabriel insisted on the importance of net neutrality. But he told the Guardian afterwards that he had discussed the topic with Vaizey.In aninterview with the Daily Telegraph, Vaizey reiterated that "My first and overriding priority is an open internet where consumers have access to all legal content. Should the internet develop in a way that was detrimental to consumer interests we would seek to intervene."He added: "We're not saying one ISP should be able to prioritise one provider's content over another and I don't support the commercial decision to downgrade a rival's site."
Roadblock. Photo byollesvenssonon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNew Facebook Messaging Continues to Block Some Links &gt;&gt;| Wired.com"Facebook's "modern messaging system" may make it convenient to seamlessly move between instant messaging and a Facebook.com e-mail account, but not if you are sharing a link to a file sharing site.Facebook began blocking BitTorrent link-sharing on Facebook walls and news feeds last spring, and also started blocking private messages between users that included a link to torrents on the Pirate Bay."Google Engineer Gets $6 Million For Not Going To Facebook &gt;&gt; Business InsiderLook, if you offer me $6m, I won't go to Facebook either. Deal?The real cost of free: a response | Media &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukInteresting response from Helienne Lindvall: "And the number of people involved in making a record is still dwarfed by the hundreds of people involved in making a movie. That's why directors and artists sign away some of their rights in return for investment. Independent label Beggars Group recently told me that they'd so farinvested about £200,000 in Mercury prize winners The xx."Spoof Your Caller ID With an iPhone Web App &gt;&gt; F-Secure WeblogCaller ID spoofing for the iPhone: it's not an app, it's a web app (bookmarked as an icon). "The iSpoofCard Web App calls a service which then facilities the actual spoofing, and the App does prompt for the user's permission before it calls. It's well behaved in that sense."But we're curious, could social engineering be used to dupe people into giving permissions to an overtly malicious Web App? Can Web Apps access the iPhone contacts if given permission? Can Web Apps send SMS messages? Web Apps can make phone calls… how much social engineering do you think is required to get somebody to make a premium rate call?"How Question Time got as big as The X Factor on Twitter | Television &amp; radio &gt;&gt; guardian.co.uk"Getting David [Dimbleby] to say 'hashtag' for the first time put a smile on my face but he is genuinely proud of how successful our Twitter operation has become. The conversation is of such a high standard across the hashtag, some people are saying it's as good as watching the programme."EVP Niklas Savander discusses Nokia N8 quality [failures] &gt;&gt; The official Nokia Blog"We have been getting excellent feedback from consumers on the capabilities of the Nokia N8, but in the last couple of days, a very small number of users have reported that their Nokia N8 is not switching on as it should."I'm not sure we're going to be seeing so many Nokia adverts about how it gets a signal whichever hand you hold it in now.Nokia's Ovi Store downloads hit 3 million a day.. how does that compare? &gt;&gt; AsymcoOK, 3m is a good number. How does it compare to the numbers Apple provides? (Google doesn't provide Marketplace numbers, though a lot of people wish it would. Or could.)Gamasutra - News - UK-Based RuneScape Dev Jagex Wins Patent Infringement Lawsuit"A U.S. District Court judge has dismissed a patent infringement lawsuit brought against RuneScape developer Jagex, but not before the UK studio spent a purported seven figures defending itself."Judge David Folsom last week dismissed online chat company Paltalk's claims that Jagex infringed on Paltalk patents relating to online network communications, according to court documents obtained by Gamasutra."Seven figures? Ouch. Is there patent lawsuit insurance?Free anti-virus for Mac – 150,000 active users and plenty of malware found &gt;&gt; Naked SecuritySophos reports on what its free antivirus for Mac has found so far. About 1% of the users have Mac malware. Small proportion, but still translates into 1,500 or so people.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
If the iPhone game Angry Birds was a pop group, it would be Take That,  destroying competitors like an avian cluster bomb. The game has sold millions of copies since its release last December and has long been the device's top money-raker. It was even given an apparent endorsement by David Cameron, who is said to enjoy flinging exploding birds on his prime ministerial iPad.But the Angry Birds have  received a thrashing with the emergence of Smurfs' Village, now the iPhone's top-grossing game. Following in the footsteps of Facebook's real-time farming simulator Farmville, Smurfs' Village allows people with too much time on their hands to curate a new place for the Smurfs to live now that their sworn enemy Gargamel has ransacked their old one.But the game's success is proving controversial. The game is free to download but makes its money from purchases of "Smurfberries", which speed up play. Parents have left a  barrage of reviews on the Apple app store complaining that kids can rack up huge bills (though the feature can be turned off) – 1,000 Smurfberries for $60 (£37.50)? Ouch. Is this a Gargamel-esque fiendishness from makers Capcom or the future of capitalism? Let's wait until the PM puts 50 Smurfberries on his expenses and then decide.
My name is Pete Cashmore and I am the most  influential man on Twitter. Except I'm not. I'm  not evenonTwitter. You see,  I, Pete Cashmore, am the most influential man on Twitter. As a result, I, Pete Cashmore, can't be on Twitter.Before this gets any more  irritating, I should explain that there are two of me. There is me, Pete Cashmore (Wolverhampton), occasional Guardian contributor and jobbing hack, 37 years old, frumpy, just about getting by, but until about 2006, pretty muchthejournalistic Pete Cashmore. Then, along came Pete Cashmore (Scotland), 24 years old, matinee idol good-looking, a social  media specialist and already a millionaire. Other Pete Cashmore was recently declared the most influential man on Twitter – I know this because my colleagues decorated the office with the  clippings – with more than two million followers. Facebook groups have been set up devoted to his chisel-jawed cuteness and millpond-at-midnight eyes. He is the Adonis of social media. He is also the bane of my existence.Other Pete Cashmore casts a long shadow over my life – it's tricky when you're not only not the most successful writer in the world, you're not even the most successful writer in the worldwith your own name. When Forbes magazine declared him the third most influential person on the internet, I had CNN and Sky News ringing me at 9am on a Saturday morning for interviews. I don't even know how they got my number, I just know that it is a thoroughly dispiriting experience to explain to a US news reporter that there's another Pete Cashmore out there who is better than you.I resisted Twitter partly because I am a luddite, but mainly because I associate it with Other Pete Cashmore (who, naturally, I hate). Eventually, my girlfriend yelled at me so much about missed networking possibilities that I signed up (as "notpetecashmore") and within an hour, the first three  followers I got were all, curiously, nubile young American women. They all, of course, thought I was him. So I threw a hissy-fit and left, which, given that I have a girlfriend who yells at me and an "in" with nubile young Americans, even now seems a rash decision.Anyway, I'd like to take this  opportunity to announce that I, Pete Cashmore, am not Pete  Cashmore. Pete Cashmore is  better than me. Pete Cashmore is better than I'll ever be, and I'll bet Pete Cashmore's tweets are better than mine would have been, too.
Rupert Murdoch, head of the media giant News Corp, and Steve Jobs, the chief executive of Apple, are preparing to unveil a new digital "newspaper" called theDailyat the end of this month, according to reports in the US media.The collaboration, which has been secretly under development in New York for several months, promises to be the world's first "newspaper" designed exclusively for new tablet-style computers such as Apple's iPad, with a launch planned for early next year.Intended to combine "a tabloid sensibility with a broadsheet intelligence", the publication represents Murdoch's determination to push the newspaper business beyond the realm of print.According to reports, there will be no "print edition" or "web edition"; the central innovation, developed with assistance from Apple engineers, will be to dispatch the publication automatically to an iPad or any of the growing number of similar devices.With no printing or distribution costs, the US-focusedDailywill cost 99 cents (62p) a week.According to the US elite fashion industry journalWomen's Wear Daily, the Murdoch-Jobs "newspaper" will be run from the 26th floor of the News Corp offices in New York, where 100 journalist have been hired, including Pete Picton, an online editor from theSun, as one of three managing editors. The editor of theDailyhas not been announced, but observers are assuming it will be Jesse Angelo, the managing editor of theNew York Postand rising star in the News Corp firmament.Angelo, who was at school with Murdoch's son Lachlan, was formerly editor of thePost's business section and has recruited the tabloid's gossip columnist Richard Johnson to run theDaily's Los Angeles bureau. Other staff include Sasha Frere-Jones, a music critic at theNew Yorker, who will oversee arts and culture. News Corp's pattern of hiring for the project suggests that video will be a major component of the new publication.The 79-year-old Murdoch is said to have had the idea for the project after studying a survey that suggested readers spent more time immersed in their iPads than they did – comparatively speaking — on the internet, where unfocused surfing is typical.Sources say Murdoch is committed to the project in part because he believes that theDaily, properly executed, will demonstrate that consumers are willing to pay for high- quality, original content online.Murdoch believes the iPad is going to be a "game changer" and he has seen projections that there will be 40 million iPads in circulation by the end of 2011. A source said: "He envisions a world in which every family has a iPad in the home and it becomes the device from which they get their news and information. If only 5% of those 40 million subscribe to theDaily, that's already two million customers."But Murdoch's success with internet ventures is mixed. TheTimesrecently said it had gained more than 100,000 paying customers for its web edition, while theWall Street Journalnow has more than two million readers behind a partial paywall. But MySpace, once the leading social networking site, which Murdoch paid $580m for in 2005, is now an also-ran in the field, and Murdoch is running counter to current thinking that web publications need print editions to justify themselves to advertisers.Apple has been expected to announce a subscription plan for newspapers based on the model of its iTunes music download service, but some publishers have been unwilling to let Apple in as an intermediary or let it control pricing the way iTunes has done in the music business."Obviously, Steve Jobs sees this as a significant revenue stream for Apple in the future," Roger Fidler, head of digital publishing at the Donald W Reynolds Journalism Institute, told theSan Jose Mercury Newsrecently.And with Apple expected to dominate the tablet market until compelling competitors are introduced, Murdoch may have no choice but to ride with Jobs. According toWomen's Wear Daily, Jobs is "a major fan" of the newsprint patriarch: "When the project is announced, don't be surprised if you see Steve Jobs onstage with Rupert Murdoch, welcoming theDailyto the app world."• This article was amended on 22 November 2010. The original described Sasha Frere-Jones as a former music critic at the New Yorker. This has been corrected.
The trouble with email, as the parent of every teenager knows, is that it's so, well …yesterday. I mean to say, you have to think of a "subject" and whether you're going to start the message with "Dear" or "Hi!" or "Yo!". And then there's the problem of what you put at the end: "See you!" or "xxx" or "Gotta go…" And don't even mention the issue of the "signature" at the end of the message – you know, "Sent from my iPhone" and all that. And on top of that, there's the fact that email isn't synchronous. You could send a message and the other person might not see it for, well, at leastfiveminutes.Hopeless.This is the context in which Facebook's latest "messages" initiative needs to be seen. Essentially, it's an aggregator – something that brings together text, chat and email into one inbox. According to an interview thatFacebook's CEO, Mark Zuckerberg, gave at the Web 2.0 Summitin San Francisco last week, it stems from conversations he had some time ago with teenagers. He asked them how they communicated and noticed that email played a diminishing role in their social lives. So he's had a team of 15 engineers beavering away on the messaging project for quite a while.As with everything Facebook (or Google) does these days, the new service attracted lots of hyperbolic comment. "Facebook has not only reinvented the idea of the inbox," burbled Om Malik, normally a sober observer of these things, "but it has gone one better: it has done so by moving away from the traditional idea of email. One of the reasons why Yahoo and Google Mail have struggled to become entirely social is because it is hard to graft a social hierarchy on top of tools of communication… Facebook did the exact opposite – it imagined email only as a subset of what is in reality communication. SMS, chat, Facebook messages, status updates and email is how Zuckerberg sees the world… Facebook is now looking to become the 'interaction hub' of our post-broadband, always-on lives."The new service was also, inevitably, labelled a "Gmail killer", partly because Google and Facebook have recently had a spat over the latter's facility (now blocked) that allowed new subscribers to vacuum contact information in their Gmail inboxes without providing anything by way of  reciprocation.But this is a side issue. The threat Facebook poses to Google has little to do with email and everything to do with identity and advertising. At the moment, Google largely owns the online advertising business. But its founders can see a time coming when that bonanza will begin to wane. An obvious way of keeping the revenue curve heading skywards is to find more effective ways of targeting ads at users. At the moment, Google's techniques for doing that are limited to parsing the words that Gmail users and bloggers employ in their communications. That's why a Gmail message about recipes will have ads for cooking utensils and cookery books down the side.This is pretty crude compared with what is theoretically possible. Google's problem is that it doesn't know enough about you to target ads with a high degree of precision: only what you write online. Facebook, however, knows a great deal about you, even if you have locked down your privacy settings. It knows your real name, your gender, who your "friends" are, what you're doing at the moment, your interests and educational background, whether you are in a relationship, where you live and so on. And although Mr Zuckerberg swears that he has no intention of selling your identity to advertisers, he can give them enough general information to enable them to lob much more precisely targeted ads in your direction.But there is something else that Google should find even more worrying, namely the intensity of Facebookers' involvement with the service. In September, Comscore reported thatFacebook had passed Google in terms of total time spent accessing their services, while in August Neilsen reported thatFacebook users spend, on average, 10 minutes on every visit.In his interview, Mr Zuckerberg gave another twist of this particular knife: half of his 500 million users, he revealed, visit the siteevery day. I make that 2.5 billion minutes a day. And – who knows? – maybe some of them will even be spent doing email.
Price£50,815MPG31.4Top speed131mphUntil now, the only person you ever heard say the word "infinity" was Buzz Lightyear. But you're going to start hearing it more often, particularly in the carparks of luxurious hotels and golf courses. Infiniti (that's not a misspelling) is the new premium division of Nissan. In the same way Toyota reinvented itself for the luxury market with Lexus, so Infiniti is the toff to Nissan's tuff.But why would anyone launch a&nbsp;premium range one year into this financial apocalypse? The answer, according to Infiniti's charismatic British frontman Wayne Bruce, is that the posh end of the car market – the top 4% – has been virtually unaffected by the recession. The second reason is that Infiniti is, in fact, not new. It began selling cars in the US on 8 November 1989. Since then, country by country, the super-luxe brand has been spreading its soothing balm – Britain is number 34 on its list of conquests. The one country where the car is still virtually unknown is Japan. There the Infinities are badged as Nissans – an Infiniti M is a Nissan Fuga, for instance. The Japanese obviously have less trouble swallowing Nissan as a maker of luxury cars.If you didn't know Infiniti was a&nbsp;car brand, you might think it was a cult. The architect-designed showrooms are all glass walls, bespoke art and doorless offices where you can discuss your financing options at a whisper with your "Infiniti ambassador". The showrooms are identical the world over, from Reading to Rome, and Wayne expects there to be eight in the UK by the end of 2011. Inside each dealership you get your first taste of what Infiniti calls its "total ownership experience" and owning one will be the "reward of individualiti".The brand's biggest market by far is the US – last year 81,000 drivers enjoyed "the reward of individualiti". No surprise really, as the cars are mostly 3-litre monoliths which swallow petrol quicker than a rugby player can chug a pint. In the UK, Infiniti will  have five models on offer – and the pick of the bunch is the FX, a V8 4x4 monster. The FX may have been America's Next Top Model, but a&nbsp;5-litre petrol engine was never going to wash over here, so the beast has been civilised for European market with the introduction of a 3-litre V6 diesel.The FX30D is  a high-performing sophisticated motor that now has to pick a fight with those other gentlemen of the road: the Porsche Cayenne, BMW X6, Audi Q7 and Range Rover Sport. How will it fare? Pretty well. It's a robust, well-built vehicle that's cheaper and more interesting than you'd expect for a car with such a&nbsp;generous spec – and it also has the kudos of being novel. So, if you like 'em chunky, the FX should be high on your hit list.As with all things, much of the delight is in the detail, and the Infiniti boasts two very clever bonuses. It has a 360° parking camera which presents you with an astonishing bird's-eye view of your parking manoeuvre. And it also comes coated in self-healing paint. The top layer is an invisible covering of melting polymer which slowly infills any small dings and scratches. I worried that over the years it would eventually all slop on to the tarmac, but Wayne assures me not.So, as Buzz may soon be saying:  "To Infiniti and beyond…"Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in  one place
You wait years for a Bond videogame, then two come along at once. Well, one comes back, in the form ofGoldenEye, to a warm welcome and it is joined, but not quite matched, byBlood Stone.For those of you who didn't play the original N64GoldenEye, this is probably the best first-person shooter on the Wii. For those of you who did: yes, it has changed, yes, it is still good, and no, nostalgia isn't what it used to be…It is debatable whether Daniel Craig is a better-looking Bond than Pierce Brosnan, but thisGoldenEye(Wii, Activision, cert: 16, out now) is a lot prettier than its forebear, and the voice acting is also much improved. Although the "new" storyline is patent nonsense and many changes are inexplicable at best, the single-player adventure is deeper, longer and more fun. Not thatGoldenEyewas ever really about single-player; in 1997 it set the benchmark for multiplayer, and that's how this reworking will be judged. Favourably, I suspect, with much of the original split-screen mayhem returning, complete with playable Jaws and Oddjob, with brand-new online multiplayer too. The inclusion of friend codes means it can  be a phenomenal mates' night in all  over again.Blood Stone(Xbox 360, PS3, PC, Activison, cert: 16, out now), on the other hand, fails to lift itself above its equally inane plot, rumbling between perfectly adequate first-person shooter action and frustrating driving sequences that test the memory far more than the reflexes.
The interactive nature of games is what defines the medium, so it's surprising to find that one ofAssassin's Creed: Brotherhood's most successful features involves relinquishing direct control. As returning protagonist Ezio Auditore da Firenze, one of the main tasks is to build an assassin army to do your bidding. The first time you call them down from the rooftops to eliminate a target with a subtle hand gesture is a curiously satisfying moment. Delegation has rarely felt quite so empowering.As inAssassin's Creed II, the action is split between the near-future and the early 15th century, as Desmond Miles explores his genetic memory through a virtual reality interface known as the Animus. The majority of the game is spent with his Italian ancestor, as Ezio vows revenge upon the powerful Borgia family for the loss of his uncle and the theft of a powerful artefact known as the Apple of Eden. While the previous game explored Florence, Venice and Tuscany, the action here is spread across a single large area of Rome, though playable flashback sequences and additional missions take Ezio outside the city walls.Again, the game blends stealthy pursuits with full-blooded combat sequences, but the quests this time offer greater variety than before. Additional – and entirely optional – objectives for each story mission encourage players to adjust their tactics: asking players, perhaps, to avoid detection entirely or to finish off a target using a specific move or weapon. Meanwhile, Ezio can build himself quite the property empire, trousering extra florins from any renovated shops or landmarks.The introduction of the Brotherhood is the game's most significant new feature. Here, you can send budding assassins across Europe to learn their trade, poisoning guards in Constantinople, for example, or stealing documents in Cologne. Successfully completed missions gradually improve the trainees' skills, as well as swelling Ezio's coffers.Beneath the wonderfully detailed and bustling streets lie the catacombs of a mysterious underground organisation, which offer a serious test of Ezio's parkour skills, while a wealth of other distractions extends an already healthy runtime. And with a fascinating cat-and-mouse online multiplayer mode to bolster the substantial solo game,Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood– initially viewed by some as a stopgap release – is as complete a package as any game you'll play this year.
The problem with internet shopping is that, while the choice is almost infinite, my imagination is not. I love browsing fashion blogs and e-commerce sites and can do so until the computer screen turns my eyes pink. But when it comes to actual shopping, my habits have changed little since I was 15, back in the 1980s, and first became interested in clothes.I linger long over what I cannot afford and what I am not cool enough to wear. Then I dress myself in compromises: clothes that suit my shape, my lifestyle and my income.An internet search lets you look everywhere for anything – which, of course, leaves you with results that are meaningless. Type "striped T-shirt" into Google and you get two million results, leading you to such bewildering destinations as Tottenham Hotspur or a shop for goths. So when I buy online, rather than exploring the endless and exciting possibilities, I head straight for trusted destinations – Net-a-porter and Asos, for instance, just as I used to make a beeline for Next and second-hand shops in the days when I was a teenager.Will boutiques.com make me throw off my purchase blinkers and break free of my shopping tramlines? Probably not – and the beauty is, it doesn't aim to. There's an exhaustive but fun set of questionnaires to discover your likes and dislikes and let Google have a stab at guessing your personal style choices. No other e-commerce site is as tailored for your needs.If I do want inspiration, though, there are some impressive names to choose from. I love Susie Lau's Style Bubble blog and Jane Aldridge's Sea of Shoes, so of course I want to know which clothes they recommend. And if I happen to browse through the boutiques featuring clothes chosen by Carey Mulligan or Mary-Kate Olsen, well, that can just  be between me and my sofa.What I especially like about boutiques.com is that – while most e-commerce sites burst with editorial content, films and interviews – this one features little but pictures and product details. This sparse approach creates a calm sense of purpose.Google is hoping that boutiques.com will change the way that people shop. With a site this good, it may do just that.
The second decent Sonic game in as many months? As unexpected as it is welcome, the answer, simply, is a resounding yes. But where the recently releasedSonic 4was a distinctly old-fashioned tribute to the hedgehog's good old days,Coloursis a mix of 2D and 3D, of familiar visual and musical motifs and exciting new level design. It's the best original Sonic game in years.Colours, living up to its name, makes for a sugary, kaleidoscopic head-trip of a game, set across seven wildly different planets. These levels, with vertically stacked alternate routes, loop-the-loops and shimmering golden rings, range from neon highways through blue-and-green seaside resorts to mountains of cake and giant burgers. It is – praise be! – all about going from left to right very, very quickly, while the visual variety and speed combine to makeColoursgenuinely thrilling.Wisps – power-up collectibles that temporarily turn Sonic into a drill or a laser or a blur of super-speed – giveColoursnovelty beyond the initial assault on the senses. This is a simple game, butColours's core is sweet, and it's just wonderful to see Sonic in such a well-made adventure again.
After they had promised to reinvent theNeed For Speedfranchise, it's oddly heartening to seeBurnoutcreators Criterion Games take inspiration from the series's roots.Hot Pursuittrades off the undeniable appeal of high-speed chases involving the world's fastest and most exotic vehicles, and the result is a real return to form.The fictional Seacrest County is the setting for a series of high-octane encounters between cops and racers. Players can take on either role – as a cop, you have access to spike strips, roadblocks and electromagnetic pulses to take down the racers, while radar jammers and decoy cars help racers shake off their pursuers. Other events ask cops to deliver new vehicles in an undamaged state, or for racers to reach a checkpoint in a given time, but the blisteringly fast fender-bending chases are the undoubted highlights.A pervading online component known as the Autolog acts as a social network of sorts, allowing players to communicate and challenge one another online. Tracking individual statistics, scores and race times, it regularly encourages players to beat friends' times, adding fresh impetus to replay tracks.Hot Pursuitis a frequently exhilarating experience, though its repetitive nature and simplistic track design mean it is best enjoyed in short bursts. Still, few racers offer quite so many thrills in a single chase.
Faced with an enemy fighter jet, there's one sensible thing a military drone should do: split. But in December 2002, caught in the crosshairs of an Iraqi MiG, an unmanned US Predator was instructed to stay put. The MiG fired, the Predator fired back and the result, unhappily for the US, was a heap of drone parts on the southern Iraqi desert.This incident is often regarded as the first dogfight between a drone, properly known as an unmanned aerial vehicle or UAV, and a conventional, manned fighter. Yet in a way, the Predator hardly stood a chance. American and British UAVs are operated remotely by pilots sitting thousands of miles away on US turf, so manoeuvres are hobbled by signal delays of a quarter-second or more. This means evading missiles will always be nigh-on impossible – unless the UAVs pilot themselves.In July this year, amid a haze of dry ice and revolving spotlights at the Warton aerodrome, Lancashire, BAE Systems launched a prototype UAV that might do just that. With a development cost of more than £140m,the alien-looking Taraniswas billed by the Ministry of Defence as a "fully autonomous" craft that can fly deep into enemy territory to collect intelligence, drop bombs and "defend itself against manned and other unmanned enemy aircraft".Lord Drayson, minister for defence procurement from 2005-2007, said Taranis would have "almost no need for operator input."Taranis is just one example of a huge swing towards autonomous defence systems: machines that make decisions independent of any human input, with the potential to change modern warfare radically. States with advanced militaries such as the US and the UK are viewing autonomy as a way to have a longer reach, greater efficiency and fewer repatriated body bags. The government'sStrategic Defence and Security Review, published last month, cited it as a means to "adapt to the unexpected" in a time of constrained resources. But behind the technological glitz, autonomous systems hide a wealth of ethical and legal problems.For some military tasks, armed robots can already take care of themselves. The sides of many allied warships sport a Gatling gun as part ofthe Phalanx system, which is designed to fire automatically at incoming missiles. Israel is deploying machine-gun turrets along its border with the Gaza Strip to target Palestinian infiltrators automatically. For this"See-Shoot" system, an Israeli commander told the industry magazineDefense News, a human operator will give the go-ahead to fire "at least in the initial phases of deployment".Phalanx and See-Shoot are automated systems, but they are not autonomous, a subtle yet crucial difference. A drinks machine is an example of an automated system: you push a  certain button and out drops the corresponding bottle. In a similar way, the Phalanx Gatling gun waits for a certain blip to appear on its radar, then fires at it. Autonomous systems, on the other hand, perform much more complex tasks by taking thousands of readings from the environment. These translate to a near-infinite number of input states, which must  be processed through lengthy computer code to find the best possible outcome. Some believe it's the same basic method we use to make decisions ourselves.High-profile armed systems such as Taranis have the true nature of their autonomy kept secret, but other projects hint at what might be in store. At the Robotics Institute of Carnegie Mellon University in Pennsylvania, researchers are using Pentagon funding to develop a six-wheeled tank that can find its own way across a battlefield. The prototype, which tipped the scales at six tonnes, was nicknamedthe Crusherthanks to its ability to flatten cars. The latest prototype, known as the Autonomous Platform Demonstrator orAPD, weighs nine tonnes and can travel at 50mph.The key to the APD's autonomy is a hierarchy of self-navigation tools. First, it downloads a basic route from a satellite map, such as Google Earth. Once it has set off, stereo video cameras build up a 3-D image of the environment, so it can plan a more detailed route around obstacles. To make minor adjustments, lasers then make precision measurements of its proximity to surrounding terrain.Dimi Apostolopoulos, principal investigator for the APD, told me that its payload could include reconnaissance systems or mounted weapons, primarily for use in the most dangerous areas where commanders are loath to deploy human soldiers. "Strange as it may sound, we believe the introduction of robotics will change warfare," he said. "There's no doubt about that. It'll take a lot of people out of the toughest situations. And my belief is that this is a good thing for both sides."Other research in military robots ranges from big to small, from impressive to bizarre. At the robotics lab Boston Dynamics, engineers funded by the US Defence Advanced Research Projects Agency, or Darpa, are developing a four-legged robot that "can go anywhere people and animals can go". CalledBigDog, the robot uses sensors and motors to control balance autonomously, trotting over rugged terrain like a creepy headless goat.Perhaps more creepy is Darpa's research proposal to hijack flying insects for surveillance – in other words, harness a biological "UAV" that is already autonomous. According to the proposal, tiny, electro-mechanical controllers could be implanted into the insects during their metamorphosis, although some researchers have said this idea is a little too far-fetched.What is clear is that there is huge investment in military robotics, with UAVs at the forefront. The RAF has five armed Reaper UAVs and has five more on order. The US is way ahead, with the Pentagon planning to increase its fleet of Reaper, Predator and other "multirole" UAVs from 300 next year to 800 in 2020. As Gordon Johnson of the US Joint Forces Command famously said of military robots: "They don't get hungry. They're not afraid. They don't forget their orders." His statement was reminiscent of a line in the 1986 blockbusterShort Circuitby Newton Crosby, a scientist who had created a highly autonomous military robot: "It doesn't get scared. It doesn't get happy. It doesn't get sad. It just runs programs!" In that film, the robot went awol.What happens if real-life military robots go wrong?  Although we are a long way from the sophisticated robots of science fiction,  the military are still considering how to tackle potential failure. In June, Werner Dahm, then chief scientist of the US Air Force, released the USAF "vision" reportTechnology Horizons, in which he argued that autonomous systems, while essential for the air force's future, must be put through "verification and validation", or V&amp;V, to be certified as trustworthy.Military systems already have to undergo V&amp;V using a method largely unchanged since the Apollo programme. It's what Dahm calls the "brute force" approach: systematically testing every possible state of a system until it is 100% certifiable. Today, says Dahm, more than half the cost of modern fighter aircraft is in software development, while a huge chunk of that cost is in V&amp;V. Yet as soon as one contemplates autonomous systems, which have near-infinite input states, brute-force V&amp;V becomes out of the question. Although Dahm says V&amp;V could be made easier by designing software to "anticipate" the testing process, he believes we will ultimately have to satisfy ourselves with certification below 100%."The average citizen might say, well, 99.99%, that's not good enough," Dahm told me. "There are two important responses to that. One, you'd be surprised the car you're driving isn't 99.99% [certified] in most of what it does… and the other part of the answer is, if you insist on 100% [certification], I'll never be able to get the highly autonomous system."Even existing military robots, which are human-operated, have become controversial. Some believe the CIA's use of UAVs to target alleged insurgents in Pakistan goes against a 1976 executive order by President Ford to ban political assassinations. Yet for autonomous systems, with humans gradually taken out of the loop, it gets more complicated. "If a machine that has learnt on the job shoots at an ambulance rather than a tank, whose fault was it?" Chris Elliott, a barrister and systems engineer, asked me. "Who has committed the crime?"Elliott's concerns are echoed by other lawyers and scientists. Noel Sharkey, professor of artificial intelligence at Sheffield University, says it is impossible for autonomous robots today to distinguish reliably between civilians and combatants, a cornerstone of international humanitarian law. He also believes robots lack the subtle judgment  to adhere to another humanitarian law: the principle of proportionality which says civilian causalities must not be "excessive" for the military advantage gained."It's not always appropriate to fire and kill," Sharkey told me. "There are so many examples in the Iraq war where insurgents have been in an alleyway, marines have arrived with guns raised but noticed the insurgents were actually carrying a coffin. So the marines lower their machine guns, take off their helmets and let the insurgents pass. Now, a robot couldn't make that kind of decision. What features does it look for? Could the box be carrying weapons?"The issue is autonomous strike – that is, a robot making its own firing decision – and here opinions differ. An MoD spokesperson told me via email that, in attack roles, "there will remain an enduring need for appropriately trained human involvement" in operating UAVs "for the foreseeable future". Dahm believes the USAF holds the same view, though it appears to be lost in its latestUAVFlight Plan. "Increasingly, humans will no longer be 'in the loop' but rather 'on the loop' – monitoring the execution of certain decisions," it reads. "Simultaneously, advances in AI will enable systems to make combat decisions… without necessarily requiring human input." It adds, however: "Authorising a machine to make lethal combat decisions is contingent upon political and military leaders resolving legal and ethical questions."A2008 paperby the US Office of Naval Research also admits that there are ethical and legal obstacles to autonomy. It suggests a "sensible goal" would be to program autonomous robots to act "at least as ethically" as human soldiers, although it notes that "accidents will continue to occur, which raise the question of legal responsibility". The paper also considers the idea that autonomous robots could one day be treated as "legal quasi-agents", like children.Rob Alexander, a computer scientist at York University, thinks this would be a step too far. "A machine cannot be held accountable," he said. "Certainly not with any foreseeable technology – we're not talking aboutStar Trekandroids here. These things are machines and the operators or  designers must be responsible for their behaviour."There are broader issues. In his recent bookCities Under Siege: The New Military Urbanism, Stephen Graham, a human geography expert at Durham University, argues that autonomy is the result of shifting warfare from fields to cities, where walls and hideouts "undermine" the  hegemony of advanced militaries. But the real danger, Graham says, is that autonomous robots reduce the political cost of going to war, so that it no longer becomes a last resort. "You don't get the funeral corteges going through small towns in Wiltshire," he explained to me. Joanne Mariner, a lawyer at Human Rights Watch, voiced the same concern.Given the limitations of current robotics, the deeper ethical and legal issues of autonomy will, for the near future, stay largely hypothetical. According to Dahm, autonomy will have more imminent uses as part of large military systems, performing tasks that are becoming too laborious for humans. Satellites, for example, could autonomously filter reconnaissance data so they only transmit those images displaying recognisable targets. Indeed, military commanders already use software that has elements of autonomy to help in certain fiddly tasks, such as organising the deployment of munitions. As years go by, more tactical decisions, mundane at first, could be handed to machines.The natural reaction is that we're paving the way for a dystopian future akin to various science fiction films, a world taken over by self-aware robots. But that would be missing the point: in exchanging flesh and blood for circuits and steel, it is the precise opposite of artificial intelligence we should be afraid of. As Sharkey told me: "I don't think we're on the path to aTerminator-style future. Those robots were clever."
You Thought We Wouldn't NoticeSeveral weeks ago news broke about an American writer who discovered Cooks Source magazine had published her online piece on apple pie without permission, with the editor claiming "the web is considered 'public domain' and you should be happy we just didn't 'lift' your whole article and put someone else's name on it!". The case is just the tip of the iceberg as it seems hundreds of corporations and design companies consider the internet "public domain". Here people behind the originals get some form of revenge by exposing the plagiarists – chain stores stealing artworks from fashion students to bands who rip off other bands' artwork – the world is full of cut and paste thievery.DefacedDefaced.Banksy didn't really stencil some giant testicles either side of Number 10 Downing Street last week, but many a gullible internet browser assumed he did, such are the convincing wonders of Photoshop. There are, however, plenty of examples of artful vandalism here that are both real and equally as silly. A photo blog "about people ruining other people's stuff cuz it's funny", Defaced collects examples of creative destruction. If you're the kind of person who gets upset when you see bubblegum plastered over a movie star's eyes on an escalator poster then be prepared to be outraged. If not, there are plenty of sullied banknotes, cunningly altered posters and random vandalism to entertain your inner Bart Simpson – plus graffiti that references Wired.Blog roll: LOLDudes With Beards Eating Cupcakes.Dudes With Beards Eating CupcakesPhotographic evidence that hirsute gentlemen enjoy dainty patisserie.Hero Of SwitzerlandHow to turn cardboard boxes into stylish shelving and other Top Tips from reality mags.Damn You, Auto Correct!America's grand struggle with the autocorrect function on their iPhones.Awful Fan ArtIncredibly wonky pencil drawings of Johnny Depp, Justin Bieber and David Bowie by the people who love them.Funny TyposSupermarket mis-spellings and newspaper typos including  Dave Grohl's new band "Them Cooked Vultures".Average CatsThese pictures of cats aren't funny or interesting,  just ordinary and boring.What we learned on the web this weekWhen celebrity wax works go wrong.What itlooks when wax works go wrongAccording toFacebook we are about to enter the break up season12 funhacks for YouTubeThe Economicsof SeinfeldThe beardiestbeards in movie historyWhat theface of Sydney looks likeRoger Sterlinghas a book outHow tomodernise the QueenThe scienceof GodzillaThe historyof the polo shirtWhat tobuy the egotist in your lifeMichael Jacksonmade great toast
Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Picking up the story where last year's Assassin's Creed II left off, your centuries-spanning fight against the Templars continues. Once again this involves donning your assassin's hoodie, shanking various unsavoury noblemen and escaping via precipitous rooftop parkour. While structurally similar to its most recent forebear, climbing buildings and free-running feel far more fluid and less on-rails, making it easier to direct Ezio off high ledges to his death and in the process delivering a more involving and visceral experience. Scaling towers opens up new areas of the map and handing over gold to renovate banks and shops raises your income and expands the list of items for sale. There are new weapons and fights are bigger and more frequent, taking on multiple opponents and entire military posts. In spite of numerous tweaks, this feels like a marginal evolution of the last Assassin's Creed, but is certainly highly entertaining.Ubisoft, £49.99007: Blood Stone, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360007: Blood Stone.With the voices and likenesses of Daniel Craig and Dame Judy Dench, a silhouette-strewn opening title sequence and action spanning the globe from Monaco to Bangkok to a Burmese prison camp, Blood Stone does its level best to be this year's Bond film. The parts you can actually play are dominated by battles fought with silenced pistols and submachine guns, relying heavily on getting Bond to take cover behind conveniently appointed pieces of scenery. They're simplistic affairs, with some enemies popping in and out of cover like so many clockwork targets while others suicidally march towards you in the open. Brief car chases break up the shooting, requiring you to learn where traffic and explosions occur by rote, until you can steer your way around them, despite the track often being fully obscured by smoke and flying debris. Authentic in both content and style, the game feels neglected by comparison, with little to engage and a multiplayer mode that's perfunctory at best.Activision, £34.99-£49.99Lil' Pirates, iPhoneLil' Pirates.There's something cloying about a lot of social network games in their continual entreaties to pester your friends. Equally, free-to-play games tend to be hard to enjoy without springing for paid upgrades. Lil' Pirates, despite being free and wanting you to sign in via Facebook, doesn't create too much nuisance for your acquaintances although a lack of doubloons (£2.99 buys you 30) rapidly starts to impede progress. The game comprises quests to enrich your miniature pirates, refreshing them with a mug of foaming root beer or by beating them in one of a succession of mildly diverting mini games. Some missions take seconds, others minutes and others hours, meaning several things are going on at all times, each layer providing a small yet addictive stimulus to embark on more adventures, expand your crew, harvest growing treasure troves, brawl with rabid dolphins or adopt a monkey. Though essentially bland, its cute graphics, piratey dialogue and mellow action make it unexpectedly likable.Capcom Mobile, free
It's just what the kids have been crying out for, a souped-up hatchback that's also a planet-saving hybrid. That's the theory, anyway, behind the "urban street racer with a conscience", otherwise known as the Honda CR-Z 1.5 GT. But there are a few practical problems. The first is that the kinds of people – at a wild guess, mostly young blokes – who will thrill to the CR-Z's punchy design probably don't lie awake at night worrying about polar bears. And the second is that it isn't that fast and it isn't that green.These minor provisos aside, the CR-Z is not without its appeal, from&nbsp;certain angles. Addressed the right way – head on, and slightly to the side – the CR-Z looks a nifty number, with a slick shape and aerodynamic tailoring. From less flattering angles, it also looks like just another boxy hatchback.The various flash design touches – such as headlights that resemble a string of Christmas tree lights – offer a visual promise of rapid response. But, as they say in Liverpool, calm down. For you have to get the thing started, and that proves more troublesome than you might expect.First it's necessary to put the key in the ignition. Good, old-fashioned system, you might say. Yes, except you also have to press the separate ignition button. And, as if that wasn't belt-n-braces enough, you have to do it while compressing the clutch. Got that? OK, but where's the ignition button? Good question. Hidden behind the steering wheel.The dashboard is a riot of mixed messages, with large, illuminated dials that give pride of place to the rev counter. At the same time there is a choice of three different drive modes: sport, normal and eco. If you select normal or eco, a leaf is displayed that, depending on the economy of your drive, grows into a flower.How beautiful, you might say, as you dab your joy-moistened cheeks. But is anyone who gets a kick out of racking up 6,000 on the massively prominent rev counter really going to be constrained by the possibility of constructing an electronic flower? Mmm. It's just conceivable that it&nbsp;might encourage compulsive gamers to gain a perfect eco score.The other reason to avoid the sport mode, perhaps, is that, while noticeably more responsive and less green than the other modes, it's no great shakes in the speed department. Yes, it's sharper than other hybrids, but then they do have the advantage of being able to fit human beings in the back. The leg space in the rear of the CR-Z is fit only for domestic pets. And there's very limited rear vision.High performance, low consumption is the dream. The CR-Z&nbsp;nods towards both without ever quite arriving at either.Honda CR-Z 1.5 GTPrice£19,999Top speed124mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.1 secondsAverage consumption56.5mpgCO2emissions117g/kmEco rating8/10Bound forComputer WorldIn a wordOxymoronic
Online currency, with which Facebook users can purchase pixel-based virtual farm animals or pay to attend virtual events, might seem small beer. But now the online goods economy may be about to boom in the UK, as Tesco and the games retailer Game start selling Facebook credits in more than 1,000 high street stores.The UK's 33 million Facebook users will be able to buy so-called "Facebook credits" in the non-pixellated world. The gift cards, costing £10 or £20, will only be redeemable on Facebook, where users can spend the converted currency on any number of nonexistent objects.The virtual goods economy, where money is spent on items that only exist on the internet, is expected to exceed £550m for social gaming such as Zynga's Farmville by the end of this year, according to a recentInside Virtual Goods report. Otherestimates showthat the total US market for virtual goods will reach $1.6bn this year, up $500m from last year, as the virtual economy worldwide hits more than $6bn. Many of the biggest virtual economies centre around online games such as World of Warcraft.Now, Facebook credits will be sold in more than 650 Game and Gamestation outlets and 600 Tesco stores in the run-up to Christmas, having been available to purchase online since the beginning of this year. More than 200 apps and games currently accept Facebook credits, a figure sure to increase as the site expands its reach.The currency has quickly found favour among the growing and increasingly engaged online gaming community – and not just inside Facebook, the world's most popular social network.Flirtomatic, a social network with 1.8 million users in the UK, sold more virtual roses last year than Interflora sold real roses. Earlier this month, more than 100,000 Flirtomatic citizens "attended" its virtual firework display – online.Though Facebook retains 30% of the value of sales made using its currency, credits create a new and simple source of income for the developers behind increasingly popular social games such as Farmville and Mafia Wars.Euan Ballantyne, head of cards at Tesco Bank, said: "Social gaming is becoming increasingly popular, so we are pleased to offer what might be an ideal Christmas present for those who enjoy playing social games on Facebook."Asda, the second-biggest supermarket in the UK, said it had no plans to sell Facebook credits, even though its US parent Wal-Mart was the first to sell them in the US.
It's always nice to see someone trying something different in the platformer genre. With Ivy the Kiwi, Yuji Naka  – the man who created Sonic the Hedgehog – has melded puzzle elements with more standard platforming action to create a title that, while not an instant classic, is certainly worth a look.Over 100 brief levels, the aim is to guide the flightless bird of the title past various obstacles to reach the level exit. Ivy is constantly on the move, only changing direction when she hits a wall, so speed is frequently of the essence as you intervene to prevent her running off a platform or into one of the rodent enemies dotted about the place.The principle tool for aiding Ivy's progress is the DS's stylus, which is used to draw vines directly on to the levels. These vines may act as bridges, walls and catapults, and learning to use them speedily and effectively is key to negotiating your way to the exit before the timer reaches zero. It's a satisfying and intuitive game mechanic, giving the impression that the title was created specifically for DS – it was, in fact, originally released for Windows Mobile before being ported to both the DS and Wii.Its mobile origins are apparent from the off – as with many of the best mobile games, there's no real depth to it. Each level passes very quickly; for the most part it's very easy, and it's all geared around short bursts of gameplay. This shallowness doesn't mean it's in any way bad, although one might feel it's a bit of a swizz to shell out £25 for a such undemanding fare (there's a cheaper DSiWare version available for download, with 50 levels instead of 100).The graphics are just about adequate; there's a lot of muddy brown in evidence, and while they were probably shooting for an atmospheric storybook feel, they've sadly fallen a bit short. Moreover, little effort has been invested in imbuing Ivy with any real personality – a petty gripe perhaps, but given that Ivy comes from the same mind as Sonic one can be forgiven for expecting a bit more substance in the lead character.Shortcomings aside, Ivy the Kiwi is a solid, above-average casual game that's likely to have platformer fans hooked, for a few hours at least.• Game reviewed on DS
Google is to delete the sensitive information – including full emails and passwords – it illegally captured from Wi-Fi networks when its Street View cars mapped the UK's towns and cities.The technology giant hassigned a commitment(PDF) to improve its data handling following the Information Commissioner's Office ruling that it committed a "significant breach" of the Data Protection Act (DPA) during the mapping in the past two years.The ICO will also audit Google's compliance with the DPA in August 2011.Google's collection of so-called "payload" data from unsecured Wi-Fi connections is under investigation ina number of countries around the world. The ICO ruled in July that the company was unlikely to have collected "significant amounts" of personal data with its Street View cars – only to decide in the first week of November that the company had in fact committed a "significant breach" of the DPA.It is a "significant achievement" for a "major multinational corporation" like Google to commit to improving its data handling practices, the information commissioner Christopher Graham said on Friday. The ICO said it will continue to keep a "close watch" on Google's data handling practices."I welcome the fact that the Wi-Fi payload data that should never have been collected in the first place can, at last, be deleted," Graham said.Alan Eustace, Google's vice-president of engineering and research, has signed an undertaking committing the company to put in place improved training measures on security and data protection. Google will also now require product engineers to maintain a privacy design document for every new project before it is launched.The ICO faced renewed criticism last week after the Ministry of Justice revealed that it had senttwo "non-technical" membersof staff to investigate Google's collection of "payload" data from Wi-Fi connections.The privacy watchdog has been labelled as an "apologist" for Google's breach of data protection laws; Rob Halfon, the influential Conservative MP, said the ICO had acted "more [like] Keystone Cops than protector of our civil liberties" in its investigation.Baroness Neville-Jones, the minister of state for security, this week dashed the hopes of privacy campaigners calling for fundamental reform of the ICO, telling the House of Lords that the embattled watchdog has "sufficient" and "significant powers".Halfon revealed in a parliamentary debate on privacy and the internet last month that Graham told him his office was hamstrung by UK data protection legislation when it came to taking action against Google, though he did not elucidate on how it was held back.Neville-Jones on Wednesday said the ICO's powers to investigate and penalise breaches of the DPA are "sufficient" and "very considerable", appearing to rule out any prospect of reforming the office."In our view, the information commissioner has significant powers, and we would regard them as sufficient to examine and consider or scrutinise any of the data processed within the [Identity and Passport Service]," she told a House of Lords debateon the Identity Documents Bill.Noting that the ICO has the power to find out whether companies or government departments are complying with the DPA, the minister said those powers were "very considerable.""It is important for us to ensure that this is the case, and to talk to the Information Commissioner to ensure that he is able and willing to exercise his powers in this way, which I believe to be the case," she said.
Are you ready to be a journalist of the future? Better get your head wrapped around the idea of data, then, says Sir Tim Berners-Lee – who, you know, invented the world wide web (which as you also know is not the same as the entire internet).This morning at the release of huge tracts of government data about spending, a panel including Cabinet Office minister Francis Maude and Berners-Lee were asked who would analyse such data once the excited geeks had moved onto more interesting tasks (perhaps building the next Facebook).Berners-Lee's response: "the responsibility needs to be with the press. Journalists need to be data-savvy. These are the people whose jobs are to interpret what government is doing to the people. So it used to be that you would get stories by chatting to people in bars, and it still might be that you'll do it that way some times. But now it's also going to be about poring over data and equipping yourself with the tools to analyse it and picking out what's interesting. And keeping it in perspective, helping people out by really seeing where it all fits together, and what's going on in the country.""Data-driven journalism is the future," he concluded. To which his colleague Nigel Shadbolt, who with Berners-Lee has been working to get the civil service and local government to open up their data, added "Well, part of the future."So – do you know what you need to know about working with data? Do you believe Berners-Lee? Given that the Guardian and the Telegraph have journalists who spend their entire time working on data, that the Times has its own labs, do you know your CSV from your RDF, your Python from your PHP, and would you know where to look for an API? Or is Berners-Lee being too geeky?
The UK government is creating a "public data corporation" that will release data from its mapmaking agency Ordnance Survey (OS), the Met Office, Land Registry and perhaps Companies House from next April.The move, part of the coalition's data release plans, amounts to a wholesale reorganisation of the largest "trading funds" – government-owned companies which receive no direct funding – dealing in data and information.Francis Maude, the Cabinet Office minister, acknowledged that the plans also include the possibility of selling part of the company to the private sector when it is created after April 2011.That will cause unease among public sector unions and others concerned that the quality of essential services such as OS maps and weather forecasting could be compromised by private shareholders seeking profit by reducing quality on unprofitable areas.Maude said that the initial aim was to create a central repository. "The idea is that it would be a corporation that would hold a large number of public datasets," he said. "Its principal objective is to enable us to release data on a uniform basis. Its second priority is to get synergy from bringing together different organisations, reducing overheads and getting operational expertise in collecting and managing and distributing data."Maude would not be drawn on whether the corporation would make all its data available for free, or whether some would be charged for. He said that it was still "early days" for the project and that little had yet been decided – despite the short timetable.Trading funds cover their costs by charging for the data they sell or license both inside and outside government. Together, the four agencies have revenues of around £250m – of which almost £80m came from licences charged to government until the OS changes last year.The government's drive to make non-personal data freely available is in direct conflict with the trading fund model – which led to a power struggle in Whitehall last year when Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the world wide web, advised Gordon Brown, then the prime minister, to make OS map data available for free because of its essential nature for linking together other sets of data. Berners-Lee won after Brown found a compromise which means that OS is receiving funding from the Treasury for the first time as a trading fund.The Cabinet Office indicated that it was setting up the corporation inits business plan published earlier this monthin which it set April 2011 as the date for its creation. That says that it will work with the Shareholder Executive, which officially owns the trading funds, "to drive the release of core reference data for free re-use from the Public Data Corporation" between now and April.The work is being done with the Treasury and the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.
What's your favourite piece of technology and how has it improved your life?The technology that blew me away, when I was about 10, was our first television. It changed my life completely, because it's what I ended up doing. And the first stereo was also a key thing; I remember getting someone to put together my first stereo hi-fi. The other thing to which I'm utterly indebted would be binoculars – binoculars have been getting better and better. The best are Swarovski 10x42 and they are just staggering – you'd think they couldn't improve them, but they keep doing it.When was the last time you used your binoculars and what for?Today – I'll be going for a walk on Hampstead Heath, and I'll be taking my binoculars with me.What features would you add?Better straps – and that's not a joke. The technology is fantastic, but the whole process of attaching the strap to the binoculars is a palaver.Will it be obsolete in 10 years?No, I don't think there will be anything that will completely replace them.What always frustrates you about technology in general?Without any question, instruction booklets. I cannot believe how abstruse, awfully written and unintelligible they are. They drive me up the wall, and I think they do with most people.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I don't own one, but satnavs, definitely, I think they are so many downsides to them. I've driven a lot and a little bit of preparation has never been a problem. The only time I've ever found them useful is in a foreign country, but otherwise I hate them.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?The key moment is before you get it. It's very hard to anticipate, and there are a lot of people addicted to getting new toys, but if you have a truth session with yourself, you have to ask: would I really use it? Obviously, Mac people are particularly prone to this – they've just got to have it, which is only a whisker away from drug addiction, really.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Luddite – I don't even need to get to nerd. Too much so: it's not that I'm proud of it. A lot of luddite attitude is borne of fear, really.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?It would probably be binoculars or telescope – probably a telescope. The prices of telescopes and binoculars has skyrocketed in the past few years.Mac or PC, and why?Mac, because that's all there is is in the house. And because I inherited one of my daughter's rejects – which had a great disadvantage, because it was still full of all her stuff.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?That's a horrible idea, I really don't want that. Some of one's pleasantest relationships are formed when someone is bringing something to you. I'd much rather have a human being – it's part of the great fantasy of life, really – you have people who care about you, not a bloody machine.What piece of technology would you most like to own?All I can say is that I wish there were some things that were easier to do. I think at the moment I would most like to be able to edit video really easily. Probably I just need to throw myself into something like Final Cut Pro. So what I really need is a sympathetic tutor to teach me what I want to do. And that's the greatest piece of technology of all – a patient human being, someone who will comfort me when I get lost and start crying. So I think want one of them.•The Goodies... At Last the 40th Anniversary! DVD boxset is out now
When do you think we'll see USB 3.0 ports installed on mid-range laptops in the UK? I'm wondering if I should hold off buying one until these SuperSpeed ports are embedded into laptops.Alex RentonDon't wait, unless you are prepared to wait until early in 2012. It looks as though USB 3.0 will not become ubiquitous until Intel adds support to its standard chip sets, and we don't know when that will happen. All we have to go on is a recent item from Taiwan'sDigiTimes, which said Intel planned to support USB 3.0 in a forthcoming laptop platform codenamed Chief River, with chips being released to manufacturers around September 2011.Intel's next laptop platform is codenamed Huron River, and PCs based on that are expected to appear at the Consumer Electronics Show in January. Chief River is the one after that, which means 2012.Of course, companies that are willing to buy USB 3.0 chips from alternative suppliers are already shipping PCs with USB 3.0 ports, and have been all year. Some desktop PC motherboards now offer at least two USB 3.0 ports, mainly using NEC SuperSpeed chips, though chips are starting to arrive from other manufacturers as well. Unfortunately, USB 3.0 has not appeared in many laptops, though examples include theHP Envy 15, Dell Precision M6500, Asus N61 and N82, Acer Aspire TimelineX 4820TG, and MSI's GX660R.Bear in mind that USB 3.0 uses four extra wires (twice as many as USB 2), so it requires new blue-marked sockets and new cables, though the new sockets are backwards compatible with USB 2 cables. USB 3.0 is also allowed to demand significantly more electrical power. It does require more engineering than using off-the-shelf Intel parts.At the moment, USB 3.0's main application is attaching external hard drives, and there are plenty of those from Western Digital, Seagate, Buffalo, Freecom, LaCie, Iomega and other suppliers. These typically advertise a connection speed of 5Gbps. Even if they don't actually deliver that, they should still run about ten times faster than the average USB 2 connection, and this has a dramatic effect on backup times. USB 3.0 can also enable faster links to external Blu-ray drives.If you want to have a faster connection from a laptop PC to an external hard drive, you have a couple of choices. First, you could fit a two-port adaptor into an ExpressCard slot. Examples include the Freecom 34144 USB 3.0 Express Adapter, StarTech's SuperSpeed USB 3.0 Card Adapter, Newlink's NLUSB3-PCMEX2P, the Buffalo IFC-EC2U3UC Interface, the Trust SuperSpeed TRU-HUB-16909 and the RaidSonic ICY BOX IB-AC605 USB adapter. There must be at least a dozen options at prices from about £15 to £25, which isn't unreasonable. The main drawback with ExpressCard adaptors is that the connectors stick out a long way from the edge of your laptop. Also, you will need an ExpressCard 2.0 slot for maximum throughput.Second, you could buy a laptop that includes an eSATA external hard drive port, which may be combined with a USB 2 port. An eSATA connection may well be faster than USB 3.0, as confirmed by tests byCrunchGear. However, eSATA was designed to connect to standard SATA hard drives. It doesn't connect to such a wide range of devices as USB.Manufacturers who sell laptop PCs with eSATA/USB combo ports include, I think, Acer, Asus, Dell, HP, Lenovo, MSI, Sony and Toshiba. These combo ports may also be "sleep and charge" ports: you can charge a mobile phone or MP3 player from one while your laptop is asleep.There are some conspiracy theories around to the effect that Intel has been slow to support USB 3.0 because it wants to promote its forthcomingLight Peakoptical connection system. I doubt it, because it would be stupid to imagine that Light Peak could possibly generate the widespread support that USB has accumulated over 14 years. But if Intel has a better excuse, it isn't saying.The growing volume of USB 3.0 peripherals is likely to prompt some manufacturers to fit USB 3.0 ports to more laptops, particularly the ones aimed at business users. Keep an eye on Dell and HP. Also, AMD could deliver support for USB 3.0 well before Intel. But still, the SuperSpeed port looks unlikely to reach the mass market for mid-range (under £500) laptops until Intel delivers USB 3.0 support as standard.
Another week, another major video game release. And while the news is still dominated by the moneymaking behemoth that is Call of Duty: Black Ops, an altogether more intricate and richly defined title launches today.Assassin's Creed: Brotherhoodis the latest in Ubisoft's highly successful series of visually stunning action adventures. Following the travails of a secret society of assassins through hundreds of years of European history, the games combine acrobatic exploration with twisting conspiracy narratives and gutsy combat. While the opening instalment explored the chaos of the Crusades-era Middle East, Assassin's II and its follow-up move the action to Renaissance Italy, where the killer sect must once again confront its ongoing enemy, the shadowy Knights Templar order, now harboured within the increasingly powerful Catholic church.What's interesting about the series is its successful use history as a game mechanic, and its ability to construct realistic environments around the largely fantastical story. The evocations of cities such as Jerusalem and Rome, while not always painstakingly accurate, have a sense of place and life that is almost unique in the video game sector.Unsurprisingly, the design team talk of long field trips to each location, with artists taking thousands of photos and hours of video footage. While researching Florence for Assassin's Creed II, co-writer Corey May studied Machiavelli's contemporary history of the city, and consulted an array of historians. Ina blog poston the process he wrote, "The Vasari Corridor is not in our game. Nor is the Uffizi. They hadn't been built yet. The façade of the church and clock tower in Venice's Saint Mark's square didn't look quite as they do now. San Gimignano had more towers. And on and on."The titles have also employed the vast processing power of the modern console to create bustling urban populations. One of the key gameplay features of the series is the ability of the lead character to hide within crowds of computer-controlled civilians; although just watching the various thieves, prostitutes and noblemen going about their business is often interesting enough. Real-life historical figures are also drawn into the vast conspiracy-laden plot. In Assassin's Creed we witness the military brilliance of legendary Muslim leader, Saladin, in Assassin's Creed II, we make friends with Leonardo da Vinci, and in Brotherhood the key antagonist is Cesare Borgia, the son of Pope Alexander VI, whose family the game links with the Templars.Indeed, the whole set up is so fecund with narrative and interactive possibilities, so rich in atmosphere, so sensuous, that what Assassin's Creed does most of all is make you wonder why more games don't explore historical themes. Let's face it, the mainstream games industry is pretty much a chronological wasteland. There are the RPG titles set in vague mythological realms and there are the shooting games, which sub-divide World War II and its successive conflicts into a series of set-piece battles, freed of context or compassion. "You're talking about relatively straightforward gameplay driven experiences," says Dan Pinchbeck, anexperimental game designerand lecturer in game narrative at Portsmouth University. "In a WW2 shooter, you're not into the intricacies of wartime European politics or the nuances of Nazism, you're just hacking through a town whilst soldiers shout 'Mein Leben!' around you. It's just a peg to hang the action off."It's only really the military strategy titles that have delved deeper into the past. But again, titles like Shogun: Total War and Sid Meier's Gettysburg, don't give us any sort of social economic insight into the eras – they're just interesting backdrops, employed to provide weapon and unit variety. It is history as armoury.Meanwhile, a glance at TV and literature shows how different things are elsewhere in popular culture. The costume drama is a staple of family viewing, the combination of period detail and timeless narrative themes regularly combining to massive ratings success. And the historical novel is a reliable mainstay of the fiction charts, from the popularist tomes of Ken Follett and Dan Brown to the Booker winning works of Hilary Mantel and Barry Unsworth. History is a fertile literary sandbox because it tells us that humanity has changed so much without ever really changing at all: hey presto, instant profundity! Why can't video games explore this too?The galling thing is, games are the perfect medium for historical fiction – through their unique interactivity, they don't have to tell us about life in previous ages, they can show us; and we can live it. Having just re-read Oliver Twist, I was desperate to visit the wretched labyrinthine streets where Bill Sikes and Fagin lived out their miserable lives. But they're gone; the rotting buildings and stinking alleys of Victorian Bermondsey we're ripped down in the slum clearances at the end of the century. Yet they could be brilliantly recreated in a game – as could the devilish thieves, usurers and drunkards of Dickens' novels.And Assassin's Creed has proven that historical games don't need to be literary or intellectually worthy. The games are smart and engaging, they pique your curiosity about the Templars and the nobles of the Renaissance, but they don't shove it down your throat. For the most part, Brotherhood, like its predecessors, is about leaping from rooftop to rooftop, chasing down enemy targets and putting them to the sword. You can also use your power and influence to rebuild areas of the city and encourage commerce, but you don't have to. You can just kill people.Perhaps part of the problem is budget. Producing a fully explorable and graphically rich recreation of a real city is not cheap; the Assassin's Creed II team reached over 200 people during the development cycle, and the budget will have easily exceeded $25m. Elsewhere, the other truly major historical title of 2010, Rockstar's western adventure Red Dead Redemption, was in development for six years and is estimated to have cost around $40m to produce. Even before the current generation of high-end consoles, historical games have often proved to be a challenging endeavour. The Last Express, a hugely compelling adventure set just before World War One was released in 1997 after a then almost unheard of five years in development, the title's detailed 2D animation taking up much of the time. Two year's later, Sega's densely detailed eighties-set drama, Shenmue, cost a record-breaking $60m.Sure, it's possible to explore history in games without spending a fortune on graphics. Channel 4 Education has commissioned a whole range of browser-based titles like 1066, Bow Street Runner and 303 Squadron, that manage to say a lot about history and provide compelling gameplay experiences without being astonishingly beautiful. But they are niche educational titles. In the mainstream games industry, the look is the thing. As Pinchbeck puts it, "You could have a hugely real historical text-based adventure, and it could be a brilliant, brilliant game, but you're not going to capture that sense of wonder, of Ezio squatting on his perch high above the city, watching the sun set over Renaissance Italy."Then there's the understandable concern that gamers don't actually want to delve about in the past. The traditional demographic – males aged between 14 and 30 – don't tend to be the ones watching Lark Rise and Antiques Roadshow on a Sunday night. And of course, young males in the world's biggest market for games – North America – don't have a direct geographic interest in the bulk of Western history. Conversely, when Rockstar started ploughing money into Red Dead Redemption, celebrity games analyst Michael Pachterdeclaredthat it wasn't blockbuster material because, "the U.S. West will not be particularly appealing to European audiences."But then of course he was wrong, because even out here in Europe we've grown up with the brutal, cool imagery of Leone and Eastwood. And more importantly, gamers understood that what underpinned the game was the familiar Grand Theft Auto system of open-world exploration, crude jokes and ultra-violence. Red Dead, however much Rockstar denied it, was Grand Theft Horsey. It will be interesting to see how the publisher's next epic adventure, LA Noire, fares. This dark crime thriller, set in the corruption-ridden LA of the forties, seems to be a pure detective procedural, in which narrative and intrigue dominate. But the trailers already show that the developer, Team Bondi, is employing familiar Rockstar tropes – snappy dialogue, intimidation, explosive violence…And that could well be the key. The best historical games have worked by appropriating elements of history that work alongside familiar gameplay concepts. "Historical elements can enhance a game's atmosphere on many levels, provided the period being referenced excites the audience, and that those historical elements are integral to the fabric of the gameplay," says Charles Cecil, founder of Revolution Software and designer of the historically-tinged Broken Sword titles. "If the history resonates with the audience then a heightened sense of drama can be built, and the immersion enhanced through authenticity. And, to be honest, wonderful, dramatic history is so exhilarating that it would often be harder to invent anything more exciting. But get it wrong, and the opposite effect is achieved and the use of history can feel irrelevant and clichéd."What we've seen over the last five years is titles that have succeeded by merging period detail with the seemingly universal adolescent pre-occupations of science fiction and fantasy. Hence, we've had Insomniac's Resistance: Fall of Man, which blends '50s Americana with an alien invasion story, and Bioshock, which ingeniously combines art deco architecture with steampunk technologies and cybernetic augmentation.Assassin's Creed plays this game too. In Brotherhood, da Vinci's engineering brilliance is employed by the Borgia clan to manufacture modern day weaponry – so we get the realism of the artist's genius combined with the need for rocket launchers. And then there's the big one. Framing the historical action is a sci-fi story set in the near-future, in which a character named Desmond Miles explores his genetic memories via a high-tech virtual reality machine named Animus. The history sections are actually his ancestral reminiscences, and the game is a quest to discover powerful artefacts that the assassins and Templars have been fighting over since the Middle Ages. Assassin's Creed is essentially a time-travel yarn for the quantum era.Interestingly, the sections where you control Desmond have largely been criticised by gamers. "I think the dual timelines is dreadful really," says Pinchbeck. "In the first game, it really felt like a badly conceived attempt to artificially block off areas of the map, and I think what that shows is a bit of an underestimation of gamers. For me, it comes from what Eric Zimmerman and Katie Salen call the 'immersion fallacy', that this mythic idea of full immersion is the Holy Grail for games. But gamers really don't care about seeing the edges of the system that much. Sure, we hate invisible walls, but we're also used to having system-type information suddenly appear in a virtual world without it causing us any issues. So I'd have been happier just with a wall saying 'Level not available' than this complicated, half-baked Animus stuff."But what's interesting is then it becomes the core IP of the franchise. Now, maybe this was in there from the start, but the genius of the dual timeline from a marketing point of view is that you have a consistent fiction, of Desmond and Lucy and the modern Assassins bookending the actual story, which is then a historical fiction you can pick up and put down in any time period you like – AC renaissance, AC industrial revolution... And of course it gives you license to do whatever you want in the actual historical world that doesn't technically fit, or isn't historically accurate, because you can just go 'Animus!' at any point."But the conceit works; it's a way in. When Ubisoft produced its original teasers for the first Assassin's Creed, the company showed sections of the Crusades gameplay, but with certain characters glitching on and off the screen like malfunctioning holograms – the company never explained it, but built a mystique around it, played on the disconnect between history and technology. It was successful. Despite very mixed reviews, the title shifted eight million copies. Could a straightforward historical adventure have done that?The hope is, titles like Red Dead, LA Noire and Assassin's Creed represent the standard-bearers for a new generation of games grounded in history, in reality, in humanity. "We're starting to see, in a wider sense, that generic sci-fi, contemporary conspiracy settings, supernatural bioterrorism and all that guff is fine, but we've been around those worlds so often that they lose their edge," says Pinchbeck. "Meanwhile, there are fantastic, extraordinary places and times historically that we can raid. That's the brilliance of AC, that it sets up these amazing worlds that we recognise from life outside of gaming. We almost import a sense of life and reality from our pre-existing knowledge of history to these game worlds, we supply a lot of the context ourselves, and there's a real kick from running around 15th century Italy, or 11th century Jerusalem."In a wider sense, right across media, history is subject to revisionism to an extent that it's never been before. This has a lot to do with the nasty aftertaste of postmodernism, where the idea of truth has been thrown out and relativity is all that's left. So AC kind of belongs in this trend in one way, where history becomes a kind of cultural IP bank account, that's there to be raided and adapted. But there's also a second, longer trend of fictionalising history - let's face it, Cecil B DeMille played fairly fast-and-loose with it, and cinema like that is probably the real ancestry of Assassin's Creed."It will be interesting to see where the series goes next. May has said that a guiding design principle has been to explore historical periods that don't usually feature in games. Between the Renaissance and the modern era, there are rich, wholly unexplored pickings. Bermondsey, quite possibly, awaits.
I've lost count of the times people – including a surprising number of colleagues in media companies – roll their eyes at the mention of Twitter. "No time for it," they say. "Inane stuff about what twits are having for breakfast. Nothing to do with the news business."Well, yes and no. Inanity – yes, sure, plenty of it. But saying that Twitter has got nothing to do with the news business is about as misguided as you could be.Here, off the top of my head, are 15 things, which Twitter does rather effectively and which should be of the deepest interest to anyone involved in the media at any level.1) It's an amazing form of distributionIt's a highly effective way of spreading ideas, information and content. Don't be distracted by the 140-character limit. A lot of the best tweets are links. It's instantaneous. Its reach can be immensely far and wide.Why does this matter? Because we do distribution too. We're now competing with a medium that can do many things incomparably faster than we can. It's back to the battle between scribes and movable type. That matters in journalistic terms. And, if you're trying to charge for content, it matters in business terms. The life expectancy of much exclusive information can now be measured in minutes, if not in seconds. That has profound implications for our economic model, never mind the journalism.2) It's where things happen firstNot all things. News organisations still break lots of news. But, increasingly, news happens first on Twitter. If you're a regular Twitter user, even if you're in the news business and have access to wires, the chances are that you'll check out many rumours of breaking news on Twitter first. There are millions of human monitors out there who will pick up on the smallest things and who have the same instincts as the agencies — to be the first with the news. As more people join, the better it will get.3) As a search engine, it rivals GoogleMany people still don't quite understand that Twitter is, in some respects, better than Google in finding stuff out. Google is limited to using algorithms to ferret out information in the unlikeliest hidden corners of the web. Twitter goes one stage further – harnessing the mass capabilities of human intelligence to the power of millions in order to find information that is new, valuable, relevant or entertaining.4) It's a formidable aggregation toolYou set Twitter to search out information on any subject you want and it will often bring you the best information there is. It becomes your personalised news feed. If you are following the most interesting people they will in all likelihood bring you the most interesting information. In other words, it's not simply you searching. You can sit back and let other people you admire or respect go out searching and gathering for you. Again, no news organisation could possibly aim to match, or beat, the combined power of all those worker bees collecting information and disseminating it.5) It's a great reporting toolMany of the best reporters are now habitually using Twitter as an aid to find information. This can be simple requests for knowledge which other people already know, have to hand, or can easily find. The so-called wisdom of crowds comes into play: the 'they know more than we do' theory. Or you're simply in a hurry and know that someone out there will know the answer quickly. Or it can be reporters using Twitter to find witnesses to specific events – people who were in the right place at the right time, but would otherwise be hard to find.6) It's a fantastic form of marketingYou've written your piece or blog. You may well have involved others in the researching of it. Now you can let them all know it's there, so that they come to your site. You alert your community of followers. In marketing speak, it drives traffic and it drives engagement. If they like what they read they'll tell others about it. If they really like it, it will, as they say, 'go viral'. I only have 18,500 followers. But if I get re-tweeted by one of our columnists, Charlie Brooker, I instantly reach a further 200,000. If Guardian Technology pick it up it goes to an audience of 1.6m. If Stephen Fry notices it, it's global.7) It's a series of common conversations. Or it can beAs well as reading what you've written and spreading the word, people can respond. They can agree or disagree or denounce it. They can blog elsewhere and link to it. There's nothing worse than writing or broadcasting something to no reaction at all. With Twitter you get an instant reaction. It's not transmission, it's communication. It's the ability to share and discuss with scores, or hundreds, or thousands of people in real time. Twitter can be fragmented. It can be the opposite of fragmentation. It's a parallel universe of common conversations.8) It's more diverseTraditional media allowed a few voices in. Twitter allows anyone.9) It changes the tone of writingA good conversation involves listening as well as talking. You will want to listen as well as talk. You will want to engage and be entertaining. There is, obviously, more brevity on Twitter. There's more humour. More mixing of comment with fact. It's more personal. The elevated platform on which journalists sometimes liked to think they were sitting is kicked away on Twitter. Journalists are fast learners. They start writing differently.Talking of which…10) It's a level playing fieldA recognised "name" may initially attract followers in reasonable numbers. But if they have nothing interesting to say they will talk into an empty room. The energy in Twitter gathers around people who can say things crisply and entertainingly, even though they may be "unknown." They may speak to a small audience, but if they say interesting things they may well be republished numerous times and the exponential pace of those re-transmissions can, in time, dwarf the audience of the so-called big names. Shock news: sometimes the people formerly known as readers can write snappier headlines and copy than we can.11) It has different news valuesPeople on Twitter quite often have an entirely different sense of what is and what isn't news. What seems obvious to journalists in terms of the choices we make is quite often markedly different from how others see it – both in terms of the things we choose to cover and the things we ignore. The power of tens of thousands of people articulating those different choices can wash back into newsrooms and affect what editors choose to cover. We can ignore that, of course. But should we?12) It has a long attention spanThe opposite is usually argued – that Twitter is simply a, instant, highly condensed stream of consciousness. The perfect medium for goldfish. But set your Tweetdeck to follow a particular keyword or issue or subject and you may well find that the attention span of Twitterers puts newspapers to shame. They will be ferreting out and aggregating information on the issues that concern them long after the caravan of professional journalists has moved on.13) It creates communitiesOr, rather communities form themselves around particular issues, people, events, artifacts, cultures, ideas, subjects or geographies. They may be temporary communities, or long-terms ones, strong ones or weak ones. But I think they are recognisably communities.14) It changes notions of authorityInstead of waiting to receive the 'expert' opinions of others – mostly us, journalists — Twitter shifts the balance to so-called 'peer to peer' authority. It's not that Twitterers ignore what we say – on the contrary (see distribution and marketing, above) they are becoming our most effective transmitters and responders. But, equally, we kid ourselves if we think there isn't another force in play here – that a 21-year-old student is quite likely to be more drawn to the opinions and preferences of people who look and talk like her. Or a 31-year-old mother of young toddlers. Or a 41-year-old bloke passionate about politics and the rock music of his youth.15) It is an agent of changeAs this ability of people to combine around issues and to articulate them grows, so it will have increasing effect on people in authority. Companies are already learning to respect, even fear, the power of collaborative media. Increasingly, social media will challenge conventional politics and, for instance, the laws relating to expression and speech.Now you could write a further list of things that are irritating about the way people use Twitter. It's not good at complexity – though it can link to complexity. It can be frustratingly reductive. It doesn't do what investigative reporters or war correspondents do. It doesn't, of itself, verify facts. It can be distracting, indiscriminate and overwhelming.Moreover, I'm simply using Twitter as one example of the power of open, or social media. Twitter may go the way of other, now forgotten, flashes in the digital pan. The downside of Twitter also means that the full weight of the world's attention can fall on a single unstable piece of information. But we can be sure that the motivating idea behind these forms of open media isn't going away and that, if we are blind to their capabilities, we will be making a very serious mistake, both in terms of our journalism and the economics of our business.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Computer packet pattern. Photo byPatrick Hoeslyon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 14 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamiPhone vs. Android vs. BlackBerry &gt;&gt; C-Section Comics"This is how smartphone users see each other".Google TV's Chaotic Interface &gt;&gt; David Pogue - NYTimes.comYou may guess how this goes from the title, but anyway: "This much is clear: Google TV may be interesting to technophiles, but it's not for average people. On the great timeline of television history, Google TV takes an enormous step in the wrong direction: toward complexity."For starters, it requires a mouse and keyboard. That's right. For your TV. Hope you weren't going for that rustic look in your TV room."Nokia's biggest problem is not Apple and the iPhone &gt;&gt; Strand Consulting"It will be interesting to see whether Nokia's new CEO Stephen Elop will be better at communicating than Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo - whose degree in law most certainly did not contribute to his communication skills."There is no doubt that Stephen Elop's background from Macromedia has given him a great deal of experience in communicating with the American press, although the American press does seem to constantly paint a very one-sided picture of the mobile market. Many American journalists hardly realise that there is a mobile market outside the USA, regardless of the fact that the American mobile market is only 7% of a global mobile market that is still totally dominated by Nokia in all areas."Some Android devices not officially supported for now &gt;&gt; Rovio [Angry Birds] blogLists 18 handsets, including soem popular ones (HTC Wildfire, HTC Hero) that aren't "officially supported" by Angry Birds. Also anything running Android 1.6 or below. Next game: Angry Angry Birds Users.EMusic signs Universal, aims for the mainstream &gt;&gt; Los Angeles Times"..with new songs costing 69 cents to 89 cents, and those more than a year old selling for 49 cents...that's still a discount from other MP3 stores, but the change makes EMusic look like a down-market alternative to iTunes -- a place to look for discounts on older tracks. In other words, the price EMusic paid for expanding its catalog is a reduction in the value that it provides to subscribers. "EMusic, if you didn't know, dates to 1998 - older than Napster.A dark trend runs through this year's Web 2.0 tech summit &gt;&gt; San Jose Mercury News"The fear that ran through the seventh annual Web 2.0 Summit is that the days when the Internet was a playground for startups with unlimited potential are disappearing. Instead, we are moving into an era dominated by a handful of new Internet titans more interested in fighting each other for power and influence than in delighting users with new innovations."You just know that in four years' time this will look ridiculous. Facebook and Twitter were barely on the radar in 2006. Now? And so on.Air Force Warns Troops: Don't 'Check In' to Wars &gt;&gt; Foxnews.comFourSquare and Gowalla will be disappointed.Departmental Computer Software: 17 Nov 2010: Written answers and statements &gt;&gt; TheyWorkForYou.comGovernment used Excel for a program. Why, if open source spreadsheets are available? "The only software that implements the file format sufficiently for the model to run is Microsoft Excel for PCs 2007 and 2010, and Microsoft Excel for Macs 2011. The reason is that the model includes "structured references" and these have not been implemented by open source Excel alternatives. Structured references were implemented in the "Excel to Ruby programming language" convertor which was released by the Department under an open source licence as part of the source code for the web version of the 2050 Calculator."Score draw on the open source front, then.Dell's devices head resigns &gt;&gt; AsymcoHorace Dedlu digs up an old quote from when Ron Garriques (the "devices head" who's just left Dell) had just left Motorola: "That particular slam was directed at a young guy named Ron Garriques, who headed that division, which is most of Motorola's business today, before high-tailing it out of Motorola just before the you-know-what hit the fan. Garriques today is part of the crack team turning around Dell."Well, he's not part of the crack team, and Dell announced its quarterly numbers on Thursday night, with analysts hardly sticking champagne in the fridge at the prospect.The staggering size of iOS's game collection &gt;&gt; The Unofficial Apple WeblogDon't look at the first graph (well, do, but gloss over it) but continue to the bottom, where the statistics suggest there are about as many Flash games as iOS (iPhone/iPad/iPod Touch) games. That's in just two years, of course.The Web Is Reborn  &gt;&gt; Technology ReviewBobbie Johnson looks at where HTML5 came from, what it can do, and where it might go. The graphs are very informative too.HTML5, SVG, WebG and, Javascript &gt;&gt; Chrome Experiments"Chrome Experiments is a showcase for creative web experiments, the vast majority of which are built with the latest open technologies, including HTML5, Canvas, SVG, and WebGL. All of them were made and submitted by talented artists and programmers from around the world."Ed Vaizey to meet with network operators to discuss fibre tax &gt;&gt; Think BroadbandIntriguing: having gone back on the Conservative manifesto pledge to review the tax on fibre, it seems like Ed Vaizey is heading back that way. He's the communications minister, but anything involving money is a Treasury topic..You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
