Consumers have been waiting more than two years to experience third generation mobile phone services and the wait is almost over. The question is: has it been worth it? The UK's newest mobile phone company, 3, formerly Hutchison 3G, goes live "within weeks" and is the only operator to base its business on 3G services.But so far, 3 has only let one handset, the NEC e606, out the door. It is sturdier than the Sharp GX10 picture phone on which Vodafone has based its Vodafone Live service, but it still has the air of a prototype. It has two "hot keys" which interact with the onscreen menus. There is also a menu button - marked by a rather odd squiggle that apparently forms part of the 3 branding.  This Hutch key connects directly with 3's menu, where users can access news, games, share prices and, most importantly, download video clips.Video is key to 3's success. It has signed deals with a number of content providers, including the Premiership, and with 32MB of memory, the NEC e606 can store about an hour of video.  But anyone looking for top-quality football clips as shown on 3's TV ads will be disappointed.It is hard to tell at times which footballer has scored, let alone where the ball went. The poor picture is not a handset or screen issue because the full colour display looks great when playing    games or using 3's fantastic A to Z location-based service. Poor quality is all the more surprising because video footage is not streamed but downloaded to the phone. The NEC e606 also comes with a built-in camera and can send and receive picture messages. Uniquely, however, 3 users can use the camera to videoconference with other customers on the network, using a hands-free kit.At &#163;399, the NEC e606 is out of the reach of all but the most hardened gadget-freaks. The indicative pricing packages of &#163;59.99 and &#163;99.99 per month for bundles of calls, messages and downloads make it a service only for the very heavy user. A more mass-market proposition is due any day but, for the moment, the NEC e606 is not a reason to sign up.
Aging designThere is a huge market waiting for a larger and less sophisticated mobile phone: the aging population for whom a mobile may not only be a means of easy contact with family but a life-saving piece of equipment. Unfortunately, not only is eyesight often failing for those over 70, but problems with keypad manipulation also get worse. The complexity of menus and options is also a barrier. A manufacturer should develop a slightly larger mobile that has only three options, apart from the basic on/off switch: to receive calls, to transmit calls (with a 999 facility) and to allow the retrieval of unanswered calls.Eric Luceyecal@holyrood.ed.ac.ukDream teamBeta v VHSis a sterile argument! Neither were a patch on Phillips/Grundig V2000 system. It had picture quality neither  could dream about due to the sound being recorded in a separate linear stripe.  It had record protection that could be switched in and out as required, and up to eight hours' recording time at standard speed (16 hours on LP), using both sides of the tape just like a sound cassette. Unfortunately, it was almost impossible to buy blank cassettes and even harder to find a video library that stocked rental tape. The only one I know was in Cambridge, where, not surprisingly, Phillips has a factory.Stephen Eeley Tamourtamour2@ntlworld.comBeta lieBeta is/was better than VHS. There's no doubt that Beta is dead. Sony learnt a valuable marketing lesson and that's one reason why the PlayStation is kicking goals today. You shouldn't title your article: "Why VHS was better than Betamax", but simply: "Why VHS won." The first is simply an untruth.Rob Gennairgennai@ozemail.com.auRental roleDP Morgan was right to give the rental multiples full credit for quickly establishing VHS as the dominant system over Betamax. Thorn-EMI was indeed the major rental player at that time. Its brands included Radio Rentals, DER, Multi  broadcast and Focus, plus the Rumbelows retail/rental chain - but not Visionhire. Visionhire, with Philips a major shareholder, understandably opted for its system, and magnified the error by supporting Betamax, too, rather than VHS. It never really recovered and was eventually taken over by Granada, who were part of the VHS camp.Tom Colecole.tom@virgin.netDual bootsGlyn Moody's article on Linux (Online, January 30) didn't mention how easy it is to set up a dual boot system. Distributions such as SuSE and Mandrake make it very easy to install Linux on the same PC as Windows and set up a dual boot system, enabling you to continue to use any Windows programs for which Linux equivalents are not available.Michael Lowemichael.lowe@dsl.pipex.comLinux rideClint Witchalls (Stop snoopers' free ride, January 23) says that there's no such thing as a free utility, and advises us that we either have to learn to live with adware or put our hands in our pockets. I do neither. I use GNU/ Linux, which provides a wealth of excellent software developed by people who neither want to spy on me nor    take my money. Join the Linux revolution.David Harperadh@sanger.ac.ukIn full songI was amazed at the jump in causality inferred by the article Eat, sing and be merry (Science, January 30). The mathematical model may indicate a full energy reserve but that does not imply the reason birds sing at dawn. One would have equally implied it is because it is the least windy time of day and their song will be heard clearer and further.Steve DowningMathematical Sciences, University of Liverpool.steved@liverpool.ac.ukMeans of livingLike so many commentators on the clash between media owners and file sharers, Steve Bowbrick (in hisweb columnmakes the mistake of presenting the issue as a battle of big corporations and free-thinking web-lovers. Film, music and books are also the property of their authors. I am a record producer and composer. The music I make for the labels does make money for them, but it also makes money for me: it represents my entire means of living. If people take my music and then give it away online, I view it as the equivalent of hacking into my    bank account and taking money.Paul Schwartzzakatak2@optonline.netSafety PINArriving at the front of the checkout queue, I type my PIN into a device handed to me by the till operator (Safety in numbers, January 30). The person standing behind me notes the numbers I press, and shortly afterwards I am mugged for my wallet. But my credit card is safe because the mugger does not know my PIN.  Oh yes he does.Vic Smithvee-en@argonet.co.uk
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:On Tuesday, MPs rejected all seven options put before them for the reform of the House of Lords, including Tony Blair's favoured scheme for an appointed upper chamber. Should peers be elected, appointed or a combination of the two? What do you think?capitalistpiglet:it's censorship to deny the existence of the interviewHost_Chris2:I'm not denying its existence. I watched it.LadeezMan:their not even real lesbainscapitalistpiglet:then why won't you discuss it?Bronco:thats coolHost_Chris2:because it isn't the topicLadeezMan:they dont want to do it with you eithercapitalistpiglet:we're about to go to war &amp; you don't think an interview with saddam is important enough to be the topic!Bronco:wots the video likeLadeezMan:downloading it nowHost_Chris2:I don't pick the topics. Lords reform is also important*Pashmina has entered the NewsRoom*LadeezMan:it wont take long cos I got broadbandPashmina:roomBronco:shut up abt broadband. hi pashcapitalistpiglet:more important than an unjust war?Pashmina:wot we talkin abtHost_Chris2:I didn't say thatBronco:Tatocapitalistpiglet:we're talking about the interview millions watched, but Chris2 refuses to acknowledgePashmina:yeah I saw thatcapitalistpiglet:what do you think Pash?LadeezMan:tATu u idoitPashmina:it was intrestingHost_Chris2:the topic is Lord's reform. Bronco, should the upper house be a rival chamber, or a revising chamber?Bronco:wotcapitalistpiglet:did u believe his denialsPashmina:no! hes had much more than 2 nosejobsLadeezMan:58% complete....capitalistpiglet:abt his links to al qaida?Pashmina:MICHAL JACKSON IS IN AL QADIA???!!!Bronco:makes senseHost_Chris2:Pashmina I think you may have conflated two different public figuresPashmina:no only jamie theakstonLadeezMan:I didnt about that!Bronco:whenPashmina:youll just have to wait for my autobiocracyLadeezMan:slam! tATu video download 100% complete!Bronco:email it mePashmina:dont! you'll get arrested as peadofiles!&gt;connection to server has been terminated...
Computerworldreported claims by terrorist "Abu Mujahid" that he was responsible for the Slammer worm. Now it turns out that theHarkat-ul-Mujahideensite is operated by "Brian McWilliams, a former reporter for Newsbytes.com, which is now owned by The Washington Post Co." McWilliams told the Computerworld reporter: "I was hoping I might get a story out of some of the stuff that came in to the site. Most of the messages have been from people in the Middle East who wanted to join jihad. I've forwarded some to the FBI." The site has now been replaced with a note that concludes: "We apologize for any confusion."
The SQLSlammerworm, also known as Sapphire, was the fastest thing on the net. According to a fascinating reporthere, it infected more than 90% of vulnerable hosts within 10 minutes. "One implication of this advance [in speed] is that smaller susceptible populations are now vulnerable to attack. Formerly, small populations (&lt;20,000 machines or less on the Internet) were not viewed as particularly vulnerable to worms, as the probability of finding a susceptible machine in any given scan is quite low. However, a worm which can infect a population of 75,000 hosts in 10 minutes can similarly infect a population of 20,000 hosts in under an hour. Thus, exploits for less popular software present a viable breeding ground for new worms."
Dell Computer plans to include 16MB Flash memory "USB drives" with high-end systems instead of floppy disk drives, which will become optional throughout the range, reportsAP. As always, Dell is testing the options to find out what users what. The feeling is that floppies are on the way out. (Apple stopped including floppy drives in Macs five years ago, without giving users a choice.)
Amnesty International UKis asking Internet users to raise concerns about the treatment of Wang Jinbo, "aged 30, a prisoner of conscience [who] was imprisoned after sending information overseas via the Internet". His is one of several cases describedhere. Appeals should be sent to Acting Governor of the Shandong Provincial People's Government at contest@sdonline.cn.net and the Minister of Justice, Zhang Fusen, at minister@legalinfo.gov.cn, with copies to His Excellency Mr Zha Peixin, press@chinese-embassy.org.uk.
The SimsPlayStation 2	&#163;39.99 Maxis/EA 	****The Sims is the biggest selling PC game ever and PS2 is the best-selling games console; the marriage of the two was inevitable. But is it a successful partnership?In most respects, yes, as The Sims PS2 addresses the two main areas of potential concern - controls and objectives. The former works well, with the mouse and keyboard input replaced by a light beam pointer. But the real innovation is the structure. In the PC Sims, there is no real way to "win". Get filthy rich and you still have to clean up.The PS2 version, however, adds some achievable objectives. Starting off jobless and living at home with mum, players have to learn how to cook, wash and generally look   after themselves. Although this may sound like a student survival guide gone digital, it is actually great fun. Within half an hour you'll be fretting over your character, thrilled and frustrated as they social climb to the ultimate aim - wealth and glory. Along the way, parties are thrown, friends are made and DIY is botched.Some gamers may prefer blasting aliens and rescuing busty heroines. Play The Sims and you'll realise that the true hero is one who can juggle a career and bladder requirements, while chatting up a neighbour and rearranging the flowerbed. But, while the level-based objectives are necessary, The Sims is still best played without time constraints.Thankfully this mode is included, as is an intriguing two-player option. After all, The Sims is not to be rushed, and it's easy to waste hours waiting for your silicon buddy to learn a new skill or make a new friend. (GH)Sim City 4PC £29.99 Maxis/EA ****The Sims franchise came from Maxis founder Will Wright's readings about      architecture, while the inspiration for the original Sim City was inspired by writings on the nature of urban      growth. Fourteen years later, and Wright's bedtime reading has flourished into a fourth Sim City title, which      finally takes the famous city building sim into 3D.It was a move fans had been waiting years for. The new      environment means you can zoom in much closer and see your population driving to and from work, children in      playgrounds and life generally unfolding. These detailed visuals are also an important indicator of your city's      health.If there's too much pollution, smog will form and traffic will build up, if your fire fighters feel underpaid,      they'll take to the streets in protest. There are many added features, including a sophisticated terrain editor,      regional play that allows you to interconnect your cities, and the ability to move characters from The Sims into      your city and receive feedback on your mayoral performance.Unfortunately, the grid orientated layout creates      too much of an American feel. Hopefully, expansion packs will create a more Euro friendly game. Overall, there      are enough new features, details and depth to hook the next generation of cityscapers. (RP)Command &amp; Conquer GeneralsPC £29.99 Electronic Arts ****This latest instalment of the much-loved      real-time strategy (RTS) franchise will stir up a hornet's nest due to its timeliness. C&amp;C Generals eschews a      futuristic setting in favour of an uncomfortably familiar premise in which the US takes on an army of fanatics      called the GLA, with a penchant for digging into caves and fleets of explosive-packed lorries.EA has also thrown      China into the mix, although, in this instance, it is on the same side as the US. C&amp;C Generals marks an overdue      return to form, after the half-baked foray into first-person shoot-'em-up territory that was C&amp;C Renegades.The three sides offer very different playing experiences. The US forces have the most modern military      technology, and emphasise upgrading equipment and air strikes. The Chinese are low-tech, but have access to      hordes of infantry and will dispatch nukes with the slightest excuse. And the GLA are mobile, stealthy and adept      at using whatever kit they capture.The missions are gloriously in keeping with each side's nature: the GLA might      have to steal UN supplies earmarked for peasants, while the US generally works its way slowly through hostile      areas, coping with guerrilla attacks and ambushes. A better-than-ever interface and an increase in abilities and      tactical nous mean that RTS fanatics will adore C&amp;C Generals. But the anti-war lobby may not find it amusing. (SB)
What fired your interest in technology?I was interested in technology, and in being an inventor, from age five. I discovered computers in 1960 at 12 and built some simple ones. I became progressively more fascinated with the ability of computers to create virtual models of realities, including human thinking. I had a mentorship withMarvin Minskyat MIT in 1965 and wrote a program that could emulate musicians by developing a pattern recognition model of melodies. That's when I became interested in pattern recognition - essentially teaching machines to recognise patterns. That is the basis of human intelligence.Is AI experiencing a renaissance?We're in an era of what I'd call "narrow AI", where systems are performing intelligent functions that used to require human intelligence. Intelligent systems can fly and land airplanes or make financial investment decisions. These were research projects 10 years ago and are now in widespread practical application and have become integrated into our information infrastructure. Every time an application works, it's no longer called AI _ it becomes a separate field. It's speech recognition, character recognition, robotics, machine vision, etc.How far away is the glitch-free speech recognition software we see in movies?Alan Turing's insight to base theTuring teston human language was correct in that human language encompasses all our intelligence. We won't really achieve human levels of language understanding until we achieve human levels of understanding, which is the holy grail of what's calledstrong AI". Machines have enough speech recognition over the phone to create personalities that can conduct routine transactions. For example, you can callBritish Airwaysand have a conversation, so long as it has to do with making reservations for a BA flight.The internet?The world wide web is probably the most profound computer-based technology of the past decade. In the 1980s, theArpanetwas small but growing exponentially. There were a few tens ofthousands of nodesbut it was clear it would be tens of millions by the mid-1990s. Today, it's a pervasive worldwide phenomenon and it ties together everyone and every organisation in the world.Will viruses become more of a problem?Viruses and other forms of software pathogens are a new form of human-made, self-replicating pathogens. They're getting more sophisticated but our defences are getting equally sophisticated. So far it's remained at a nuisance level. It's a good example of "promise versus peril".Visit:www.kurzweilai.netandwww.kurzweiltech.com
Lars breaks off from work to discover his mobile phone has received a text message. Judging by his reaction, it is not a friendly greeting. One of his opponents in a game called Botfighter has located him, is just a couple of kilometres away and is poised to send a missile via SMS.Lars desperately fiddles with his handset to try to return fire - but the damage is done. Once again, the SMS missile has damaged his imaginary robot. Time to take a trip to the Botfighter website to upgrade his armoury. It might seem unlikely, but the game Botfighter is one of the most popular uses of location-based services for mobile phones.Launched in Sweden by the Telia network, it has become a cult among young    professionals, some of whom have driven across towns in the middle of the night to be close enough to fire a lethal SMS at their opponent. It's a tad crude, and its skill factor is on the low side, yet Botfighter is a classic example of how European networks are taking the ability to pinpoint where a mobile phone user is, and using the information to develop an array of location-based services. European legislation to be enacted in July means all networks have to be able to locate a person's mobile phone handset, by working out which cell it is nearest to, so they can pass this information on to emergency services.In theory, this should open the UK to services such as Botfighter, yet the jury is still out on location-based offerings. Almost all UK phone    networks offer some kind of service, usually a find-a-cinema type service with the address delivered via SMS or Wap. There appears little evidence that handset owners are using these services."That should change this year," predicts Jeremy Green, principal analyst, wireless, at Ovum, "for many of the barriers to people accessing services have gone now we have larger colour screen and faster data rates. The networks now need to offer some imaginative services."Courtesy of a deal signed    last year with platform provider Webraska, Orange will re-invent its location-based services in Europe this summer to harness the faster GPRS and 3G phones. "We intend to take advantage of the big colour screens of phones like the Orange SPV to enable the user to view interactive map displays," says an Orange spokesman. Finder Applications (nearest pubs, cinema, etc) and Navigation applications (offering driving and walking directions) are core features. Hutchison's 3G network 3    has also been demonstrating its location-based services.It offers a digital map, provided by the Ordnance Survey, or in towns via Tele Atlas, streamed to show directions to hotels and restaurants in real time as the person moves. Unlike other systems that work by locating the nearest cell or the owner inputting an address, 3's systems can use GPS (global positioning system) which is integrated into some of its handsets. This should deliver a faster and more accurate service. Other networks have also launched imaginative location-based services.France Telecom recently ran a successful virtual pet game. As a person neared a cell where the pet "lived", they could send an SMS to feed it or stroke it. Telia, in collaboration with Openwave Systems, offers a service called FriendFinder. Launched in November 2001, it enables friends to keep tabs on each other via the handset. Users send an SMS and are    told a rough location of where their friends are via a return text message.There are safeguards. Users can dictate which of their friends sees their position and can also choose to be invisible or simply switch the phone off. Telia has even built a TV programme around the FriendFinder service.  Orange also has plans for chat and dating services. Location-sensitive games, which operate in a similar way to Botfighter, are also on the agenda. While both Orange's and 3's services take location-based services to a new dimension, there remains a question mark over whether anyone will use them.Many people still find using Wap phones difficult. The networks have yet to offer competitive pricing structures for the services. Worst of all, roaming agreements are not in place. So when people will most want to use the "find a restaurant/cinema" type services -when they are in a foreign city - there's a good chance they won't work.
Banana drama"Time flies like an arrow, fruit flies like a banana," is the Groucho Marx opening quote of the Washington Banana Museum, a website dedicated to a collection of over 4,000 banana-inspired oddments. But this cheery yellow potassium-packed fruit could be a thing of the past within the next decade, claim scientists, because of a lack of resistance to diseases. If you are worried about your daily banana, then The Banana Link contains all the latest news on the fruit's battle for survival. Or if you want to follow the banana's demise, then it might be worth investing in banana label collecting. Visit Bananas on the Web for inspiration.www.bananamuseum.comwww.bananalink.org.ukgalileo.spaceports.com~banana99Comeback kidMel C, aka Melanie Chisholm, aka Sporty Spice, has been doing her best over the past few years to shake her "one at the back with the talent" image and forge a solo career as the one at the front with the talent, the cash and a multi-platinum debut album. After a 124-gig, two-year tour, Mel C has embarked on part two of her reinvention with her upcoming album Reason. Northern Star is the artist's official site and contains details on releases and tours, plus interviews, message boards and competitions. Melanie C News is more of a fan appreciation site packed with facts about the 28-year-old lass from Merseyside. But, if you're still nostalgic for the days when Spice ruled the world, then look no further than Spice Girls Forever.www.northern-star.co.ukwww.melanie-c-news.comwww.spicegirlsforever.co.ukRoses are redBarely do you have time to pick the pine needles out of the carpet and consume the last of the turkey curry, before the shops are full of hearts, flowers and daft fluffy toys. However, the history of the original Saint Valentine is less than rosy. Valentine was a third century bishop who was stoned to death by Emperor Claudius for conducting illegal marriage ceremonies. But for those who prefer the more modern version, then Discount London has some great treats for your loved   one, while Thorntons and Interflora are old favourites.allsands.com/Historywww.discountlondon.co.uk/valentineswww.interflora.co.ukwww.thorntons.co.ukStop the warWar, what is it good for? Absolutely nothing, say the increasing number of anti-war sites cropping up on the web. Most vocal of those is the Stop the War Coalition, one of the groups behind the demonstration in central London on February 15. On the eve of the demonstration, the group is also organising a Make Love Not War rally with participation from political figures, poets, trade unionists and anti-globalisation activists. Oxfam is also organising its own petition, urging people to email Tony Blair to protest against the human cost of a war with Iraq. Meanwhile, Antiwar.com is one of the best places for keeping up with the latest news and has commentary from war critics.www.stopwar.org.ukwww.oxfam.org.uk/campaign/cutwww.antiwar.comFossil findsThe discoveries of two sets of rare prehistoric remains have been setting the palaeontology world ablaze. The first was the skull of a 7 million-year-old, 15-foot elephant discovered in Crete, which is thought to have inspired the Greek Cyclops myth. The second is an early human-like creature from South Africa that suggests we were, in fact, less like chimps in our evolution than is currently widely believed.www.asu.edu/clas/ihowww.fossilnews.comNew &amp; noted&#183;Get in touch with your inner virtual artist:www.imaginationatwork.com&#183;Website for the rock band Sum 41:www.islandrecords.com/sum41&#183;Miramax highlights:www.miramaxhighlights.com&#183;The team Bentley website:www.teambentley.comSix of the bestGames sitesBlues Newswww.bluesnews.comComputer and video gameswww.computerandvideogames.comGamespotwww.gamespot.comIGNwww.ign.comGame FAQswww.gamefaqs.comFile Planetwww.fileplanet.com
Are computers better at playing chess than us? It's a question on a lot of people's minds as Garry Kasparov continues to battle it out with the computer Deep Junior, which is capable of calculating three million moves per second.If you've been inspired by the chess grandmaster's performance, you might fancy pitting your wits against one of the smaller computer opponents you can find on the web. The mecca of online chess is probablyChess Corner. There are quick links to a select range of chess software programs you can download, including ones for Mac users.The site is designed to help beginners and more advanced players. So, depending on what level you are at, you can learn simple checkmate patterns online, master the arts of Sicilian defence or brush up on a Reti opening.  AtShockwave's site, you can play against a computer without installing software.But it can take a while to get used to this way of playing.  Using your mouse, you start by moving a 3D chess piece across the virtual board.    Then the anonymous computer responds and starts moving its pieces towards you. The computer flashes messages, letting you know when it is your turn and, more ominously, when it is watching you.When I thought I was getting into my stride, the computer suddenly took charge. Its queen started to wreak havoc. I lost a rook and then, more fatally, a bishop. It was virtual carnage and the game was over in minutes.If, like me, you prefer the idea of playing people at chess, you can do this via email at many sites, including the likes ofChess World. The chief advantage is that you have ample time to reflect on your moves. At Shockwave, for example, you move a pawn across a small virtual chessboard and then email it to a friend, attaching a message if you like. He sends his move back to you, and so on.One of the more serious sites for playing chess in real time is theInternet Chess Club. When I first visited the club, there were 1,828 players online, including 11 grandmasters and 33 international masters. You download free Blitzin software, which gives    you a board and pieces, and you can then chat online with other players and challenge them to games.  Sites such asYahooand theVOGoffer different rooms linked to your abilities, and give you a variety of time limits.At theInternet Gaming Zone, click on individual characters and you can watch games or join in. While playing people in real time, you can look up reference advice or access past games for tips.If you want professional coaching, there are plenty of software tutor packages. And, unlike real-life chess tutors, these programs don't complain if you ask a daft question and you can always use them.Chess Mentoris a package with a good reputation. It offers a series of testing chess challenges, so you can refine your skills before taking up the next virtual duel.Another way to improve your game is to carefully note the winning moves of famous masters, which can be looked up on sites such as Chess Corner andChess Geeks. Or you can watch live webcasts of    games - pawn by pawn coverage - provided by the likes of theBritish Chess Federation.Chess is believed to have originated in India in the 4th or 5th century and is played in different ways around the world. If you want to learn more about the evolution of this famous game, sites such asChess Variantsexplain how the Chinese and Japanese, for example, prefer to work the board.Whatever country you're in, it is difficult to avoid the recent hype surrounding the Kasparov "man versus machine" contest. He is being paid a reported &#163;300,000 to play six matches against Deep Junior in New York, and will add nearly &#163;200,000 if he wins the series. But playing chess computers, as Kasparov knows, is tough. If you are feeling downcast after being continually outplayed by a sharp chess program, you might want to log on toCasemir Chocolates, where they are selling chocolate chess sets. You can buy 32 sculpted chess pieces, filled with cream praline, and 64 squares of plain chocolate which make up the board. It is probably the best way to raise your spirits after a heavy defeat at the hands of a ruthless online chess program.&#183;You can watch Kasparov v Deep Junior live on the web atwww.X3dworld.com. The series ends tomorrow.
Another week, another shocking reminder of the tendency of big and complex artefacts to fail. Not the space
    shuttle Columbia. Even after two disasters, the shuttle's record of returning crews safely to earth is better
    than 98%. The failure I'm talking about was more predictable and much less heroic.In the latest in a decade-long
    series of reports on big government IT projects, the National Audit Office (NAO) reported that the Libra scheme
    to develop a single system for England's magistrates' courts had run years late and way over budget. Just as
    predictable were the causes. The lord chancellor's department tried to impose a standard system on different
    bodies without ensuring they were singing from the same hymn sheet.When two out of three potential
    contractors withdrew from the procurement process, project managers pressed on. And when things started to
    go wrong, there was no way out, apart from throwing more money at the contractor. And so on. Weren't we
    supposed to have moved on from all this?It is three years since the McCartney report established a consensus
    about why big projects so often go wrong. It is two years since the government's main weapon against disasters,
    the gateway review procedure run by the Office of Government Commerce, became mandatory.Gateways are
    short, independent scrutinies at crucial stages in a project's life, especially before much money is spent. If a
    project fails the test, it doesn't go forward. Libra was the first case to have gone through gateway reviews. The
    snag was that these took place in June 2001 and February last year, too late to do any good. Peter Gershon, the
    former chief executive of BAE Systems who runs the Office of Government Commerce, says that as projects
    that have been tested by gateway reviews come on stream, the government's record on IT projects will improve.Gershon has also drawn on the evidence created by gateway reviews to propose new rules. They were announced
    by Douglas Alexander, the cabinet office minister in charge of IT, in a low-key statement last month. At a time
    when the prime minister is staking his reputation on big IT projects, especially in the NHS, they deserve more
    attention. There are four new rules.First, civil servants have to sharpen their project management skills. By
    June, every government department and agency is supposed to have a "programme management centre of
    excellence" in place. The idea is to recognise project management as a skill in its own right, not something for
    Sir Humphreys to pick up on the job.Second, senior officials such as permanent secretaries or chief executives
    will have to give a personal, signed assurance that a project is not repeating past mistakes.Third, no more "big
    bang" projects - except in exceptional circumstances. Any such exception must go before a central scrutiny
    group of two ministers, Paul Boateng and Douglas Alexander, Gershon and the e-envoy, Andrew Pinder.Finally, a
    project's resources must be in line with its priority. Gateway reviews have shown that many supposedly top
    priority projects have been delegated to junior managers. This must change, Gershon says.Where a project has
    the highest priority, or is a high risk, a clearly identified minister must be in charge. In theory, ministers are
    supposed to be in charge. But over the past 10 years of project disasters, they have been good at distancing
    themselves from the IT elements of new policies.It's a brave minister who agrees to attend a system "go live".
    It's even rarer for one to resign when the system on which the new policy depends goes wrong. Gershon's new
    rules will make dodging that responsibility that much harder. They won't end IT disasters entirely: as in space
    travel, complexity, politics and the laws of physics are a volatile mix. But 98% success would be a good target to
    aim for.
Search sucks. No matter how clever your search engine's system is, no matter how many clever page-ranking formulae you apply, or how many super-speedy processors you throw at it, the current way to search the internet doesn't work very well.Searching by a keyword misses out a boatload of stuff, for one simple reason: many of the documents you might find useful do not contain the keyword. Consider this: you want to find documents on Iraqi politics. You're a leader writer, perhaps, and one sherry too far gone. You turn to Google, and what do you search for? "Iraqi politics"? "Saddam Hussein?" "Abd al-Rahman Arif"? Well, yes, all of these - and each one will be useful, but not the entire picture. You want the search to return not just the keyword hits, but documents on the same topic that don't necessarily mention the keyword.What you need is a fast developing technique called latent semantic indexing. Latent semantic indexing (LSI), solves this problem by allowing the search engine to give you back the documents that are related to the keyword, but don't necessarily contain it.Here's how it works: Take all the documents you want to index, and remove all the definite and indefinite articles, the conjunctions, the prepositions and so on. Then take off the case endings and   plurals, until all you have left are proper nouns and the word stems. Now imagine you are making a table of all of the words you have along one axis, and all of the documents along another.The document column will have an x for every word in that document, and the word row should have an x for every document it appears in. Here's where it gets a bit trippy. You get your computer to make one of these tables - or "matrixes" - but this time using a different axis for every word.This requires you to have a matrix in hundreds of dimensions, and no amount of sherry will help you do it in    your head. Your computer, however, will have no problems. Next, you use a mathematical technique called singular value decomposition to "squish" these multiple dimensions down to a more usable number. From 10,000, say, to 100. What you will have made here is a matrix where documents with similar content start to clump together. By applying more arithmetical jiggery-pokery, called singular value decomposition (SVD), you can end up with a 2-axis matrix again, but this time, with numbers instead of crosses. The higher the number, the more relevant that word is to the document, even   if it doesn't appear in it.Your search engine cannot only find the documents that contain the keyword, but all the other documents that are clumped together - ones that are shown to be sufficiently similar to the keyword hits to have relevance.Curiously enough, all this actually works. A team from the American National Institute for Technology and Liberal Education has been building on the idea. It wasn't theirs originally, but technology has only just caught up with the processing power needed to do the "matrix squishing" on usefully large document collections, and   running on desktop hardware.The lead developer, Maciej Ceglowski, is full of ideas on how the technology can be used: "It's good on large collections of text, written in a formal style: libraries of academic research, for example," he says. Biology, he points out, can benefit massively from LSI. The SVD algorithm doesn't actually require text at all. There is no language understanding, just a count of word frequency. If you take mass spectrographs of complex molecules, and treat each molecule as a document, and each peak on the spectrograph as a word, you can build searchable indexes in just the   same way you can with text.This could be revolutionary for medical science. By posting an entire text document into the search box, an LSI system will give you back a list of similar documents: a sort of "More Like This" search. While for text this is useful, it becomes revolutionary when applied to proteins. From a database of thousands of molecules, you can use LSI to find similar matches. You can find clusters - places on the matrix where the molecules are similar - and you might even find similarities you didn't know about.One other possible use of LSI is for an automated essay writer. Given a big enough body of knowledge about a certain topic, an LSI program could take your homework, mark it and even suggest areas you haven't covered.It's the perfect tool for the journalist, too: given live data from the wire services and newspapers around the world, our sherry-sozzled speculator could not only have all the relevant information at his fingertips, but a machine telling him what he's missed out. Perfect for that after-lunch writer's block, and perfect for searching the web.Linkshttp://javelina.cet.middlebury.edu/lsa/out/cover_page.htmwww.lazyweb.orgwww.idlewords.com/semantic
At midday on Wednesday last week, more than 30 police officers raided the Matrix mobile phone shop on Alum Rock Road in Birmingham. About 10 officers entered the shop, followed by two experts from mobile network Orange.The officers found one mobile plugged into a computer running software capable of reprogramming the handset. Under the Mobile Telephones (Re-programming) Act, passed in October, altering a phone's serial number can lead to five years in prison and an unlimited fine. The West Midlands force believes this is the first significant action under the new law.By checking mobiles' 15-digit serial numbers - also known as international mobile equipment identifiers (IMEI) - over the phone with staff at T-Mobile, police found three handsets reported stolen. They seized mobiles, laptop computers, software and other electrical equipment for forensic IT examination.Two men were arrested on suspicion of theft, handling stolen property and reprogramming mobile telephones. They were later released on bail, to reappear before police in a few weeks. Officers had been visiting mobile retailers across the West Midlands, warning them of the law banning IMEI changes."There aren't that many places that reprogramme them (mobiles), and they have to be widely known to make money," says Inspector Steve Rees. That makes them difficult to hide. The new law was passed to support the central equipment identity register, which opened on November 1 and holds all the IMEIs of stolen and lost phones in the UK.It was used by the West Midlands officers to check which mobiles were reported stolen.  Previously, such a phone could be barred by only three operators, and only on that network. By changing the removable subscriber identity module (Sim) chip, the handset could easily be used on one of the others. But now, a phone reported stolen or lost to one network will not work within 24 hours on any.The aim is to make stealing mobile phones, which the Home Office says are involved in 28% of robberies, a nearly pointless crime. Handset manufacturers agreed in 2001 to introduce phones with hard-wired IMEIs, but it will take time before everyone has one. Existing phones hold the IMEI on a rewritable Eprom chip, hence the new law. But there's a problem."We don't believe that people know that network providers are able to stun a mobile phone and make it useless," says Detective Chief Inspector David Walker of the West Midlands police.He adds that street crime in the force's area fell 23% between April and January, but that it can fall further - if the message gets across. So next month, the industry is funding a &#163;2 million advertising campaign called Immobilise. Possible slogans include "If it's nicked, it's knackered.""We've got the most powerful anti-crime mechanism you can imagine," says Joe Garner, marketing director for mobile phone retailer The Link, who is helping set up the campaign."The under-30s are our target audience," says Jack Wraith, executive secretary for the mobile industry crime action forum (Micaf). Teenagers are disproportionately the victims of mobile phone theft, he explains, and under-30s are more likely to forget their phone in a pub, club or restaurant. Publicity should help. The Metropolitan police publicised the database in London late last year, and "there has been some impact" on the number of thefts, says Detective Superintendent Steve Gwilliam. But why has it taken so long for a central blacklist to appear? Two of the networks, Orange and T-Mobile (as well as Virgin Mobile, which uses T-Mobile's infrastructure), have been blocking phones through IMEI numbers since they opened in 1994.The other two, Vodafone and O2 (formerly BT Cellnet), had no blocking system - to the annoyance of other networks. "Until BT Cellnet and Vodafone see fit to upgrade their systems, the solution to the increasing problem of mobile phone theft will remain largely unsolved," said Virgin's Richard Branson in January last year. "Vodafone got a kick up the pants," says David Nunn, editor of Mobile magazine, which is involved in the Immobilise campaign.However, "its attitude over the past nine to 12 months has been excellent. It was the first to come aboard the Immobilise initiative.""It was partly to do with subtle differences in the technology," says John Cross, head of corporate security for O2 UK. "These gave Orange and One2One &#91;now T-Mobile&#93; additional functionality that we didn't have."Cross adds that the IMEI tracking was for business reasons. Vodafone and BT Cellnet had many handsets connected by third-party airtime resellers, whereas Orange and One2One sold directly, using the IMEI to ensure only their phones were    used on their networks."It was as much about controlling the handsets connected to their network, than anything to do with theft," says Cross. The networks now stress they are working together. The blacklist only works within the UK. Jack Wraith,  from Micaf, says that industry executives met representatives of European countries late last year at the Home Office, and discussed expanding the database to other countries.O2's John Cross says the Dublin-based GSM Association, an international club for network operators, was chosen to run the blacklist so other countries' networks could join easily. He adds that O2 is looking at bringing in its other networks in Ireland, the Isle of Man, the Netherlands and Germany. But this will take time. UK-based Vodafone, the world's biggest mobile operator, with networks in 28 countries, says it has no schedule for getting its foreign networks to use the Dublin database, although its Australian subsidiary started IMEI blocking on December 31."We're looking at putting together a global register, and we're certainly looking at implementing this in other countries," says spokeswoman Libby Pritchard. "However, we have more of a problem here than in other countries."But this could undermine the UK blacklist. O2 tried to track several hundred lost    phones through their IMEI, and found that 80% were not on any UK network, although some may have been thrown away. A problem is that the biggest markets for stolen phones are thought to be in eastern Europe and China."The places where a stolen phone is most likely to end up are the most unlikely to get involved in this scheme," says Joe Garner from The Link.  However, the industry and police hope that the UK-only scheme will at least hit opportunistic and small-scale robbers, who commit most street crime.When a phone is reported stolen, it is not always switched off by the network: instead, it can be greylisted. It continues to work normally - although calls are not charged to the customer's account - but the network tracks the location of the user."If the police are particularly interested in gathering intelligence, then we do something that ensures the phone isn't immediately barred. We don't do anything that impacts on the loser &#91;of the phone&#93;," says John Cross, at O2.Location data is a contentious part of the infor  mation generated by a mobile. The base stations used to make calls are held by networks for at least six months, but are not available in an intelligible form to customers, as I found when requesting such data from Orange under data protection law (seewww.guardian.co.uk/online/story).The same happened when Nottingham photographer Alan Lodge asked O2 for his location information. However, police, spies and other state investigators can obtain this data when investigating crime. Mobile phone base stations have a range of up to 22 miles, but this can fall to a few hundred feet in cities where stations are close together.A process called triangulation can provide much greater accuracy. Imagine drawing circles representing distances, obtained through measuring the time delays in radio signals, around the location of at least three base stations. If the distances are accurate - and they can be thrown out by nearby tall objects - the circles should intersect. "The picture I've had is that triangulation is something companies can turn on when   they need it," says Richard Cox, a forensic telecoms engineer and court expert witness."I believe it's a feature the government expects the companies to be able to activate on a per case basis."Cox says that he has been involved in cases where triangulation has been used. Rather than just being recorded when a call is made or received, this data can be gathered constantly. He is surprised that tracking is not used more often."If someone steals a phone and it's blacklisted, he will bin it and steal another, possibly injuring someone. If it's greylisted, he will think it works, but then there's a knock on the door.""The technique is there, but I don't believe it's considered resource-effective," replies Micaf's Jack Wraith of tracking through triangulation. He adds that it can be used for more serious crimes, but has risks. "It sounds like a good way of doing it, but we would only have to kick the wrong door down_ The technology can't say it's in flat 45a on the third floor."Marked&#183;If your phone is lost or stolen, contact your network immediately. It will be barred within the UK.&#183;Mark your handset with ultraviolet ink: the police can trace you through just your house number and postcode.&#183;The IMEI serial number can help trace a phone. You can find it by typing *#06# into most handsets, or by looking behind the battery.&#183;If offered a working second-hand phone, bear in mind that blocking takes up to 24 hours, but changing the Sim, or an unblocking code, will not help.&#183;Don't use your phone in crowded areas, or where you feel unsafe.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The problem with having everything you need is that it isn't very dramatic. If you've heard that Cory Doctorow's free-to-download sci-fi novel, Down And Out In The Magic Kingdom, depicts a near-future utopia that's seen "the death of scarcity" (and "the death of death"), you might be wondering what sources of narrative tension might be left. Or is it all: "Tuesday. Got up. Had no shortage of anything I    might possibly require. Wrote some music. Surfed the internet. Went to bed"?Fortunately, it's a bit more exciting than that. In the book, nanotechnology takes care of everyone's basic needs, eliminating material scarcity. Handily, the "Bitchun Society" depicted by Doctorow doesn't share our hangups with intellectual property either, which is all available online. As a result, the population doesn't have any need for money. Instead, what they aspire to is "Whuffie", which serves some of the functions of currency, but is much closer to such concepts as "the approval of your peers" or "respect".The theory goes thus: if you write a symphony or contribute to society, people give you Whuffie. Your personal Whuffie rating is constantly updated online so everyone can view it. The more you have, the higher the esteem in which you're held. It is like the way Google ranks web pages according to how many people link to them: the more people who like your page (or symphony), the higher you get rated. Or, if you've contributed a lot of unpaid programming to an open source project such as Linux, then appreciative    users will buy you drinks wherever you go.The higher your Whuffie, the more people will listen to you. Plus, it helps allocate access to the scarce resources - the historically preserved attractions at Walt Disney World, for instance.The Magic Kingdom is now run on a voluntary basis by second-generation descendants of the original employees, after being liberated by popular demand from corporate control. It is an entertaining twist, considering how much the parent company has "borrowed", using such works as Snow White And The Seven Dwarfs, Beauty And The Beast and Aladdin, from out-of-copyright works and the public domain.Unlike money, Whuffie isn't depleted if you spend it. It's more like the Buddhist idea of karma: it goes down if people think you're doing bad things, as the book's lead character finds out in a protracted disagreement over modernising Disney's Hall Of The Presidents and the Haunted Mansion. And, when some of the limitations of having such a one-dimensional measure of success are starting to show, Doctorow also wheels out the idea of    "sympathy Whuffie", implying you can be respected for your needs as well as abilities, along with "left-handed Whuffie", the esteem of people who have different belief systems, which opens up a range of Whuffie-conversion rate possibilities.Early on, one of the characters argues that Whuffie captures "the true essence of money &#91;...&#93; if you were broke but respected, you wouldn't starve". As such, it reflects what's usually called the American interpretation of copyright: that creators must receive something for their works otherwise no one will be motivated to publish anything.This contrasts with the European view of copyright - that the creator has basic rights over how his work can be used - and, tellingly, the book has been released under the Creative Commons licence, which permits - nay, encourages - you to repro duce the work, but not to create derivative works from it.So, Doctorow gets real-world respect and publicity for the hard-copy version of the book. He didn't have to convert it to lots of different file formats, because enthusiastic readers volunteered to help, bathing in the reflected Whuffie they get. But you're not allowed to republish the text with, for instance, the characters names' changed to those of you and your friends.As Doctorow admits in his preamble: "Yeah, it's hard to figure out how people are gonna make money" out of giving their works away online, but he is at least asking pertinent questions about how it might work, in an entertaining but familiar setting. Like the real Magic Kingdom, it's a fun and thought-provoking place to visit. But would you really want to live there?&#183;Dave Green is the co-editor of the technology newsletter NTK: &lt;A HREF="http://www.ntk.net
Down" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.ntk.net&#183;Down  And Out In The Magic Kingdom is published by Tor Books and downloadable fromwww.craphound.com/down&#183;Comments to online.feedback @guardian.co.uk
"A number of Macintosh dealers are suing Apple Computer, charging the computer maker with a host of business wrongs ranging from overbilling to poaching customers to stocking its own stores with new gear unavailable to resellers," reportsZD Net. "Three suits have been filed in recent months by Apple dealers, including San Francisco-based Macadam Computer, Los Angeles-based Computer International, and Oregon-based MacTech Systems. The resellers charge Apple with breach of its contract and fraud, saying the computer maker hurt their business by failing to pay them for repairs they made under warranty, by overcharging them for parts, and by disparaging the dealers to potential customers in an effort to gain more direct sales business."
CNN founder Ted Turner has admitted he lost up to £5bn on the disastrous merger of AOL and Time Warner in the US.Just days after walking out of the company Mr Turner revealed the personal toll of the £66bn merger, which was hailed as visionary when it happened two years ago but quickly turned into a corporate fiasco.In an interview to be broadcast tonight on US current affairs show 60 Minutes II, Mr Turner said he had lost a "couple of hundred million &#91;dollars&#93; more" in the past week alone.The freefall of AOL Time Warner stock, which has plummeted by over 70% over the past two years, has hit Mr Turner harder than anyone else.He said he lost between £4bn and £5bn as his 3% share of the company tumbled in value.Last week the company once again made corporate history after reporting a £60bn loss - the largest ever recorded in American business.Mr Turner was effectively sidelined from the company he built following the merger of AOL and Time Warner and has been one of the more vocal critics of the deal, dubbing it a "complete disaster, at least so far" as he watched the value of his shares tumble.In 2001, his stake was worth about $7.55bn (£4.6bn), while today the stake is worth around $1.85bn (£1.12bn).In a recent Guardian interview, the CNN chief, once dubbed the "mouth of the south" said he had been left feeling "suicidal" and admitted the need to slow down, although his decision to quit was still unexpected.Mr Turner also quashed speculation that he was considering trying to buy back CNN from AOL Time Warner, saying he couldn't afford it even if he wanted to.It had been suggested that, in a final spectacular coup, Mr Turner would attempt to regain control of CNN  from the company to which he sold it in mid-90s.Despite resigning from his post, the media mogul remains the single biggest shareholder in the media giant.Mr Turner initially described the merger between AOL and Time Warner as "better than sex" but has since admitted that it had been a "complete disaster".On tonight's programme he also said he was opposed to the potential merger of CNN with Walt Disney's ABC News. Merger talks between the two took place in recent months but are believed to have stalled."Just merging the two organisations has a lot of challenges," Mr Turner said. "The potential pitfalls and opportunities for disagreements exceed whatever benefits could be gained."In December, Richard Parsons, the chief executive of AOL Time Warner, said the company had "hit a pause" on the deal because of the complexity of merging the operations.Other company executives suggested Mr Parsons had set it aside while the company deals with more pressing problems like reducing its debts and concluding federal inquiries into its accounting practices.CBS News correspondent Mike Wallace, who interviewed Mr Turner for the programme, said the 64-year-old media visionary had not yet decided whether to remain on the AOL Time Warner board."He said he is going to wait until May," Mr Wallace told the New York Times. "He said he is going to see Parsons in the next week, probably to determine if he really wants him to stay on the board."Mr Turner is also further cutting his ties with the CNN operation in Atlanta by making Florida his primary residence for tax reasons.
Five outstanding UK-based websites have made it on to the shortlist for this year's Childnet Awards.The awards, organised by the charity Childnet International, aim to reward children, and those working with them, who are developing outstanding internet projects that benefit other children worldwide.This year there have been entries to the Cable and Wireless-sponsored competition from over 50 countries. Nigel Williams, chief executive and founder of Childnet, says the range of entries have seen "extreme contrasts"."It is important for us to recognise excellence, of course, but also to recongise those who are doing their best with very limited means," he says."This year we have entries from relatively well-off kids in relatively well-off countries, together with, for example, a project from Sierra Leone, which is created by former child soldiers in a war zone, with access to only a small number of computers and certainly no broadband  connection or anything like that."It shows the great leveling influence of publishing, which the internet at its best is all about. The internet gives you an opportunity to tell your story, do what you're good at and allow people to share in it."Sarah Bowler, a 12 year environmental campaigner from South Yorkshire, has been nominated in the individual category for her website Cool Kids For a Cool Climate.The site encourages people to "think global and act local" in their concern for the environment, and promotes the idea of planting trees to compensate for the damage done by pollution caused by modern transport. It even offers a tree calculator to help you work out how many new trees you would have to plant in order to soak up the carbon monoxide produced by any given journey.The judges praised the site as "a wonderful example of how young people can use the web to turn ideas into action and extend an offline activity so others can take part online."Working on limited resources," they wrote, "Sarah has produced a simple, easy to understand website which has huge potential."Sarah's site faces stiff competition. There is the Daily Prophet, a hugely impressive Harry Potter fan site. It has been designed, built, edited and maintained by 17 year-old Heather Lawver from the United States.In nominating Heather for the award the judges said, "If the Harry Potter books encouraged children to read, then this site engages children with both appreciation and creation of writing.  Heather is clearly a gifted writer, graphic artist and campaigner and through this online newspaper has created a remarkable online community stretching around the world."Then there is Kidzdom, a series of animated cartoons and an excellent animation tutorial created by Andrew Fei from Australia. The judges praised Andrew for his "simple non-verbal cartoons &#91;that&#93; communicate beyond language and culture. There is real potential to expand this resource and help children create their own media."Priorywood special needs school in Middlesbrough has been nominated in the schools category. It caters for pupils with severe learning difficulties, and the website has been produced by teachers together with children and parents.The site features projects that the pupils have produced, and a range of superb learning material that can be used by others. The judges praised the project, saying: "This site which is both child and adult friendly, will inspire many other schools (not just those working with Special Needs children) to use the web so that both teachers and pupils can connect with each other and their wider community."The UK-based Polka theatre is in the running in the Not For Profit category, for their trans-Atlantic drama and creative writing project with primary schools in England and America.Each school contributes information about their surroundings and daily lives, which is then turned into a performance by their partner school with help from Polka.The judges called it "a simple project which serves as an antidote to the notion that the web is only about presentation of information.  Rather, technology is used to help students connect with each other in a protected environment to share personal stories. An excellent example of the web strengthening offline collaboration and allow children to share their creativity both online and offline."Also nominated in the same category is the Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children's website, which was described by the judges as "an outstanding example of how a hospital can create quality, authoritative information on issues relating to health in a fun, child-centered and accessible way."A special individual teacher award has been given to Stephane Derone, who has built a site of fun resources for teaching French. Highlights include Bart Simpson's opening-credit blackboard lines, and a "football dictionary".The Bonjour site is already being used by thousands of schools worldwide, and Mr Derone has gone on to replicate the model for Spanish, German and Italian.The winners will be announced at the Awards ceremony on April 24 at the Science Museum in London.Links:  --Childnetawards.orgIndividual Category--Cool Kids for a Cool Climate (UK)--Kidzdom (Australia)--The Daily Prophet (USA)Not For Profit Category--Great Ormond Street Children's Hospital (UK)--Polka theatre (UK, USA)--Youth Noise (USA)Schools Category--Liceo Classico "Duni" (Italy)--Priory Woods School (UK)--Willoughby Elementary (Canada)New To The Net Category--IEARN (Sierra Leone)andpeacereconcile.virtualactivism.org--Young biznet (Egypt &amp; USA)Special Individual Teacher Award--Bonjour (UK)
PC World magazine'spredictions(and aflashbackto some of its previous efforts).
Microsoft "has asked a federal judge to dismiss a lawsuit by British cellphone maker Sendo, saying there was no basis to Sendo's charges that it stole technical know-how and pushed it to the brink of bankruptcy," reports Reuters. It has also counter-sued, as you do, for "various breaches of contract, as well the British company's 'fraudulent course of conduct in repeatedly misleading Microsoft as to Sendo's financial situation, Sendo's progress in designing and developing the Z100 [smartphone], and Sendo's commitment to that project'."
GreyMagic Software of Jerusalem says it has found five security holes in Opera 7 for Windows, released last week, reportsIDG News Service. Opera says it is fixing them immediately. GreyMagic notes that Opera is still a much safer browser than Microsoft's Internet Explorer, which has 95.2% of the market, according to OneStat research.
The BBC has risked disabling the computers of more than 10,000 fans of The Archers after inadvertently sending them a PC virus.Every fan who had signed up to a daily email update was sent the virus, known as the Sobig worm, despite the BBC's own strict anti-virus systems.The BBC believes it caught the virus in time after alerting 10,500 individuals who take the electronic newsletter.But the blunder has caused alarm bells to ring at the BBC, which spends hundreds of millions of pounds on its online and interactive services, and has more computing expertise than most public service organisations.It is also is case of life imitating art. A current storyline has bar manager Jolene showing Joe Grundy how to send emails in a new internet cafe that has been set up in The Bull, the local pub in the radio soap's fictional village of Ambridge.When recipients of The Archers' email newsletter clicked on the attached file, it immediately began searching their hard drive, attempted to extract a list of email addresses and forward itself to all these contacts."The Sobig worm first appeared in mid January.  It has had quite a big  impact since then, indeed it was the fourth most prevalent virus during  January 2003," said Graham Cluley, a senior technology consultant at software company Sophos Anti-Virus."Most anti-virus vendors released protection against the Sobig worm as soon as it was detected, so Archers fans who have recently updated their anti-virus software would have avoided infection," he added.However, for the non computer literate, the episode is likely to have proved more heart-stopping than the most dramatic Archers storyline.Listening figures have soared recently on the back of interest over an affair between Brian, one of the show's longest serving characters, and Siobhan.A BBC spokeswoman confirmed a virus was "erroneously sent out" on January 29 "despite the BBC's stringent anti-virus protocols".She said steps were taken straight away: "Immediately we knew this happened, an email was sent out to those on the list apologising for the error and offering advice on deleting the virus. An internal investigation is currently taking place to ensure a similar incident does not happen in the future."She said that executives responsible for anti-virus action believed that damage was limited to "the tens, rather than hundreds or thousands."
A small district general hospital in Scotland is pioneering the "virtual nurse", a system of monitoring patients at home that proponents believe could save the NHS millions of pounds a year.At the Royal Alexandra hospital in Paisley, patients with suspected sleep apnoea - a potentially fatal condition - are given portable equipment to monitor their temperature, pulse, heart rate and breathing from the comfort of their own beds.Sleep apnoea occurs when airways collapse, causing the person to stop breathing, up to 60 times an hour. It is a serious, debilitating condition that affects about 5% of the population, causing hypertension, heart disease and respiratory failure.According to Alistair Dorward, the clinical consultant overseeing the pilot project, the condition is extremely distressing, preventing sufferers from living normal lives. "People with sleep apnoea are constantly tired," he explains. "They fall asleep every time they sit down, at work, while driving their cars. These patients have a very high incidence of road traffic accidents."Sufferers have a poor prognosis, but, with treatment, survival rates improve greatly. Until now, however, the only way to diagnose the condition was by admitting patients to hospital overnight to monitor their breathing and oxygen levels while they sleep.In overstretched hospitals, beds for such monitoring are hard to find and appointments are often cancelled, creating long waiting lists. The portable - "telehealth" - equipment enables patients to stay at home with the essential information automati cally transmitted to their consultant in the morning.Dorward has so far analysed data from 12 patients and repeated some tests with his own equipment in the hospital to compare for accuracy. The results, he says, were virtually identical. "This is a good way of getting through my waiting list very quickly," he says. "It spares my nursing time, it spares my beds and the patient is spared coming to the hospital."Allan Hamilton-Messer, from Riddrie in Glasgow, had been suffering severe tiredness, headaches and short-term memory loss for about seven years before he took part in the sleep apnoea project. "I'm 53, but I feel about 70," he says. "I'm totally run down all the time and my wife sometimes wakes me up to tell me to breathe."Initial tests using a telehealth monitor revealed that Hamilton-Messer could be suffering sleep apnoea and, following two further tests, he is now awaiting diagnosis and treatment. He found the equipment straightforward and the experience preferable to hospitalisation. "It was much better than three nights in hospital, which would effectively take six days out of your life," he says.The technology has been developed by Tunstall, a company that produces monitoring systems to enable vulnerable people to live independently in their own homes, and is operated in partnership with Hanover Careline, a charity providing emergency alarm and monitoring services for local authority and housing association homes.Although telehealth has been slow to develop in Britain, Tony Rice, Tunstall's chief executive, believes it has the potential to make "a huge and positive impact" on the pressures   facing the health service. He estimates that the cost of home-based care is less than &#163;1 a day, with &#163;30-&#163;100 a day for clinical support, compared with at least &#163;200 a day for hospital-based care. Telehealth, Tunstall estimates, could potentially save the NHS more than &#163;1.5bn a year.A recent Commons health select committee report recognised that telehealth had a key role to play as an alternative to hospital care, and recommended that the Department of Health develop a strategy for it.The Scottish executive is also keen to expand telehealth in a country where much of the population lives far from a hospital in remote rural and island locations. Hanover Careline has been asked to oversee a project in the Western Isles, helping people stay home wherever possible."This will be a major advance," says Stewart Cowe, customer liaison officer for the company. "At present, islanders often find themselves stranded in cities like Inverness with no support network because friends and family are back on the island. The technology is in its infancy, but it has huge potential."Dorward, meanwhile, is already considering telehealth for another group of his patients - those with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), a condition that accounts for some 10% of all medical admissions in Britain and is the third most common cause of death worldwide. Patients with COPD suffer chronic bronchitis or emphysema, tend to be elderly and stay a long time in hospital.Monitoring such patients at home could relieve the huge strain these patients place on the national health service, Dorward says. "It's potentially very exciting."
Dell's Axim X5 PocketPC 2002-based handhelds are now available in Europe -- which, strangely enough, includes the UK. Prices are an exciting £169 and £229, according to Dell's press release, which translates to the somewhat less attractive £208 and £278 on the Web site (here) including delivery and VAT.
Borland is planning to release developer tools for Microsoft's .Net framework starting with the C# language, reportsCNet. "Borland had great success with developers in the 1990s with its Delphi programming application, which made it quicker to build visually oriented Windows applications," says the piece. Yes, it did. Of course, at the time it had a genius called Anders Hejlsberg. It's a small world. This same Anders Hejlsberg, who designed Turbo Pascal and Delphi, became Distinguished Engineer and Chief C# Language Architect for Microsoft's .Net framework and the C# programming language. (O'Reilly has a useful interview with himhere.) Familiarity with Hejlsberg's ideas could give Borland an edge in this market -- especially since quite a few people seem to be basing their views on ignorance, instead of finding out what's really going on.
Nokia is unveilingN-Gage, its first games phone, in London on Wednesday evening, and AP has advance info. It will also be launched in the US.
I've recently been through a time of stress and torment: yes, my ADSL line has been down since Friday. The good news is that an engineer has been scheduled for Thursday morning. Using dial-up has been frustrating, but of course, it depends what you are used to. A 44kbps (V.90) connection seemed pretty wonderful a couple of years ago. Further back than I care to remember, using a 300bps connection via an acoustic coupler seemed pretty wonderful, too. I was getting e-mail at 10 characters a second, then, compared with 57,000 characters a second using ADSL. Mind you, I was only getting about five e-mails a day, and four out of every five weren't spam.
Applehas updated its iMac line today, adding faster processors, plumbing in some of the features added to PowerMacs last week, and lowering the prices. At the top end of the consumer desktop line is the £1499 17-inch widescreen iMac (all the prices here include VAT), which now was a 1GHz G4 PowerPC processor and a 4x DVD-burning SuperDrive. Support for Bluetooth and Airport Extreme wireless networking is now built in, as is quickly becoming standard in Apple systems. The 15-inch iMac drops in price to £999, while the 17-inch CRT eMac now costs £799 for the 700MHz model, or £999 with a SuperDrive and an 800MHz processor .MacWorldhas the full details and US pricing.
Morewonderful writingfrom the weblog world after Saturday's Shuttle disaster. American journalist James Lileks hears the question posed on US radio: "'what can a man do on Mars that a robot cannot?'"His answer? "PLANT A FUCKING FLAG ON THE PLANET.... And when he plants the flag he will use flesh and sinew and blood and bone to drive it into the ground. His heartbeat will hammer in his ears; his mind will spin a kaleidoscopic medley of all the things he'd thought he'd think at this moment, and he'll grin:I had it wrong. I had no idea what it would truly be like." (viaNickdenton.org).
Frank Quattrone, one of the star bankers of the hi-tech boom, was yesterday sent on administrative leave by his employer, Credit Suisse First Boston, because of an investigation into the flotations he conducted for dotcom firms.The head of CSFB's global technology group, Mr Quattrone ran a team of highly paid bankers in California whose advice was much sought-after during the late 1990s.Yesterday the 47-year-old banker was forced on to the defensive, saying: "I did nothing wrong. I am confident that the investigation will show that."Mr Quattrone is facing potential civil charges from the US securities regulator, the national association of securities dealers, for the way he allocated shares during the flotations. He is said to have placed shares that often rose quickly after their debut into "Friends of Frank" accounts.CSFB said it had sent Mr Quattrone on leave after learning of new information last week which appeared to relate to the timing of a message about whether emails and other files should be kept or destroyed. CSFB said information it had discovered on Friday "raised questions about Mr Quattrone's response to an inquiry last week by the firm about whether he was aware of pending investigations in 2000 when he sent an email to employees regarding document retention issues"."The new information raised questions about whether Mr Quattrone acted appropriately in December 2000 when he sent that email and permitted a subordinate to send a similar email to employees."CSFB, which recently paid $100m to settle regulators' charges relating to the boom, said it had "acted properly" to ensure all relevant documents were preserved. It notified regulatory bodies about the new information last week.
On January 16, I did a little Webwatch item onOnlineHomeBase. Sree Sreenivasan, Columbia Professor &amp; Poynter Visiting Professor, has done a much more comprehensive featurehere. The New York Times [free reg req'd] also ran ashort featureon January 30.
Extreme Tech has a nice little piece on Atari's experiments withFM subcarrier transmission, which has reappeared recently as part of Microsoft's plan to ship data to smart personal objects such as wristwatches.
I can't be bothered with a lot of what he writes about, and I certainly don't like his attitude towards his peers, but well-known weblogger Dave Winer manages to hit the nail on the head from time to time - andthisis one of those times. "Space travel is more important than the seven people who died and the billions of dollars that were lost. Every time we've gone to space there were benefits that we didn't know about before, that we reaped later. The computer you're using right now is a product of lots of space missions. This is where the moon mission style of development came from. I'm a big believer in it because it produces results. Declare an impossible mission and then achieve it. Then take stock. There's a pretty good chance you invented something important along the way. But you were too busy to notice."
So I turn up at a Starbucks, laptop in hand. I need to find a internet connection, and get my story back to Guardian Towers, pronto.And, raptures, I've seen the sticker on the window that indicates there's a wireless internet hotspot inside. I've got a wireless card in my iBook: those precious high-speed wireless internet waves are already radiating through my flesh as I stand there dumbly trying to decide between grande or tall, skinny or full fat.Having got the ordeal of ordering the coffee out the way, I ask the server about signing up to the wireless internet connection.You know, the Wi-Fi. Internet?I get a blank look in return. I might as well have asked him to explain the theory of relativity, or to show me the way to the cheap sandwiches."The what? Do we have that?" he asks after a while, looking to colleagues for a little help with the crank. A vague discussion ensues, as a queue forms, where the mysterious Wi-Fi assumes the cloudy outline of a masked bank robber described three days after the heist, by people who were standing 200 yards away at the time. At night.There isn't even a leaflet nearby to explain. Just that sticker on the window.Eventually, being British, I apologise for asking, shuffle off with coffee in hand, and take a seat at the back of the shop. Flipping open my laptop, I can see a strong, nine out of 10 Wi-Fi signal coming from somewhere, but I'll be damned if I can log in. After a few minutes of head-banging despair, I shuffle off, coffee in hand, to blag a few minutes in a nearby hotel's business centre.For the record, all this isn't happening in some Starbucks outpost in rural Little Folly-on-Dean. I'm in San Francisco: epicentre of the dotcom boom. Less than an hour's drive to the south is Silicon Valley. But it counts for nothing, it seems.Is it, I wonder, inevitable that as soon as big business gets involved with WiFi, things get more difficult? Until recently, after all, if you wanted some wireless internet action, you looked up a bare bones web page somewhere and got the coordinates of some Wi-Fi enthusiast who had opened his network up for public access. You might end up balanced on a wall outside someone's home, hoping not to get arrested as a peeping tom while you got your net fix, but the technical bit - actually getting online - was pretty simple.But for really widespread adoption, the involvement of business - the big telecoms companies, mainly - was inevitable. They build big networks, they want some money. And the moment you have to pay for anything, of course, it all gets trickier. Then you need to start saying who you are, prove you are who you say you are, and they need to know who you say you are, and that you are who you say you are.It is, as you can see, frightfully complex.And now, as the networks roll out, there are a few ways this could go. We could end up with an old-fashioned monopoly situation, where one provider dominates commercial Wi-Fi. At the moment, BT seems to be leading things in the UK, especially since last week's announcement that it is rolling out a further 120 hotspots in airports, hotels and motorway service stations across the UK.That's bad news for prices, which we really want driven down by competition, as happened in the mobile phone business. But it's great news for simplicity, especially as BT is working out roaming agreements with foreign WiFi networks. We just all sign up for BT and that's that.But not so fast. No matter how groundbreaking BT is, it's unlikely to have it it's own way for long. For instance, we can certainly expect T-Mobile to roll out further Starbucks hotspots, baffling baristas from Banff to Bristol.And new technology could open the door to some start-ups (remember that word?) as well. There are a number of new WiFi systems coming on to the market in the next few months which would make it easy to create a Wi-Fi network that reached out over miles, rather than the current few hundred yards.At that point, enterprising cybercafe owners might sniff a little more than their appalling coffee: the smell of money. They could become broadband providers for their entire neighbourhood by hooking up their big leased lines to a Wi-Fi box and antennae. That's particularly appealing if BT or the cable companies haven't managed to kit the locality out with fixed-line broadband.It's all, of course, terrible news for those of us who like it - need it - simple. For instance, how do you find a hotspot? At the moment, the list of BT's hotspots is short enough to memorise - Costa coffee shops, the lobbies of particular chain hotels, a few airport terminals. But as commercial Wi-Fi takes off, locating a hotspot from a network you belong to could become quite a challenge.And will we have to continue signing up in advance of sitting down with our coffee to log on? Couldn't they start selling scratch cards, alongside the lattes and muffins, with an access code to let us surf awhile on impulse?There would be drawbacks, of course. Not least, they'd have to start telling the coffee bar staff what's going on. But then things just wouldn't be the same, would they?
Microsoft says "typical home users' computers are not affected" by the Slammer worm, but the latest issue of theWoody's Office Watchnewsletter takes the company to task for not highlighting the threat to serious Office users running the MSDE 2000 database engine. This "ships with Office XP Developer Edition, Office XP Professional Edition, Sharepoint Team Services, Visio 2002, and other products". The newsletter explains how to find out if you are running it, and suggests you "download Symantec'sdetector/fixerand run it. "All in all, the whole situation is completely screwed up, Microsoft's instructions are demonstrably wrong, the procedure incredibly arcane. SQL Server Administrators may cut Microsoft some slack on this one. I think Office users should be hopping mad," says WOW. Comment: To paraphrase the gist of Woody Leonhard's complaint, Microsoft can forget about selling people the idea of "trustworthy computing" if it can't provide trustworthy information about security risks.
The US defense department has reached agreement with tech companies over the WiFi standard,reportsNews.com. Some had feared the Pentagon would attempt to seriously restrict, or even halt, use of the wireless networking technology.
Just back from the half-dayWireless Cultures seminarat the Tate Modern gallery. It was an ambitious session, attempting to "explore the use of wireless communications in artistic and social contexts", so maybe I shouldn't have been surprised that the afternoon just didn't work. Anyone looking for a pointer as to how art might creatively use wireless technologies left bitterly disappointed.Indeed, among the assorted radio buffs and ubergeeky who asked questions and delivered their mini manifestos from the floor, there appeared barely a shared clue about how this technology might be used for the common good. Nothing about bringing this technology to people who cannot afford to join this little club, nothing about what might happen when you connect communities together.Instead, we got the same old same old drones - conspiracy theories about regulation and big business intervention - and the suspicion of a demented determination among them that this world should be left only to those capable of building, from scratch, the equipment needed to access it.Critically, the two speakers who perhaps should have had most to contribute - Pete Gomes, an artist and filmmaker, and Simon Worthington, co-editor of Mute magazine and a wireless enthusiast - were a disappointment. The less said about poor Simon Worthington's rambling presentation the better. His attempt to talk about a wireless project in East London was, in truth, a fiasco, and someone should have rescued him from his death in front of such a large audience long before they did.At least Gomes made sense. He painted an engaging if unoriginal vision of the future, were WiFi serves up content based on where you are, and raised a few interesting questions about how best this be done. But he focused too heavily on his own work, and his claims it led to last year's short-livedWarchalking craze, to really give a big picture.Critically, he - the whole event, in fact - failed to explain one central question, despite it being explicitly posed: what, exactly, can wedowith all this technology?Don't get me wrong - there were some interesting things said. Micz Flor, a German cultural theorist who chaired the event, kicked things off with a look back more than 100 years to put today's wireless efforts in context. For instance, in America's primitive early radio networks, set up to send the President's words across the country, we saw something very like today's emerging community wireless networks.Our own Sean Dodson, who was one of the first journalists towriteabout community wireless, also shared some of his knowledge of the regulatory and technical environments in which these volunteer networks are setting up.And Nancy Proctor, ofAntenna Audio, gave a interesting talk towards the end on how her company had set up a wireless pilot in the Tate Modern, using WiFi and Bluetooth-equipped handhelds to enrich the art viewer's experience. She was the only person who properly discussed reaching out to the end users of this technology and engaging them in new and worthwhile ways.It was just a shame a large proportion of the audience had walked out before she stood up to speak. Their spirits might have been raised by the knowledge some people out there know what they are talking about, even if they are employed by (oh, horror!)business.
Mac users: the much-improved new versions ofiPhotoandiMovieare now available as a free download from Apple.com. If you have broadband, the easiest way to get both is to use Software Update (found in the Apple menu | System Preferences | Software Update panel). Then go make a big cup of tea, or maybe even breakfast, as it's a near 118Mb download. Otherwise, you can get the whole 2Gb iLife package, including iDVD, in a box for £39 from theApple Store.
If you don't know much about hi-fi or home cinema, you can buy a complete  system from one company. If you are a bit of a buff, you can build your  own by choosing the best amplifier, CD player, speakers and so on from  different companies and fitting them all together. Over the past two  decades, the computer industry has gone through the same sort of process  but on a much bigger scale, giving users an extraordinary range of choice.  Now, not only can you buy PCs and servers from numerous different  companies - IBM, Dell, HP, Toshiba, etc - you can choose between  different processors, hard drives, graphics cards, and other internal  parts.In the beginning, like companies in many nascent industries, computer  manufacturers were "vertically integrated". In layman's terms, they did  everything. They made the hardware, wrote the operating system,  languages and applications, published the manuals, sent out the salesmen,  and ran the training courses. When it all went pear-shaped, they came  round and fixed it. IBM, which had about 70% of the market, even runs a  bank - IBM Credit Corp - to help you pay for it all.This is only what you would expect. If you want to  sell things into a new market, the best way to do it is to deliver "the  whole product". In other words, solve a customer's business problem, such  as operating a warehouse. If you deliver a couple of boxes and tell  customers to hunt around for the missing bits, you are not going to shift  a lot of kit.The whole-product approach led to systems such as IBM mainframes, DEC  minicomputers and Wang word processing systems where all the parts  worked together, though, being proprietary, they didn't necessarily work  with anything else.But building "the whole product" is, unfortunately, expensive. Developing  the IBM System 360 series of mainframes - on which western civilization  still largely depends - cost more than the Manhattan project, which built  the atom bomb. According to IBM's chief executive, Tom Watson Jr, the  company hired 60,000 extra staff, invested about $750m (£456m) on  engineering, and spent $4.5bn building five new plants to create the  S/360. And these were 1960s dollars, so multiply by six to get the  equivalent today.Vertical integration had advantages for customers: apart from anything  else, you knew where the buck stopped. It also had huge advantages for  the suppliers, who could generally ensure that the buck stopped in their  own pockets. Not for nothing were corporate IT departments called "IBM  shops". They also got a wonderful advantage, known as "proprietary lock  in". The customer was virtually a prisoner. As with the old Soviet Union,  the only way out was to defect to another system.According to "the whole product" idea, the advantage undoubtedly lies with  the market-leading system, whatever it may be. This is a generally a good  thing, because it provides stability, and there are huge communal benefits  from standardisation. It creates what people commonly call "monopolies",  but these can be short-lived because customers will switch when the  benefits are bigger than the cost of switching. The ubiquity of vinyl LPs  didn't stop people from switching to CDs. Nintendo's NES monopoly didn't  stop the Sega Genesis/MegaDrive.Indeed, if the switching costs are low, as with word processing software  or video games consoles, you get a series of dominant systems - Wang,  WordStar, WordPerfect, Microsoft Word; Atari, Nintendo, Sega, Sony. If the  switching costs are eye-wateringly large, the same system sticks around  for decades, such as the IBM S/360 mainframe.But as an industry gets larger and more complex, more specialised  suppliers start to thrive. This is exciting for customers, because  suddenly there is the chance to break the suppliers' proprietary lock-in.  Larry Ellison's co-founding of Oracle (as Relational Software) in 1977 is a  typical example.Oracle decided to create database software based on SQL, IBM's Structured  Query Language, to run on different manufacturers' hardware. An IBM  customer might be locked into IBM's DB2 database and a DEC customer into  DEC's Rdb, but they could both use Oracle. This raised the tempting (if  not necessarily realistic) prospect of swapping very expensive IBM  hardware for less expensive DEC hardware or really cheap Intel-based  hardware.The key thing about Oracle's concept was that it offered a "horizontal"  product, not a vertical one. Oracle didn't try to sell you its proprietary  mainframe or network or word processor. You already had those. In fact,  you probably already had a database, and knew how to use it. But rather  than changing the whole vertical "stack" (DEC VAX mini, VMS operating  system, DECnet network, Rdb, DECwrite etc), you could change just one  horizontal slice. (I'm oversimplifying but you get the point. Andy Grove's  book, Only the Paranoid Survive, has more detail.)This approach has huge advantages for the customer, because choice  creates competition, and competition drives down prices. And in the 1970s  and 1980s, as more and more horizontal suppliers arrived, customers were  able to choose "best of breed" products for each layer.The personal computer industry went through much the same sort of  development, but with the benefit of independent supplies of parts. (Apple  did not have to invent the disk drive, just phone up and order some.)  Still, many early micro manufacturers were vertically integrated and  attempted to offer something like "the whole product" - Acorn, Apple,  Amiga, Amstrad, Atari, Commodore, Tandy etc. Britain's tiny Acorn, with  its usual hubris, not only created its own hardware, operating system,  network and applications, it even developed a microprocessor - which  became the enormously successful ARM chip.But the "horizontal" approach was visible from the start, with hundreds of  companies using Digital Research's CP/M operating system,  microprocessors from Intel and Zilog, and the MITS Altair's S-100 bus.  CP/M machines were considered clunky and boring by home users but  businesses liked them: they were cheap and they did the job.The horizontal approach really took off after the arrival of the IBM PC in  1981. Instead of building yet another proprietary machine, IBM, in a  hurry, used parts from a couple of small suppliers called Microsoft and  Intel. At the time, Microsoft had just 40 staff and a turnover that would  not have filled IBM's stationery cupboards, let alone built an atom bomb.IBM's clever if derivative design - basically it combined the ideas from  the market-leading Apple II with those from the CP/M market - solid  engineering, user-friendly "Charlie Chaplin" advertising and monopoly of  large corporate computing made the IBM PC an unprecedented hit. It also  opened the doors to thousands of rivals, such as Compaq and Dell. They  bought the same parts from Microsoft and Intel and produced "clones" to  run software written for IBM's machine.With IBM setting a clonable hardware standard, customers soon had a  choice at every layer of the horizontal stack. There were pitched battles  between suppliers of compatible processors, operating systems, networks,  word processors, spreadsheets, databases, printers, monitors and most of  the things we take for granted today. And as cut-throat competition  rapidly made PC-based systems cheaper and more powerful, almost all  the vertical, proprietary suppliers were wiped out.As Linus Torvalds, originator of the Linux operating system kernel, says  in his book, Just For Fun, the opening up of the IBM PC "did more than  anything to spur the PC revolution, which has in turn spurred the  information revolution, internet revolution, new economy - whatever it is  they're calling the massive changes now taking place throughout the world.  It's the best illustration of the limitless benefits to be derived from  the open source philosophy."Look at it this way: you may be stuck with the heirs of the proprietary  IBM S/360 for a few more decades, but 600 million PCs could be switched to  GNU/Linux in about an hour.But there ain't no such thing as a free lunch. The horizontal layering of  the industry creates its own problems, just like assembling a hi-fi from  separates. If anybody can build and sell a computer that can run any  software, there is very little quality control, and millions of people end  up with combinations of hardware and software that have never been  imagined before, let alone tested. Rather than being spoon-fed by high  priced vertical suppliers, customers have to become their own systems  integrators and IT managers. The products may be cheap, but freedom has  its price.
Yet another attempt to decide who should be the patron saint of the Internet: you can vote athttp://www.santibeati.it/, reports theLA Times [free registration and pop-up stopper required]. A year ago, according toWired, seventh-century Spanish encyclopedist Saint Isidore of Seville (560-636) was leader of the pack. (Wired also covered The Search For A Saint in1999.)SatireWirehas offered some sample prayers. At the current rate of progress, there is likely to be a decision this century, but it isn't going to make any difference to the amount of porn spam in your e-mail.
The Sims series of games from Electronic Arts's Maxis studio made up half the top 10 PC games last year, according to NPD Group research, reportsGamespot. However, The Sims Online is not doing quite as well as expected, according toCNet.
Kasparov's blunder has allowed Deep Junior to level the scores, reportsAP.
When America Online and Time Warner announced their merger three years ago, the shock was palpable. This week, the combined AOL Time Warner proved that - after years of disappointments - it had still not lost the capacity to surprise.Late on Wednesday, the world's largest media company wrote off another $45.5bn to reflect the further erosion of value in America Online and the group's cable networks.The sum was twice the biggest estimate from analysts and gave AOL Time Warner the ignominy of recording the largest ever full year loss - a staggering $99bn. Shares in the struggling company fell by more than 13% to $12.10 as the opening bell rang on Wall Street yesterday. A fitting end to a disastrous year for the company.Ted Turner, the vice chairman and largest shareholder (around 3%) who had been a key figure in ousting chairman Steve Case, also raised eyebrows as he announced plans to step down. With most of the executives with whom he enjoyed a fractious relationship now gone, Mr Turner, the maverick founder of the CNN news network, was seen as returning to a more hands-on role.But in a parting swipe he will be seen on a CBS documentary next week denouncing the merger of America Online and Time Warner as a "terrible idea". Mr Turner, who had initially described the merger as "better than sex", estimates that he lost between $7bn and $8bn because of it.Yet, Mr Turner has voiced his support for chief executive Richard Parsons. In his resignation letter, he said the company was in "good hands" and Mr Parsons hopes to guarantee his silence by persuading him to remain as a non-executive director.The full-year loss, as the company is eager to point out, is an accounting one only and doesn't affect cash flow. The company reported earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation of $9.1bn, an increase of 5%. But the charge is a measure of how badly the merger has gone. It is a humiliating and ever present reminder that the management at Time Warner had been taken in by the dazzling salesmanship of America Online.Virtually all of the goodwill - the difference between the price assumed for America Online in the merger and it's physical assets - has now been written off.The sharp drop in the share price yesterday was more about the guidance given for 2003. Mr Parsons described the coming 12 months as a "reset year" and said earnings would be essentially flat.The figures presented on Wednesday night made depressing reading for investors desperately searching for a sign that efforts to turn the fortunes of America Online had begun to bear fruit. For the first time since the launch of the internet service provider, it reported a decline in subscriber numbers from 35.3m to 35.2m during the fourth quarter, indicating that the market has rapidly matured.Under pressureAdvertising and e-commerce revenues meanwhile fell by 39% over the year. Internet advertising in general is at least showing signs of stabilising. But the overall performance places AOL Time Warner under severe pressure to make the strategy that was outlined at the end of last year work; premium fee-based services and migrating users to broadband access.Mr Parsons has so far shrugged off calls to give the whole thing up as a bad idea and spin America Online off from the rest of the company. For now he is stuck with making the vision of America Online founder Steve Case work by marrying old and new media. Cynics could note that the new strategy, employing content from the rest of the group to make the broadband service in particular more attractive, is no different to the old.The executives of the former Time Warner business certainly have reason to feel cheated. The results masked what had been a strong year for many of AOL Time Warner's traditional divisions, each of which produced double digit growth during the year. Highlights included the film studio, which produced the second instalments of both Lord of the Rings and Harry Potter and saw a 21% increase in earnings. Time Warner Cable increased subscriber numbers and revenues through video-on-demand to improve earnings by 12%. Cable networks, including the much-lauded HBO, Cartoon Network and CNN, improved by 13%.Most of the executives associated with, and tainted by, the merger have now gone. Gerald Levin, the former Time Warner boss was the first to bow to pressure from angry shareholders. Chief operating officer Bob Pittman and Mr Case - the erstwhile boss of America Online, followed him in quick succession. A new management team, largely veterans of the old Time Warner operation, has been put in place.It seems a fitting comment on the transition from the heady pipedreams of 2000 when the merger was first announced to the more prosaic environment of today that the key priority for the year will be the mundane issue of paying down debt.AOL Time Warner has $26bn in debt, which threatens to immobilise the company. It has been forced to restructure its banking covenants to remove the threat of damaging its credit rating. Mr Parsons said he hopes to reduce the sum to $20bn but even that will not be achieved quickly. He has set a target of 2004. After this year, Mr Parsons said he believes the company will "re-emerge with new momentum". His hope is that weary shareholders will give him that long.
The independent television commission has revoked all the community TV licences granted to Ed Guinan, the former chairman of internet investment firm Jellyworks.The decision to remove the licences from Mr Guinan has left the government's ambition to create a network of low-cost local TV stations in disarray.The ITC confirmed that Mr Guinan's seven licences to operate TV channels using surplus analogue spectrum had been withdrawn alongside four applications for licences which had lapsed.At one point Mr Guinan owned companies which operated a third of the TV stations providing output directed at a local audience. He pulled all his stations off the air last August, including those operating in Edinburgh, Taunton and Hertford.After an ITC investigation into why Mr Guinan had taken this action and why his companies had not provided a service in other towns where he had been granted licences to operate, the commission decided to revoke his permits.A spokeswoman for the community Media Association said the decision to revoke the licences was welcome."We have never believed that one person or company should have too much control over these licences. The revocation has set the whole concept of providing local TV back considerably."The ITC is considering whether or not to put the revoked licences back out for tender. Although some of the TV stations he controlled were popular, the ITC fears that the appetite for community TV is dwindling. It recently put the Aberdeen franchise, unconnected with Mr Guinan, out to tender and found no bidders.Mr Guinan,came to prominence as chairman of Jellyworks, a company set up to take advantage of investor interest in the internet boom, in partnership with Jonathan Rowland, the son of veteran City investor David Rowland.Mr Guinan left Jellyworks in 2000 and turned his attention to the media, striking a deal with the BBC to develop business training videos. The deal went sour in 2001. A plan to sell BBC for Business to one of Mr Guinan's companies was scrapped.
Microsoft's protracted regulatory problems in Europe eased yesterday after the firm struck a deal with privacy watchdogs which should quell concerns about its .NET passport online authentication system.The firm agreed to make "radical" changes to the system, to give internet users more control over what information they provide and how it is used.The .NET system has been under the European Union's regulatory microscope for the past six months but officials said yesterday that they now considered the matter closed.A separate and more serious European commission investigation into Microsoft's alleged abuse of its dominant position remains live, and is expected to reach its climax within the next few months.Although Microsoft chairman Bill Gates was in Brussels yesterday and pointedly refused to comment on the resolution of the .NET issue, he will be relieved.The system issues web surfers with an electronic "passport" so that they can access a network of affiliated websites without having to enter all their personal data and create a new password each time.But the wide scope and commercial use of the personal data demanded to obtain the "one-stop shop" passport alarmed EU watchdogs, who felt it breached strict data protection laws.The commission signalled yesterday that Microsoft had done enough to allay those concerns."The bottom line is that users' data will now be better protected," said Frits Bolkestein, EU internal market commissioner. "Microsoft has agreed to implement a comprehensive package of data protection measures, which will mean making substantial changes to the existing .NET passport system."Officials said the changes would bring .NET into line with EU law. "There would not seem to be any reason to take any form of sanctions against the company," said Jonathan Todd, an EC spokesman.A similar authentication system which is operated by the Liberty Alliance, a group that includes 150 companies such as Microsoft rival Sun Microsystems and Citigroup, was also given the all-clear yesterday.EU regulators will keep a close eye on the development of online authentication systems, a move welcomed yesterday by privacy campaigners.
The European Commission says Microsoft has agreed to make changes to its Passport sign-on system -- used mainly for Hotmail -- to meet EU privacy concerns, reportsReuters. The rival "Liberty Alliance" development will have to follow suit. Comment: this will certainly help 7 year old 3-legged Sumo wrestlers living in Finland such as Emic Emaus. Oh, sorry, I think that's one of mine. The EU is no doubt right to be concerned because there must be people naive enough to enter real data when they sign up for Hotmail, apart from MEPs. [update] The EU Working Party's paper ishere.
Scorn pornPhilip Jenkins, (Second sight, January 23) says that not all child porn users are active child molesters. While this is true, surely the point the police are making by presenting high profile cases is that in viewing child porn, you are witnessing an illegal and immoral act.He says the majority of the users condemn actual contact but once you regard witnessing it in the proper sense of the word, you have to understand that to some extent, by looking at it you are participating in it. You accept that a real man has raped a real small child.If everyone who really condemned it didn't look at it, then the police could arrest everyone left and would find a high proportion of abusers.Jessica LaganArchiveEdn@aol.comCash grabsI have been working in the computer investigation environment for many years, and   in the past few have increasingly been employed to work for both the prosecution and the defence in cases relating to child pornography.In this capacity, I have probably seen more than 100,000 child porn pictures. In my opinion, the presence of 10,000 or 20,000 child porn images on a computer would ring very loud alarm bells and indicate an individual who is well beyond "moderately enthusiastic". The collecting of child porn pictures is not akin to stamp collecting.Mere possession of child porn may not a child molester make, but it does indicate a questionable sexual preference. I would not be happy for any child of mine to be in contact with a regular viewer of child porn. Both indicate a particular personal belief system that I neither understand nor condone.Just what goes through the mind of an individual viewing photographs of children sometimes as young as two or three years of age being forced into explicitly sexual acts with adults? Do they not appreciate that every child shown in these pictures and movies has been molested? The vast majority of the child porn pictures available on the internet have been made and distributed for one purpose:  money.Ailsa Brown Computer Investigations, Vogon International Limitedakb@vogon-international. comBrowse helpIf we can add interface elements to browsers so that users can report pages that don't display properly - like the new Safari browser from Apple - then it would be easy to have the same strategy for reporting pages that appear to break the law by offering pirate software, music or child abuse.Dave Bancroftdavebancroft@mac.comVHS or Beta?In the first of his weekly columns for Guardian Unlimited (January 25), Jack Schofield debunks an urban myth.May I suggest another reason for the success of VHS over Betamax - in the UK at least? At the start of the 1980s, the high street rental shops were DER, Visionhire and Radio Rentals. All of these were owned by Thorn-EMI, which also owned the Ferguson brand. At that time, they were all part of the J2T trading partnership of JVC, Thorn and Thomson (of France).Colour TV had matured by that time and domestic rental customers would have bought their TVs. However, being uncertain of the future of the new video recorders, customers would have initially rented. Since JVC invented VHS, their partner companies only offered VHS machines (most early JVC   remotes will operate early Ferguson VHS machines). You had to go to a specialist dealer in order to see a Betamax for rent.DP MorganDavyPaul@Vizzavi.Net att1.htmLow blows...Betamax and VHS did engage in a large battle to see which one would come out with the largest share of the market in home video. Most people do not realise the thing that gave VHS the edge over Betamax is the fact that VHS brought pornographic videos to people's VCRs. Betamax did not. Betamax actually was the better product, offering more lines of resolution and smaller tapes but they just got taken on a low blow... literally.Sam Seidesamseide@cox.netVHS's USP?Betamax tapes did not run for only an hour, they ran for up to 215 minutes. The most common size (I know, I still have dozens of them) was the L-750, which ran for 195 minutes. VHS had no significant selling points over others, but as soon as it was perceived as the market leader, it was what everybody wanted. Betamax was never the major player in the UK, but it dominated the US market initiallyRoland Denningrd@rolanddenning.comWord scoresI must take issue with Mike Anderiesz's review of Runecraft/UbiSoft's version of Scrabble 2003 (Gameswatch, January 23).I am very disappointed with the 2002 edition, which has poor graphics and sluggish letter placement.I can't believe they could have improved it to such an extent that it is better than US Gold's 1995 version, which remains supreme - a good clear board, quick response and a useful anagram facility.Pauline Binnsmikenpauline@beeb.net
The New Year ushered in good news for the computer games industry. Last week in Tokyo, Sony announced that it had just sold more than 50m units of its PlayStation 2 since its launch three years ago. A report by the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association stated that the UK spent just over &#163;2bn on computer games last year - an increase of 8% on the previous year.But sitting in nearly a third of all UK living rooms is another homegrown games console that is also doing very nicely. BSkyB's digital set-top box sits on 6.7m televisions in the UK. It is not as powerful or as sophisticated as Sony's PlayStation or Microsoft's Xbox, but then its games don't cost &#163;40 a go. Instead, players pay over their fixed telephone line, each time they play and download the games via satellite. BSkyB won't say exactly how much money it is making from interactive games before the release of  its annual report next month. But what BSkyB will say is that its most popular game, Tetris, has netted &#163;2.5m in just under 18 months. That is 5m games at 50p a throw.BSkyB launched GameStar, a dedicated channel for TV gaming, in spring 2001. Since then, it has achieved an average weekly audience of 1.3m viewers. GameStar now receives its own Barb rating and is officially one of the most popular areas in satellite TV. Some of the games are free to play, but most charge 50p for an unlimited amount of each game. More than 40% of players are women and BSkyB research indicates a broad age range of players. There are some serious gamers who compete for high scores, but the vast majority of games are played during ad breaks. Some of the games are sophisticated, with the likes of Asteroids and Tomb Raider now part of Sky's package.Just before Christmas, Sky launched its own game pad, a remote control to work with its GameStar channel. It looks like a fatter version of those found on PlayStations and Xboxes but, unlike its more expensive counterparts, it has no wires and works just   like a TV remote. The game pads have been sold through Sky's interactive shopping channel, but from March, game pads will be sold in high street shops. They cost &#163;30 a pair and up to four can be used on any single game.Although the new pads signal that BSkyB is hoping to attract more serious gamers, it also says that many players are attracted to the simplicity of its games. "We've found that the vast majority of people who buy Sky are likely to already have a games device in their home. So when they buy the games on the platform, they naturally gravitate towards them," explains Matt George, Sky's manager of new   product development. "It's not a huge cost decision for them."Still, it's been an unhappy nursery for interactive TV. Open - Sky's much-vaunted interactive marketplace - closed last year. Games are now the most popular feature of interactive TV and a small industry now produces them for Sky's satellite platform or for digital cable. Digital Interactive Television Group, the makers of Avago, a TV form of bingo, announced revenues of &#163;8m in December. Flextech, the content division of Telewest, says that 20% of its audience has been converted to paying players on its Challenge TV channel.London-based Two Way TV   provides games for network channels. One of its games is like an interactive version of Channel 4's afternoon staple Fifteen to One, and it produces a version of TV Scrabble for Challenge TV. The company was founded in 1992."It makes us the granddaddy of interactive entertainment," says Guy Templer, the company's head of business development. Templer thinks the success of TV games points towards a brighter future of interactive TV. "Broadcasters have got to diversify their revenue streams at the end of the day. Advertising and sponsorship are not going to sustain billions of channels," he says.One such broadcaster is the Cartoon Network. It owns the rights to a number of household names such as the Flintstones and Scooby Doo. It began offering interactive games on Sky last year and has already recorded 5.7m games played at 50p a throw."The great thing about these games is that you see an immediate return on your investment," says Richard Kilgarriff, of Cartoon Network. "They are not like television shows where you wait months for the official figures to return. You see what is working immediately."
If recent rumours are to be believed, AOL is getting ready to add blogging to the homepage services it offers users in the next month or so. It's a sign of how far these regularly updated pages of web links with personal comment have come in the past five years.When they first got started, these real-time online diaries were the preserve of the techno-literate. The advent of easy-to-use publishing services such as Blogger, launched in August 1999, began to bring it into the mainstream. In the past year or so, blogging has bloomed, becoming one of the most interesting and popular online phenomena. It's mass market enough for AOL, but still innovative, thanks to software such as Moveable Type, which adds feedback and networking to the basic formula, turning weblogs into places where ideas can be developed by groups of like-minded friends and colleagues.Weblogs are one of the few things online still capable of generating both media buzz and bucks. The libertarian blogger Glenn Reynolds turned himself into a marketable political pundit via hishugely popular blogand now appears on the news cable channel MSNBC. And the US-based, right-wing British bloggerAndrew Sullivanrecently netted around $79,000 in donations from his readers during a "pledge week" in which he   appealed for funds to keep his site running.Unsurprisingly, given Sullivan's success, there are signs that the business world beyond AOL is beginning to take a serious interest in weblogs. A growing number of entrepreneurs, media types and marketers have taken up blogging, in all senses of the word. And as they crank out their own daily contributions and links, they're starting to see blogging as a way to reach out to and research opinion formers, as a lesson in online media, and ultimately as a place they might eventually make a little money.Leading the charge is New York-based BritonNick Denton, whose previous credits include the dotcom networking event First Tuesday and the online news aggregator Moreover. In August, Denton launchedGizmodo, a blog targeted at gadget freaks. Recently, he followed up withGawker, a blogging mix of upscale party gossip and NYC news. Next in line is a "high-class porn site", a "travel-related site" and "a general high-end consumer buying guide", all using the blog format.So how does Denton plan to turn a profit? Affiliate marketing, advertising and syndication. Gizmodo currently features a lot of Amazon affiliate links. Once site traffic grows (currently the site gets around 53,000 page views a week), Denton will look for advertising and sponsorships from the likes of Sony and Apple. He also hopes to generate revenue from syndication to other online sites and print publications. Gawker "doesn't have an affiliate program to plug into, like Gizmodo", says Denton, so the plan is to build traffic, then target real estate and luxury goods advertisers. "There's absolutely nothing new or original about the revenue model here," Denton says.Given its lack of originality, why does he think he'll succeed? The market is more mature, he says. People are used to spending more time (and money) online. Amazon pays its affiliate marketers better commissions. "But the main difference is on the cost side," Denton says.Denton says a site such as Gizmodo costs between $1,000 and $2,000 a month to maintain. It is run by one journalist - Peter Rojas - and employs one designer. "Start-up costs were minimal, at around $2,000 for the initial set-up, plus $150 for the Moveable Type software the site uses." So, in other words, Gizmodo and Denton's other sites won't be running up huge debts as they attempt to build a readership. "Some of these new online media ideas are small but potentially profitable little businesses."One name for this slimmed-down approach to online publishing is "thin media". Denton's label of choice is "nanopublishing", a term coined by Jeff Jarvis, head of content, technology, and strategic development for Advance. This is part of the Newhouse media group that owns Conde Nast, among other things. In the past, Jarvis started Entertainment Weekly. Now, he's acommitted bloggerand his company has put its money where his mouth is, that is, in Pyra, the company behind Blogger.For Jarvis, blogging is a source of audience-generated content. "Forums on such topics as recipes and high-school wrestling bring in up to a third of our traffic. So we value this content. We saw blogging, early on, as a potential for new audience content." Advance is planning three or four blogs on its Masslive.com site (a local portal serving western Massachusetts). The idea is to get people in the community to create local weblogs on topics such as local sports.Though, for the most part, he is operating at the other end of the scale to Denton, Jarvis is optimistic about his approach. "Nanopublishing will not replace magazine publishing or mass media. It is a new opportunity. It won't make money for political punditry or for the diaries of college students. But it will work for gadgets and sex and special interests such as disease -   imagine a great weblog for diabetics - because it is so cheap to publish."Denton is working on other weblog-based business ideas, in particular something called the Lafayette project: an aggregator that would help people keep up with the ever increasing range of blogs, possibly by pulling together their choice on to a single, regularly updated newsfeed-style page. "It's all a bit vague at the moment," he admits.He's sensitive to the charge that he is "commercialising" blogging. "That's not the right word. I'd like to bring weblogs to a broader audience because I think most media is pretty boring."Other business types have also experienced criticism as they set up shop in the blogosphere. "Some folks are hos  tile," says Henry Copeland, the man behindBlogads. "Their attitude is: 'I've got a good job and blogging is a hobby _ don't ask me to prostitute my wares'." However, some bloggers are excited by his planned ad network for blogs (currently being tested)."Blogads allow advertisers to tap into the passionate audiences," Copeland says. "Blogs are where opinions get made these days, and advertisers need to position themselves accordingly. Advertisers can create flexible ads (text and/or image), target very select audiences and even solicit comments about their ads."Even if advertising money does begin to migrate to the web, there surely won't be enough to support that many bloggers. Many analysts have   suggested that weblogs have made publishing online so easy, they've made it impossible for all but the leading sites to have any chance of making money.The line taken by blogging business types is very similar to much that was said about personal homepages in the mid-1990s. There was much talk about taking on big media, about the most popular homepages turning a profit, and there was an advertising network aimed at these smaller sites called Link Exchange."Link Exchange created a network of disparate sites," says Copeland. "But it wasn't offering advertisers anything different." Copeland prefers to compare his site to eBay. Blogads, he says, will "enable a community of like-minded   advertisers and publishers to trade with each other cheaply and efficiently". The idea is to "translate the key metric where blogs excel other media producers - passion".Both Copeland and Denton present themselves as blogging enthusiasts, not profiteering invaders, and both stress that business in general could learn a lot by paying attention to the blogosphere."Other businesses could learn a bit about marketing," says Denton. "It's about using a weblog form/tone to market to people in a less offensive way - more like a conversation than a pitch."Other companies are trying to bring blogging to the business world in a more practical way.Userland Software, the company behind Radio, a popular weblog publishing tool, has been trying to sell blogging to businesses. Over the past year, Userland president John Robb has talked about the k-log, a weblog used within a company to manage knowledge. The idea is that blogs can help a business present information and develop new ideas. They can bring out and spread the expertise within a company.Sense Worldwide, an innovative London-based research outfit, does new product development and trend tracking for various big companies. Sense has assembled a global network of "sensers", ordinary "creative" people around the world (around 860 at the moment),    who are encouraged to swap ideas via the company's online discussion forums and real world events. The company is planning to move to a blog model/look and feel for itsSenser network: it's also planning to turn its standard homepage into an open blog. Sense's Jeremy Brown says the idea is "not about looking cool, it's about what's useful". The Sense homepage blog may draw in new people who can help with the Sense network.Other more straightforward business research companies, such as the US-based Jupiter Research, are using weblogs in a more conventional way, to promote company ideas and show off their knowledge.Indeed, the anarchic fluid nature of blogging may deter most business people from entering the field. Those who are keen point out that most blogs will remain personal, driven by obsessions and enthusiasms. Most won't make any money.But as blogging goes mainstream, thanks to the likes of AOL, they plan on playing a careful game. "Ninety-nine per cent of bloggers won't make money," says Blogads' Henry Copeland. "But when we've got 10 million bloggers a couple years from now, I'm confident that 100,000 of them will be uniquely valuable to advertisers."Business blogrollNick Dentonwww.nickdenton.orgThe place to go for news about Gizmodo and Gawker, and to pick up on new nanopublishing ideas.Henry Copelandwww.blogads.comGet news about the testing and ultimate launch of this blogging ad network.Jeff Jarviswww.buzzmachine.comTheplace for informed thoughts on the business of   blogging, along with info about Jarvis' pet project - videologs, or vlogs.Jupiter Researchhttp://weblogs.jupiter research.comCheck in here to see the rolling blogs put up by several of this US research company's analysts.John Robbhttp://jrobb.userland.comThe president of Userland has a useful blog tracking developments in blogging, k-logs   and corporate knowledge management.Write the Webhttp://writetheweb.com/read.php?item=123Go here for an interview with John Robb that introduces the idea of the k-logSense Worldwidewww.senseworldwide.comIn the next few weeks, this London research company will launch its experiment with a blog-style homepage.
