Internet portal Yahoo! won the first round of its long legal battle this week after a US judge agreed to rule whether foreign countries have jurisdiction over material published on American web sites.The case revolves around the portal's ability to host a site that auctions Nazi material online. Last year, a French court ruled that the company could not host a Nazi memorabilia site to which French citizens had access because the sale of Nazi material is illegal in France.Yahoo! initially argued that as a US company, it was not subject to French laws and that it could not prevent French citizens logging onto its US site. The company's actions, it said, were perfectly legal in its home country. But Yahoo! executives bowed to European pressure after the French courts imposed daily fines of up to $13,000 (£9,471) on the US parent company.Yahoo! then turned to a California district court for protection against the ruling. The company believes the French law contradicts the US right to free speech and that foreign courts should not have jurisdiction over the domestic actions of US companies.Overuling objections by the French civil rights groups that want the Nazi sites pulled, California district judge Jeremy Fogel has now agreed to rule on the case. Judge Fogel also ruled that the French groups - the International League against Racism and anti-Semitism and the French union of Jewish students - could themselves be sued by Yahoo! for damaging its business.The lawyer representing the French groups has called for a review of his decision.Mike Pullen, technology specialist with law firm DLA, said the industry was watching the outcome closely.He said: "Yahoo! is between a rock and a hard place on this one. If they start to pull the sites, then they have first amendment problems and they're likely to get hammered in the US."Related articles04.01.2001: Yahoo! agrees to ban auctions of Nazi memorabilia26.11.2000: Yahoo! for brave French courtsUseful linksYahoo!The French court's original rulingFrench union of Jewish students
The European commission has begun an investigation into whether the world's biggest record companies are abusing their dominant position to carve up the market for internet music sales.Mario Monti, the EU competition commissioner, yesterday disclosed that he is scrutinising Sony and Vivendi Universal's online music venture,Duet, as well as the rivalMusicNetservice run by Warner Music, Bertelsmann and EMI of Britain."These are important cases for the development of music services offered online to consumers and there are potentially a number of issues which merit close examination," Mr Monti said."The consumer interest is clear: yes, online music services should develop rapidly, but with a diversity of service providers."The world's big five record firms are determined to take advantage of the latent consumer demand highlighted by the maverick internet song-swapping service, Napster. There is one crucial difference - they want to make customers pay for the privilege of downloading their favourite song on the internet.Brussels is worried that small independent music la bels will be edged out of the potentially multi-million pound market and wants to ensure that their interests are protected.Officials confirmed yesterday that Mr Monti has already received a detailed list of potential concerns from Impala, a lobby group representing independent labels, although no official complaints about the ventures online by the big five have been lodged with the commission."The music industry is highly concentrated with just five major players and whenever they cooperate it is always a cause for concern although that doesn't mean they can never cooperate," a senior EU source told the Guardian."This is about being vigilant. We must make sure that the market is not developed in a way that would be to the detriment of the consumer."We recognise at the same time that the music industry is facing some real technological challenges and needs to adapt."The stakes are high. At the height of its popularity almost three billion songs a month were being downloaded on Napster, which has been forced to shut down its free song-swapping service after legal action by record companies in the United States.
Breathe.com, the internet access group that collapsed spectacularly in December with debts of &#163;50m, has been sold for the second time in six months.Great Universal Stores, the owner of the Argos chain and Jungle.com, which bought the struggling firm's assets and technology in January for &#163;1.4m, has sold it on to Affinity Internet Holdings for &#163;1.75m in new shares, due to be issued at 328p.Breathe's remaining 70 staff will be dismissed. Affinity Internet, the lossmaking provider of branded internet access to companies including Egg and Powergen, yesterday said Breathe was a good fit for its business. Affinity, which has 650,000 registered users and receives around 20m page impressions each month, also   provides online entertainment services.Wayne Lochner, Affinity's chief executive, said the group would be taking on the business, which made a loss of &#163;1.7m for the three months to the end of March, and its users without any costs and would be able to run it at a profit from almost day one.GUS will pay for the undisclosed redundancy costs.Shares in Affinity, which at the height of the dot.com boom changed hands for more than &#163;80, yesterday rose 12.5p to 337.5p."GUS has done a fabulous job of cleaning Breathe up; virtually all the employees are gone and there are no supply contracts left," Mr Lochner added.Analysts welcomed the move. Ben McClure, an analyst at Old Mutual Securities said: "The acquisition of Breathe makes sense. If Breathe succeeds anywhere it will be under the Affinity umbrella. Whether or not it will be profitable is tricky to say at the moment."Mr McClure said Affinity would be able to run the business on lower costs and the move would increase its subscriber base.The announcement came as Affinity posted a pretax loss of &#163;6.6m, compared with &#163;1.2m for the same period in the previous year. The increase in costs was driven by its foreign branches in territories including the Netherlands, South Africa and Australia. Turnover rose from &#163;2m to &#163;5.6m.The firm's UK operation made a profit for the first time - &#163;70,000 gross profit for the first quarter, compared to losses of &#163;779,000 for the same period last year.
Plunging technology stocks and "dot.com doom" aside, Britain is in the grip of e-enthusiasm. Every customer-focused organisation, be it a bank, retailer, charity or council, is recognising that relationships with users and customers in the 21st century will be increasingly electronic.But getting the online communication right, as well as the system that drives it, is still a little-understood art. According to a recent Henley Centre report, two-thirds of private sector managers who have commissioned work on websites say agency professionals talk in jargon,  deliver less than they promise and at a higher price than the initial quotation.Public sector bodies, while not accountable to shareholders, are equally as accountable to their service users and to the government. The target is tough: all public services must be available electronically by 2005, and a quarter by 2003.By the end of next month, all councils must have set out exactly how they plan to tackle electronic service delivery. But progress so far has been anything but stellar: a review of council websites carried out by the Society of Information Technology Management (Socitm) this year found just one fully transactional website out of 442 council sites - Tameside in Greater Manchester.There is a massive sense of urgency in getting local services online. But to do so effectively without budgets spiralling out of control, local authorities (and any other public sector bodies) must be sure the systems they buy in or the developers they hire, are up to the job."It's certainly difficult finding competent people," said Socitm secretary Bob Griffiths. The range and complexity of local authority services makes it harder than straightforward e-commerce, he added. "There's not just a plethora of information to provide, it must be  integrated with back-end systems so people can truly interact with data held about them."Local e-Government now, an analysis report published by Socitm and the local government Improvement and Development Agency (IDeA), isn't glowing about councils' ability to handle this.It points to a widespread lack of skill in project management, risk management and procurement. On risk management, Socitm said: "These are not easy competencies to learn - particularly when dealing with the more innovative dot.com start-up companies.Some procurement guidance will be forthcoming when the joint Department for the Environment, Transport and the Regions (DETR) and Local Government Association review is published. "Large, complex and novel projects" are identified in its terms as a specific challenge.Valerie Vaughan-Dick, lead executive on technology at 4Ps, the body set up to foster public-private sector investment, said councils take one of three approaches when getting their services online.Most do the work in house, but buy in specific skills they don't have. Others contract out all their IT functions, stipulating what they want delivered and when. A handful have strategic partnerships with private sector partners that cover the entire authority and aim to tackle wider issues such as regeneration.Liverpool is one of these, having recently entered into a joint venture with BT to provide electronic services to the tune of £35m in the first year. A £12m one-stop-shop in the city, followed by others, is included in the deal, as is extensive work on the council's call centre.With such a heavyweight IT partner on board, clearly Liverpool officers won't be awake at night wondering whether they've found the right software developer.But Socitm stresses these partnerships are no panacea: "It is becoming clear that only large authorities are able to generate sufficient interest from the market," it said.Brent council's website is cited in Socitm's Better Connected review, as an example of good practice. "Unfortunately we don't have enough money to commission website people - we did it all in house," said the council's information manager Dane Wright.But when it came to the more complicated programming needed to mesh the site with an existing database, the authority called for tenders, went through the standard beauty contest and "picked the software developer we felt happiest with," explained Mr Wright. The council now works with a Lotus business partner, London-based Riva Consulting. Brent is also buying in ergonomic consultancy for a redesign of the site's look and feel.Mr Wright agrees that when dealing with companies that have a short trading history and relatively small portfolio - as many new media agencies do - it's harder to be confident about what you're getting into."Most other authorities do this by word of mouth," he said. Agencies that do a good job for one council are likely to be picked up by others reassured by their peers' positive experience, so there are now a handful becoming specialised in e-government work.Mr Wright believes many of the dangers of web commissioning can be mitigated at the earliest stages by getting the brief right. To do this it is vital e-development is not a project owned solely by IT departments."We have a web steering group made up of representatives from all aspects of the council that makes decisions about the use of the web - housing, social services, education, libraries, and media services," he said. It sounds like common sense, but many councils still leave service areas out of e-delivery decisions - and then those services encounter problems when trying to apply new systems foisted on them, to their back-office working practices.New web design guidance is due soon from the Office of the e-envoy, which Mr Wright says will give councils less scope for "some of the wilder things" done with websites, such as front pages designed only with Flash, a heavy graphical interface that many machines cannot cope with.Tameside - with the UK's only truly transactional council website - was this year granted beacon status for its accessible services. "We're trying to encourage other authorities to develop standards and pool them," said webmaster Nicola Smith. "Certainly anything we develop is available to anyone else for free. But there's only us putting anything into the pot."Tameside's development partner, Network Designers, was one of only a few companies that could work with the council's back-end software. The relationship has been going for some time and works well, says Ms Smith, but she agrees finding the right company is a gamble."It's a shame there are no standards - we're at the front looking around and there's not a lot there."The whole-council approach is borne out by their success. Tameside's team began with an exercise listing every single service that would need inclusion in the website - 740 in all. The council receives "hundreds" of calls from other authorities eager to learn how they've done it. And as one of 25 pathfinder e-government projects funded by the DETR, the Tameside project will help inform local government as a whole.Socitm's Mr Griffiths says the local government culture of sharing ideas and good and bad experiences will provide the bulk of assistance councils need. That principle underpins the IdeA's work, and e-government adviser Martin Ferguson says the agency is busy getting as much information on procuring e-expertise out to councils as it can - including an electronic toolkit and running regional seminars.With support networks cranking up and greater government guidance in the pipeline, 2005 must look less daunting. But getting a full 25% of services running electronically by 2003 is the real deadline: councils' blueprints and much of their systems should be in place by then. If all 467 councils are to make it, it will be with a lot of help from their friends.
With the help of the National Institute for Social Work (NISW), SocietyGuardian.co.uk has put together a list of the most practical and useful websites for people working in social care and related fields. The links below, which have been provided mainly by NISW, cover areas such as research, joint reviews, care standards bill and social work research.NISW, with funding from the Department of Health (DoH) social care group, is developing an electronic library for social care. NISW works throughout the UK and internationally to provide support and a range of services aimed at achieving excellence in practice and management in social work and social care.With the government's quality strategy for social care and the introduction  of new social care organisations, NISW is working with the DoH and the  national assembly for Wales to set up the social care institute for  excellence (Scie).Tutorial on how to use the internet: Easy to follow tutorial that points you towards social care online resources - webpages, databases, gateway sites, electronic journals. Full texts of documents are available and relevant discussion and mailing lists.  The site also provides tools to help learn how use the internet to find information.Electronic Library for Social Care:  The electronic library provides four floors of information covering key research, guidance, standards and best practice information in social care, as well as information for users and carers.  It helps inform practice and includes a best practice guide for first line managers - further guides will follow.  The site aims to increase access to online documents and databases.Her Majesty's Stationery OfficeandOpen.gov: These government websites provide access to the full text of legislation and links to other government sites. Open.gov.uk allows you to search using a topic or organisation index to find government departments and other websites - everything from the Benefits Agency to the National Youth Agency.Social Sciences Information Gateway: The Social Sciences Information Gateway (SOSIG) collects, describes and organises social science resources on the internet. It contains a social welfare section with internet links and includes articles and reports, bibliographic databases, education materials, government publications, government bodies, journals and mailing lists on a range of social welfare topics from adoption and foster care to carers to young people.Joint reviews: Information on the independent assessments of social services departments on how well the local public is served.  This website contains details of the review framework, the review process, the joint review programme, joint reviews reports and who's who in the review team. The full text of each report is available on the site as well as annual reports.The National Association of Social Workers code of ethics:  This is intended to serve as a guide to the everyday professional conduct of social workers. The code is presented in four sections: a summary of the core values of the social work profession, an overview of the code's main functions, the broad ethical principles that inform social work practice and specific ethical standards to guide social workers' conduct and to provide a basis for adjudication. The code was adopted by the NASW in August 1996.Theorising Social Work Research: This website has details of an Economic and Social Research Council funded seminar series running from May 1999 to July 2000. The series is aimed at raising the profile of social work as a research discipline.Social Services Workforce: Full text of statistical data on the social services workforce for 1999, freely downloadable in PDF format (you will needAcrobat Readerto access this document - click on the 'get acrobat reader' box to download this free to your computer).Care standards bill: Full text of the care standards bill, the main purpose of which is to reform the regulatory system for care services in England and Wales.  The bill establishes a new regulatory body, the national care standards commission, and establishes councils to register social care workers and regulate training. It also reforms the regulation of childminders. Other care services involved are listed in detail. The bill was introduced into the UK House of Lords in December 1999, and this is the amended version of January 2000, issued as House of Lords Bills 1999-2000, HL Bill 18.Social care group: This is one of the three business groups in the Department of Health (the NHS executive and public health being the others). The social care group leads the department's policy work on the personal social services and supports the secretary of state in exercising his statutory powers of guidance, direction, inspection and inquiry.World Wide Web Resources for Social Workers: This site was created to facilitate social workers' access to information available on the internet.Association of Directors of Social Services: Basic information about the organisation and best value in social services, plus press releases and a links.British Association of Social Workers: There is information here about parliamentary briefings, events, branch news, special interest groups and other relevant material.Central Council for Education and Training in Social Work: Simple, fairly easy-to-navigate information on issues such as how to become a social worker and funding for social work training. Another positive point is the choice of a Welsh language site.European Social Network: Attractive, easy to navigate site from the independent network of social services directors in five languages. News, information, links.International Federation of Social Workers: Global social work organisation. Straightforward information about its conferences, members and activities.Joseph Rowntree Foundation: Invaluable, well laid-out site, with online bookshop, summaries of research finding, research in progress, responses to government consultation and press releases.National Institute for Social Work: Includes the electronic library for social care, thousands of research abstracts and information about the organisation. A key player in evidence-based social work in the UK.The Social Care Association: Basic information about the organisation.Social care group of the Department of Health (including Social Services Inspectorate): Informative web site with details about the work of the group, service matters such as the performance assessment framework, and relevant publications.Social science information gateway: Top portal for researchers and practitioners in social sciences.Social Work Search: This US-oriented resource linked to the National Association of Social Workers is a social work search engine and portal which can access a vast amount of research.Training Organisation for the Personal Social Services: Information about the work of the national training organisation, such as draft occupational standards. Plus point: a Welsh version.Unison: Useful and easy-to-navigate site from Britain's biggest public sector union. News, information about the union and important issues, listings and databases. Top marks for the online shop where activists can order their campaigning wares.Virtual social work: Useful portal site.Scottish Executive: Easy to navigate, with press releases and publications. Despite the UK's commitment to open government, you'd not find it easy to email politicians or civil servants directly. No separate social work site.The National Assembly for Wales social care site: Policy papers, information about legislation, press releases, links, and Welsh language. Useful bits: a table of contents, a (Welsh assembly) site map and a "recent additions" section.Northern Ireland Executive department of health, social services and public safety: Fairly standard government web site, with press releases, and explanations of policies.Age Concern: Clearly laid-out site with simple factsheets and statistics about older people's issues and information about the work of the charity.British Agencies for Fostering and Adoption: Events, information about how to foster and adopt, press releases and a  publications ordering system.Children in Scotland:  Information about events, publications, what's on in the Scottish parliament and more. Useful site search function.Help the Aged: Has an online shopping service offering mobility aids, adaptations, gardening tools, bed bootees and the like. A neat and full site, with events listings, a rundown of the charity and its work and a wealth of advice on everything from changing the type size on the screen to volunteering, or welfare benefits.National Children's Bureau:  Straightforward site with information about events, projects etc organised by membership charity NCB.Research in Practiceis an important contributor to evidence-based children's services.Sainsbury Centre for Mental Health:    Attractive, easy-to-navigate and useful site, brimming with information, policy documents, information about sites of good practice and more.Tizard Centre:  Details about courses, research papers and the centre itself. Tizard is one of the country's leading UK academic groups working in learning disability, mental health and services for older people.UK Parliament:  Useful, easy to use political research resource. Guides to the workings of parliament and good links to House of Commons and House of Lords web sites, Hansard record of parliamentary debates and committee sessions.Databases on the netAgeInfo:  This is a free online database provided by the Centre for Policy on Ageing. It contains details of books, reports, journal articles and legislation on everything to do with social work and social welfare for older people. It is part of a larger database available on CD-Rom.Caredata: This is a free online database provided by the National Institute for Social Work (NISW). It is an online version of the monthly updating service Caredata Abstracts and contains details of books, reports, journal articles and legislation added each month to NISW's main database, caredataWeb. caredataWeb requires a subscription and password.ChildData: This is published as a CD-Rom and a web version, and is available on annual subscription.  It includes four databases from the National Children's Bureau's Library and Information Service. These are: catalogue - which has comprehensive details, with abstracts, of published information on children and young people;   organisations - a directory of more than 3,000 national and international organisations;   children in the news - summaries of issues affecting children and young people as reported in the national press;  conferences and events - a guide to over 200 forthcoming national and international conferences.Medline: A huge medical database provided by the US National Library of Medicine that can be accessed free on the internet. It contains details of articles from US, UK and European journals on medical care, health care and some social care.Electronic journalsBritish Journal of Social Work: Offers tables of contents and abstracts online for free.Health and Social Care in the Community: This site has a web page accessible for free that offers table of contents and abstracts. Full texts are only availble in printed format.Critical Social Work: An electronic journal offering full texts of its articles for free.Research Policy and Planning: The full text of this journal is available free.  Go to the link and click on "knowledge bases floor".Department of Health:  The department's website points to full text versions of green papers, white papers and other important departmental documents relevant to social work. There are also press releases to update you on the latest news from the department.Discussion listsUKsocwork: A discussion list that offers an electronic interface for social work academics, students and practitioners in the UK to discuss topics of shared interest.Intsocwork: A discussion list aimed at those who have an interest in international or comparative social work.Computer Use in Social Services Network: This mailing list is dedicated to the use of IT and networking in mainly the public social services.Listserv:  It contains an extensive listing of discussion and mailing lists on a range of social work and social welfare topics world wide.CTI-SOC-WORK-UK: A mailing list to discuss issues concerning the introduction of computers into social work education. This is primarily a UK list but relevant contributions from international colleagues is welcomed.Social care links in Northern IrelandThe Northern Ireland Executive has given a commitment to put in place a framework to raise the quality of services provided to the community and tackle issues of poor performance across the health and personal social services.Listed below are documents and key organisations available on the net that are relevant to health and social care in Northern Ireland and to the debate around standards and standard setting.Internet resourcesBest Practice Best Care: consultation paper April 2001:  Titled "A framework for setting standards, delivering services and improving monitoring and regulation in the HPSS" this consultation paper puts forward a framework for raising the quality of health and social care services to the Northern Ireland community, including dealing with underperformance and regional variations in standards and service provision. Published in full in HTML format on the Northern Ireland Department of Health, Social Services and Public Safety website.Partnerships in caring: standards for service: A review of palliative care services, emphasising the importance of joint working between health and social care services, and the involvement of service users and their families. The review makes recommendations for standards of service provision. Available free in PDF format.Review of care in the community February 2000: This detailed report, available free in PDF format, from the Northern Ireland Department of Health, Social Services and Public Safety Social Services Inspectorate website reviews the provision of care in the community and its relationship to the admission and discharge of hospital patients, particularly the elderly and people with mental health problems. It aims to develop "a collaborative and integrated approach to assessment, care management and discharge arrangements so as to ensure the roles and responsibilities of both hospital and community staff are clarified and agreed".Human Rights Act 1998: Preparing for Implementation: This circular (Circular: PRG (STP) 1/00) sets out the implications of the Human Rights Act 1998 for health and social care in Northern Ireland. Available free in HTML format.Human Rights Act 1998: Available in PDF format, the Human Rights Act 1998 in a Northern Ireland context.Child Care in Practice: This quarterly, peer-reviewed journal of multi-disciplinary child care is published by Child Care in Practice, a limited company and registered charity run by practitioners. Published in Northern Ireland, it also contains material from the rest of the UK and Ireland. It publishes a mix of research, practice, policy conference papers and literature reviews. The journal's website contains the editorial of the current edition, full list of articles published, instructions for authors, list of editors, and subscription and advertising rates.Key organisations on the webDepartment of Health, Social Services and Public Safety: The department administers: Health and Personal Social Services, which includes policy and legislation for hospitals, family practitioner services, community health and personal social services; Public Health, which covers responsibility for policy and legislation to promote and protect the health and well-being of the population of Northern Ireland. The department's mission is "to improve the health and social well-being of the people of Northern Ireland". This website contains a 'what's new' section, press releases, information and analysis (including statistics), departmental structure, and lists of publications, many of them available free in HTML or PDF.Northern Ireland Executive: Department for Social Development: The Department for Social Development has strategic responsibility in Northern Ireland for urban regeneration, community and voluntary sector development, housing, social security benefits, pensions and child support. This website contains press releases, publications (available free in PDF format), statistics, benefit law, a search facility and a range of other information on social welfare in Northern Ireland.The Mental Health Association of Ireland: The association aims to provide community services for people with mental health needs and increase public awareness of mental health issues.  Areas of work include: residential schemes; user initiatives; home care; information; training; mental health promotion; research and policy; and the Call Staff Support Scheme. The association's work is based on the principles of normalisation. Its website contains details of the services provided and is a useful starting point for looking at mental health services in Northern Ireland.
It would be nice to be able to attribute Microsoft's capture of the Government's flagship web site to political corruption. Like most elected and unelected dictators, Tony Blair has developed a penchant for being photographed with Bill Gates.The Microsoft boss is accorded virtual head-of-state status whenever he drops in on Downing Street and is ostentatiously 'consulted' by the Government about computers in education.And when New Labour was looking for a hi-tech location for one of the Prime Minister's campaign press conferences they turned up in Microsoft UK's headquarters near Reading. What's going on between Tony and Bill?Alas for conspiracy theorists, this dog won't hunt. The real story is much more depressing. For it turns out that the Government handed over the design and implementation of its prime website to an aggressive foreign monopolist not because Tony and Bill are buddies or because Microsoft gave donations to Labour (it didn't), but   because of the technological ignorance and commercial bias of officials in the Cabinet Office responsible for implementing the government's online strategy.The origins of the fiasco go back to Blair's early infatuation with the net, which he thinks of as a kind of pipe. After much hooey about making the UK the most 'e-friendly' country in Europe, the Prime Minister appointed an 'e-envoy' in the Cabinet Office and charged him with using the internet to link UK citizens to their government.The strategy included putting all government departments online by 2002 and enabling people to conduct a wide variety of routine transactions - from paying taxes to obtaining driving licences - via the internet. The Gateway site (www.gateway.gov.uk) was to be the vehicle for this.Work on the &#163;18 million project began in June 2000 but the original contractor - believed to be Compaq - withdrew from the project after four months for reasons that are still unclear. At this point   there seems to have been near panic in the Cabinet Office, where officials were only too aware of the succession of mismanaged government computing projects that have attracted the wrath of the National Audit Office in the last few years. The possibility that the Government's flagship site might be added to this list of embarrassing cock-ups was unthinkable.After some feverish discussion, e-envoy officials appointed Microsoft as the lead developer last October and gave the company what one observer described as 'a clean slate' to create a technical solution by January 2001 that would meet requirements.Microsoft then teamed up with Dell Computer Corporation, the Texas-based manufacturer of PCs. The deal was that Microsoft would supply the software and Dell the necessary hardware. The site and its infrastructure were put together in 15 weeks, culminating in what Dell executives described as 'a blistering three-week rollout schedule'.Even if anyone involved in the project had been minded to ponder the public policy implications of the design, such a schedule left no time for reflection - not to mention for testing the accessibility of the site to non-Microsoft software.In fact, what the Cabinet Office has obtained for its   &#163;18m is a relatively standard commercial-type system comprising Microsoft Dot-Net software running on 118 clustered Dell PowerEdge servers and eight of Dell's storage area network systems. It's the kind of system Microsoft might have delivered to any large industrial client that was concerned about getting an e-commerce operation up and running quickly.Successful completion of the project was announced with great fanfare - at a Microsoft meeting in Seattle in which the e-envoy was accorded a walk-on part and sang a short hymn to the company under the banner 'Microsoft helps turn Britain's e-government vision into reality'.For a supposedly impartial civil servant to allow himself to be manipulated in this way is remarkable, but observers close to the e-envoy's office are not surprised. Two years ago, the Gateway would have been implemented by the CCTA, a group of computing professionals who were committed to open - ie non-proprietary - standards, and who created a series of highly acclaimed sites running on Linux servers for the Queen, MI5 and others.But last April the CCTA was folded into the new Office of Government Commerce and effectively disappeared from the Whitehall scene, leaving the e-envoy's officials   bereft of dispassionate technological guidance when tackling the Gateway project.Which goes a long way to explaining why they were such easy meat for the boys from Redmond when the first contractor pulled out and panic struck. The old corporate adage that 'nobody ever got fired for buying IBM' has come back to haunt us - except that now it says that nobody in the Government will get fired for buying Microsoft.But the public interest is poorly served by this mindset. It means that the cornerstone of the Government's internet infrastructure is totally dependent on the closed, proprietary software of a foreign monopolist. And, by endorsing a system that effectively shuts out users running non-Microsoft software, the Government is endorsing a single vendor of key products, thereby strengthening Microsoft's monopolistic hold on the market for software.As the journalists who broke the Gateway story put it: 'Does the Government really intend to force UK companies to run Microsoft operating systems on all of their devices in order to do business with agencies, departments and local authorities?'Well, Tony: does it?John.Naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
At the time,  Inside.com  seemed an excellent idea. Business, particularly media business, was sexy in early 1999. Businessmen and women, particularly media titans and internet adventurers, were the pop stars of the era.In the media-obsessed goldfish bowls of New York and Los Angeles there was apparent reason to believe that an online magazine devoted to the media and entertainment industries would succeed handsomely.Although these were areas already covered by trade publications such as  Variety,  AdWeek,  Kirkus Review,  Billboard  and  Industry Standard, as well as in the financial papers such as the  Wall Street Journal, Financial Times  and the  New York Times,  none offered a near-instantaneous, one-stop media shop that  Inside.com  would offer subscribers - what its business plan called a 'must-read online site for members of the cultural elite'.Gossipy, fast, accurate, well written: this would be exactly what members of 'the new entertainment economy' needed to stay abreast of rapid developments.The architects of the plan were New York author and former magazine editor Kurt Andersen,  Esquire  veteran Michael Hirschorn and publisher Deanna Brown.They presented their idea to James Cramer, a hedge-fund manager and co founder of  TheStreet.com,  an online financial news site whose public offering had catapulted its stock price skyward by more than 200 per cent on its first day of trading.The odds were good.  Inside,  they reasoned, would soon become profitable - 100,000 subscribers paying $300 a year would account for 40 per cent of revenues, a further 40 per cent would come from advertising and the rest from conferences and the sale of industry surveys.Top journalists would be lured with stock options and the chance to be frontiersmen   of a new publishing world that would quickly leave old-style print struggling for survival.They came up with a suitably impressive name - Powerful Media - and a stirring manifesto to inspire employees. 'This is a great opportunity to really help invent a form, not unlike magazines at the beginning of the twentieth century, or even newspapers and the novel in the eighteenth and nineteenth... Our key journalistic goals: Correctness. Insiderness. Juiciness. Utility. Honesty. Smartness. Go kill.'Unlike many dotcoms,  Inside  is not dead. Nor is there any reason to suppose that it is about to shutter up.    Earlier this year it was bought by Steven Brill, the egocentric founder of  American Lawyer  and  Brill's Content,  the glossy media watchdog publication launched two years ago in a blaze of publicity. But both  Brill's Content  and  Inside.com  have lost the revolutionary fervour that accompanied their arrivals on the media scene.Unlike so many dotcoms, which were not good ideas in the first place and were poorly executed to boot,  Inside  has become an unfortunate lesson in how even dotcoms executed with professionalism have floundered.In a penetrating study of the d&eacute;bcle published in the  New Yorker  last week, writer Ken Auletta charted how the euphoria turned sour. Between conception &#91;when raising money was easier 'than it   was to get laid in 1969', remarked Anderson&#93; and birth in May 2000, the internet economy had stumbled and crashed.Other online sites had already discovered that web users were not prepared to pay for information, nor were advertisers enamoured with the banner-type displays the internet offered. But with $35 million in investment funding,  Inside  was carried forward on a platform of optimism and denial.Reality soon intruded. Subscribers never numbered more than a few thousand, less than the rumoured 20,000 and far less than the hundreds of thousands anticipated.At the same time, comparable ventures such as  TheStreet, Salon.com  and the  Slate  were cutting back on staff and expectations. Even more alarming, publications such as the  New York Times,  which  had poured investment into online operations, were cutting back too.But no publications have suffered like those covering the media and technology.  Red Herring,  once as fat as the phone book with advertising and staffed by hundreds, recently cut 54 of its remaining 260 staffers and is now for sale.  The Industry Standard,  launched in 1998 with a staff of 30, quickly ballooned to as much as 300 pages a week, a 200,000 circulation and staff of 400. It, too, is now struggling. Even  Wired,  the venerable tech-world magazine, has seen its advertising revenue drop by more than 35 per cent.Late last year it was clear that  Inside  could not survive without a partner. Less than 10 months after it launched it was for sale. Brill made an offer, promising to marry his media assets with  Inside  and keep the magazine and its original manifesto running. However, like so many new-media publications now struggling for survival, that was not the outcome.Brill and  Inside 's founders    clashed, 40 per cent of staff were fired and  Brill's Content,  now named  Inside Content,  was reduced to four issues a year. Moreover,  Inside 's own print publication - initiated to attract advertising in an ironic reversal of the original intent, and costing some $10m in investment - was shut down after two issues.The effect of the online magazine slump is easy to see. As many publications have cut staff, stories are fewer and the reporting sparser.  Salon, for instance, now relies heavily on the AP news wire to fill content. Most provide links to stories published elsewhere, acting effectively as table of contents pages for other outlets. 'It's thinner, it's shallower, it's more mass market,' says  Salon  reader Dan Smidlapp. Journalists who rushed to join internet publications now wonder how they became part of one of history's great hype machines.Still, the perception that web users will not pay is incorrect: Bloomberg Professional Service charges $1,250 a month for financial data; the  Wall Street Journal 's online version had grown to 574,000 subscribers, who pay between $29 and $59 a year for   access, and electronic library services like Factiva now count hundreds of thousands of subscribers.'We were going to be huge and unstoppable and take over the world,' says Peter Gumbel, a  Wall Street Journal  veteran who quit to join Busi ness.com, which recently cut a quarter of its staff. 'Now the question is, can we make it? The moment of truth has arrived.'For  Inside.com,  perhaps the boldest of the new economy media adventures, the hope is it can keep going until web users decide they will pay for information.But no one is holding their breath.In an  Inside  piece last December entitled 'The Revolution Is Glorious, and the Sky Is Falling - Get Used to It,' Andersen wrote that one could look at Christopher Columbus as a failure.'His business model did not pan out: no western route to Asia, hardly any gold, abandonment by his investors, not much of an enduring first-mover advantage for Spain... but he discovered America.'That's quite a stretch of reasoning - but one that still sustains.Insiders looking outKurt Anderson, aged 46:Ultimate New York media insider and head of strategic initiatives at  Inside.com.  Co-founder of the influential  Spy Magazine &#91;with Graydon Carter, editor of  Vanity Fair&#93;, former editor of  New York magazine and  New Yorker  writer.He is also author of  Turn of Century, a novel about Manhattan media that sold poorly - perhaps an earlier indication that the public's fascination with the media is far less than those in the media like to think.Michael Hirschorn, 37Given the title of 'Ambassador' at Inside and ascribed the role of 'building relationships in New York and Los Angeles'.A former editor at  New Republic, features editor at  Esquire, editor of  Spin, and  Inside.com's  editorial prime mover and staff cheerleader.
The Council of Europe has drawn up the first ever international plan to combat cyber crime by harmonising criminal policy and procedure across all member states.The draft treaty - which will be presented to the European committee on crime problems (CDPC) on 18 June - will bring in a number of new computer-related offences, including online fraud and hacking, and will extend search and seizure laws.If these offences are not already illegal under member states' laws, they will have to add them to their criminal codes. The council wants to avoid a situation such as that which occurred in the Philippines, where it was unable to prosecute the creator of the destructive "I love you" virus because the country had no criminal charge that fit the dissemination of viruses.The draft treaty creates nine criminal offences: illegal access, illegal interception, data interference, system interference, misuse of devices, computer-related forgery, computer-related fraud, online child pornography and offences related to copyright and neighbouring rights.According to technology lawyer Mike Pullen, the treaty will form the basis for stricter legislation from the European commission."The Council of Europe treaty closes a lot of loopholes. It's a good start and it's in line with the European convention on human rights," Mr Pullen said.Yesterday the commission published a draft convention on cyber crime that calls for comprehensive threat warning systems, common standards for encryption and greater education for companies and individuals about the security risks of email.Erkki Liikanen, the European commissioner responsible for enterprise and information society, said that the openness of the internet "entails certain risks and that is why we need a strategy at European level to tackle existing and emerging security threats."But Mr Pullen warned that corporations and internet service providers may want to argue about the commission's moves on preservation of data. The Council of Europe treaty calls for data to be preserved for 90 days, allowing police or security services to launch an investigation. But some police forces have been lobbying the commission for a much stricter seven year preservation order.Useful linksDraft convention on cyber crimeCouncil of EuropeNetwork and Information Security: Proposal for a European Policy Approach
When I tell people that I am an "ethical consumer", they often raise their eyes skyward. They then mutter something about how virtuous I am, as if it was a bad thing, or say apologetically that they would like to be more ethical if it wasn't so difficult/expensive or time consuming.In fact, with a wealth of ethical shopping sites on the web, it is neither time consuming nor difficult to shop and stick to your principles. I am not promising that it will be cheap, but it doesn't always have to be more expensive either. The web also allows access to those smaller companies whose products are not easily found outside the main cities, or even in them, for that matter.For consumers who need to be convinced about the power of ethical shopping, the first stop online should bewww.ethicalconsumer.org, which explores some of the major achievements brought about by consumer pressure over the years, and the philosophy behind ethical consumerism. It also has information on all the latest consumer boycotts.If you would like to know more about the issues surrounding your purchases,    check outwww.greenchoices.org, which has introductory articles on the issues of each shopping category and links to some of the best ethical companies and organisations on the web selling everything from food to holidays.Visiting other shopping sites through portals such as Green Choices also relieves you of worrying about the credentials of each company, as all sites have already been carefully screened. Similar, but less extensive portals includewww.ethicalexchange.co.ukandwww.ethicaljunction.co.uk.For one-stop ethical shopping there are a few websites from which to choose. The small independent Greenshop offers a mail order service throughwww.greenshop.co.uk. It stocks a range of essentials of its own and many well-known ethical brands.The most extensive one-stop ethical shop online is most probably the Natural Collection catalogue atwww.naturalcollection.com, a trading partner for Friends of the Earth. It has a good environmental approach and stocks everything you could possibly need for an ethical lifestyle and a few things you probably don't, such as the solar-powered cappucino whisk. Food products are organic and largely suitable   for vegetarians and vegans, and all wood is FSC certified.You could also try the Big Issue and Red Pepper'swww.getethical.com, which stocks products from a wide range of ethical companies and donates some of its profits to charities.Your shopping can also help a good cause if you buy online by visiting the links on Christian Aid'swww.fish.co.uk/shop. If workers' rights are your priority, then you can get a range of fairly traded goods from oxfam.org.uk/shop and a wider range of fairly traded food fromwww.traidcraft.co.uk/retailonline.html.While few of us manage to make it out to Wales to visit the Centre for Alternative Technology, its website (seewww.cat.org.ukis much more accessible. For consumers who wish to take their ethical credentials one step further, there are courses and books on how to make your life more sustainable, and a range of energy-saving products, such as radiator insulator panels and solar battery rechargers.If you would prefer to wear those credentials on your sleeve, you could do worse than visit greenfibres.co.uk which sells clothes made without exploitation from organic fabrics. And speaking of fabrics, you cannot get more ethical than the new fabric of choice, hemp. It grows without the need for pesticides, is biodegradable and is even being used in plastics.Motherhempnot only sells hemp clothes, but oils and papers too.Being a parent is an ethical minefield in today's world of disposable nappies, plastic bottles and PVC toys, but alternatives to these and more are found at the online shop ofwww.greenbabyco.comAnd cat owners can appease their consciences about all the birds being killed at the paws of their moggy by making ethical pet purchases, including vegetarian dog food, homeopathic pet remedies or organic cat litter from www . bluepet.co.uk .Many vitamins are not suitable for vegetarians or vegans and are supplied by large multinationals. To find information about the first vitamin company marketing itself as "ethical" visitwww.viridian-nutrition.com. The company donates 50% of its profits to charities.Finally, remember that being ethical doesn't mean being a dour-faced killjoy.For a principled tipple, visitwww.vinceremos.co.ukor vintageroots.co.uk , which both sell organic wines and spirits, orwww.ecovin.com/sedlescombe, which sells organic British wines, juices and ciders.
PS2 CutSony Computer Entertainment Europe cut the UK price of the PlayStation 2 by &#163;30 to &#163;269.99 on Monday, but stressed that this was not a "strategic" move. It was not a response to Microsoft's forthcoming Xbox games console, but the result of exchange rate changes in Europe. "We altered   our trade rate so that the UK doesn't fall out of step," SCEE's marketing director said. This lets us assume there will be another price cut when the more advanced Xbox and cheaper Nintendo Gamecube finally do arrive.PSXnixWith Sony about to support Linux on the PlayStation 2, a Czechoslovakian company, Blokman Trading, is offering a version for the original PSX as well. An untested version of the Linux 2.4 kernel can now be downloaded fromwww.runix.ru, with a game development kit and office package to follow. The PS2 version will come later. Seewww.runix.ru/news_n.htmlfor details.Pearl HarborThere isn't a game of the film, but Koch hopes to capitalise on the hype with a mission-based arcade-style flight simulation game, Pearl Harbor: Strike at Dawn. It should be available in the UK now, for the PC. US and mail-order buyers can also pick up Pearl Harbor: Zero Hour, another mission-based arcade-style flight simulator, published in the US by Simon &amp; Schuster International, and Pearl Harbor: Pacific Warriors, ValuSoft's budget-priced example of the genre. Pearl Harbor: Defend the Fleet, from Wizard Works, takes a different view: you play a gunner, on deck as the dive-bombers scream in.Wannabe juniorEvery adult in the UK has already bought at least one copy of Eidos Interactive's record-breaking game, Who    Wants To Be A Millionaire, so now the company is producing a junior version for children aged 8-14. Again, there's a voice-over by the host of the TV show, Chris Tarrant.   The game will be available for PCs running Microsoft Windows 98 or later and Sony PlayStations next month. After that, no doubt, an Infants Edition and special versions for pets...October datedThe final version of Championship Manager 3 will be released in October, with teams and fixtures for the 01/02 football season. It will include a data editor that will let saddoes give themselves maximum skill points and pick themselves for their team. However, this is not the end of civilisation as we know it. Championship Manager 4 will be released next year.
Scoot.com was last night facing an uncertain future after Vivendi Universal rejected the chance to take over the online directory service for just a fraction of its former value.Shares in Scoot.com slumped 24% to 10.25p after Vivendi, which is Scoot's biggest shareholder and has in the past paid more than 300p for Scoot shares, withdrew from discussions that could have seen it take control of the remainder of the company for as little as 15p per share. Scoot, which last year was worth as much as &#163;2.5bn, is now capitalised at just &#163;73m.It will try to avert a cash crisis by attempting to entice a takeover from continental directory services groups Wanadoo or Seat Pagine Gialle. The loss-making company, which has been hit by technology problems, is not expected to make a profit for another two years. It had earlier described Vivendi's 15p per share offer as "wholly inadequate".Analysts believe that Vivendi may be prepared to sell its 22.4% stake to avert a huge write off on the estimated &#163;280m it has spent buying Scoot shares. That stake is now worth &#163;16.4m.Scoot, which has appointed Merrill Lynch to review its business, may be forced to break itself up or raise money by securitising the cash flow from Loot, its stable of free newspapers.Analysts project that the &#163;31m Scoot had left in the bank at the end of December will have dwindled to around &#163;20m by the end of this month.Shareholders who have stuck with the firm now face the prospect of seeing their holdings further diluted by debenture holders who may now look to convert their holdings into shares.&#149; Shares in Priceline.com jumped 20% yesterday following news that Hong Kong tycoon Li Ka-shing, was boosting his stake in the internet site that matches buyers and sellers.
Hoaxed!I am one of the tens of thousands of users who believed this virus hoax and wiped SULFNBK.EXE from my PC. When I realised my mistake, I attempted to re-install it from my Windows 98 CD, but couldn't find it. What shall I do?Norma Duncannormaduncan@madasafish.comJack Schofield replies:The SULFNBK.EXE was unusually successful, and   will probably make more trips round the net.Email virus warnings are always hoaxes, or as near "always" as makes no practical difference. They are also useless, since viruses that use people's address books to mail themselves to your contacts travel much faster than the warnings about them.Before passing on what looks like a genuine message, you should always check it at one of the hoax sites such asVmythsor an anti-virus software vendor's site such asData Fellows,SophosorSymantec. Hoaxes are well documented and Vmyths' coverage of SULFNBK.EXE was excellent.SULFNBK.EXE was covered on the Symantec site on April 17. Details of how to restore the file - which are somewhat lengthy - are on its site atwww.symantec.com/avcenter/venc/data/sulfnbk.exe.warning.htmlHowever, it wasn't a very important file. If you don't replace it, you probably won't miss it.Trojan menaceMy friends tell me that I should have a firewall. How   necessary is it? I have a virus scanner that I keep up to date and realise that a firewall does something different, but it seems to me it is just something else to worry about.Liz Pearcetickytacky@btinternet.comJS:Your friends are right. Indeed, it may be more important to run a firewall than an anti-virus program, for two reasons. First, common macro viruses are easier to spot than hackers, who may place and use Trojans or "bots" (software robots) on your computer. Second, a hacker can do more damage than most viruses, assuming you have proper back-ups of the data on your hard drive.If a hacker finds or manages to plant a Trojan program on your PC, he can do almost anything he wants. For some insight, see the G2 cover story (June 5) and Steve Gibson's account of attacks on his website athttp://grc.com/dos/grcdos.htm.Fortunately, there is at least one good free firewall available - Zone Alarmwww.zonelabs.com. It does not hurt to run two. But even if you run a firewall, don't assume you are safe. Keep a lookout for odd or anomalous events, such as unknown programs trying to access the net from your PC.Small keypadsHas any company developed an alternative usable miniature keypad giving full Qwerty 100+ upper &amp; lower case letters, number and symbols for phones and palmtops that doesn't require a stylus or a magnifying glass to use it?Bernard Canavanbcanavan@hotmail.comJS:I use a Targus Stowaway keyboard (seewww.targus.com), which is very good and folds up to roughly the same size as a handheld computer. More recently, Matias Corporation has launched theHalfkeyboardin the US for $99. See http://halfkey board. com/research/ for how it works. There is a review atwww.the-gadgeteer.com/halfkeyboard-review.htmlMake sure your chosen input device will work with your chosen handheld before buying either.Mailing groupsWhen I send an email to a group, as described in Online last week, how can I avoid each recipient seeing all the other recipients' names and email addresses? I tried using the BCC: field, leaving the To: field blank, but that puts Undisclosed-Recipient: into the addressee field, which is effective but seems a bit unfriendly!Nic Vinenic.vine@thewhitelabel.comJS:You can put the group's addresses in the BCC: field and your own address - or one of your own addresses - in the To: field.Favorites tipMay I pass on a great tip I was given recently? If you click on the Favorites menu in Internet Explorer, then hold down the shift key as you click on Organize   Favorites, you can edit your favourites in Windows Explorer instead of using the IE organiser which is, as you say, "extremely cumbersome".Julian ChildJulian.Child@britishcouncil.orgJS:Thanks for the tip. This is much better than IE's organiser, though I still prefer to move links around manually in C:\Windows\ FavoritesFeedbackLast week I suggested Microsoft's free Word viewers as a way of reading Word documents without buying a copy of Microsoft Word. Several readers suggested non-free alternatives that read a range of file types.Harold Stern,Conrad Corkand others find QuickView Plus invaluable because it reads more than 200 file formats. It costs $49 fromJasc.
Fire crews spent an hour searching an office block for a trapped parrot - only to find the squawking bird was a computer screen saver.A startled security guard raised the alarm after hearing "Who's a pretty boy then" coming from what he thought was a bird wedged in a roof void.Firefighters went to the West Midlands House building in Willenhall, near Wolverhampton, early yesterday to rescue the feathered culprit.But it was only after they had kicked down an office door that they found the loud mouth parrot bouncing up and down and grinning at them - on a PC screen.Sub officer Dave Hingley, of West Midlands fire service, said: "It was a screen saver which had its volume turned right up and there was a parrot squawking."There were other animals too, elephants and all sorts, but it was this parrot we heard."Still it wasn't a totally wasted visit - we found a faulty fluorescent light which could have caused a fire."
Only one in three Wap users in the UK actually surf the internet from their mobile phones. These figures, from the annual cellular customer satisfaction study by JDPowerwere revealed at theMobilexposhow in Birmingham last month.The study found that, while around 10% of British households now have access to a Wap-enabled mobile phone, people are simply not using the Wap function.This experience is borne out byMTV'sexperience with its Videoclash TV programme, first aired in the UK and Ireland in February this year, and billed as the world's first interactive cross-platform show.Viewers can vote for their favourite videos by sending in a text message using their mobile phone or by visiting the MTV Wap or websites. An MTV spokeswoman, Eleanor Parker, says that although viewers have been keen to   interact using SMS text messaging, Wap take-up has been relatively poor.So what does this say about the future for the mobile internet?There are applications for the technology, but users seem to be looking for larger - and colour - screens, such as that seen on theSiemensSIMPad.The SIMPad bears an uncanny resemblance to a child's Etch A Sketch, except that it allows mobile users to surf the internet in full colour and graphics - and at high speeds using digital cordless (DECT) radio channels.The unit looks like a flat screen monitor for a PC, except that there is no keypad. Instead, users control the freestanding device, which weighs around 1kg, using a touchscreen and stylus.The operating system on the unit is Microsoft's PocketPC and allows users to surf the internet, access their email and complete many of the functions they normal do at their desktop, but on a mobile basis, with four hours'   steady use between charges.Software pre-loaded on the SIMPad, which will be launched later in the summer, includes Pocket Outlook, Pocket Word, Pocket Excel and Pocket PowerPointEventually, it is likely we will see the SIMPad in a GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) version, for use across the high-speed mobile internet services launched byBT CellnetandVodafonein recent weeks.More immediately, the SIMPad is compatible with most digital cordless base stations already seen in the home and office, allowing users to roam around their homes and offices provided they stay within a few hundred feet of their base station.The SIMPad will sell in two versions. The consumer edition, at &#163;700, has a facility to accept flash memory cards that boosts the onboard memory of the unit to 64 MB.The business edition will sell for around &#163;100 more and include a PCMCIA card slot to allow Ethernet LAN   cards and other office systems to be interfaced with the unit.BT Cellnet, meanwhile, has found another use for the mobile internet - company email on the move - using Research In Motion'sBlackberry PDA(personal digital assistant).Externally, the unit looks like a flattened regular PDA, but with extra features such a thumb-operated trackwheel. The unit also has a thumb-operated keyboard and a large backlit screen, as well as   email and other personal organiser software preloaded.Despite its small size (2.5 x 3.5 x 0.93 inches), the Blackberry handheld has more than 15 million transistors at its heart. Along with an LCD screen and sufficient memory to support multiple applications, the unit comes with a PC docking cradle and Windows desktop software.The device sells for around &#163;450 for companies to interface with their office-based email systems, and supports an always-on connection across high-speed mobile internet radio channels.Users will also need to shell out an extra &#163;39 a month for a subscription to BT Cellnet's fledgeling GPRS facility, allowing them to pipe up to 5MBof data to and from the Blackberry.If Blackberry sounds an odd name for PDA, there are a number of other fruits that have become household names - Apple and Orange spring to mind.This still, of course, leaves Plum and Pear as possible names for mobile services.
Technology has the power to change your life or ruin your day, and can sometimes do both. The possibilities offered by IT are often so alluring and the potential returns so great that many organisations are prepared to invest heavily.Unfortunately, many of these investments are either lost or do not deliver the returns expected. This month's postponement of Japan's third generation (3G) phones, the quadrupling in cost of Railtrack's west coast link to the north, and the abandonment of the Home Office immigration IT system are just the latest additions to the Icarus list - IT projects whose ambition exceeded their ability to deliver.Considering the length of the Icarus List - recent additions to the public sector category alone include the abandoned project to pay benefits through post offices, the flawed passport system and the cancelled MoD communications system -the wonder is not that so many fail, but that any ever succeed. But succeed they do, although often not in the way that was originally envisaged.One major factor in the challenges faced by IT projects is the level of novelty that must be managed. Many IT projects are highly complex, high-risk ventures that aim to deliver innovative outcomes by employing novel clusters of technologies in new and often evolving organisational contexts. Figures published by the Standish Group indicate that only 28% are successful, the remainder being either abandoned, delivered late, over- budget, or with lower functionality that envisaged. With those kind of figures, embarking on a major IT project is not just a triumph of hope   over experience, but also very good business for lawyers.However, the current "joined-up government" initiative depends fundamentally upon the ability of the public sector to deliver both profound IT-enabled organisational change and a large number of new, complex and interlocking IT systems. The mismatch between the ambition and reality was a key factor in the adoption of a more rigorous and comprehensive approach to IT procurement that is now in place. This approach, outlined in the recent McCartney report, is a   key part of a broad reform of public sector procurement that is overseen by the Office for Government Commerce. The systems and procedures now appear to be in place to prevent further public sector IT disasters and improve overall performance.The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) has launched a project aimed at creating a better understanding of the issues affecting public sector IT projects.But although the UK is struggling, there is little evidence that other govern ments are doing much better. For example, key elements of the software for the Bibliotheque Nationale de France were delivered nearly two years late with a budget overshoot of more than 40%. Even when it did go live, the problems were such that staff walked out, complaining of verbal abuse from readers waiting for books. The Tress 90 unemployment benefit system within the Norwegian Ministry of Labour shared the problems of poor project scoping and management, timetable slippage and escalating costs common to many public sector IT projects.The challenges facing governments in delivering successful IT-enabled change are much the same as those faced by all organisations involved in IT projects, albeit in a more acute form. However, the very open nature of public sector IT failures diverts attention from the private sector IT projects suffering many of the same outcomes. The challenge common to both sectors is to manage the conception and delivery of the IT systems that will underpin the dot.com, dot.gov world, systems whose complexity is increasing dramatically.These characteristics are not unique to IT but are found across a range of hi-tech industries. Such   highly complex systems, and the challenges faced in their creation, together form an unprecented new class of product. They may be the technological wonders of our time, but there is much to be understood about the process of their creation.The work of improving the understanding of such highly sophisticated products is taking place at all levels. At the industry level, collaborative work with research groups is delivering insights that have significant implications for critical activities across the development lifecycle. In contrast, the Human Centred Process Improvement Group, a collaboration of practitioners from a range of organisations, is taking an end-user perspective on the effectiveness of systems.The strength of such work lies in the diversity of the industrial collaborators and the multidisciplinary nature of its approach, enabling important research findings to play a pivotal role in the   development of best practice. But while such collaboration is making an important contribution to many of the UK's leading companies, they are not necessarily learning the same things, or applying them in the same way. Nor should they, since the needs of industries differ dramatically. Which brings us back to IT.The IT industry, more specifically the bit that develops bespoke software such as the Home Office Immigration System, still has a lot of growing up to do. The bespoke software business and its clients are, consciously or not, evolving towards a state in which both the ends and the means of applying technology to organisational processes will be understood more clearly. However, as the growing Icarus List shows, there is still some way to go.&amp;#149:  Steve Flowersshf@brighton.ac.ukis a principal fellow in the ESRC Complex Product Systems Innovation Centre, University of Brighton
The world's most popular suite of applications programs got a sleek new look last Thursday when Microsoft launched the first new version of Office for Windows since June 1999. And whether users like Office XP or not, it could well give Microsoft a $3.6 billion boost, according to Chris Le Tocq of Guernsey Research, partly because of changes in corporate licensing terms.Office is already Microsoft's biggest money-spinner, and brings in about $8 billion a year: roughly a third of Microsoft's annual revenues. It is a bigger business than Kellogg or Apple, and not far short of Colgate-Palmolive. If many of the 250 million users of Office applications can be persuaded to shell out &#163;200 (including VAT) for an upgrade, that should make a noticeable difference to Microsoft's $30 billion cash pile.Many people will, of course, spend more. The standard version of Office XP includes four applications: Word (word processing), Excel (spreadsheet), PowerPoint (presentation manager) and Outlook (email and personal information manager). There are also more expensive versions with extra applications, including Access (database), Publisher (desktop publishing), FrontPage (website design and site management), and the all-new SharePoint Team Services, described by Microsoft as "an intranet in a box".At the UK launch, most of Office XP's new features, such as the language translation facilities and the ability to scan simple pages or faxes and convert them to text, were not even mentioned. The built-in voice recognition was downplayed. Admittedly these are entry-level features, uncompetitive with standalone applications. However, today's mantra is ease of use. Pride of place was therefore given to "smart tags" and "task panes", which make it much easier to use features already built into Office.Smart tags - "buttons with brains" - provide pop-up menus inside office documents. What they offer   depends on the context. If you are pasting a web page into a Word document, the tag offers to paste it in the style of the page or the style of the document or as text. A button could equally well convert a number between Imperial and metric units, or look up a dictionary, or fetch data from a database or website.Type in BA252, for example. This could be recognised as a flight number, and a smart tag could offer to fetch details from the Official Airline Guide and book your flight. Microsoft is offering a free development kithttp://msdn.microsoft.com/office/xp/smarttags.aspto make it easy for suppliers to create smart tags, and users will be able to download them from websites.A useful smart tag in Word lets you tell the software not to correct a word you have typed correctly which AutoCorrect thinks is wrong. Other smart tags work with   names and addresses, telephone numbers, dates, times, and place-names.Pop-up "task panes" are also a welcome addition. When you run Word 2002, for example, the first task pane provides links to your most recent documents and lets you select a blank document, web page or email template. Yes, you can do the same things from pull-down menus, if you know where to look. Task panes just make life easier for people who don't.Oliver Roll, Microsoft UK's marketing director, says a study by VNU Labs showed Office XP enabled users to do   things in 13% less time, saving about an hour a day. At that rate, heavy users would find the upgrade paid for itself in a month or two.But "super users" need not worry about "de-skilling". There are still lots of neat features that most users will never find. One example in Word 2002 is the ability to save a file not just to a hard drive but straight to an online folder on MSN.In fact, casual users may be hard pressed to tell the difference between Office 2000 and Office XP, apart from the obvious visual changes to the interface. This is deliberate. Whatever creative things Microsoft might like to do with Office, its hands are tied by the product's success. The governments and large corporations that make up the bulk of the Office market do not want to spend any money retraining staff to use a new version: the training would cost more than the software.   With XP, they won't have to.Whether it is really worth upgrading is, of course, a more complex issue. In my view, Office 2000 SR1 (Service Release 1, not the latest version, SR2) has been by far the best choice. Serious Office users who did not upgrade from Office 95 or 97 have already wasted a lot of time and money, and should upgrade to XP as soon as possible. Going from 95 to XP is like going from a Ford Fiesta to a Mercedes.However, for people who are already using Office 2000, the benefits of XP are far from essential. Rather than a new car, it is more like having the current model resprayed, and a few optional extras thrown in.Nonetheless, industry analysts such as Le Tocq and the Gartner Group expect a rush to upgrade to XP before October 1, because Microsoft plans to change the way it licenses Office to corporations with more than 500 PCs. Companies that join its new Software Assurance scheme will get future upgrades at lower prices.However, SA will only be open to users of the current version, so they will have to upgrade to XP to join the scheme. And if they don't pay the upgrade price now, they will have to pay the full price for their next version.Companies that had not planned to upgrade this year, and don't feel they need to, could feel they are being pushed into it. Still, there is nothing to stop them sticking with the version they have.If most big companies upgrade, there will be a short-term bulge in Microsoft's Office revenues, and reduced revenues in future. The advantage for Microsoft is that, with Office sold on what   is essentially a subscription basis, it will get a predictable flow of cash, instead of the lumpy income that comes from upgrades. It could also reduce the problem of piracy.When it comes to the consumer/home office market, most of the people who need something as powerful as Office probably have it already. The problem is that they may not have paid for it. In this case, Microsoft is taking a different approach. When you install a retail copy of Office XP, it runs an Activation Wizard, which calls up a Microsoft server and records a number based on the software key from the CD and the hardware it is installed on. If you don't let it "activate", it stops working.Microsoft says publicly that a copy of Office can be used by one individual on two machines, such as a desktop PC and a notebook. Privately, people say the company isn't bothered about families sharing discs, only cases where the same ID code is used hundreds or thousands of times. That may be true today, but one imagines the screw will be tightened in the future.It also seems rather stupid not to have a "de-activate" feature, so that the wizard also dials up when you want to take Office off one system and install it on another. It could even have a "hardware upgrade" wizard, for when you want to change a PC's processor or motherboard.Some people are bound to whinge about Microsoft's attempt to reduce software theft, though "activation" is not "registration" and does not involve any personal data. But it is hardly worth bothering about in countries where the government can read your email and you have no privacy online anyway, such as the UK.
Circle lineA new website is looking to end the age-old headache of finding a good babysitter. The Babysitting Circle brings together local groups of parents around the UK to babysit for each other. Families enter the date and time they need help, and the message goes out to the circle of between 10 and 30 members. Anyone able to help simply replies by email.Security, obviously, is an important point: the organisers suggest circles hold social events to get to know each other, and point out that using other mothers - rather than inexperienced teenagers - is both cheaper and safer. New members cannot join circles without the majority of members agreeing.In what is, presumably, an effort to drive up the number of registered users and so reach critical mass, membership of the circle is free, although using the babysitting feature costs &#163;14.95 a yearwww.babysittingcircle.orgTube talkSometimes community websites can be a little contrived, trying to bring together a group of people too busy, disparate or indifferent to contribute to the message boards the webmaster has tacked on the site.No such problem atTubehell, where the forum seethes with the indignation of hundreds of London commuters. They are drawn to the site (motto: "I am not a sardine, I am a human being"), not just by the boards, but by the wealth of travel information that Tubehell provides.The data on delays, closures and the various indignities forced on tube users daily is gathered from a legion of "Tubehellers" who report back as they go about their business in the capital. The information is then posted back out via web, SMS and Wap. Indeed, the fast 'n' simple Tubehell Wap site is one of the best uses of the much-mocked technology I've seen.Plot revealedFirst we had the Naked Chef, now we have the Naked Novelist. Only this time, the Naked subject really doesn't plan to have any clothes on as she works. Fiction writer Carol Muskoron has decided to write her latest novel in the    nude, posting instalments as she works on her websitewww.nakednovelist.comIn a perhaps inspired move to get more hits on her website and, er, gain more exposure, she is also providing a live RealVideo stream of herself at work.That video feed wasn't working when Online looked in (purely in the interests of research, naturally) and we will have to wait and see if it ever gets going, but in the meantime there is always plenty of free fiction to read, which was why you were interested in the first place, wasn't it?Party piecesThe General Election of '97 might be remembered as being the first where we could debate the merits of parties and candidates on the web. The poll of this year will probably go down as the first where we all played silly Shockwave games that    mocked the politicians, in preference to joining in the earnest discussions. Few of the games merit a mention - it all became a bit dreary after the web-design agencies jumped on the bandwagon - but MTV's superb Stereo MPs page merits a discussion. Choose the venue (Ibiza beach is my favourite) pick the music and set the lighting, and dance, Anne Widdecombe, dance!www.mtv.co.uk/content/fun/games/stereo_mps.Kicking sandFootball fans are in a state of denial now the season is over, reduced to feigning illness so they can catch morning screenings of the Copa America on Channel 5 and - more bizarre - watching beach football on satellite.Now this slightly-less-than-great game is coming to the UK, including Hyde Park, where the organisers, one presumes, will embark on the bizarre exercise of dumping imported sand over perfectly good grass to create a beach on which to play football.The deep, dry, golden sandpits appear to reduce most players to Sunday League level, so it is difficult to imagine Cantona, Barnes and Waddle recreating their glory days, but doubtless thousands will turn up to watch them try. I'd think it more fun to find a patch of    Hyde Park's old-fashioned grass to play on yourself, and cheaper too, but if you want you'll find more details at the informative, and ever-expanding, Umbro site atwww.umbro.com/beachsoccerBetter answerStressed? Tired? Irritable? These are all symptoms   often felt after reading yet another "stress guru" advise on wacky ways to overcome the pressures of an overflowing in-tray and 200 unread emails.On this occasion it is Craig Mardus, an American therapist who tells us that when it all becomes too much we should conjure up our "most torrid sexual fantasies - the wilder the better" to make it all feel better. "Imagine yourself with Pamela Anderson, or Harrison Ford," he says.Luckily, much of the other advice at Stressbusting.co.uk is of a little more practical use. And it is interesting to note that the site is sponsored by the Scottish Tourist Board (www.visitscotland.com), which gives a clue to the best way to relieve stress_ instead of spending your hard-earned on therapy, take a holiday. Visitwww.stressbusting.co.ukNew &amp; noted&#149;  Fighting down-sizing and end-to-end solutions (but with Flash, alas_):www.deathbyjargon.com&#149;  Test out new home decorations on a virtual sitting room:www.beeb.com/goodhomes&#149;  Surfing west-coast style - but the UK, rather than the US:www.westcoastuk.com&#149;  Calculate your net worth:www.norwichunion.com
If your PC has a sound card, a speaker, and a microphone, you might be surprised to learn you can use it to make telephone calls. Once you have set up your PC as an internet phone, you can speak to anyone with a PC, anywhere, for free. You can also make calls to ordinary telephones at very cheap rates.Dialpadoffers the most popular internet phone service, with more than 13 million users. The reason for its popularity is simple: users based in the US can call any normal telephone line in the US from their PC (but not Apple Mac), for free.Unfortunately, Dialpad stopped offering free PC-to-telephone calls from the UK last month - calls to the US now cost 2.9&#162; per minute - but you can still use your internet phone to place a PC-to-PC call anywhere in the world without paying a cent.To set up an internet phone1Go towww.dialpad.com2Click Join Now.3Fill in your details, then read and agree to the End User licence agreement. Click Continue.4Fill in the user survey, then click Done. (Say No to the suggested installation of Onflow software, as this is spyware and nothing to do with the Dialpad service.)5If you want any of Dialpad's special offers, check them; otherwise click No Thanks to move on.6You will find yourself on the My Dialpad page. Wait a while. When a window pops up asking if you want to download Dialpad, click Yes. If nothing happens, you may need to reduce the security settings on your browser: click the Dialpad Clinic icon on the My Dialpad page for help with this.7When a window looking like a telephone pops up, you are ready to dial! Except you might now be in the position of all first-adopters: you have your new internet phone, but no one to call. It is time to use   your old telephone one last time, to tell some friends.Once you know the user-name of someone with Dialpad set up on their PC, you can place a call.Placing a call1Type their user-name into the number box in the Dialpad window.2.Click Dial to connect. You get a two-second advert, tailored to your profile, then their phone rings. When your friend accepts, your call is connected, and you can talk for as long as you like.The technology is called VoIP - Voice over Internet Protocol - and operates by transmitting a split-channel signal (one strand carrying the voice and the other carrying information about the call) using the same standards that control the flow of information over the internet. All you really need to know is that even with a low bandwidth connection (I used a 33k modem) it does work.If you are using a laptop or an older PC, Dialpad may warn that you have a "half-duplex" sound card. This means your PC cannot simultaneously record and play sound, so you will have to take turns talking and listening, as with a CB radio.Click on the small microphone icon within the Dialpad window whenever you want to talk. On most PCs, though, you can chat freely, just like using a normal telephone. You can use other windows while talking, but to receive calls you will need to leave the Dialpad window open while you surf. To hang up, click End.If you really get along with using your PC as an internet phone, you can buy plug-in headsets or phone receivers from online vendors (such aswww.dialpad.com/store).What about calling people on their normal telephones? You can use your credit card to sign up for Dialpad World. This gives you cheap calls to telephones anywhere, including the US, in blocks of $10.You can still use Dialpad to call US toll-free (1-800) numbers, which would be charged at international rates from your existing telephone. Just type the number into the dial box instead of the user-name.Make sure you work out how to talk, though, before you put a call through. I didn't, and the lady on the New Yorker subscriptions desk might never answer the phone again.
Gangsters 2CD-Rom 	&#163;29.99 Hothouse Creations/ Eidos	***Considering its rich potential for entertainment, the world of organised crime has been under-exploited in gaming.1998's Gangsters was a flawed, but interesting, use of   the milieu in a turn-based strategy game.Unfortunately a badly designed interface and a steep learning curve, along with a slow pace, meant the game failed to match the intriguing premise.Thankfully, Gangsters 2 has improved on many of these aspects, making it a more gripping crime feast. Taking on the role of ex-soldier Joey Bane, your aim is to avenge your father's murder by tracking down the kingpin responsible.Set in the fictional state of Temperance, players need to   tackle fellow mobsters and generally unravel the (above average) plot by controlling a select bunch of hoodlums.Adopting the same isometric viewpoint as before, each of the 20 levels involves lengthy planning and strategic stubble scratching, punctuated by violent interludes.The biggest improvement over the original is the use of real time, meaning you can make decisions on the fly.This becomes increasingly useful, as the later levels will test even the biggest Al Capone wannabe. G2 also   makes good use of day and night settings; that innocent shop becomes a profitable brothel come evening.Unfortunately the graphics are oddly lifeless and lacking in detail, giving little reason for the high recommended system specs.Also the balance between accounting and action can often veer unnecessarily towards the former. Still, with an improved interface, better use of gangs and a tightly scripted plot, Gangsters 2 offers a different slant on the real-time strategy genre.  (GH)Submarine TitansPC CD-Rom 	&#163;29.99 Ellipse Studios/ PAN Interactive	**Forty-odd years hence, the earth is hit by a comet, and subsequently flooded as the polar ice caps melt. In this submerged future world, two rival groups of humanity are battling it out for what meagre resources they can find... and then, just to be awkward, some aliens wade in as well.It's not exactly a Michael Crichton blockbuster, but it is about par for the course as plots for real-time strategy (RTS) games go. A little more thought has gone into the gameplay, which while owing plenty to the Command &amp; Conquer base-building model, introduces a few elements all its own. First off, combat is three-dimensional; that's a slight exaggeration, since your window on the action is 2D and top-down, but five different elevations, combined with the fact that many units can fire only at vehicles on the same level, adds - well, half a new dimension to combat strategy.The three sides involved are also, for a change, clearly distinct in terms of technology and units. With the White Sharks, the emphasis is on heavy armour and over whelming numbers; the Black Octopi focus on more sophisticated weaponry; and the aliens are, well, alien.And in possibly the most meaningless touch of all, the undersea environment, with its trenches, volcanoes and cutely animated marine life, together with the rather lovely soundtrack, make for an odd but serene battle arena - it's almost a shame when the bad guys turn up and start laying waste to your base.Actually, it is a shame. Combat is supposed to be the meat and potatoes of the RTS, but in Submarine Titans it's more like a salad garnish. In the first place, with the madly unpredictable artificial intelligence, you will be hard pressed to find a decent fight. There may be waves of marauding enemy subs - more than your defences could possibly deal with - but apparently they are just taking snaps for the album.The attempt to compensate for poor computer intelligence with overwhelming opposing forces is a recurrent mistake in RTSs; it makes for a virtually violence-free midgame followed by a mindless slog at the end. At least, it would, if it weren't for another RTS sin: limited resources. Metal and a fictitious element called corium are the staple of your army, and not only are these deposits few in number, but infuriatingly, each one also contains a finite amount of material. If you don't plan your entire campaign down to the last ounce of metal, you could find yourself in an unwinnable position.Of course, you could eschew the delights of outwaiting the computer for some multiplayer action against your friends. But you will probably have a better time watching the fish.Formula One 2001PlayStation 2 	&#163;40 Sony	*****Play this game for a couple of hours and you start to get the satisfaction of real achievement. Not only can you get off the grid and take corners without crashing, you are still in touch with the back markers after half a dozen laps.But you have to concentrate. Poke the accelerator too hard and you are off the road in a second, probably heading for a tyre wall.Sony's Formula One 2001 feels like the most realistic F1 simulation so far, and that includes Grand Prix 3 on the PC. And thanks to Team Liverpool, the Sony-owned software house that used to be Psygnosis, it finally delivers some of the capabilities locked away inside the PlayStation 2.The graphics are amazing, especially the trees. The cars and drivers also have a remarkable amount of detail, including thumb-flicks when you change gear, although they don't look as realistic as the tracks and backgrounds.Even the sound effects are great, except for the commentary from Murray Walker and Martin Brundle. Not their fault, but the voice-overs are predictable, repeti tive, and often well behind the action.The cars and drivers are from the current season, so you can play as Montoya or Raikkonen, not just an old faithful such as DC (David Coulthard) or Schumacher, M.No, this is not a pick-up-and-play game, even using the simplest settings. Although you can breeze past rivals at this level, staying ahead needs lots of concentration.Longevity is not a problem: tweaking the car, learning all 17 tracks with manual gear changes, and completing a   season in Pro mode should keep you busy for many months.However, there are also quick-race and time-trial modes, plus a split-screen two-player game. There is even a spectator option, so you can watch races. The artificial intelligence used for the computer-controlled cars makes this less dull than it sounds.Formula One 2001 is not for everyone. But if you are besotted with F1 racing, it is irresistible.  (JS)
How did you get involved with computer music making?I did a sound engineering course straight out of school, but I didn't wake up to the computer music revolution until 1994. The idea of being able to do everything myself, at home, without having to deal with crazy drummers or temperamental guitarists was liberating. I bought Trax, the only sequencer that would run on my 286 PC (seewww.intel.com/intel/museum/25anniv/hof/286.htm), a batteredKorg Poly 800/A&gt; synth  and aRoland S330sampler. I got carried away and stuck completely irrelevant samples - drills, dogs barking, Caruso singing - all over every song.Is the publishing industry still fairly Mac-based?Macs are still the industry standard, but our online guys use PCs. Some people argue that Macs are better at handling graphics and processing images, but the Mac vs PC debate rages on and on.Is the printed word safe for the foreseeable future?Hell yeah! Reading from a paper is more enjoyable than from a computer monitor. And the online experience hasn't evolved to the point that printed media, particularly magazines, have. Also, a magazine is crafted to complete the experience, from the feel of the paper and the colours to the "page furniture" that most readers aren't consciously aware of. The printed word is still perceived as more trustworthy.How has the net opened up the music-making process?The opportunity to widen your horizons is certainly there. With things likeRocket Networkyou can create music with people you've never met. You can put together an entire software set-up from downloaded freeware and shareware, download free samples, then upload tunes on to sites such asMP3.comfor the world to hear. Whether anyone will listen is a different matter!What software would you recommend to create music on a computer?For putting together pro-sounding original tunes, the package that blew us away last year wasPropellerhead's Reason. It's a self-contained software studio for &#163;300. One favourite bit of software this week is Antares Auto-Tune (www.antares-systems.com/products/auto-tune.html, the most abused bit of kit in history!Any favourite websites?For music technology I likewww.futuremusic.co.ukandwww.samplenet.co.uk, and I checkwww.nme.comevery day for music gossip.www.intellicast.comhelps keep my obsession with world temperatures under control.Visit:www.computermusic.co.uk
At the tail end of the smog-filled 1990s - the era that saw gridlock and road rage become a daily reality on the streets of urban Britain - a new figure emerged in the popular imagination: White Van Man. His catchphrase was "Oi!" and his opinions were as loud and as white and as ungainly as his method of transport. White Van Man was a symbol of what was going wrong with roads, a human haemorrhoid on the clogged backside of Britain. But now, in this more enlightened millennium, a new figure is emerging to embody the changing spirit of the age, someone who is fighting back against log-jam rather than just sitting in neutral and contributing to it, someone who is showing us what roads were originally meant to be all about - a way of getting somewhere fast. Forget White Van Man. This is the age of Blue Scooter Kid.Pull up at a busy set of traffic lights in a car these days and the chances are that Blue Scooter    Kid will come zipping past a few seconds later, a streamlined dose of Dolce Vita weaving between the bumpers and belching exhausts of stationary vehicles, and then, as the lights turn to green, race off into the distance before you've even let off your handbrake, you loser. And the sudden UK boom in scooter sales, up 22% on last year, is all the more remarkable for occurring at a time of record rainfalls. Into this growing market, just in time for the summer sun, comes Piaggio's new Vespa ET4 50cc, a four-stroke beginners' bike that let me become an apprentice Blue Scooter Kid for two exhilarating and occasionally hairy weeks. In accordance with the law, 50cc bikes come with built-in speed restricters, so they won't do more than 30mph unless you drop them out of a plane. But 30mph is more than you need for a spot of urban runaround. After one day at London's Metropolis for Compulsory Basic Training - which, despite the name, isn't compulsory with a 50cc at all but is a damn good idea if you don't want   to wind up in a rose bush or under a bus - it was time for the open road. Twist the throttle with the right hand to go, pull the brake with the left hand to stop. It's that simple. No fiddly gears, no annoying clutch - just twist and go. At a time when cars are getting ever bigger and the gadgets that go in them ever more elaborate, it makes a refreshing change to coast down the highway on something that is only marginally more complicated to operate than a light switch.And of course it looks fantastic. Those cute little wheels, that swan-shaped body, those two peek-a-boo mirrors, that step-through seating position originally designed to accommodate, with dignity, those non-trouser-wearing members of the Italian masses (women and priests). It almost seems a shame to get on it and ruin the aesthetics, although there is a kind of in-sync elegance to the way you find yourself perched on that big comfy seat - like you're sitting down for a fancy three-course dinner.And, once on, it's hard to get off. The ET4 is quick off the mark and, despite my initial wobbliness, was a doddle to drive, and a good deal quieter than I had expected. None of that raspy putt-putt-putting and no plumes of black smoke exploding out of the exhaust (some of the older two-stroke scooters can be up to 30 times more polluting than cars - a fact that, thanks to new regulations, could see 2m machines in Italy wind up on the scrapheap).So, on a day of blazing sunshine, I found myself gliding through the traffic, fighting the temptation to stick thumb to nose and waggle fingers at other drivers. It was like a whole new city had opened up and was sliding under my front wheel. Suddenly it was possible to do two things in one day. Even three. Or more. Dropped camera film in at Boots. Nipped off for haircut. Popped over to gym. Grabbed some lunch. Picked up photos. Met friend across town in Covent Garden. Got lost in one-way system and don't-turn-left signs and thoroughly enjoyed   every second of it, even though it was rush hour and you could feel the angst hanging in the air. And work, which is an hour away by bus and 35 minutes away by pushbike, required a mere 15 minutes in the saddle of the ET4. That's almost as good as getting beamed there Star Trek fashion.Scooter salesmen are fond of getting potential customers to do a few sums along the lines of how much they currently fork out on public transport, and how a scooter could save them money, time and stress in the long run. Fair enough. What they're not so keen to point out is that, for all their drawbacks, buses, trains and tubes have roofs, and roofs are handy when the skies open - as they did three nights on the trot over me, reducing the enjoyment factor (and the pothole visibility) to zero. Moral: get waterproofs or you'll feel like you've spent the evening in front of a fireman's hose.There's something about scooters that gets in your blood. It could have been the cutting through traffic, the ease of parking, the ridiculously low running costs, the admiring glances (for the Vespa) and the fresh air swooshing past the helmet at every turn in the road, but I found myself drawn into the world of two-wheeled travel, even staying up late one night to watch an Evel Knievel movie in which the motorcycling daredevil jumps over a pen containing about 30 hungry lions and tigers. A bit beyond Blue Scooter Kid at this point - but watch this space.
In one corner, Steve Gibson, world-renowned computer security expert with his own research corporation, regular adviser to the US federal authorities and former child genius. In the other, a 13-year-old amateur hacker with a PC and a grudge. On paper it looked like a non-contest. And in reality it was, too, except that the outcome was not the one you might have expected: on the evening of May 4, it took the kid little more than a minute to prove to the guru that in cyberspace, nobody is safe.Using some borrowed computer code, the hacker bombarded Gibson's corporate website with millions of bogus requests for information, a killer blow that knocked the site clean off the internet for 17 hours. Gibson, for all his credentials, resources and experience, became just another victim of a seemingly random hack attack. His assailant: a teenager from Kenosha, Wisconsin, going under the moniker "Wicked".That is where the story should have ended. But when Wicked's attacks continued for the next two weeks, Gibson decided to fight back. He embarked on a mission to infiltrate the hacking community and track down his attacker. What he uncovered in the course of his investigation provides a unique, fascinating and terrifying glimpse into the murky world of the script kiddies, the growing army of amateur hackers who, equipped with a few strings of widely available computer code and a ruthless determination to leave their malicious mark on cyberspace, are wreaking havoc across computer systems worldwide.Around the world, hacks of the sort   that Gibson suffered - known as distributed denial of service (DoS) attacks - are on the rise. There is nothing sophisticated about DoS attacks. They are the lead-lined cosh of hacking: hackers use software known as bots or zombies to take control of other people's computers, then use them to fire off so many spurious requests for information that the target computer cannot cope and legitimate requests cannot get in. Now running at a rate of about 4,000 a week, they have become the weapon of choice for malicious hackers intent on inflicting most damage with the minimum amount of time and effort.The list of victims is long and indiscriminate: political parties; internet companies such as Yahoo; major corporations such as Microsoft and Amazon; hundreds of unlucky individuals have all been hit. Even Cert, the world's premier anti-hacking centre, was rendered helpless as its site was taken down for three days a fortnight ago.In this country, we are no strangers to the teenage hacker. In April, Raphael Gray, a 19-year-old student from Pembrokeshire, pleaded guilty to hacking into American corporate databases from his bedroom in a series of security breaches that cost his targets more than &#163;2m.But Gray's efforts pale in comparison to the random threat posed by the DoS attacker, who requires little computing expertise. "Nothing more than the whim of a 13-year-old hacker is required to   knock any user, site or server right off the internet," Gibson writes on his website.Those on the receiving end of DoS attacks were painfully aware of that simple truth long beforegrc.comwas hit. But beyond that, virtually nothing was known about the individuals responsible. Because of the number of computers involved and the complexities of internet routing, few if any attackers had been tracked down. Until Gibson went after Wicked and, at last, some flesh was put on the bones of the script kiddies.For more than 10 days after the initial assault, Gibson had no idea who his attacker was or why grc.com had been targeted. Then, on May 15, the day the fourth attack was launched, a new posting appeared on one of grc.com's newsgroup sites: "Hi, it's me wicked, im the one nailing the server with udp and icmp packets, nice sisco router, btw &#91;by the way&#93; im 13, its a new addition, nothin tracert cant handle, and ur on a t3 ... so up ur connection foo, we will just keep coming at u, u cant stop us 'script kiddies' because we are better than you, plain and simple."Badly spelled it may have been, but this short burst of abuse, bravado and techspeak offered Gibson the break he   had been hoping for. He immediately sent off a polite reply via the newsgroup, inviting Wicked to contact him directly through the channel of his choosing.Just a few hours later, Wicked was back in touch, emailing Gibson, using an account stolen from a customer of an internet service provider called Earthlink. The message - appallingly spelled and punctuated, littered with abuse and dripping with the venomous swagger of a wronged teenager - made for revelatory reading."Yeah its me, and the reason me and my other 2 contributers do this because in a previous post you call us 'script kiddies', at least so i was told, so i teamed up with them and i knock the hell out of your cisco router."At last the motive was clear: Gibson - or so wicked had been informed - had committed the cardinal sin of referring to   two revered hackers, known as HeLLfiReZ and DrGreen, as "script kiddies". In the vast lexicon of cyberabuse, this term features large: a derogatory description for those hackers lacking the skill or talents to develop their own software tools and therefore forced to use "off-the-shelf" tools created and distributed by elite hackers, such as members of Subseven or Cult of the Dead Cow.After making clear his firm belief that he was entitled to membership of the elite category, Wicked congratulated Gibson on managing to fend off that day's attack, before ending with a warning. "now ill find ways around it and we can keep playing these games, i find it very fun, shoutz out to hellfirez and drgreen, and yeah the hellfirez from subseven, hes a friend and he isnt a script kiddie u stupid fuck...good luck :)"That the teenager had been misinformed and Gibson was not guilty of the "script kiddie" offence was neither here nor there. The attacks were going to continue."He was like a child pulling the legs off a spider to see what it would do, watching it flail and attempt to get away from its tormentor," says Gibson. "He believes that he cannot and will not be caught. Hiding behind the anonymity created by the internet's trusting technology, he exhibits no social conscience."Gibson wrote back, proclaiming his innocence and pointing out that he had publicly acknowledged the talents of elite hackers. Wicked replied, admitting he had perhaps "misjudged" Gibson - he was after all acting on third-hand information. He volunteered to speak to his friends and call off the attacks. After which, on the evening of May 16, he launched another assault. Another email explained why: "(i just ddosed you, i aint stupid, i'm betting first chance ud tracert me and call fbi)"Talking directly to his nemesis wasn't going to work, so Gibson had to find a better way. First he tried to trace Wicked through the Earthlink account, but the company refused to help. He tried @home, the internet company used by more than 100 of the hijacked computers involved in the attacks. Again, no joy.Reluctantly, Gibson contacted the FBI. That he had not done so immediately after his site was first knocked out may have something to do with the 46-year-old's roots. Since his early teens, Gibson has been working with computers. At 14, he began dabbling with hacking; at 15, he was employed by Stanford University's famous artificial intelligence lab; at 17, he was appointed vice-president for systems development at a California IT company. By 30 he had founded his own research corporation. Whatever the perils of amateur psychoanalysis, it is tempting to wonder if in Wicked, Gibson sees the dark-side mirror image of his former self.So when the FBI informed him they couldn't help either, Gibson was slightly relieved. Now he was free to take the hackers on at their own game. After managing to get hold of Wicked's zombie bot from an infected machine, he proceeded to build his own fleet of spybots to monitor and track the hackers as they talked to each other and exchanged software online. Eventually, he stumbled across "b0ss", the elite hacker who had developed the zombie used in the grc.com attacks. Wicked had been lying - he was a script kiddie after all.In an unprecedented exchange reproduced on Gibson's website, he introduced himself to a stunned b0ss and asked him to warn Wicked that if he continued with the attacks, Gibson would be forced to retaliate. "If you see Wicked, tell him we had a nice chat and ask him to lay off. I don't want to upset him, okay, but I need to and will defend my site." b0ss, clearly still trying to comprehend how he had been tracked down, replied: "hehe &#91;a chuckle&#93;, okay".That was the last that was heard of Wicked. The bad news, according to Gibson, is that DoS attacks are set to rocket with the release of Microsoft's new XP system next year. The platform, aimed at domestic users, will make it possible for hackers to program their zombie computers to generate false internet identities, making it impossible for the attacks to be traced or defended against.Microsoft deny the claim, but Gibson is calling on computer users to lobby the company to change XP. In the meantime, he is taking no chances. Just in case Wicked or anybody else is tempted to take out grc.com again, Gibson has posted an open letter to hackers on the site. "I surrender. I surrender right now completely and unconditionally ... I know that you can easily knock me off. That's not even a question. But only if I'm here can I explain that to the rest of the planet."&#149; This is an edited transcript of a conversation between Gibson and the creator of the bot software over an IRC (internet relay chat) channel.
OLD media executives never die, they just end up at dotcom firms. David Elstein, who quit as boss of Channel 5 last year, has emerged as the non-executive chairman of Silicon.com, the online news and recruitment site for IT professionals.Elstein will juggle his new job with other directorships and interests. He is chairman of the British Screen Advisory Council, a non-executive director of AIM-listed Civilian Content, a film distribution company, and is a senior adviser to the consultancy firm Arthur D Little.Silicon founder and chief   executive officer, Rob Lewis, who will announce Elstein's appointment tomorrow, said: 'David has an excellent track record and we will be seeking his advice and insight into the traditional media business to help Silicon.com sustain its continued growth.'Elstein, a former head of programming at BSkyB, said: 'We want to develop an international business and media strategy that will turn it into an established business.'The former Channel 5 supremo, who is credited with helping to turn the company into a &#163;1 billion business, resigned last October. Although Elstein has always   declined to give his reasons for leaving, media pundits say there was talk of bust-ups with the French broadcaster RTL, which owned 65 per cent of the company.Launched in July 1998 by Lewis, a former fledgling publishing tycoon who started a chain of magazines from his bedroom, Silicon recently received &#163;14 million through a third round of funding from Banc of America Equity Partners Group.The company used the cash to develop operations into France and Germany.An initial public offering could now be in the pipeline.
'Whatever happened to the E-Lection?' asks a report from the Industrial Society, which modestly describes itself as     comprising 'the UK's leading thinkers and advisers on the world of work'.The question refers to the non-existent role the internet has played in the election campaign. As part of its iSociety     project on the impact of IT on the UK the society conducted polling and focus group research in two marginal seats.The results are interesting: 'Cyber-citizens,' the research found, 'are less likely to vote, express less interest in direct     contact with political parties and ignore expensive political party websites'.      According to the report's author, James Crabtree, only 2 per cent of internet users say they are certain to use the net to     obtain information about the election campaign; and a massive 84 per cent declare their intention to avoid politics     online.The research also suggests that internet users are less engaged with politics than their unwired brethren - and so are     less likely to make the trip to the polling station on 7 June.'This election has not seen the dawn of a new era of digital democracy', says Crabtree. 'We spoke to voters in marginal     seats such as Enfield Southgate, and found that people don't realise there is an election online. The wired generation     are voting with their mouse &#91;sic&#93; to stay online, but off-message'.Hmmm. Informal research by this columnist conducted according to the ancient journalistic methodology of typing     words into Google and following links at random suggests one possible explanation for this online apathy.This is that while the off-line election may be dreary, its online manifestations are infinitely worse. The main party sites,     for example, are tedious beyond belief. (The only difference is that while the Tories have a dotcom URL, the others are     content to be dot-orgs.)The so-called humourous sites (for examplewww.amielectableornot.com) or the ones offering Javascript animations of     John Prescott (hitting or being hit) are commercialised or plain puerile. The epidemic of anti-candidate email jokes that     circulated in the US during the presidential election doesn't seem to have materialised here.There's been very little domain-name foolery either. Although www.toriessuck.com has been registered (by one David     Chamberlain of Wandsworth), other promising domain names remain tantalisingly available.One would have thought that some enterprising soul (even if it was only William Hague in precautionary mood) would     have nabbed www.dumpthetories.com or www.torybastards.com, both of which were up for grabs when I last checked.       Interestingly,www.portillo.com has been registered, by one JK Hullett of Reno, Nevada, but www.portilloforleader.com is     free to perform useful work after 7 June, as is www. dumphague.com. On the other side www.gordon brown.com has     already been registered by one Reza Sobati of London NW8, who may know something we don't.But in general what's missing from this election is the wit, irreverence and tomfoolery that any encounter with men in     suits generally evokes in the net community. Rememberwww.amipresidentornot.comas the US presidential election     ground to its grisly conclusion?Why, one wonders, do UK voters not make more use ofwww.anagramgenius.com- a marvellous site that reveals that     'William and Ffion Hague' is an anagram for 'I am handling a foul wife'?The web is still wonderful for plain old-fashioned information, though. Someone at Keele University has put up a     fantastically informative sitewww.psr.keele.ac.uk/area/uk/ge01.htm. And several sites provide tactical voters with the information they need to make a decision on 7 June.For example,www.keepthetoriesout.co.uk, includes a neat calculator that works out the best anti-Tory vote on the basis     of the last five opinion polls.It's a bit OTT just now, but will come in useful next time when we have to find the best way of dumping our most     hubristic ruler since Cromwell.John.Naughton@observer.co.uk
Last October, Allan Leighton, former boss of supermarket chain Asda, raised eyebrows by agreeing to become chairman of internet retailerlastminute.comfor free. Despite the fact its share price had been tumbling, he spurned a hefty salary in favour of options on a million lastminute shares as a mark of his confidence in the business.This week, even after predicting its British and French operations would be profitable within a year, lastminute's share price was still languishing at around 50p, making it one of most high-profile casualties of the global collapse in share prices for hi-tech and internet firms. Leighton, who can only make money when the price goes above 137.5p, is still effectively working for free.With a raft of other directorships to his name, Leighton can well afford to gamble. But for the thousands of others who left safe careers to try their luck in the "new economy" in the hope of making their fortunes through stock options, the downturn in the markets has come as a nasty shock.Many have been left penniless, ruing their decision to rely on a huge upswing in the stock market for their pay day rather than a regular monthly income.Max Kantelia, chief executive of recruitment consultancy The McLaren Group, says that, whereas a year ago people were still rushing to snap up internet jobs, today about 25% of his clients are going the other way. "People were being lured away from bricks and mortar based on the promise of a pot of gold at the end of the rainbow. A year later there is a boomerang effect."Historically, stock or share options have been an incentive given to company directors and top-level employees to promote loyalty and commitment. An employee is given the option to buy shares at a fixed price, or at a   level below the current share price. A time limit is set within which the option can be exercised or cashed in, often a period of years.For example, a company with a share price of, say, 500p might offer an option on 10,000 shares at 300p exercisable over a three-year period. If the employee cashed in his chips straight away, buying the shares at the option price - for &#163;30,000 - and selling immediately, he would make &#163;50,000. But by offering a stake in the company, the incentive is to work to boost the share price and over time rake in an even greater cash return.This top-level gravy train changed during the late 1990s, when pioneers such asMicrosoftandAmazonbegan offering everyone from secretaries upwards the dream of making millions from stock   options on markets that seemed unable to go down. Investment banks, dot.com start-ups, telecom, technology and software businesses in particular all started to go down the stock option route.One of the main reasons for doing this, especially for dot.coms, was because they needed to preserve cash. Share options, unlike salaries, do not show up on the balance sheet and so firms were able to hire people on cut-price salaries, sometimes as much as 80% less, but with lucrative stock option packages. Options were also used as a kind of invisible currency to pay suppliers or consultancy firms, again to save cash.But when share prices slumped, staff were left sitting on stock options that had become effectively worthless because their exer cise value was higher than the share price. Other firms proposing to float simply scrapped or delayed their plans, dashing their employees' hopes of making a quick buck.But while the dot.com boom may be long gone, the taste for ownership it has given many employees is showing no signs of abating, even if the risks are greater.Vicky Wright, managing director of remuneration specialist Hay Group, believes the granting of stock options on a wide scale during the boom will have reverberations in the labour market for some time to come. Employees, she argues, are now increasingly expecting to take - and be offered - some sort of stake in the company they join, even if this means sharing the pain when times are bad."The dot.com boom last year really shook up the labour market. There has been a significant change, which will continue, in the expectations of young professionals to have some skin in the game. By encouraging people to take a stake in a company they are encouraging them to engage in the business," she says.Dot.coms and others that offer options are also adamant they will remain an important incentive in the workplace. At internet service providerFreeserve, for instance, staff are offered at least the equivalent of their annual salary in share options as an incentive - the only difference being they are now not Freeserve shares but those ofWanadoo, the French rival that swallowed it up earlier this year.And software firm Misys, which offers options to about 9% of its 6,000 staff, says the downturn in the markets has not changed how it views their use. If anything it has been offering options worth higher multiples of salary, to keep the incentive element even if the risks are greater.One change that has happened is that the downturn in the markets has led to a more realistic outlook about what it is reasonable to accept. Basic salary and potential bonuses are figuring much more highly in job negotiations, argues Kantelia."Stock options are still an attraction but they are the icing on the cake. I'd suggest that the budgets being put aside for basic salary levels are much higher than a year ago. It is very much 'show me the money up front'. People are just not willing to have the jam tomorrow," he concludes.Fingers have been burnt by the bursting of the dot.com bubble, and the warning that shares may go down as well as up is finally being heeded. But for many, particularly those prepared to take a risk and look to the long term, it's much too soon to sound the death knell of the stock option....but not for everyone, thoughShare options that land you with a huge bill rather than the promised payouts? In the US, some staff at Microsoft are having to cough up large amounts for paper gains in previous years, even though their shares have fallen steeply in value.Microsoft share options turned hundreds of middle ranking US staff into millionaires when the dot.com boom reached its pitch in March last year. Then the taxman cast his eye over the gains made on shares and slapped a bill on each option. The tax is payable on the paper gain even if staff hang on to their shares.Given that the shares had almost doubled to over $120, the tax bill was huge. Traditionally, the recipients of share options in the US sell a few each year to pay their annual tax bill.The next month, when the dot.com bubble burst, Microsoft shares plummeted to just over $40. For many employees this figure was lower than the price the company set when it handed out the options. They were sitting on a loss. But the tax bill still stood.More than 25 staff have reportedly filed for bankruptcy. Larry Feinstein, a partner at the Seattle law firm Vortman &amp; Feinstein, says he represented five of the staff, one of whom owed $125,000 in unpaid tax."Some of the Microsoft employees have a very large number of stock options and when the crash came it hit them very hard."In the UK, the Inland Revenue is prevented from assessing stock options each year. A gain on options that are not part of a government approved share scheme, which accounts for most dot.com options, are assessed for tax when they mature (after three to five years usually).But that doesn't mean things can't go wrong. If the dot.comer realises a gain and the day afterwards the share price falls to below the issue price then he or she is in the same boat as the Microsoft worker. Unlikely, but still possible.As John Whiting, a tax expert at PricewaterhouseCoopers, says: "Share options are not a guaranteed no lose situation."Phillip InmanI see them simply as a perkFor Angela Williams, human resources director at online auction house QXL, stock options are a perk, no more, no less, and were certainly not her main reason for joining the company in March last year from US giant Disney. "I do not know how much my stock options are worth, to be honest," she admits.The attraction of joining a small, young organisation, and being given the remit to build up a human resources department from scratch were much greater incentives, she says."People would be blind if they were not aware of the way the markets are going and that there is huge pressure on share prices at the moment."But the stock price does not determine whether people stay here or not. Because we are a relatively young workforce, people feel they are contributing, they feel they have autonomy and the ability to influence. The share price and the share allocation are generally not the only reason people come or go," she argues.Every permanent employee at QXL gets offered options based on their salary level, which are reviewed annually, although there is no rigid formula for calculating exactly how many options are granted."They are nice to have and, yes, we would all love to be millionaires, but it is still the content of the job that attracts people. But there is no denying stock options have to be in the package," she adds.QXL shares were trading this week at around 10p compared with a high of 744p last year.I see them building a teamLast May, after working in the City for 14 years, investment banker Nigel Walder took a 75% pay cut to go and work for an e-commerce start-up preparing to float on the US Nasdaq exchange."The cash compensation was certainly not of the order of magnitude that I had been receiving at the bank. The whole compensation scheme was focused around stock options," he says.But with the markets in freefall, and the e-commerce company yet to float despite securing second round funding, he decided to forego the potential earnings of his options and leave to set up a technology consulting firm called The Buttonwood Tree Group.Nevertheless, he does not regret his decision. "If I had joined purely for financial reasons, I would have been barking mad," he admits. "I went from a massive corporate culture to a small company and I found that very enjoyable. Once you open pandora's box, you get a taste for the entrepreneurial flair," he explains."The whole stock option issue has been clouded by the dot.com burst. It is just that so many dot.coms had such weak business models and that has been found out. Unfortunately, those companies that are smart are really struggling because of that, they have been caught in the tidal wave."Despite this, Walder believes stock options have their part to play and now, ironically, finds himself offering his employees options as an incentive. "Stock options are a really nice, smart way to incentivise people," he says.
Peoplesound.com, one of the UK's highest profile remaining internet start-ups, is understood to have held talks about a possible takeover valuing it at around &#163;25m.Vitaminic, a pan-European digital music company listed on Milan's Nuovo Mercato stock exchange, is thought to have expressed an interest in a cash and shares takeover of its London rival.The talks are thought to be at an early stage - described by some sources as "delicate" - and there is no guarantee that a deal will be concluded. Peoplesound, a free online music download site that uses the popular MP3 technology, came close to selling up to Terra Lycos earlier this year.It raised money most recently last summer, based on a valuation of around &#163;70m, from investors including Finnish wireless communications operator Sonera Corporation and venture capital firm Zouk Ventures. Earlier backers include French billionaire Bernard Arnault's Europe@Web.Peoplesound features new artists on its websites and can recommend music on its site to users, depending on their tastes. Tracking and analysis technology also produces statistics which can tell interested record companies which bands are likely to make it big and which may fail.The company was founded by 29-year-old former management consultant Ernesto Schmitt. He employs around 85 people in offices in London, Paris and Munich. Last night he declined to comment.Vitaminic has been an active consolidator in the pan-European internet music market and runs sites in 10 countries and eight languages. It recorded revenues of &euro;1.3m (&#163;776,320) in the first quarter of this year and had around &euro;24m in cash in the bank.Established European media firms have also been looking to buy music start-ups, with Bertelsmann agreeing to takeover Napster and Myplay.com, and Vivendi recently buying MP3.com.Peoplesound.com
The dreaded moment when the computer crashes and hours of work are lost could soon be a thing of the past.Microsoft yesterday launched a new product which it claims will save office workers up to an hour every day.The new Microsoft Office XP, which was designed to address common office frustrations, promises that work will never be lost if the computer crashes as all open documents are automatically saved.Other new features include context-sensitive Smart Tags which alert you to relevant information as you work, and the ability to translate text into other European languages.Microsoft says it hopes the new software will prompt companies across the UK to encourage staff not to stay late in the office.It has even pledged to donate 10p every time one of its own employees leaves the office at 5.30pm this summer.The move follows recent research conducted by Microsoft which revealed that summer is the favourite time of year for employees in the UK but only a few have time to enjoy it.Nearly half (47%) of the 1,500 workers who took part in the survey said they stayed in the office late more often than not, while one in six expects to be kept at work until after 10pm at least once a month.The survey also found that computer problems cause daily stress for 85% of office workers, with seven out of 10 saying they regularly waste time re-creating work when their computers crash.One in six employees blames the corporate clock-watching culture for long working hours, claiming they would rather spend an hour playing solitaire than be seen to be the first to leave, while 47% say they simply cannot complete their work on time.Office XP was launched yesterday by the television presenter Jonathan Ross who posed wearing a Hawaiian shirt at a makeshift beach setting in front of offices at Canary Wharf in Docklands in east London.
It happened in the 1880s, again in 1929 and even more famously in 1987. After every stock market party, the police arrive to pick through the morning-after rubbish and find something ugly.The Wall Street party was no different this time. Among the burst dot.com balloons and empty champagne bottles left on the street in 2001, US regulators found some allegedly criminal acts as well as questionable behaviour among the financial sector's biggest firms.Two grubby areas have come to light. The first is the behaviour of analysts, and the second, the methods used to underwrite new shares. The latter, investigated by the securities and exchange commission, the US attorney's office and the National Association of Securities Dealers, could lead to criminal charges.The fallout from these inquiries has already been felt in Britain. Several private investors have contacted Jacob Zamansky, head of US law firm Zamansky &amp; Associates, about filing complaints against analysts. Zamansky, who is acting on behalf of almost 20 investors in the US, could file these cases imminently.In the US, more than 20 claims have already been filed against Wall Street firms and their analysts. Zamansky filed the first of these for a client against Henry Blodget, one of the street's best-known internet analysts, and Merrill Lynch, his firm.Blodget and Merrill stand accused of "systematic fraud... on an industry-wide basis" for touting shares in internet stocks without revealing the extent of their financial reliance on the company. Dr Debases Kanjilal, a New York paediatrician, is claiming the $600,000 he lost from an investment in one online directory company and $10m in punitive damages. Merrill has described the charges as meritless.Most Wall Street banks reward analysts using client review and banking fees. Few chart the success of an analyst's recommendations. This means that high profile analysts such as Blodget, Mary Meeker at Morgan Stanley and Jack Grubman at Salomon Smith Barney can be rewarded by winning more business for their firms.Complaints of bias have long dogged analysts. The frenzy of recent years, when hi-tech analysts used newly minted valuation tools to justify huge premiums, simply opened up the practice to a wider audience. "The analysts pumped up this tech bubble and left investors holding the bag," says Zamansky.Spurred on by constituents' complaints, some politicians have started to echo this view. On June 14, investment bankers are expected to be hauled in front of Congress to discuss their behaviour. Republican Congressman Richard Baker, who chairs Washington's capital markets sub-committee, believes the coded language used on Wall Street "penalised" ordinary investors.A year ago, analysts believed that just 206 US companies - or 0.8% of all those rated - should be sold, according to research by Thomson Financial-First Call. At a time when most US shares were trading at all-time highs, nearly 74% were rated either "strong buy" or "buy". Only those institutional investors lucky enough to receive a call from the investment bank would know which of the "accumulate" or "hold" stocks should be dumped forthwith.Buy bias"The writing is so coded that only sophisticated investors understand that you would have to be an idiot to own the stock," said Baker this week. "Mom and Pop investors are not getting the same treatment."This "buy" bias increased during the boom, when analysts simply chased what went up rather than try to understand why it did so. In 1992, says Baker, the buy-sell split was about 50:50.Washington is now considering changes to the laws governing securities advice to make it more transparent. "Clearly the status quo is not acceptable," says Baker.The threat of legislation, combined with horror at their star analysts appearing in a dot.com show trial, has already prompted Wall Street firms to begin addressing the problem.The Securities Industry Association, a trade body, and senior bankers are working on a code of conduct that is expected to call for more disclosure. Baker says he is "optimistic" that the code will be presented at this month's hearing. Some firms, such as Prudential Securities, are also banning vague recommendations for straightforward buys or sells.There is little evidence that banks are as willing to issue a mea culpa over how they award shares in newly listed companies. A grand jury is reviewing evidence that several of Wall Street's biggest banks effectively demanded kickbacks from institutional clients in return for giving them lucrative shares in initial public offerings.The investigations have so far focused on CSFB, where several employees have been told they face possible regulatory action by the NASD. Two have been sent on administrative leave. The bank has said it is cooperating with the government inquiries but has denied any wrongdoing alleged in the class action lawsuits.CSFB also issued a statement saying that Frank Quattrone, the head of its hi-tech group, was "not responsible for overseeing brokerage accounts or commissions, nor is he or was he responsible for IPO allocations to clients". Insiders privately fear regulators could be looking for a high profile scapegoat - a Michael Milken for the internet age.Sirota &amp; Sirota, a New York law firm, has filed a class action complaint for at least 15 individuals against seven banks: CSFB, Goldman Sachs, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley, Bancboston Robertson Stephens and Salomon Smith Barney. The banks are all expected to defend themselves vigorously.This lawsuit and others claim that hedge funds and other institutional investors were awarded large chunks of IPO shares in return for a promise that the bank would receive a certain percentage of it back in commission fees. Asking for kickbacks and "laddering" a stock, by making an investor pay for more shares at higher prices later, is illegal.Yet such practices were hugely lucrative during the dot.com boom, when investors clamoured to buy shares that gained more than several hundred per cent in a day.Research by Jay Ritter, Cordell professor of finance at the University of Florida, found that the average first day increase of American IPOs during the last two years of the millennium was 65%. This compares with 6% during the whole of the 1980s.Trading recordsThe SEC is understood to have subpoenaed trading records for VA Linux, which achieved a record-breaking first day gain of 700% in November 1999, to see how much banks made from its IPO in underwriting and subsequent commission fees.Some analysts wonder why regulators and investors are only now asking questions about the behaviour of banks, more than a year after the stock market peaked. Professor Ritter says: "With 20:20 hindsight, a case could be made that the SEC and NASD should have started raising questions earlier. On the other hand, there weren't a lot of complaints coming in."There is also the old adage that generals fight the last war. After the get rich quick railroad schemes blew up, regulators clamped down on pyramid schemes, only to be hurt again by the 1929 crash. Most bankers expect the present clampdown to end in new rules for the next time greed gets the better of fear and the law.
Computer users have been warned to watch out for two potentially damaging emails, one a virus and the other a hoax.The email virus poses as a naked photo of actress Jennifer Lopez and operates like a traditional "worm" - such as the Anna Kournikova or I love you viruses - by forwarding itself to everyone in a user's address book once an attached file is opened.But unlike those two relatively benign viruses, the J-Lo virus is highly destructive. It overwrites music and graphic files and launches the Chernobyl virus, which can completely paralyse a computer. Both problems require a hardware fix.The email arrives with the subject heading "Where are you?" and the message "This is a pic of me in the beach." The attached file is named JenniferLopez_Naked.jpg.vbs.Computer security experts believe the J-Lo virus originated in Algeria, but so far have had few reports of infections."This proves that the average guy sitting in front of a computer will double click on anything with legs," said Graham Cluley, a senior technology consultant with computer security company Sophos. "Users need to take a cold shower and be cautious of opening any unsolicited email attachments."The second email poses as a virus warning, telling users to scan their hard drives for the Sulfnbk.exe file. The email explains that the file is a virus and instructs users to delete it.Sulfnbk.exe is actually a standard PC file that backs up and restores files with long names. Deleting it will damage the computer.Related articles31.05.2001: Everything you wanted to know about viruses but were afraid to ask10.05.2001: A guide to email viruses10.05.2001: Emailers avoid pornographic virus14.02.2001: 'Anna' email virus wreaks havocUseful linksMessage LabsSymantec warning on the Sulfnbk hoaxSophos
Beyond EnglishEverquest is finally being "localised". Both "human and automated translating agents" will be introduced for French, German, Japanese and Korean users. Sony Online Entertainment also plans to translate other games atwww.station.comincluding PlanetSide and Star Wars Galaxies.Another graphical role-playing game, Square's Final Fantasy XI, looks like being the first online-only game in the series. FF has been converted into a movie and next month Seiko plans to launch a Final Fantasy watch based on the Wrist Holo from Final Fantasy: The Spirits Within.Everquest, launched two years ago, already has about 375,000 characters paying at least $100 a year to play. Prices for the Windows-only game start at $9.89 per month ( http://everquest.station.sony.com/support/ accounts_billing/billing_issues.jsp ).Up and downDespite Pok&eacute;mon's huge success, Nintendo's revenues fell by 13% to $3.9 billion last year. The Nintendo 64 sold only 2.8 million units. How ever, profits jumped by 72% to $806 million, boosted by the weaker yen.This fiscal year, Nintendo plans to sell four million GameCubes, 10 million GameCube games, 23.5 million hand-held games consoles and 77.5 million Game Boy and Game Boy Advance games.With Dreamcast being killed by Sony's PlayStation 2, Sega's annual revenues tumbled by 28% to $2bn, and the company lost $432m.Cat tonicCat owners can treat their pets to CyberPounce, a $14.95 selection of games for PCs (www.cyberpounce.com).CyberPounce has several "cursor characters" so the owner can play too. CyberPounce is said to "stimulate the brainwave patterns in cats, making them active 'thinkers' when they ordinarily would be sleeping".Cat owners might also need PawSense (www.bitboost.com), which can tell the difference between human and "cat typing". It emits a range of shrieks to discourage your cat from walking on the keyboard.PeanutsInfogrames has followed Men In Black with Snoopy Tennis, newly released for the Game Boy Color in the US. Snoopymania, developed in the UK, will follow on the PlayStation before Christmas, while more Peanuts games will appear over the next five years.
Wires are the curse of modern computer products. They are fiddly to connect and when you have half a dozen gizmos to contend with -handheld computers, mobile phones, digital cameras, MP3 players and so on - it's like wading through spaghetti. Bluetooth, a wireless wiring system, offers relief from all that, and a lot of hopes are riding on its success. But there is still some way to go, to judge by prototypes of a forthcoming notebook PC.The Fujitsu Siemens Lifebook B2547, right, is expected to be the first notebook PC with built-in Bluetooth capability, and is due to appear in the UK at the end of July. Small, sleek and silver - it certainly looks the part. In fact, it looks much the same as the current B2175 model.The first problem with Bluetooth is that you need at least two devices for it to work. Fujitsu in Japan says it will have Bluetooth-enabled printers and phones on sale there, but I had to borrow two notebooks. I also tried two digital cameras, which plug into the PC's USB port.The idea was to do video conferencing between rooms, using Microsoft's NetMeeting. And it worked, after a fashion.Getting the kit running was not straightforward, but Fujitsu's Mike Tinsley talked me through it on the phone. But when software on one PC crashed, I could not get it going again unaided.Bluetooth ought to work like infrared connections, invisibly. But setting up these Bluetooth devices to work in Windows Me was more like installing Ethernet cards when you have no idea what sort of addresses to use.When Bluetooth was running, both sound and vision worked, but the quality looked poor on a notebook PC screen. It would have been impressive on, say, a Palm IIIc handheld or a mobile phone, but PC users have been spoiled by DVD graphics and high quality screens.Of course, these were prototypes and it would be unfair to review them as though they were finished products.Tinsley says the Bluetooth system will be pre-installed. I hope so. To make our dreams come true, Bluetooth devices will have to work transparently, simply popping up an alertbox when they detect another Bluetooth device within range. Infrared devices, including my IBM ThinkPad 240 running Windows 2000, can do that today.Unless Fujitsu's boffins in Japan have not got this more or less sorted by now, none of them can afford to sleep until the end of July.
The managements of supermarkets are not renowned for their gambling prowess but five years ago, Tesco took a bet on how it should develop an internet shopping business.The choice was to either pick from its stores the goods that people had ordered online, or to build a series of warehouses dedicated to internet shopping orders. Putting its money on the former has enabled Tesco to become the world's biggest online grocer and leave in its wake a group of envious retailers around the globe.John Browett, chief executive of Tesco.com, recalls a recent conference in the US where the company was given the main speaker's slot and asked to explain how it had built up a business with annual sales approaching &#163;300 million and profitability just around the corner."The large US grocery chain Albertson's said during the conference that if it didn't figure it out soon, it would want to work with us," says Browett proudly.Tesco's success started with that gamble. "We took a bet - stores versus warehouses - and we were right." He believes that it would be viable to use warehouses if 50% of the UK was shopping online, but the economics of warehouses doesn't yet stack up. Although successful, Tesco's online shop has still captured only 0.25% of the UK's total grocery market.Browett says other retailers such as Sainsbury's and Asda Wal-Mart in the UK predicted that by now 10% of the grocery market would be transacted online but it hasn't happened. As a result, the investment in warehouses has proved a costly exercise with no sign of rewards.Among those believing the hype was Asda Wal-Mart. It is understood to have chosen warehouses because consultants advised that it would only be possible to pick a   maximum of around 300 orders per week from each of its stores. However, Tesco is already picking up to 350 a week in some of its busier outlets and Browett believes it could multiply its online volumes 10 times before it needed to build warehouses.Asda and Sainsbury's are not alone: the US is also littered with online mistakes. They include: Peapod, which has reined in its plans for a countrywide service to focus on core markets; Webvan, which has recently cut its workforce by 885 and needs to raise further finance to survive; and Wal-Mart, which has invested $100 million in its partnership with the venture capital firm Accel Partners to little effect.In contrast, Browett says: "Our key insight was that we questioned how quickly we would be able to get to a high   penetration of online shoppers." Not that quickly, was the answer.Having chosen a store-based strategy, Tesco was able to concentrate its efforts on making it work. "We had to go into the stores to work out what we were going to do," says Browett. "It was tricky and we spent a lot of time getting the model right, initially at a small number of stores."Such was the support of the Tesco top brass that, after two-and-a-half years, Tesco.com is the longest development project undertaken by the company. Usually, projects are scrapped after six months if they have not started to contribute to the bottom line.Unlike other retailers, which tried to roll out chains of warehouses before there was sufficient demand, Tesco took one step at a time, ironing out problems and tinkering with its model before rolling out its internet service.David McCarthy, food analyst at Schroder Salomon Smith Barney, suggests that although execution has not always been that good at Tesco.com, customers have always recognised it as a good idea and Tesco has   therefore persevered. He adds: "It has been at it for years behind the scenes. It is like a retail decathlon. There are 10 different events and, even if you only win each one by a small margin, it all adds up. Tesco has done it quietly and done it right."Browett agrees that its success is based on a combination of things and that these are difficult to get right. He likens it to running a superstore where the customer simply sees the food on the shelves but doesn't appreciate the complex engineering hidden behind the scenes.Elements Tesco has got right include automated carts in-store, which are used to pick goods. Orders are beamed on to the picking carts, which advise the operator on the most efficient way to navigate around the store. "Nobody else is doing this. It's a puzzle why people don't understand industrial processes," says Browett.Tesco is also the first company to develop technology to show customers one of 240   different websites depending on which store will deliver their goods. This enables the company to offer a wider range of goods - up to 40,000 lines - compared to its competitors, which may only have a core range of goods that they can guarantee are available in all their stores - around the 10,000 level.This can lead to lost sales, says McCarthy: "If you can't get your strawberry cappuccino from one retailer online you'll probably shop elsewhere."Another benefit for Tesco is that these additional products are often the higher margin goods. These include fresh and own label goods, with the top-selling item online being skinless chicken breasts. This has made the average basket size online four times larger than that in its stores. And McCarthy calculates that as much as 40% of Tesco.com's business has been poached from its competitors.However, Richard Hyman, chairman of the retail consultancy Verdict Research, still believes this approach is limited: "If you live next door to an all-singing, all-dancing   store, you can get everything you want, but if you don't, you have a much more limited choice."But the numbers suggest there are plenty of people willing to use the service. Around 60,000 deliveries are made each week using Tesco's fleet of 600 vans that dispatch goods from the group's 240 stores to 90% of the country.And these numbers could increase dramatically since Tesco plans to offer a greater range of non-food products, such as electrical equipment, that it is unable to stock in its smaller stores."We're excited about this opportunity as planning constraints (for large stores) make it difficult for us to do this in many of our stores. It is a fantastic opportunity to be free from the constraints of real estate," says Browett.Unfortunately, Tesco's competitors such as Asda Wal-Mart and Sainsbury's, with their warehouse strategies, are far from being free from such constraints and a switch to a store-picking model will take some explaining to the City.Browett says: "The underlying argument for warehouses is beguiling and in the City we banged on about it but, generally, now accept the store-picking method. We proved the pundits wrong."This may be so, but Hyman questions whether Tesco's success will ultimately bring it great rewards: "It is a winner but there is a question of how big a race it will prove to be a winner of. We still believe that only 5% of food purchases will be made online by 2005."Even with this lowly forecast, Tesco will still make a decent return as it expects to make a profit from its online business by the end of the year. And, with the supermarket giant in gambling mood, there would probably be few people in the industry who would bet against it continuing to set the pace with internet shopping.
As criminal as any of the Joker's pranksBatman: Gotham City RacerSony PlayStation 	&#163;19.99 Ubi Soft	*Holy Cow! Sneakily released in the middle of E3, when eyes were focused on LA, Batman: Gotham City Racer is another appalling misuse of a licence (see Simpsons Wrestling for another).While fellow superhero Spiderman has made the leap to consoles with panache, old Batman limps across with a derivative racer that looks half finished and lacks both polish and excitement.Initially, however, it looks great. Players can choose from vehicles, including the Batmobile, and are introduced to the action by a splendidly animated cut-scene from the TV series.Unfortunately, this is as good as it gets. From the off the graphics appal, with scenery appearing from nowhere and a lack of detail as criminal as any of the Joker's pranks.Even on the ancient PlayStation, you would expect better visuals, although the pedestrian gameplay means you won't be playing for long enough to really hate them.Your basic aim is to roam Gotham, fighting crime and generally saving the day. But whether you decide to complete the main mission section (with increasingly difficult, yet similarly dull levels) or opt for some random villain pursuit, the graphical and control flaws are obvious. Manoeuvring the Batmobile as it veers from side to side is annoying enough, especially with little tangible reward.Perhaps the only incentive is the upgradeable weaponry that adds some variety to the staid 3D-driving/blasting format. A two-player pursuit mode helps but is unlikely to keep even the most ardent Bat-fan interested for long.Whether aimed at kids or not, Batman: Gotham City Racer is a stinker of a game and harassed half-term parents should resist any offspring's demands for it. (GH)Phantom characters strike backStar Wars Super Bombad RacingSony PlayStation 2 	&#163;44.99 LucasArts	***It's hard to know what Lucas-Arts is up to at the moment. Only recently, it announced hiring Ensemble (maker of Age of Empires) to produce the next Star Wars title, suggesting it may have tired of over-reaching itself after a clutch of appaling Star Wars games. If so, this will hopefully be the last shameless cash-in.Bombad Racing is a curious combination of Super Mario Kart and F-Zero - both originally SNES (Super Nintendo) games. Bombad takes eight vaguely familiar characters from The Phantom Menace and squeezes them down in proportion and power to fit into little hover cars. It is a little silly, but being taunted by a mini Darth Maul   manages to raise a smile.The graphics look fine, with lengthy distances giving the appearance of a variety of alien worlds. However, there are only nine courses to complete. Things improve, with a stunning Coruscant raceway featuring multiple routes and levels, but in this age of V-Rally and Metropolis Street Racer, it is not good enough.Handling is like F-Zero: floaty and with maximum reliance on air-brakes. There are power ups too, which are colourful to use but not particularly deadly. The way to win this game is to know the courses and keep to a tight racing line. This is the opposite of Mario Kart, where maximum kudos was reserved for taking out the race leader with a missile in the home straight. Sadly, such brinkmanship is impossible here.There are three race modes: Race, Teams and Arena. This last mode is rendered useless by courses that have so many places to hide that you can wait until one opponent is left and concentrate your efforts accordingly. In fairness, this is not a bad game, just an instantly forgettable one. (MA)Spoof Bond on a hit and miss missionConfidential MissionSega Dreamcast 	&#163;29.99 Hitmaker/Sega	***Lightgun video games boast the purest and most instantly satisfying human computer interface designed: just point the gun at thescreen and fire.Confidential Mission is a near-perfect conversion of the coin-op which, in turn, is a Virtua Cop game in all but name. The enemy is surrounded by a rotating target that lets you know how much time is left to shoot him before he shoots you: accurate threat assessment is required to pick off the most lethal goons first. You're not encouraged to be too trigger-happy, though: civilians regularly pop up who cost you a life if you kill them.The milieu is spoof Bond, especially Goldeneye: adopting the role of a lugubriously stupid spy wearing a tuxedo, you must find out who has taken control of a satellite and stop them. Along with the terrorists, who react according to where they're hit, there are thrilling showdowns with snowmobiles, tanks and helicopters. Pick-ups include extra lives and an assault rifle.Compared to Dreamcast's other lightgun game, House of the Dead 2, Confidential Mission has the advantage of a one-shot-kill paradigm.Rather than showering pus-oozing zombies with bullets until they keel over, you have the pleasurable challenge of downing six terrorists with a single six-bullet clip.But CM lacks the clever branching structure of HOTD2, the game is too short and the dull training modes don't offer much replay value.It is far better than Namco's atrociously flat Time Crisis: Project Titan on the PlayStation, but a few bonus missions could have made the difference between diverting gunplay and a lightgun classic. (SP)
Nokia's TV boxNokia's Media Terminal, which combines a digital TV decoder with a web browser and a hard disk for audio (MP3) and video recording, will reach UK stores in the autumn.The company has agreed a deal with TV network ITVdigital, which will add free viewing of some digital terrestrial channels and its ONnet internet portal to the package.The Media Terminal was developed jointly by Nokia and Intel and uses the Linux operating system. It is expected to retail for around &#163;500, feature a 40GB hard disk, an Intel Celeron processor and use a standard 56k modem. Although the terminal features many PC-style facilities, the bad news is that it doesn't have a CD-Rom drive. Its video-recording facilities are also more akin to a traditional VCR than the intelligent electronic programming system offered by the TiVo hard disk video system. The unit does sport a pair of USB sockets for connecting PC peripherals.Smallest PC ?If there's barely space on your desk for a penholder, let alone a PC, online retailer Unbeatable.co.uk has a space-saving solution that might interest you. The &#163;880 M Series PC, right, billed as the world's smallest production computer, looks more like a chubby personal CD player than a PC. It works with a monitor or connects to a TV via S-Video or composite video outputs. The basic M Series PC features a 20GB hard disk, 128MB of memory and a 933 GHZ Intel Pentium III processor. More details fromwww.unbeatable.co.uk.Bell videoPC owners, fancy burning your own DVDs? Due in the stores next month is the &#163;1500 Video Dre@m Machine PC from Packard Bell, which features Pioneer's DVD-R recorder. The Dre@m machine can archive home movie clips or TV programmes (via the PC's tuner), on to DVD via the recorder and the PC's integrated authoring software.  Although the Pioneer DVD-R recorder is only now on PCs, it has been available with the Apple Macintosh Power Mac G4 since March. The DVD-R discs are write-once only - rewritable DVD recorders and discs will not be on sale in the UK until later in the year. Each DVD-R has a capacity of 4.7GB, which is enough for two hours of high quality video. The drive can also be used to burn CD-R and CD-RW discs. The Video Dre@m Machine includes an Intel Pentium III 1GHz processor, 128MB of memory, a 40GB hard disk drive and an nVidia GeForce2 MX graphics card with 32Mb of memory.  Camcorder owners should note that the PC sports three IEEE-1394 DV connectors and analogue inputs for importing movies recorded on a digital video camcorder or converting VHS footage to digital movies.  The Dre@m machine also features Sonic Solutions' MyDVDTM video editing and authoring software, and time-shifting video facilities. Seewww.packardbell.co.uk/dvdr.
One of the first things you discover after installing a computer system is that it rarely does exactly what it says on the tin. Modern PCs promise to make your business run more smoothly and provide easy access to the internet.Each new release of Windows promises yet more unimaginable benefits that almost allow your business to run itself.The truth, of course, isn't like that. Computers crash, or break, or get hacked into, or run out of disk space. And worst of all, computers catch viruses.  It's tempting to ignore the problem and to assume that viruses only affect hobbyist PC users who spend all night on dodgy websites, or mega-corporations with thousands of users accessing email all day. But sadly that's just not true.   Small and medium-sized companies get viruses too, and because they typically don't have experts on hand to detect and remove them, it is these companies who suffer the most. Even if you catch a virus that does nothing more sinister than pop up a harmless joke on the screen, inadvertently infecting your customers with it is not exactly good for business.Protecting your systems against viruses is one of the most important things you can do. And thankfully you don't need to be a techno wizard to do it. You don't even need a huge budget, as some of the most useful programs and utilities are free.Viruses are simply computer programs, just like Microsoft Office or your favourite game. They're written by people who enjoy causing as much havoc as possible.By definition a virus will attempt to copy itself to other computers, and this is why they are so dangerous. Programs that cause havoc by, say, deleting important files from your hard disk, but which don't attempt to copy themselves, are not viruses. They are known as Trojans, after the historical wooden horse that concealed a nasty surprise.The earliest computer viruses would spread on floppy disks. Once a computer was infected, the virus code would continually monitor the floppy disk drive. Every time you loaded a diskette, the virus would copy itself to that disk. If you then gave the disk to someone else, the virus would go along for the ride.The internet has made disk-based viruses almost redundant. Nowadays they spread by consulting your Microsoft Outlook address book and emailing themselves to all of your friends and colleages without your knowledge or permission. That means all your acquaintances receive messages which appear to come from you, containing attachments disguised as important documents or links to interesting websites. When they click on the attachment they start the virus running on their own PC, and so the virus can now spread itself to each of these people's address books too.So how do you avoid viruses? In theory it's easy. To make a program do anything, you have to run it. So if you don't run the virus program, it won't start its cycle of damaging your PC and copying itself.&#149; Start by learning to recognise probable virus-like messages, and train your less technical staff to do the same. If anyone in the company receives an unexpected email, even from someone they know well, which says something like "click on this - you'll love it!", do nothing of the sort.&#149; Send a message back, asking if the sender really meant to send that message. Until you receive a satisfactory reply, don't click on the attachment.&#149; If in any doubt, delete it and forget about it. Deleting an infected email without clicking on its attachment will prevent any virus from taking hold.On the web at www.officeupdate.com you'll find a free program from Microsoft that prevents any program from looking up the details of everyone in your Microsoft Outlook address book. Because the only programs that tend to do such a thing are viruses, this program will help prevent many of the most common viruses from spreading. This blocking facility is also part of Office 2000 Service Pack 2 (also available free from the same site) and is fitted as standard in the new Office XP.Microsoft Word has a built-in programming language designed to allow people to write macros to automate common tasks. This language can also be used to write viruses which will automatically run when you open the document.   If you don't use macros, disable them by going to the Tools/Macros menu. If anyone sends you a Word document file (one ending with .doc) attachment by email, don't open it. The sender's machine may be infected with a virus which has surreptitiously attached itself to all of the person's document files.   Many people, myself included, have a policy of replying to the senders of attached document files and asking them to save the file in RTF format and resend it. RTF files don't support macros, so any virus which was in the .doc file will be removed by saving as .RTF format.The best way to keep viruses away is to use a virus scanning program. If you don't have a virus scanner installed, buy one for every PC in the company.   Scanners work by having a built-in database of all known viruses, and can detect and remove them automatically. However, new viruses are being discovered every day so it's crucial that you update the database of known viruses at least once a month.  Most scanners come with at least one year of updates included in the price, and applying the latest update is often as simple as letting the program connect to the internet for a few minutes to update itself.  But virus scanners are not infallible. Because they work by having a database of known viruses, they can't detect unknown viruses. That's why brand-new viruses such as Melissa, the Love Bug and the recent Homepage virus managed to infect so many computers so quickly.It was only after the scanner companies updated their databases, and users installed those updates, that the virus could be stopped from spreading further.   Modern scanners also use something called heuristics in addition to the standard virus database, which helps them look for virus-like behaviour in programs that they have never encountered before. This adds another layer of protection but is not 100% reliable so an up-to-date scanner database is still a necessityhelp panelJargon-busterMalware: Software written by "computer vandals" designed to cause damage when run. Viruses and Trojans are described as malware.Attachment: A data file such as a Word document, an Excel spreadsheet or a PowerPoint presentation which is sent by email.Office XP: The most recent version of Microsoft's office software suite for Windows. Includes additional protection against viruses spreading via email.Virus scanner: A program that continually checks your PC and reports if a virus is detected. Scanners are also capable of removing most viruses.Virus hoax: An email that warns you of a "dangerous new virus". The email urges you to forward the warning to everyone you know. Unless you are sure that the message is genuine, resist the temptation to forward it to anyone at all.RTF: Rich Text Format. An alternative to the Word .doc format but which doesn't support macros and is thus immune to viruses.
The future of troubled e-tailer Gameplay last night hung in the balance after it admitted that it was running out of cash faster than previously thought.Shares in the online games seller slumped 33% to 4.75p amid fears that it would have to sell its last remaining businesses or find partners to avoid administration.Last year Gameplay was named the Alternative Investment Market's "new company of the year" and its shares changed hands for almost &#163;11.Lower than expected returns from the sale of its boxed games divisions and the collapse of a credit line with its suppliers has wiped around &#163;10m from its dwindling cash resources leaving it without enough funds to take its residual technology business into profit. "The desire is to carry on and complete the journey that we have embarked on but it is tough and we have to act in the best interests of shareholders," said Mark Bernstein, the chief executive.It is thought that shareholders BSkyB and BT remain interested in using Gameplay's multi-player and online gaming technology but internal issues at both companies are getting in the way of any deal.BT is keen to conserve cash, while BSkyB has been put off internet companies after having to write off a series of bad investments. They are also concerned about Gameplay's continued solvency.It is thought that Gameplay could guarantee its short-term future if either of the deals being discussed is sealed but executives admit that the talks could take longer than the company has.In the event that an agreement does not materialise, the executives are determined that Gameplay will not go bust. Instead they will close the technology business, leaving a stock market listed cash shell that another company could be reversed into.Gameplay has been stricken by the lack of an expected upturn in sales in the computer games market and the slower than expected roll-out of fast internet connections which would have made mass online gaming a commercial reality.Despite increasing sales and a strong brand, it has been forced to sell businesses to raise cash. Executive chairman Mark Strachan yesterday stepped down to a non-executive position as part of a boardroom shake-up designed to save money.Gameplay.com
Reading wordsWe do not use Microsoft Word, but increasingly people are sending us emails with attachments written in the latest Word formats. On my Windows 98 machine I can read these with WordPad, but on my wife's older Windows 95 machine, WordPad produces a load of garbage. Can I copy my Win98 version on to her machine, and how? Is there any other program that will read them?Joseph Edwardsjoseph.edwards@ntlworld.comJack Schofield replies:Microsoft provides a free viewer for Word files. You can download it from a link at http://support.microsoft.com/ support/kb/articles/q165/9/ 08.aspHowever, you could also encourage the people who write to you to use plain text or save documents as Rich Text Files (.rtf). A copy of Wordpad.exe from Windows 98 will not run (or not easily) in Windows 95. Programs from earlier versions of Windows usually run in later ones, but not vice versa.SpellcheckMy daughter works in Italy as an English teacher. Her home system runs Microsoft Word 97 and Windows 98 - nothing unusual except that it is all Italian language-based.  Since an important part of her work is in English, she needs a spellcheck that scans her English language work as conveniently as the embedded (Italian) one.Rob BradyBr@dyRobert.co.ukJS: Can she upgrade to Word 2000? Many word processors can be loaded with spelling checkers for different languages, but Word 2000 performs the neat trick of checking the spelling of multiple languages on the same page. She should get the Italian version, which supports Italian, French, German and English out of the box. The English version only supports English, French and Spanish. To support Italian and other languages, she would then need to add the Office 2000 Proofing Tools (www.microsoft.com/office/multilingual/proofing.htm). This series of CDs covers more than 30 languages.What WorksI use the Microsoft Works 2000 word processor, which creates .wps files. I sometimes need to send files as email attachments but IE5 won't open them. This means they have to be converted to .doc or .txt files for transmission. Annoyingly, conversion removes page numbers and page-end references. Is there any way around this, please?Mike Cooperbartolo@waitrose.comJS:There may be, but I would not look for one. I think you should stop using the wps file format, which has no long-term future, and save things in (Word) doc or rtf format, or even html. The more files you save in wps now, the more tedious it will be when you have to translate them all later. Both the Works Suite 2000 and 2001 include a copy of Word 2000, so you may already have a copy.Still squawksI have tried all three remedies for silencing "the parrot" without success (May 10). Have you any other ideas short of a shotgun? I have been told it may be because AOL use their own software.Robin GriffithsGRIFFNR@aol.comJS:Several AOL users have written in with the same complaint so you are probably right. AOL dial-up software does contain its own settings for modem noises. In AOL 4.0i, for example, go into Setup, and then Expert Add Modem. There you will find a selector for speaker volume, which offers Off, Low, Normal and Loud.PasswordsSince upgrading to Internet Explorer 5.5, I have been unable to save my password. The Save Password option   on the Dial Up Connection box is greyed out, so I can't tick it, and I have to retype the password every time. Can you help? I can't find anything on the web about others experiencing this problem.Peter Flanaganpeter@flana49.freeserve.co.ukJS:This is, unfortunately, a frequently-asked question. Worse, there is no reliable answer. There are so many things that can possibly go wrong that there is not room to go into them all here.However, Microsoft has some advice in its Knowledge Base at http://support. microsoft.com/support/kb/ articles/q148/9/25.aspYou can also work through a list of the possibilities on the WindowsAnnoyances website atwww.annoyances.org/cgi-bin/ce-showtopic/006_004Re-sendI use Outlook Express 5 and would like to know if you can re-send a message that is in the Sent Items box?Peter Deightonpeterdeighton@csma-netlinkJS:Not that I can see: Outlook Express will not let you put it back in the Outbox. However, if you double-click a mail message in Sent Items, you can forward it to someone, including the original recipient.Anti spamSpam merchants almost always include something like: "to be removed from this list, reply with REMOVE in the subject line". Is there any evidence that this achieves anything, or should I just delete the junk and save myself the bother of replying?Bob Wilkinsbob_wilkins@email.msn.comJS:Yes, it does achieve something - it tells the spammer that your mailbox is active, rather than one of the countless defunct or non-existent ones included on CDs that offer millions of email addresses for a few dollars.&#183;Following last week's question from Judit Carson, thanks to Clem Dye and other readers for telling us about Microsoft's Application Compatibility tool (Apcompat.exe) for Windows 2000. This does not change anything but lets Windows 2000 lie about which operating system it is when asked, which may allow some games to run. See http://support. microsoft.com/support/kb/ articles/Q251/0/62.ASP&#183;Due to popular demand, Ask Jack will now appear every week, instead of fortnightly. However, I would really like to broaden the range of topics covered, so feel free to ask about MP3 files, utility programs or web sites and other general topics: if I don't know the answer, I'll find someone who does. (And if the answer would be too big to fit this space, we'll consider the topic for the Step By Step section.) I never make up the questions for this column, so if there is anything you would like to see covered, you really do have to ask.
Upgrading is a topical subject in the light of Microsoft's launch of Office XP, or Quicken 2001, or Corel's WordPerfect Office 2002 or any of the other revamps that have hit the market at the same time.There can be excellent reasons for upgrading, although it's always worth bearing Bill Gates' advice to wait until version 3 before buying and let someone else find out about any bugs. Keeping up to date is useful, though. Take Access Accounts, a company that writes accounting systems for the small business market. It issues upgrades periodically and tries to keep its customers on the latest one at all times."In keeping up-to-date and taking advantage of the new features and functionality available, users can move their systems on as an evolutionary process," says customer services director John Beech.Accounting systems are more vulnerable to falling behind than most other systems because people depend on them for tax, payroll and other information that needs to be kept in synch with modern legislation. Less essential are the upgrades to things like spreadsheets - yes, they look prettier and can be viewed through a web browser, but the core adding-up tasks haven't really changed.What does get people moving and removes any doubt about upgrading is pressure from other people. A number of small companies contacted for this article were adamant they didn't change their systems - why fix something that works? - unless they absolutely had to. By that they normally meant was "when people are sending us attachments in the new format, we're missing business if we can't read it".
Psstwant the very latest super-fast computer with go-faster stripes and a really fast graphics card? You're reading the wrong section then, squire - this is for serious systems, chugging along and doing business work. Number crunching, word processing, that sort of thing - so there's really no need to go for anything that costs more than fifty quid from a breaker's yard, is there?Actually, depending on your requirements, that's not so far from the truth. With the emphasis on the fastest and best there are a lot of second-hand computers coming on to the market which were state of the art only a couple of years ago, and if they worked then, they'll most likely work now.Paul Whyles runs his second-hand bookshop on a second-hand computer he found on a conferencing system. He bought it late last year and uses it to run his site athttp://home.clara.net/pwhyles. He spent £148.87 inc VAT for a Fujitsu Pentium 166MHz PC with 64Mb of Ram and a 2Gb disk. It was actually made in 1997, and Whyles needed to have his own CD-rom drive and software to bring it up to date enough for his purposes.Something that is evident from Whyles's experience is that he had to know what he was doing in order to make any use of his system. Adding a CD-rom is straightforward for anyone with a little nous and a manual; reconnecting the serial ports was something else he had to do as the system was too old to have modern USB connections for easy addition of printers, cameras and other peripheral gadgets.The next stage was not so simple: "My problem with it was that it only came with 256k of video memory &#91;which allows&#93; 16 colours," he says."I must have at least 1Mb of  video memory, otherwise I'll get distracted. The board has expansion for video memory but I've not been able to get any. I bought a second-hand PCI vid card for about £5 that works just great. However, it is using up a scarce PCI slot."In terms of functions the system is hampered by its age. But for Whyles, the fact that he writes his own pages as an extended Microsoft Access database means that all he has to worry about in terms of leading-edge technology is to get the current version of Microsoft Internet Explorer running at any given time. He seems more than happy: "Buying second-hand saved me around£500: not much I guess, but when you are self employed It also makes me feel good as I like to recycle."The larger customer can also make use of the second-hand system, although in the business market they're more comfortable referring to them as "second-user".   Phil Reakes is managing director of Selway Moore, a company that sells new and second-user systems from Sun and Hewlett-Packard, and here we're talking about HP's large multi-user systems rather than the home-based stuff. Selway Moore's policy is to mix new and old system sales so that it can take care of systems over their complete life cycles. "At the end of the life of the computer we take it from the customer in exchange for money and put it on the second-user market," says Reakes.His view of the second-user market is overwhelmingly positive because in his experience products actually tend to be more reliable when bought in that way."Independent report swill tell you that 40% or so of computer failures happen between the customer opening the box and setting up the system: assembly issues and things like that. Second-user systems will have been repaired in the field if they were dead on arrival: the manufacturers don't tell you that."Apart from old computers being of a lower specification, quality assurance is probably the other issue keeping people away from the second-user market. This is where buying from someone reputable is bound to help; Selway Moore is an accredited Sun and HP dealer and will purchase a warranty for buyers of second-user kit so they are covered every bit as much as if they had bought new, while Whyles was offered a 30-day warranty only. Buyers of systems from QXL, eBay and other auction or classified sites are unlikely to get that reassurance, though it should be stressed that there's normally no need to be suspicious of any but a small minority of sellers on these sites.For all that, though, the main problem with second-user systems remains the specification. Neil Leacey, an independent developer and refurbisher of these second-user machines says: "The proviso I always tell people is 'don't moan at me when you see your neighbour's brand-new 3D-super-whizzo all-singing, all-dancing machine and realise you can't live without being able to watch a DVD film on a 17" screen'. If you want that sort of thing, spend the money and get your self a decent widescreen telly and player!"However, the real killer for the second-hand computer dealer is the tax relief offered to buyers of new systems. This has come about because the government has been keen to promote IT to small business.  For the small "c" conservative customer, though, who doesn't want a system that does absolutely everything but only something reliable for number-crunching and report writing, second-user systems shouldn't be written off.help panelJargon-busterMHz:Megahertz, the speed in millions of calculations per second that a computer's brain - the processor - works at.USB:Universal Serial Bus, the most recent standard for attaching devices such as printers and scanners to your PC.Ram:Random Access Memory, which comes in megabytes (or "megs").Video memory:Special memory, separate from Ram, which is used to create images on the screen.
A couple of years ago there was a meeting of a user group of a small business accounting system. One of the speakers asked how many companies present actually used a database for their business. Several hands went up. He refined the question, asking them to put their hands down if they meant they used a spreadsheet or contact manager and thought that was probably good enough. Sheepish smiles exchanged, all of the hands went down without exception.It's not surprising. Databases are not easy technology and to get the most out of them takes planning. The basics - putting information into a "naked" database like Microsoft Access, Filemaker or the cut-down database material you get from the complete-but-inexpensive office software systems such as Microsoft Works - are easy. Tailoring it to get anything useful out is less so.Basically there are two sorts of database, although one has fallen largely out of use. The obsolete version is "flat-file", which was what it sounded like: a set of files with information on them, set one after the other. More lively is the relational database: the one that builds relationships between the different fields of information. In other words if you wanted to find a number of customers who had bought a particular product from you in the last month or sort these customers by their address, a flat file database could do those tasks individually whereas a relational database would do it simultaneously.You put data in by filling in onscreen electronic forms. These you can tailor to your own requirements, according to the instructions offered to you in the software - and this is where greater expertise is required. The software tends to have wizards written into it (see pictures based on Microsoft Access), but if you want something tailor-made you need either to get it done by an outside agency or buy in some expertise on the staff.Taking what's in the box already and entering your own information can be a good option if your requirements are basic. Peter Gallon of PR company Two-One Communications uses Microsoft Access to manage all of his contacts:"The close integration between MS applications means that it is fairly simple to create personalised letters, mailing labels etc in MS Word and merge them with data held in an Access database so that customers or contacts receive personalised material," he says.Access and Word can link together and Word can call up elements of the database - perhaps a name, address and other piece of info - so that everyone gets a personalised letter instead of one marked "dear colleague"."Once you've created your base Word document, it is permanently linked to the database, so every time you open the document, you will generate fresh, up-to-date merges - as long as you keep the Access database up to date, of course," says Gallon.Useful though that capability is, though, it's nothing you couldn't do happily with the columns in a spreadsheet. The real fun stuff in database use starts when you begin to look seriously at what the information can do for you - and this usually involves getting someone in to do some development work for you.This is the stage at which you can start asking intelligent questions about the actual purpose of your organisation's information. Marc Demarest, chief executive of DecisionPoint Applications, sells into the larger business but offers some insight into the sort of customer relationship management (CRM) processes that become available when information is managed electronically:"Analytical CRM is geared towards understanding a series of interactions with customers over time in activity-based terms, with a view to understanding whether a given customer is profitable to the company and satisfied with the quality of that relationship." For this to work you need in-depth detail on finance, human resources, distribution and manufacturing so that you know exactly what a customer is costing you. You then know, frankly, whether they're worth hanging on to.Demarest is predictably evangelistic about the technology that makes this possible, but he has a valid point when he looks at businesses that don't use it: "The result is management by gut instinct, rather than achieving the goal of management by fact." Full-blown CRM is likely to be beyond the grip of most smaller businesses, but it's worth bearing it in mind as a business grows.Handling information for internal consumption is important, but is can be as vital for external consumption. For example, wallpaper and paint maker Farrow and Ball wanted to tighten up its contacts with its customers around the world. It turned to Logic Internet Limited, an e-commerce specialist, to put together a database that could be accessed though its website and which contained technical details of the paints the company sells. Customers needed to be able to search using colour, finish and other information including local stockists. Logic Internet used Filemaker Pro to put on to th site 3300 products, worldwide pricing plus the ability to update information at will and take orders.Filemaker and Access are the most widely  known databases that you can buy in shrinkwrapped form; there are others in the corporate space, eg Oracle and Sybase, but these are vast systems that need a lot more input before they do anything for the (typically) corporate customer.So there are a few guidelines to bear in mind when buying databases. First, if you bought an all-in-one office software suite, don't discount the database that came with it (if indeed there was one - Microsoft doesn't automatically supply Access in the small business version of Office, for example). If your needs are basic, it may be all you need.Less basic needs can also be fulfilled, but usually with help - there's enough flexibility in the codes to allow someone who knows what they're doing to provide you with what will look like your own computing application, although it'll actually be a tweaked version of the standard stuff. What it won't be is inert information: you'll be able to change it and get important management information out of it as long as you haven't complicated the forms in too many ways. Also, judging from the Farrow and Ball example, you'd be well advised to make sure you get something that's set up for web compatibility; if you don't want it now, don't be sure you won't want it in six months. Don't make too big an issue of this - as long as it's reasonably up-to-date, any database program you buy will almost certainly work in this way unless you go for a real cheapie.For all that, databases tend to be regarded as a bit of an arcane technology. It's true that at corporate level, when they are used for everything from customer management to deeply secure HR and payroll functions - indeed, accounting systems are based on databases - they can be large, unwieldy and ever so slightly scary.   Suitably demystified, and with help where it's needed, though, they can be a useful addition to any office where there's any information to manipulate, and should start paying for themselves in a very short time.
How many telephone calls do you and your key staff miss when you are away from your desk? How much time do you spend roaming round your place of work, interacting with staff and customers, checking up on things, making a cup of tea or taking time away from immediate tasks in order to contemplate the wider issues. At times like these it's tempting to reach for your expensive mobile phone to make that essential call when the idea strikes, but there are better ways to keep in touch when moving around the office.The concept of a cordless office has been around for some time, but it's only now starting to take off and really capture our imaginations. Employees today, in both large and small organisations, no longer want to be tied to their desks by constricting cables. For some businesses, such as hotels, warehousing, manufacturers and garden centres, it's essential that key members of staff are mobile and highly visible. In the retail industry alone, 90% of staff are not fixed to one point.An essential part of the mobile communications technology jigsaw is DECT: digital, enhanced cordless telecommunications. If the concept of cordless telephony reminds you of bulky handsets, with extending silver aerials, crackly reception and the distinct possibility of picking up your neighbour's calls - let me reassure you that technology has indeed moved on from those analogue days.DECT isn't new: it started life as a European initiative to develop a unified digital radio standard for cordless phones, but has now been adopted and applied to a wide range of telecommunications applications for home and office in more than 110 countries. Currently, there are over 200 DECT products available on the market and the groundswell of interest has brought in economies of scale and made them affordable. As sales of DECT systems have quadrupled, costs have halved."DECT has been designed to provide high speech quality for lots of people that can be operated in the same area without interfering with each other's links." explains Tim Wells, marketing manager for Ascom, which manufacturers DECT equipment. "It really does deliver the clarity and quality of a fixed line. In an office environment, DECT technology can also offer much more than a standard fixed telephone system."There are three main benefits to considering using a cordless communication system in your business. The first is increased productivity all round, not just from the handset user: other members of staff are no longer involved in providing a message-taking service. Reachability is so important today when our business focus is on improving levels of customer service.And there are cost savings: by simply reducing the number of return calls that have to be made.   For any new telephone system, wiring costs are significant, and taking these into account can make a cordless system financially viable. With costs for a small four-line, eight-extension system at less than a £1,000, most vendors agree that the payback time on a DECT installation is less than 12 months. Leasing options and tax-efficient write-downs improve the equation further.For business use there are three main options for DECT. The entry-level system is suitable for very small offices or home-office use and is based on the consumer versions of the product. One base station serves a single handset, which is restricted in use to the range of the base station - usually around 50m indoors and up to 300m outdoors depending on how much building fabric the radio waves have to pass through.The second option is a complete microcellular network that offers total coverage but plugs into the back of your existing phone system or switchboard giving you partial integration of the two systems. But not all small office switchboards, even relatively modern ones, will support DECT functionality, so check with your suppliers.The best option, however, is when DECT functionality is fully integrated into the PBX telephone switch, so you get full superset telephone functionality and better all-round performance. Integrating DECT features into standard PBXs has been the focus of manufacturers over the last couple of years, and is one of the main reasons why DECT technology is now taking off for business use."With integrated systems, we can supply a small PBX with built-in analogue and DECT technology," says Wells. "DECT should be an integrated part of a modern telephony system; if you are going to have a truly convergent configuration then you have to have voice, data, cti and mobility all delivered within the same system."The use of cordless telephones in both commercial and the home environment is becoming increasingly popular. As a nation, we have become more comfortable with the concept of mobile telephony, due to the mass-market appeal and availability of cellular telephony, and the natural extension is to take the benefits of this freedom of movement into our homes and workplaces. Despite the scaremongering about possible adverse health effects of cellular handsets, the use of mobile technology is on the rise. DECT systems are so low-powered that there is even less risk associated with them than traditional cellular mobile phones. These DECT handsets are also safe enough to use in the most sensitive of places, from hospital operating theatres to hazardous chemical and toxic waste sites.My rationale for using DECT is convenience. As a writer it gives me the freedom to work where I choose within my house and garden. At the moment, I am sitting at the bottom of the garden, under the shade of a tree, enjoying the sunshine.However, my DECT system doesn't integrate with my switchboard, which is a little annoying as I can't see who is calling on the generous display on the handset. Nor can I receive text messages from colleagues nor do I have total integration with my electronic phonebook. However, my notebook computer is connected to the wireless network, as is my switchboard, so I can see at a glance onscreen who is calling before deciding whether to answer the call or divert them on to voicemail.Using wireless technology has improved my efficiency and added to my quality of life. The only downside is that I have to remember to carry the handset with me, otherwise it's back to remembering where the nearest phone is and dashing for it when I hear it ring.help panelJargon Buster:DECT:Stands for digital enhanced cordless technology. DECT handsets can be connected to both standard analogue and ISDN telephone lines, with or without a switchboard. Using low-powered radio waves, DECT gives clear lines and roaming capability with a range of up to 300 metres from its base station.PBX:Short for private branch exchange, a private telephone network used within an enterprise. Users of the PBX share a certain number of outside lines for making telephone calls external to the PBX. Most companies, including many SMEs, use a PBX because it's much less expensive than connecting an external telephone line to every telephone in the organisation. In addition, it's easier to call someone within a PBX because the number you need to dial is typically just two to four digits.
One of the worst things about sales forces is that they keep moving around, constantly on the road, wanting to see people and sell them stuff. That's the official version in any case; to the appropriately paranoid business manager they're going on pub crawls.The more easy-going contingent doesn't actually have any of those worries because, of course, they manage their workforce effectively no matter where they are, and can use electronic means to handle this highly effectively. It needn't cost a fortune.To begin with it's important to look at the sort of thing your remote workers will be doing and in what way they will be remote.Locating staff at home can save money in terms of office space, as well as, for example, allowing women to continue working further into time when they would otherwise be on maternity leave. The equipment you'll need for them will be similar to that which you have in your office: a desktop PC and a modem for connecting back to the office system will, in many cases, do nicely.   The sort of network connection you opt for will vary; if you have a super-fast leased line that's the way to go, although Alan McGibbon, MD and founder of network integrator Scalable Networks, thinks going through an internet connection into a Virtual Private Network is more likely in most cases. "This raises security issues, however," he warns. "Enabling internet-based access into your 'private' network domain could expose many potential holes in poorly implemented security architectures," he says.Security isn't the only issue. Supervising staff at a distance can be a problem. This is where video conferencing starts to become useful and it need not cost vast amounts. A basic webcam (expect change from £100) on each computer, a microphone each for a couple of pounds and the software that's already in Windows will allow for a decent enough if slightly jerky half-hour business meeting between two people in different cities or countries.Naturally you pay for what you get, although prices are coming down even for the swisher technology: the advent of the 1.3GHz PC has enabled companies such as Futurelink to establish good quality video connections for £40 per person per hour. Instead of using the customer's own system, Futurelink works on the Application Service Provider (ASP) model - it provides the system and people log on to it through the internet."The lower picture qualities are fine for consumers and individuals," says Dave Mills, commercial vice president of the company. "Businesses, whether small or corporate, will expect higher quality, and if they can cost-justify using time and air fare savings then they respond."The fun really starts, though, with remote workers who are on the move. Laptop computers are the obvious first step, and linking them to your network can be done in a number of ways. Elsa has just released the Microlink ISDN USB Connect, a very small ISDN adapter that will work happily with a laptop as long as your worker will be near the right sort of socket with no need for an extra power supply. Otherwise many modems are available (or built in) to laptop systems - or there's the slower mobile phone alternative.Using a laptop computer with a mobile phone through an incredibly expensive bit of wire - sorry, 'communications kit' - is normally easy and you should be able to set your chosen email program and modem to use the mobile phone as a conduit to the internet like any other phone line.Most Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs) have email programs that can not only be linked to a computer once the devices are hooked up, but which can be used via a mobile phone through cable or infrared connections. So for example a Palm, Visor, Psion or other organiser can beam and receive email while you're on the road. With the addition of a keyboard from third parties such as Targus plus a little extra software from the various companies listed on download sites including tucows.com, you can have an entire office in your pocket.The disadvantages of working in this way are twofold. First the screen resolutions on laptops and  PDAs don't match those that can be achieved on a desktop screen. Also, until G3 mobile phones happen - which will allow internet connections as fast as those from the desktop - mobile devices will be stuck running much more slowly than their office-bound counterparts, which can be frustrating for all but the simplest text mail.Finally there are the twiddly bits: what happens when something goes wrong with a remote system, for example? Colin Bartram, product marketing specialist at PC network management company Vector Networks, says this "is where remote control support tools come to the rescue, providing support staff with the ability to take control of a remote user's PC or server as if it was in the data centre in the next room."Remote workers: Things to remember&#149; You will be paying for business equipment in someone's home and as such it won't be covered by their contents insurance - don't forget to allow for this insurance in your planning. Having business equipment on the premises can actually invalidate some domestic insurances - make sure your employees won't be caught out.&#149; Video conferencing will be as good as the internet or other private network link on which it runs - equip your employees with the fastest connection you can afford.&#149; IT and other equipment will need maintaining - don't forget to build this cost in when planning.&#149; Try to encourage home workers to consider themselves "at work" rather than at home at all times; the temptation to nip out to the shops or watch a bit of telly when you ought to be working can be considerable (a home worker writes)!
When you go freelance, like I did, you become your own sales person, debt chaser and above all bookkeeper, although those with any sense at all will employ an accountant as well.The good news is that bookkeeping needn't be a chore, as long as you have the right software to manage it. And there is a fair selection, whether you are a sole trader or a company employing a few people. And it all works, if you get the information right first time.Correcting errors in some of the cheaper packages can be a bit of a trial, which is in a way a good thing: you don't want to be able to alter your legally and meticulously kept financial information too easily. But the rigidity of some packages is stunning. This led one small business owner to prefer a spreadsheet to any other form of information entering system. But spreadsheets, although useful to the smaller trader, won't necessarily tell you how much VAT you owe, remind you to pay it, transfer money between accounts or take statements from an online bank. In fact, it is a bit of a blunt instrument.A better idea is to use something designed for the task, and to investigate the options for your particular size of business. Sole traders need look no further than a handful of the personal finance systems on the market - Microsoft Money and Intuit's Quicken being the best selling - but should remember to opt for the professional versions as these let you set up invoicing, VAT reporting and other functions.You're presented with a view of your finances as a web page and as long as you've sat through the job of entering all the information regularly, you should find a lot of the tedium taken out of your accounting. Lists and reports of who owes you money and for how long it's been due are easy to come by. Expect change from £100 for either of these.An alternative to the front runners is the new MyBusiness system from My Business Ltd. This has a simple bookkeeping element so that you can enter customer details, produce invoices, record payments and track your VAT, but it adds a diary, task list and contact manager. This is truly great, as is the price at £49.99 per year, as long as you don't have anything silly like another contact manager up and running. You can't import information from any of the standard personal information managers except Microsoft Outlook and you cannot yet synchronise your info with your hand-held computer. If that's not important to you then this is an option worth considering. Other possibilities would include tweaks of Excel like IntelligentApps 4Excel (www.intelligentapps. com), which will set you back £99) and online packages from people like Genient.Smaller companies are well provided for also. If you have a need for basic accounting and a firm with a few employees then Quickbooks - basically Quicken's bigger sibling - can help, as can TAS Books, MYOB (Mind Your Own Business) and Sage Instant Accounting.The first three have optional payroll modules so you can manage staff payments automatically and get reports on your tax liability as an employer. Other clever bits start appearing at this stage, such as the "accountant's copy" function in QuickBooks, which churns out the incomprehensible-but-vital stuff your accountant will need, or the marketing information that can be drawn from TAS.  As a business grows, these systems will start to look a little small, although the functions built in should allow you to build a company up to a fair size before using them becomes unworkable. Beyond these you're really looking at full-blown accounting systems, operated by accounting staff.Setting up your accounts on these systems is not difficult as long as you bear a few things in mind. First, always try to start with a new accounting period - preferably a new tax year or quarter, as you really do not want to have half a VAT return done by hand and the other by computer.Second, make sure you have all your information with you when you start: latest bank statements, list of bills both owed by and due to you, details of investments and so on, or else you will be forever catching up and working with incomplete information.Another good idea is to continue working with your existing manual system for at least a financial quarter. You don't want to find that you were making a mistake for a few months and effectively invalidating your only copy of information you were going to send the tax inspectors. Backing up is a always good idea, but until you are certain you are comfortable with your system it's best not to rely on it absolutely. Never forget that, regardless of your having spent money on an accounting or even elementary bookkeeping system, you and not the company that sold it to you are legally responsible for the accuracy of information you send to the authorities.In connection with which, never forget that the key to good financial management is organisation. Systems like those discussed above will remind you when it's time to pay the VAT bill only if you have told the computer in the first place; the more sophisticated will write cheques and even transfer money electronically, but they won't write an invoice for a job you have forgotten you have done. If you are already efficient these packages are great; if you're not then they'll just allow you to be inefficient faster.help panelSome basic guidelines for good accounting&#149; Always keep up to date with new versions of software - tax regulations change and this will reflect in the software.&#149; Don't abandon old systems until you're fully comfortable with the new one.&#149; Take frequent backups - if your system falls over you're legally responsible for your books, not your software supplier.&#149; Buy the product whose complexity matches your competence - if you can't cope with a zillion tax codes don't buy a product aimed at accountants.
We have all been there. In a meeting, searching for ideas to create new business or solve an old problem, out comes the obligatory flip chart and a set of markers. Then the tired mantra "all ideas are good ideas" is recited before all present attempt to come up with some ground-breaking creative thinking. But do these traditional techniques actually work?Ray Elmitt, founder of Crystal Interactive, which regularly runs brainstorming sessions for companies using wirelessly networked laptop computers, believes that traditional ways of generating ideas are largely unproductive."Ideas are batted up on to flip charts, and groups find it difficult to separate the generation of ideas from the evaluation stage. It slows down really fast as people start to criticise the ideas," he says.Elmitt estimates that in a traditional session with a group of about six people you are only going to get about 15-20 ideas. With the same group using wireless-enabled brainstorming technology, he often gets three times that number in about five minutes.That probably explains why a range of companies from the BBC and ITV to major airlines are organising sessions on anything from strategy to product development using these new technology-based techniques.In a typical Crystal Interactive brainstorming session, all participants are given their own laptop which lets them input their ideas anonymously. Meanwhile, on their screen they can see all the other contributions that are being simultaneously submitted by other members in the session."Everyone has a PC so everybody can effectively speak at once instead of waiting their turn. You just key your ideas in. It's much faster because they are anonymous and people are not afraid to put forward ideas," explains Elmitt.He feels that in a traditional business environment ideas can be shot down, not on grounds of quality but simply because of the position of the person who suggested them.The company works in advance with all of its clients to agree the subjects that are to be addressed by a team and then acts as a facilitator to assist the real-time collaborative process."We help the groups to generate loads of ideas, evaluate them and organise them into themes so they understand them. Then we hone in on a few vital areas," Elmitt explains.He admits that the generation of a large volume of ideas is not in itself a guarantee of quality, but he points out that it does give more options to work with. Working anonymously, participants are invited to group results under headings and then they can vote in real time on issues of importance and the priority actions to be taken.Dot.coms were famous for introducing flatter organisations to promote the faster sharing of information, and the Crystal Interactive approach carries forward this culture.The tailored software which facilitates  this new brainstorming process is a product called groupSystems and it was produced by Ventana Corporation, which is a commercial offshoot of the University of Arizona.But what do the participants feel about this new way of exchanging ideas? Andrew Oldham, e-commerce standards manager for Intel, recently used the wireless laptops as part of an e-business workshop on investment issues and he felt the technology helped people overcome their normal inhibitions."You get good ideas which traditionally you might not get because people might be unwilling to express them," he says.Based in Kingston-upon-Thames, Crystal Interactive (www.crystal-interactive.co. uk) works with a permanent core staff of just three, but with extra help available on contract. A lot of the company's methods are used by organisations overseas and while the group decision-making technology is potentially available to anyone, it tends to be high-tech organisations and the financial services industry which use it the most at the moment.Adrian Abbott, b2b finance manager for Sainsbury's, has been on a Crystal Interactive workshop and he came away impressed with the efficiency of the process. "The technology enables you to gather ideas from a wide variety of people very rapidly," he says.But for small groups, he thinks face-to-face discussions are more effective and he feels the technology-based process does not allow enough scope for people to challenge and react to the instantly generated findings.But Peter Lewy, director of learning and development for Exel plc, a global supply chain management company, believes it is important for employees to feel their opinions are valued, and he likes the immediacy of technology-enabled brainstorming.Exel has used Crystal Interactive in order to make its conferences more interactive. Rather than leaving staff to pay lip service to someone addressing them from a stage, he explains they wanted to get employees more involved with the development of the organisation. "Too much communication is top down. This gives instant opportunities for sideways and upwards feedback."Copies of the output of the sessions are printed off quickly, but Lewy accepts that the use of the technology will not necessarily mean much unless the feedback is acted upon. He also believes it will be a while before traditional managers make non-hierarchical group decision-making part of their day-to-day practices.
One of the best things about the internet is that there's so much free software out there, just waiting for you to download on to your computer. However, this download process can also work the other way around. There are many companies that provide free online storage services, allowing you to upload files from your computer and store them on the internet.These services allow you to create a kind of 'virtual hard disk' on the internet, that you can use as an extension of your computer's built-in hard disk. You can treat this online disk just like any other storage device, freely copying files to it or from it as long as you're connected to the internet.There are all sorts of uses for your online storage space. The most obvious is simply to use it as back-up storage for important files. You could store copies of files you need for work, or make a back-up of your email address book. Then, if your computer breaks down, you know there's a copy of your files stored safely on the internet.An online disk is also a good insurance policy against break-ins or theft. A burglar can easily steal your back-up disks along with your main computer, but they can't steal the entire internet as well. Your data will still be there even if every computer in your office is stolen.Another problem with most ordinary back-up devices is that they can only be connected to one computer at a time. The internet, however, connects millions of computers all over the world. This means that your online disk space can be accessed from anywhere in the world. If you're going on a business trip and you don't want to lug a Zip drive around in your briefcase, you can simply upload your files to your online disk from any office, hotel or cybercafe.You can also use your online disk space as an alternative to email. Many email systems put a limit on the size of files that can be attached to messages. This means it may be impossible to send large files, such as MP3 songs or video clips, to your friends. But most online storage services allow you to create a 'public' or 'shared' folder that is open to other people. Just tell your friends the location   of your online disk and they can view or download files you put into the shared folder.To illustrate how these online disk services work, we created an account with Idrive, one of the best known online storage services. You get 50 megabytes of free storage space when you sign up with Idrive, but there are similar services that offer 15MB to 100MB.You can generally upgrade your account to provide even more storage space if you need it, although you'll probably have to pay a subscription fee for this.Step By Step1)Go towww.idrive.comand select New idrive user to create your account.2)You'll need to fill out the subscription form with your chosen user name and password.3)An email will be sent to you to confirm your Idrive details. This should only take a few minutes.4)You can now return to the Idrive site and log in to connect to your online disk space.5)You control your Idrive account through your web browser. Once you've signed in, you can choose a number of options. Click the Upload button when you're ready to upload files.6)The Browse button allows you to locate and select the files you want to upload.7)You can create a series of folders within your Idrive to store different files, just as you can on your computer's built-in hard disk. You can   create one folder for your work files, another for MP3 files and another for photos.8)Click the Share button to create a special folder that is open to other people. You can also specify a password that restricts access.
Grub's upNone of today's search engines indexes more than a fraction of the web: it is too big and it is growing too fast. One solution could be to distribute the search by having indexing software running on thousands or millions of servers, just like Seti@Home shares out the calculations in the search for extra-terrestrial intelligence.That is the idea behind Grub, the first distributed, open source "internet crawler" (www.grub.org). But although peer-to-peer ideas like this are fashionable, Grub may be avoided by some potential participants because it is a commercial company and will sell access to its database.What's hot?When you're browsing Yahoo and something catches your eye, you can click a link and email the story or picture to someone else. The number of times that happens must be some sort of guide to interest in the content, but you can decide that for yourself at http://news.yahoo.com/h/mt/?uThat is where Yahoo collects and ranks the items most often mailed by readers during the previous six hours. The most mailed content on Yahoo UK &amp; Ireland is at http://uk.news.yahoo.com/ mostmail/new/most.htmlTyred outIf the words "Michelin guide" mean something special to you, then head for the new Michelin web guide atwww.viamichelin.com. The site provides maps and driving directions for all of Europe, a guide to hotels and restaurants, plus tourist and weather information.A refugeMigrating Memories is a timely website that lets refugees and asylum seekers tell their own stories, but there is nothing sensationalist about it. The site supports    a European Union-backed exhibition that is now on show at Museum Centre Vapriikki, in Tampere, Finland, and will visit Nottingham (July 14-August 29) before finishing with a conference in Malmo, Sweden. Not all the content has been translated yet. Go towww.migratingmemories.netGlobal explorerMSN Explorer is not to be confused with Internet Explorer, though it does much the same thing. The MSN version is designed for people who are new to the net or think IE is too techie. In other words, it is prettier and more integrated than IE5. Microsoft is now launching localised versions for countries outside the US, such as Canada. There will be nine versions in English, including one for the UK. For a list, see http://explorer.msn.ca/intl.aspUse of EnglishWho says all the best domain names were taken years ago? Engrish is perfect for this homage to the way the Japanese use English to sell a wide range of products from the famous Pocari Sweat soft drink to My Fannie paper rolls and Angel Relief chocolate biscuits. See www. engrish. comProfusionIt is hard for search engines to compete with Google (www.google.com), but there are times when you want something different, and ProFusion (www.profusion.com) looks like filling one of those gaps.The presentation is like a Yahoo from earlier days, when there was less of it.But pick a subject area, and instead of a directory, you get the option to search selected subgroups of information sources. In many cases, this lets you eliminate millions of "false positives" that are outside the area you want.And if you want an even more specialised channel-based search engine, trywww.quickfindit.com.Love storyThe 60th anniversary, the TV programmes, the books (www.coffeetablebooks.com/PearlHarbor/), and the blockbuster film could lead to a summer of endless hype about Pearl Harbor.The National Geographic had both TV specials (www.nationalgeographic.com/tv/channel/pearlharbor.html) and a website (www.nationalgeographic.com/pearlharbor/) up for the film's premiere.The film, of course, has its own website (www.pearlharbor.com), though Yahoo's links pages may be more useful ( http://movies.yahoo.com/ shop?d=hv&amp;cf=info&amp;id= 1800444945 ).The very old unofficial fan site devoted to heroine and love interest Kate Beckinsale (www.katebeckinsale.co.uk) could not be reached at the time of writing, but she can be found on Thespian.net (www.thespiannet.com/actresses/B/beckinsale_kate/).New &amp; noted* Now you can create your own mobile/SMS portal atwww.wol-m.co.uk/uk/portal.html* More than you want to know, perhaps, but it's official:www.naomicampbell.com* Encyclopedia of Computer Security plus a newswire:www.itsecurity.com* A test version of Swarmcast has been launched atwww.swarmcast.com/gate/It provides a peer-to-peer way to distribute large files.* Stupid net games: iswww.netcandy.co.uk/Who_ate_pies.htmlreally an improvement on Pong?* CPIP, the carrier pigeon internet protocol, lives on. Seewww.blug.linux.no/rfc1149/Six of the bestFree Windows enhancersPowerdesk - replaces Windows Explorerwww.ontrack.com/powerdesk/Tweak UI - control Windows' interfacewww.microsoft.com/NTWorkstation/downloads/PowerToys/Networking/NTTweakUI.aspIrfan View - thumbnails in any directorywww.irfanview.comReGet - simplifies file/image downloadswww.reget.comPowerArchiver - zips, decompresses, extractswww.powerarchiver.comZone Alarm - keeps hackers outwww.zonelabs.com
Your mobile phone is no longer just a mobile phone. As well as sending and receiving text messages and hooking up to the internet, it is now a powerful pocket games console that can connect to thousands of fellow users at any time.So claim the various games companies vying for a slice of a market they call "pervasive" gaming. According to their makers, pervasive games are a new form of online entertainment that use a variety of different media to "invade" your life and "summon" you to play even when you are offline.Last week EA.com, the online entertainment arm of US games giant Electronic Arts, unleashed Majestic, its first pervasive game and the first EA game to make use of the mobile phone.Described by EA as "a powerful suspense thriller where the lines of reality are quickly blurred", Majestic uses a combination of email, text messaging, voicemail and fax to place players at the centre   of a "sinister conspiracy theory involving covert government agencies and menacing fugitives". And, unlike most games, Majestic keeps playing even after you have shut down the computer. Its advance publicity boasts that Majestic might actually call you in the dead of night and regularly interrupt your working day.Majestic is driven by a $10m database that tracks every piece of information it has sent to you and by what media. EA charges $9.95 for each of the eight episodes. Content providers such as EA are usually paid by the network operators to produce games for their mobile phone portals.Another game, Botfighters, launched in Sweden this month, makes use of the device in mobile phones that alerts network operators to the geographical location of its users. Usually, this technology is used to inform users where their nearest curry house is, but the Swedish designers behind Botfighters have deployed the technology to build a kind of "virtual paintball", where users track each other down and virtually assassinate one another in very real urban environments.A statement on their website reads: "With the phone as an umbilical cord, you're always connected to the game, and it's not always easy to tell reality from fiction." Scary stuff.UK subscribers can expect Botfighters later this year, while EA Europe says it has yet to confirm a European release for Majestic. But cruder forms of pervasive game are already available in the UK. Games such as Star Trek: First Duty and Steve Jackson's Sorcery behave like role-playing games, updating their users with real time news of their simulated realities via the mobile phone.And if you think these games sound a bit nerdy, consider the mass market potential of CMA Football Manager when it is released later this summer. If it is as successful as the fantasy football, cricket and motor racing games out there, we could be talking big money. In Japan, meanwhile, millions of commuters play a humble fishing game on their way to work using their i-mode phones. Their working day is then pervaded with news of virtual catches.Majestic and Botfighters follow on from Nokia Game, which last year attracted half a million registered users across 18 European countries, the difference being that Nokia Game charged no subscription.The appeal of pervasive games is not just that they offer an escape from reality, but that they offer an escape that can be made in secret. They are, perhaps, the ultimate time-waster. Indeed, the publicity for Majestic and Botfighters makes much of the fact that their games play you - not the other way round.Links:www.majestic.ea.comwww.botfighters.comgaming.startrek.com
A swift left hook to the chin of a terrier man may have injected some life into an otherwise dull election campaign. But instead of pounding the streets canvassing voters, hitching a ride on the information superhighway could provide politicians with a few clues as to where those of us who did not vote in the 1997 elections (which saw one of the lowest-ever turnouts) may have escaped to.There are now 23 million British citizens online and dissatisfaction with democracy is growing not just on the streets of Rhyl, but also on the internet. Imaginative, irreverent, sometimes spoof and sometimes serious sites with tips on how to use your vote wisely - or even not at all - are legion on the web.Think you could do better than Tony Blair's plans to privatise public services or William Hague's common sense? Well, post your own nonsense on the Free Party's website (www.thefreeparty.org.uk/) where policy suggestions go up on a "wheel of misfortune" spun by the "spindoctors".On closer inspection, the "wheel of misfortune" is a talkboard brimming with great ideas including a message from the Minister for Information, who thoughtfully supplies Peter Mandelson's telephone number. However, the minister would like to point out that people should only call this number, "if you are an illegal immigrant, economic migrant, eg Chelsea footballer, and have exhausted all other channels for obtaining a passport legally."We left a message for him after the Hinduja passport affair, says a Free Party spokesman, saying if he ever wanted a proper job in politics, he would always be welcome in the Freedom Party.With "Things can only get bitter," as a slogan, you would think the former Northern Ireland secretary may have found a natural home. But residents of Brighton might be relieved to learn that the MP for Hartlepool will not be one of the Free Party candidates standing in any of the three wards in the seaside town.If you have really had it with voting, then you can always vote for Nobody, like the residents of Easton in Bristol. The Vote Nobody Campaign ( http//:uk.geocities. com/votenobody/ ) is urging people to ruin ballot papers.Nora Nobody, the campaign's "virtual figurehead" explains why: "If more spoilt votes are declared for Nobody than for the candidates, then we will declare an Autonomous Zone of Easton."With slogans including "Nobody Cares", "Nobody will make a Difference" and "Nobody is the Black Candidate", you might think that the chances of an Autonomous Free State in Bristol are slim. But Vote Nobody campaigners carried on with the "local elections" after they were postponed on May 3, having posted slips asking who should run Easton: the council or Nobody? 145 votes were returned for Nobody and just five for the council.If this sounds like a cheap prank, the Nobodies complain it is no laughing matter that in 1999's local elections "not one of the councillors elected for Ashley or Easton wards polled more than 19% of the electorate - hardly a democratic mandate to rule."Should you feel the need to be part of the democratic process rather than a member of the politically dispossessed, then become a tactical voter atwww.tacticalvoter.net/and "recycle your wasted vote".Funded by the Joseph Rowntree Reform Trust Limited (www.jrrt.org.uk) and the New Politics Network (www.new-politics.net), it sounds quite marvellous; trading your vote in a marginal seat for another in a safe seat constituency.Full pledges stand at 2,305 and counting. But be warned: the idea was inspired bywww.nadertrader.organdwww.votetrader.orgduring the US elections.But it is not just the youngsters and the pranksters: silver surfers are getting in on internet activism during this election, too.But instead of spoiling your vote, Age Concern ( www. advocacyonline.net/ Age Concern/ ) is sensibly encouraging people to lobby at a time when they might just be listening.Other lobbyists are at it too: Friends of the Earth (www.foe.org.uk/campaigns/general_election/), Oxfam (www.oxfam.org.uk/), Action Aid ( www. actionaid.org/ campaigns/election.html ) and Citizenconnection.net (www.citizensconnection.net) to name but a few, all have special online election campaigns.Some ideas might strike the ordinary voter as quite bonkers so perhaps the last word should go to the daddy of crazy electioneers, the Monster Raving Loony Party ( http://freespace.virgin.net/ raving.loony/ ). Its website will reveal that the spiritual leader is still Screaming Lord Sutch. It will also reveal that the party proudly claims to have had the following ideas "hijacked by UK governments" since 1963: votes for 18-year-olds, opening the airwaves to commercial radio, the abolition of the 11+ test, all-day pub opening, putting parliament on wheels to give everyone a go (devolution), and the recently enacted passports for pets plan.Now where did I put that pen?
When and how did you first use the internet?The middle of 1994 to do research for Victoria Real's interactive TV production of the Tour de France.Did you realise its possibilities straight away?Yes and no. I thought email was brilliant and was clearly going to spread fast, but the content sites I looked at were very disappointing. I compared them to the production values of television and thought "surely we can do better"? We believed that interactive and TV production skills, combined with the advent of digital networks, would eventually realise a compelling medium. It's moving on but there's still a long way to go.How important is a web presence for TV programmes?It depends on the concept. I get very annoyed with the digital fascists who claim that all TV shows must have an interactive proposition of some sort. Not every programme will benefit from interactivity. For instance, do I want to choose the ending to A Touch of Frost? Don't be ridiculous. I want to sit back and watch the story unfold. The real potential will emerge when pioneers create formats with interactive concepts at the core of the show, rather than as add-ons.What do you think the Big Brother website does for the show?I think Big Brother is very close to this vision for the future. It works in tandem with the TV programme, rather than merely as a support function. The secret to the show's online success is simple. By giving viewers the ultimate say in who stays and who goes, each of us has a stake in the outcome. In allowing us to see and hear events inside the house before the TV show has aired, the website acts as a vital part of the whole proposition.What do you think of the employers who want to block Big Brother video streams?It's not entirely surprising. It's part of the reason Channel 4, Endemol and ourselves were so keen to build an enhanced TV version of the show for this series. The ability to interact via your TV from home will, I hope, do for interactive digital TV in 2001 what Big Brother did for the web last year. As for those mean bosses, all I can say is trust and respect your employees - they'll only go to the site for a couple of hours a day.Where next for the net?The qualities that TV takes for granted are still the benchmark for most consumers, so the widespread (cheap) availability of bigger bandwidth networks is vital. That old box sitting in the corner of everyone's living room has a huge part to play - it's where we expect to be entertained and educated.Any favourite websites?Heavy.com for brilliant creative content and the online bank, Cahoot, which is a good example of how an online service can improve those frustrating things in life.Big Brother:www.bigbrother.terra.com
Big questionSuzi Pritchard's article (Get the message out, May 24) may well be a valuable collection of tech hints and tips.But she missed out on question one: "Why should you send lots of similar messages?" OK, she did mention a newsletter or an invitation.And then question zero: "Should you send all this mail at all?" Usually not. The only exception is where people have told you they want to be on some list of yours for some purpose. Then, by all means, send them whatever mail fits that purpose - this is the opt-IN arrangement that sorts out the sensible marketers from, well, the others.There is an interesting data protection question. What is the "purpose" (in the technical sense of the DP Act) for which you process your address book? If, like many people, you enter every address that has ever appeared in a message you saw, you probably now hold the addresses of many of your friends' correspondents who are strangers to you. That is almost certainly getting it wrong even if you don't ever use such addresses. If you do use one of them and a recipient complains, your ISP and the Data Protection Registrar are likely to take a dim view.To be fair, Ms Pritchard did say that it may be bad etiquette, but she said it in the small print. That wasn't good enough on cigarette packets, and it's not good enough here.Rodney Tillotsonr.tillotson@ntlworld.comiMac and meI found the parallels between Sylvie Simmons's experience with computers and mine almost uncanny.An Apple Performa, limited as it is, served me admirably . But recently, I wanted to do things the Performa could not, so I bought an iMac. The operating system, Mac OS 9, is apparently hopelessly over stretched and, like Ms Simmons, I have daily crashes, and the restart button is showing signs of wear, not to speak of my temper.I have now given in, and ordered the new operating system, OS X. I am not looking forward to installing it, but maybe it will sort out the problems. The worst is to have to learn a new system.Is there anybody out there running OS X on an iMac? Any advice?Denis Moorhousedenismoorhouse@aol.comiMac solutionsSylvie Simmons's comments about iMacs crashing "daily" (May 24) brought back a few memories of my own early experiences with the model. I, too, experienced frequent crashes and a lot of headaches but two and a half years later, the situation has improved beyond all recognition. Hard crashes on my current model are now a rare event.My advice to Ms Simmons and anyone else with similar problems would be: buy more memory. A lack of Ram is the number one cause of crashes on Macs. Ram is very cheap at the moment and installing it in recent models is a 10-minute job. Go for no less than 128MB -more if you can afford it. Your Mac will even run more quickly.Secondly: keep your software up to date - and that includes the Mac OS itself. Finally: perform regular disk maintenance. Run Apple's Disk First Aid regularly and consider getting one of the disk maintenance programs available for the Mac as they include useful extra features (try Norton Utilities at www. symantec.com/nu/nu_mac ).Cameron Patersoncameronp@lineone.netHarpicJargon Buster ( May 24) tells us that Soap means "simple object access protocol". It may do now, but in the late 1950s, it stood for IBM's "symbolic optimising assembly program", one of the earliest assembly programs. I remember that because I wrote a rival British version for ICL: the Hollerith Assembly Routine for Programmed Input Conversion. Well, writing it certainly sent me clean round the bend.Eric Thompsonejt@bigfoot.com
