If Google can handle the millions of requests it gets to take down content that infringes copyright, it should be able to handle the few requests it gets to enforce the EU&apos;s &quot;right to be forgotten&quot;, according to Viviane Reding, the European commissioner for justice, fundamental rights and citizenship.Speaking on BBC Radio 5 Live, Reding said that &quot;there are relatively little numbers of requests&quot; to take down information owing to the newly granted right to be forgotten, but that there are &quot;some million requests to take down material because of copyright questions.&quot;&quot;So you see,&quot; Reding continued, &quot;this is a small thing as compared to the copyright things. It is possible to handle the copyright question, so it should also be possible to handle the takedown requests on personal data questions.&quot;Googleannounced that it had received 12,000 requestsfrom individuals to remove their personal data from the search engine in the first day it had accepted such requests. Thecompany&apos;s own figuresshow that it has received more than 23 million requests for URLs to be removed owing to allegations of copyright infringement in the past month, equal to 787,000 such requests every day.Reding said that there were three situations where such requests to be forgotten could be made. Individuals can &quot;remove the data they handed themselves out to the search engines, in order [for] the search engines to utilise it; the data which has been put online [by an individual] can also be taken offline again; and then data which the search engines put in a prominent position [can be removed] when it is inaccurate, inadequate, irrelevant or excessive, as the court has clearly said.&quot;Addressing the inevitable subjectivity of decisions over whether information is &quot;irrelevant&quot;, Reding said that &quot;everything is subjective in human relations&quot;. But she pointed to a recent agreement by national data protection authorities to form a subcommittee to agree on a unifrom way to handle such requests as an &quot;important&quot; move.Reding argued that although the judgment was only handed down by the court recently, &quot;this decision has been taken in 1995,&quot; when the European law which protects individuals&apos; data was drafted. &quot;We have wide European law that was applied in all member states,&quot; she told the BBC, &quot;and the only ones who refused to apply European law in European territories were some American companies. It took the European court of justice to remind them that they have to apply the law like everyone else.&quot;&quot;EU law which is agreed by all member states has to be applied by all companies. Not just EU companies, but also those who use our internal market as a goldmine.&quot;BBC Radio 5 also heard from Bradley, an engineer who had requested that Google remove his personal data relating to a drink-driving conviction in 2006. Bradley, who requested that his surname not be used, lost his job some years later after his conviction was discovered by a union representative googling him.&quot;I can&apos;t erase history, and people have always been able to ask the police if someone&apos;s got a conviction,&quot; he said. &quot;But you don&apos;t need the internet there, people googling their names, and ruining their lives.&quot;I don&apos;t expect it to be taken down, I can only ask. It might make a difference to somebody else; I&apos;ve already lost my job, lost my career, lost my pension.&quot;Writing in the Guardian on Wednesday, Luciano Floridi, one of the external experts brought in to advise Google on the ruling, said current Europeandata protection lawis outdated.&quot;I see it as the expression of a time when there was a clear divide between online and offline,&quot; he said. &quot;Today, that divide is being bridged in favour of the &apos;onlife&apos;, a mixture of analogue and digital, physical and virtual experiences, like driving a car following the instructions of a navigator.&quot;•Google ethics adviser: The law needs bold ideas to address the digital age
Police have taken control of more machines used by cyber criminals for running Cryptolocker, the malicious software that is thought to have extorted more than $30m (£18m) of ransom payments globally.Troels Oerting, the head of Europol&apos;s European Cyber Crime Centre (EC3) told The Guardian today that the ongoing investigation has found and shut down new Cryptolocker control servers in the last two days, although no arrests have yet been made.The news came as security firm Damballa, which has been involved in the recent attempts to disrupt the virus via a process called &quot;sinkholing&quot;, claimed that as many as 50,000 PCs have been infected in the UK alone since the summer of 2013.More than 234,000 PCs have been infected globally, with the US the only country to suffer more than the UK, with an estimated 130,000 victims so far.“Regarding the Cryptolocker sinkholing, as many as 50,000 unique IP connections per day (i.e. victim devices) were observed in the UK,” said Jeremy Demar, Director of Damballa Threat Research.TheFBI announcedon Monday that it had seized command and control servers for the Cryptolocker ransomware, which worked by locking people out of their computers, encrypting their files, and then demanding payment to decrypt them.The FBI’s announcement came on the same day police said they had disrupted another connected cyber criminal operation based on malware known as Gameover Zeus (GOZ), which helped its creators steal more than $100m by getting hold of victims&apos; online banking logins.GOZ could also be used by its criminal operators to have Cryptolocker downloaded onto victims’ PCs, although the latter ransomware has also been spread via spam emails sent from PCs infected with yet another piece of malware named Cutwail.Russian nationalEvgeniy Mikhailovich Bogachev has been chargedby the US for his involvement in Gameover Zeus and Cryptolocker, but he remains at large.•Global police operation disrupts aggressive Cryptolocker virus•Cryptolocker: what you need to know•Cyber break-ins a &apos;daily hazard while firms skimp on protection&apos;Danish security firm Heimdal Security says that the operation against Cryptolocker has been a success based on early data. The company has been praised by the FBI for its technical assistance in tracking the malware.The company says that in early May, it was seeing as many as 8,000 new Cryptolocker infections every day, but that this had now dropped to almost zero following the global police operation.The Cryptolocker operation has been a success looking at early data, said Danish security firm Heimdal Security, which was commended by the FBI for its technical assistance in tracking the malware. Heimdal warned that it does not have access to data on all networks related to Cryptolocker, however.Despite these positive signs, it&apos;s quite possible that Cryptolocker will make a comeback as soon as its creators rebuild their operation. This is why the UK&apos;s National Crime Agency has given a two-week deadline for people to update their operating systems and security software on their PCs.“Will [the attacks] pick up again? It may, since the malware and technology still exists. It’s just like getting the flu. Unless you are immune, then you can get it and no one is immune to Zeus or Cryptolocker,” said Heimdal Security&apos;s CEO Morten Kjaersgaard.•10 ways to protect yourself from Cryptolocker
Tens of millions of people are still swapping sweets in the Candy Crush Saga game on smartphones, tablets and Facebook. Now its publisher, King, has released a new puzzle game: Bubble Witch Saga 2.It&apos;s available today forAndroidandAppledevices, as well ason Facebook. As with previous Saga games, if you log in using your Facebook profile, your progress will be saved across all of these if you choose to play across several.As you&apos;ll likely have guessed from the name, this is a sequel: the original Bubble Witch Saga was actuallyKing&apos;s first mobile game back in July 2012, although the company has since admitted that it wasn&apos;t as fun as it could be on smartphones in particular.&quot;It plays great on iPads with larger screens, but you kinda had to squint on smartphones,&quot; King&apos;s games boss Tommy Palm told the Guardian last year. Bubble Witch Saga 2 is the company&apos;s attempt to remedy those faults, slapping several layers of polish on to the core gameplay.And that gameplay is… popping bubbles. Specifically, firing coloured bubbles from the bottom of the screen at other coloured bubbles higher up to make matches of three or more, which then disappear. You have a set number of bubbles to fire on each level.As with King&apos;s other games, this isn&apos;t a new form of gameplay in itself.Just as Candy Crush Saga took its cues from a game called Bejeweled and Papa Pear Saga was heavily based on a game called Peggle, both Bubble Witch Saga games have their roots in a series of games called Puzzle Bobble and Bust-a-Move – the names varied depending on where in the world and on what device you played them.Around that, King has wrapped a structure that is now familiar from its other Saga games: you play through levels earning one, two or three stars for your scores, with different challenges to vary the core matching gameplay, and power-ups used to get you out of tricky spots.Bubble Witch Saga 2's Free the Ghost levels.Here, the power-ups include a rainbow bubble that will match with any colour, and a fire bubble that blazes a path through any bubbles in its way. Once unlocked, you get three of each for free, but if you want more, you&apos;ll have to spend gold bars.Yes, virtual spending. As with the other Saga games, virtual items and in-app purchases figure prominently in Bubble Witch Saga 2 – it&apos;s one of the &quot;freemium&quot; games that have come to dominate the mobile games industry.Gold bars are used to buy the booster bubbles, but also to get a few more bubbles if you hit your limit on a level, and to buy more lives – you lose a life every time you fail a level. An in-app store sells the gold bars starting at £0.69 for 10, and rising to £34.99 for 650.Note, you can also choose to &quot;ask friends&quot; for more lives. Tapping this button brings up a list of Facebook friends playing the game, who you can then ask for help – another familiar feature from the other Saga games.There are three types of levels at the moment in Bubble Witch Saga 2: Clear the Top, Save the Animals and Free the Ghost. The first tasks you with reaching the top of the level and freeing up six spaces on the uppermost row; the second involves clearing bubbles to rescue animals floating throughout the level; and the third involves freeing a spook trapped at the centre of a rotating cluster of bubbles.So, is Bubble Witch Saga 2 any good? Needless to say, it won&apos;t appeal to the vocal brigade of Candy Crush haters who see King and its Saga games as the epitome of freemium awfulness. If this is you, Bubble Witch Saga 2 won&apos;t change your mind, but there are someexcellent paid games out there as alternatives.What if you&apos;re a big Candy Crush Saga fan looking for a new fix? Bubble Witch Saga 2 is definitely worth a try, as its structure will be familiar, but the gameplay will be a fresh change from candy-swapping.This kind of bubble-popping was brilliant fun in the Bust-a-Move and Puzzle Bobble games, and King has done a much better job second time round in translating it to modern touchscreens. No squinting required.Expect to be asking friends for help regularly.I do wonder if there&apos;s a risk of Saga overload, though. There was a moment around level 20-something where I got stuck, lost all my lives – they replenish naturally if you don&apos;t pay, but only at the rate of one every 30 minutes – and I had a sudden, wearying vision of the future.Weeks and months of grinding through difficult levels, being prodded to buy gold bars, and badgering friends (and being badgered in return by them) for lives. How many people who went hundreds of levels down the Candy Crush Saga rabbit hole will relish the prospect of doing it all over again in a new game?That said, at 9.30am this morning, this point was going to be the main thrust of the review, once I stopped playing. The next time I looked up, it was 10.30am, I&apos;d reached level 40 (without paying) and completely forgotten the theory that this was supposed to be a grind.Incidentally, level 40 is the first roadblock in Bubble Witch Saga 2: you&apos;re asked to either wait five days to unlock the next set of levels, spend nine gold bars, or ask friends for help. Judging by the in-game map, this happens again after level 55.At launch, Bubble Witch Saga 2 has 70 levels, but King says it&apos;ll be adding new ones every fortnight, following the same pattern as Candy Crush Saga.So, in answer to the question in the headline of this review: if you love Candy Crush Saga, will you love Bubble Witch Saga 2 as well? The chances are good. And even if you&apos;re starting to wonder when the wheels of the Saga bandwagon will start to wobble, there&apos;s plenty of fun to be had.•How Candy Crush gets you hooked - six addictive tricks
Whatever your age, if you&apos;re a fan of video games, there will always be a few titles that carry the heavy scent of nostalgia. Just as one looks back at photos and reminisces about flared/stonewashed/cut-off jeans, the gamer, too, will fondly remember the consoles and games of their bubblegum years.Whether that be playingPac-Manin the arcades; the introduction of theAtari 2600; whizzing through levels ofSonic the Hedgehogon theSega Mega Drive; the way the sucker-feet of a Quickshot joystick would pop unstuck at a critical point; or the helicopter hair ofRaymanon the originalPlaystation, memories tend to be as hard to shake as an addiction toAngry Birds.The games industry is currently in rude health. The global industry is on track to be worth$86bn by 2016, according to the Entertainment Software Association, and the European market is worth over$20bn alone.But however impressive the games of today, there&apos;s no buzz quite like revisiting the gentle classics, dusting off C90s to stick clunkily into a ghettoblaster, or unearthing a creaky VHS.The internet, as ever, is here to help. Websites have cropped up allowing fans to play legal versions of 20- and 10-year-old games in-browser. So-calledeaster eggs(hidden shortcuts and tricks) are turning different sites into gaming experiences, and players are uploading in-game videos of themselves playing on YouTube.Here, we take a look at how the internet is taking classic games to the next level.Playing onlineThere are entire cities of sites now dedicated to letting you play classic arcade games on your lunch break at work.free80sarcade.comhostsPac-Man(1980),Donkey Kong(1981),Street Fighter(1987),Zelda(1986),Super Mario Brothers(1985),Assault(1983) and hundreds of others, though you do needAdobe Flash Playerinstalled.TheInternet Archivehas also made a whole roster of games available to play for free, sorted by console. There aretons of gamesfor theColeco Colecovision, theEntex Adventure Vision, theBandai Super Vision 8000and most consoles you can think of.The above sites are legal, but be careful when browsing around the web as some siteswill fall foul of gaming emulator laws(especially if you&apos;re after recent games). Play the original Pac-Man in the box below.Easter eggs onlineThere are loads of &apos;easter eggs&apos; or hidden treats on the web that provide great fun for old school gamers. For instance, if you land on any video page in YouTube (it must be a video page, not the home page), type in &apos;1980&apos;. Not, in the search bar, just in the page. You should now find you can playSpace Invadersabove your video.Another gaming easter egg from YouTube is when a video is playing or paused, hold down the left and up arrow keys – this should allow you to playSnakeacross the screen.Google's barrel roll and Atari Breakout easter eggs in action.Google, of course, is famous for its interactiveGoogle doodles. But the search engine also has a few tricks up its sleeve. Have a go at typing the following terms into the search box.&apos;Do a barrel roll&apos;&apos;Atari breakout&apos; (and then click on Images)&apos;zerg rush&apos; (and play the game by clicking on the falling Os)In-game videosYouTubehas always been a home for gaming aficionados to upload their game play tricks and tips – most football fans know the frustration of searching for live action footage and stumbling upon the second half of someone&apos;sFIFA tutorial. What&apos;s relatively new though, is people hooking up their old consoles and sharing the game play from classic titles, sparking nostalgia across the net.And then there&apos;s theoldclassicgamechannel on YouTube that allows you to watch game play of vintage video games, as far back as 1971.Classic Video Games, (below) features a number of old games from Game Boy, Atari 2600 and Playstation 2.Just make sure your boss doesn&apos;t see...•All hail Guildford - the Hollywood of the games industry•What every parent needs to know about video games: a crash course•Guardian Games Week - check out our dedicated week of coverage
Steve Jobs may have wanted the iPad to befree of porn, but that certainly hasn’t stopped users turning to the device’s Safari browser view porn sites.Safari on the iPhone and iPad is used more than any other mobile browser, according to new data from Pornhub, one of the biggest free pornography sites, with 38 million users a day.“Over the past year, Pornhub has seen a major shift in the types of traffic coming to our site,” said a company spokesperson in a blog post. “Of the 38 million people who visit Pornhub each day, over half are now using mobile devices like tablets and smartphones.”iPad claims the lion&apos;s shareApple’s iPad was the most used tablet by quite some margin, with Safari claiming 73% of the porn site’s tablet visitors, with Google’s Chrome, which is available on the iPad and Android tablets, a distant second used by 13.6% of visitors.The Android browser built into Google’s mobile software came third with 7.8% of tablet browsers, leading Amazon’s Kindle Fire browser Silk with 4.8% and leaving BlackBerry’s Playbook in last with 0.69%.The data is not quite as surprising as it sounds, despite the iPad’s Safari browser dominating Pornhub’s tablet browsing. Apple’s iPad maintains a dominant share of overall tablet users in the majority of developed markets, including the US where it had a 54.5% share and the UK where it had 59% share of tablet users in 2013, according to data from research firm eMarketer.iPhone users also avid viewersApple’s iPhone users are also avid viewers of Pornhub. The smartphone version of Safari claims a 38.2% share of all the porn site smartphone users globally, beating the Android browser, which holds a 29.4% share. Google’s Chrome mobile browser, which is available on both Android and the iPhone, holds an 18% share and Window Phone’s Internet Explorer comes in fourth with 2.4% of visits.Opera’s Mini browser, which is available on various smartphones including BlackBerrys was in last place with 2.3% of visitors.Apple’s iPhone held a 40% share of smartphone users in the US in 2013, while int eh UK Apple’s numbers are slightly lower with a 29% share in 2013, according to eMarketer.&apos;More than half of Internet Explorer users using latest version 11&apos;Desktop browsers were still used by a significant number of Pornhub’s purveyors, with Chrome leading the charge at 44.4%, with Internet Explorer coming second with a 23.2% share, leading Firefox with 20.1%, Safari with 7% and Opera with 2.6%.The porn site’s desktop browser statistics mirror the current browser marketshares, according to data fromresearch firm StatCounter, which places Chrome in the top spot with a 45.22% of global browsers, leading Internet Explorer at 21.43% and Firefox at 18.72% in April.Pornhub also analysed the distribution of Internet Explorer versions, which showed Microsoft’s attempts to get users to upgrade to the latest and safest version 11 is gaining traction with porn viewers, although discontinued versions including IE5, which was released 15 years ago, are still in active use.“More than half of Internet Explorer users coming to Pornhub are using the latest version 11. Version 10 was released in 2012 and brings 17.5% of the traffic. Version 9 (2011) and Version 8 (2009) each bring just over 14% of visitors. IE 7 (2005) and IE 6 (2001) still account for 2.5% of our traffic, and unbelievably we do still have daily visitors from IE 5 looking for a porn fix,” said the report.•Porn trends in the UK: from time online to the biggest search trends•Adult stars launch #PayForYourPorn campaign against porn piracy
Casual games like Candy Crush Saga and Angry Birds may look simple, but underneath those bright colours, calming sounds and flashing messages, there&apos;s a lot of deep thinking going on.In the era of omnipresent smartphones and tablets, these sacharrine treats are nigh-on inescapable, and as breakthrough hits are guaranteed millions of dollars in revenue (Candy Crush Saga alone generated $1.5bn last year), it&apos;s no wonder developers are employing increasingly clever psychological tricks to give their creations a crucial edge.To find out some of the hidden rules of casual game design, we spoke to Steve Stopps, Nic Williams and Jonathan Evans of Lumo Developments, whose first game, Lumo Deliveries Inc, is being specifically designed for a “distracted” audience – people who want to play for short sequences during busy days. We also talk to Dr Simon Moore, a psychologist specialising in games.Here are six of the key compulsion tactics to look out for the next time you&apos;re browsing the app stores.Accepting a subordinate role“When making short-session games, as a developer, you have to leave your ego at the door, to an extent,&quot; says Williams. The best casual game designers never assume that the player&apos;s attention will be fully on the game; they may be on the bus or even pushing a pram. The design has to fit in with this state of continuois partial attention. As Evans explains, “we gave our game a portrait, rather than landscape, aspect ratio, because with landscape, you have to bring your second hand into play, and we wanted you to be able to control it with one hand.”Moore suspects casual developers may even start proving players with pre-game custimisation options to quickly profile them. “It would give vital personal information that may allow developers to tailor gameplay to encourage greater engagement – perhaps changing the colour of certain scenes to reflect their personality better. Also, asking the player questions suggests to them that you are interested in them as an individual.&quot;Using colour cleverly“Colour and colour combinations can impact on gameplay experience and player behaviour,&quot; says Moore. &quot;There is a huge amount of psychological research on the effects of colour in many areas of our lives. We know from psychological research that people will eat less from a same-sized meal if it is served on a blue plate rather than a white plate. We also know that people will rate the opposite sex as more attractive when they are positioned next to a red wall.&quot;We know that extroverts and introverts respond differently to different colour combinations in environments. We have seen players of fantasy role playing games linger longer and spend more of their in-game currency in particular colour-combination merchant stores, for example.”Don’t make them too excitingCasual game users aren&apos;t like &quot;hardcore&quot; console gamers – they don&apos;t respond to the same levels of engagement. Moore says it is better to make games that provide what he calls “low positive emotion&quot;.&quot;Trying to create ‘exciting’ games is a bit of a red herring,&quot; he says. &quot;Excitement is an elevated level of arousal – it is an intense emotional experience. It also expends a lot of energy, both physical and psychological. Extended periods of excitement produce tiredness and fatigue and this then leads to stress and withdrawal. Once you have been excited, you then need a bigger stimulus to get you as excited again.&quot;A more valuable emotional experience for players is one that isn’t tiring but that makes them feel secure, happy or pleased. You do not have to invest as much energy in this emotion and so you can experience it for far longer. I am not saying that games shouldn&apos;t have exciting parts – but games that just keep hitting the players with emotionally exhausting adrenaline scenes risk making the player to psychologically disengage with the experience.”Reversing the flowIn another example of how casual developers tear up the rule-book, Lumo Developments has used a process it calls “reversing the flow”. “Traditional wisdom dictates that gamers must engage in a challenge, then get their reward, but we’ve reversed that,&quot; says Stopps. &quot;So when you start the game, you’re given payment and told you have some deliveries to make – we’re starting off with the reward before you’ve done anything.” Evans adds: “It’s all about instant gratification at this stage, and then it flips – so you’re planning and design what your next rewards will be.”Tapping into the conscious and unconscious“We have two decision-making systems,&quot; says Moore. &quot;System one is subconscious and intuitive (quick) and system two is more methodological and considered (slow). Games which incorporate both will produce the best gamer experience, in my opinion, as they will mirror what the player cognitively engages with in the real world.&quot;So, quick decisions like: &apos;Stand and fight or run and hide?&apos; are exciting system one decisions, whereas those involving questions like, &apos;How will I earn enough money to buy that jewel-encrusted fluffy horned helmet?&apos; are pleasing, as they give us a sense of purpose and achievement, which is more about system two. Skyrim does this quite well, as does World of Tanks.&quot;Understanding cultural differencesAccording to Moore, there are differences in the way different nationalities engage with casual games. If let loose in a game with no directions, British and Japanese players will intuitively navigate in a clockwise direction, while Americans will, by default move anti-clockwise. Clued in Developers ensure that key elements aren&apos;t counter-intuitive for their target audience.“In terms of east and west, there are big differences,&quot; says Moore. &quot;Clan and team-based games are much more popular in the east then the west. We also know that when games have online team play options, most western gamers still play as individuals within that team (so show more selfish behaviour), whereas eastern players try to do more team-benefitting actions, even if that means personal loss.&quot;We also know that identity creates different game experiences – so people who are identifiable play differently than people who are anonymous. This is particularly true for female gamers – research suggests that women who play fantasy and first-person shooter games will play as aggressively as their male counterparts when they are allowed to be anonymous, but revert to less risky behaviour when they are identified as female.”•My favourite waste of time: why Candy Crush and Angry Birds are so compulsive•Popcap: the 10 secrets of casual game design
“Unit of three frogs at the southwest corner,” Mel barks into her phone as we approach. Usually I’d be happy to indulge in this sort of slick military patter, but since we’re currently loitering suspiciously outside the US Embassy I’d rather we kept the spy talk to a minimum. The guards are eyeing us suspiciously.Please officer, let me explain.We’re playingIngress, a massively multiplayer augmented-reality game created by Google andNiantic labsand launched last December. Participants download the dedicated app, then use their phones to log into a Google Maps-based interface; this highlights &quot;portals&quot; around the world – almost always well-known landmarks – that the game&apos;s two factions must fight to control. When a player is near a portal, they can take it over, set up defences and then link it together with the rest of their side&apos;s territory. Over the past six months, players have managed to create huge fields of linked portals that span several countries.This is all happening all the time, everywhere. It’s happening right now where you live. Your city centre is probably a vital battleground between the game&apos;s two factions: the Enlightened (who believe aliens are using the portals to transcend humanity to a higher state) and the Resistance (who would rather they asked permission first). Your local town hall has probably changed hands three times today.What I’m doing is a little more unusual, even for groups of roving transhumanist portal hackers. I’m here for an &quot;Anomaly&quot;: a timed event organised by the developers where the two factions try and control as many portals as possible in specific areas at specific times. Anomalies don’t happen very often, but when they do they bring Ingress’ impressive player organisation to the fore.I’m following Mel, one of the leaders of the Resistance faction for the day. Mel used to be a project manager, which is why she’s so adept at managing and coaching her troops. Now she runs a cafe in Brick Lane which serves as a hub for local Resistance agents. Today she’s leading one of the pedestrian teams (there is, I’m told, a cycle team and a motorcycle team, but I don’t see much of them as they roar off instantly, ready to tag portals beyond our reach). She’s in constant contact with the other team leaders via a chat app called Zello, hence the military lingo.Also on the line is our dispatcher, who’s staying home for the event and co-ordinating teams throughout the city. I would love to have met her, but she’s actually in Denver, Colorado, co-ordinating teams of players half way round the world in the middle of the night. There’s also a team here from Belgium, and at least one person from South Africa. There are simultaneous events going on all over the world but London, it seems, is the place to be.City of portalsLondon is Ingress central, all densely packed portals and constant threats. In more rural areas, as one player explains, the portals are further apart, and it becomes more like a hiking trip with an app involved. He tells me about how he captured a remote portal in a section of the English countryside that is inaccessible for most of the year. With no phone or wi-fi signal nearby, he had to construct a booster to throw the signal out there, connect his phone and claim it for The Resistance. He’d rather I not print where it is or how he did it. He doesn’t want the Enlightened to find it.John Hanke is the Vice President ofNiantic labsand he has even better anecdotes. He tells me about a player in Alaska who flew a bush plane to a remote airstrip to capture a key portal.“The plane was chartered through a crowdsourced campaign by her Faction,&quot; explains Hanke. “She flew in with a blizzard coming, captured the portal just as the weather was turning and got out with the tiny plane icing up on the way out&quot;. Believe it or not, this isn&apos;t the first Ingress story I’ve heard that involves crowd-funded air travel – the other involves a sea-plane, a remote Scandinavian island and spontaneous act of sabotage.The Ingress intel map, showing the player's area of influenceIt helps that the portals are located on local landmarks, anything from a small village train station to the Pyramid of Giza. It gives people a sense of place, of possession. That’s why I’m outside the American Embassy, drawing suspicious glances and frantically trying to shield our portals from enemy attacks. Anyone can submit a portal, you just take a picture of the location, type out a brief description and send it away for approval.The result is that any portal-claiming expedition doubles as a walking tour of your local area, with interesting buildings and monuments highlighted and explained for you. As Hanke explains, “Wanted people to look around with fresh perspective on the places they passed by every day, looking for the unusual, the little hidden flourish or nugget of history.” I can’t help but notice it could also be a useful way to populate Google Maps, a project that Hanke was involved in before starting Niantic.In fact Ingress serves as a sort of gigantic promotion for Google products. It’s on Android phones (although an iPhone version is coming), uses Google Maps and Streetview, has a video series on Youtube, emails your Gmail account with updates and is largely organised on Google Hangouts and G+. Hanke considers Google itself Ingress’ gaming platform, not just Android. When you’re playing Ingress you’re playing Google, and you’re paying for it by using Google. Welcome to videogames, Silicon Valley style.Before the Anomaly, I’d played Ingress largely by myself, wandering around and taking whatever portals I could find, but the people I met in London are playing the game on another level entirely. The closest comparison I can come up with is the epic massively mutliplayer space battle game, Eve Online. Past a certain level of engagement, the organisational metagame takes over and becomes the entire point of playing. The difference is that Eve players are fighting over imaginary virtual planets, rather than Nelson’s Column.Hanke is fairly open about the game&apos;s reliance on user-generated narratives. He calls Ingress an “entertainment enabler”. “The game itself is the motivation,&quot; he says. &quot;But it’s the social interaction and exploration that the game encourages that are the real payoffs. People who meet up with other players and go on adventures together have the most fun and therefore tend to be some of the most dedicated and enthusiastic participants.”This kind of co-operation is part accident, part design. “We planned some things” says Hanke “Like game rules that require eight players to work together to build the highest level Portals.” But other times, they “got lucky”. He explains an event Niantic created called the &quot;Shard Game&quot; where factions had to move shards from portal to portal across the globe. Niantic&apos;s team knew this would force agents in different countries to co-operate, what they didn’t know is that those links would last. Now those organisations are used to plan global strategies for each faction, and sometimes they surprise everyone, like the time agents in Israel and Syria co-operated to create a giant control field encompassing most of the Middle East.The secret master planJust as we’re leaving the embassy, much to the relief of the guards, there’s a change on my map. The screen takes on a fuzzy blue sheen. A field! Someone has connected three portals together, creating a huge triangle covering the playing area. I zoom out to get a better look. And out. And out. Then someone shows me a map, it covers the entire south east of England.My companions have been holding out on me, they had a secret master plan all along. Last night, various Resistance agents journeyed around the south of England in order to create a monster field encompassing the entirety of today’s playing area. It’s hard to explain just how much of an achievement this is: links can’t pass through other links, so agents had to walk the entire breadth of the line, carefully removing anything standing in their way. Then they had to manually ferry portal keys back and forth between the three points so each one could connect to the other.I’m not entirely clear what affect this has on the scoring system, but since we were already doing well, it puts us way over the top.By the time the day is done, I have sore feet, a dead phone battery, some great stories and a standing invitation to join my local Resistance cell. I’m not entirely sure if I will, as much as I enjoyed the day. I’m not entirely sure I have room in my life for a hobby as big as this one, but I’m still glad Ingress exists. To revisit the Eve Online comparison, it’s a game I like to hear about even if I’m not playing it. The stories of players sailing out to remote islands, scaling mountains and co-ordinating across countries never quite get old.Hanke told me their key phrase for Ingress was “see with new eyes”. He was talking about landmarks and portals, but to me it means the players. Teams of agents are fighting a secret war for control of my local post office. I know that now and I can’t unknow it. The world is just a little bit more interesting as a result.• Tell me a story: augmented reality technology in museums• How augmented reality builds bridge between games and children&apos;s books•Augmented reality: it&apos;s like real life, but better
It's Wednesday.
Equidistant from the thronging metropolis of London and the rural tranquility of the South Downs, Guildford has birthed some of the most profound creative works of our time. PG Wodehouse was born and baptised there. Lewis Carroll completed Alice Through The Looking-Glass there. And let’s not forget that Mike &amp; the Mechanics filmed the video to their seminal 1995 No 12 hit Over My Shoulder – starring Tony from Hollyoaks, remember – in the neighbouring borough of Waverley.Even today, Guildford is responsible for a bafflingly large slice of our culture. You wouldn’t think so to look at the place but tucked behind the anonymous facades of its nondescript Legobrick industrial parks lurk some of the most talented artists and developers in the world. Guildford, you see, is thebeating heartof the British videogame industry.If you’re anything like me, you owe Guildford a debt. If you ever spent an entire summer unsuccessfully trying to initiate a chain reaction of vomit while playing Theme Park, it’s because of Guildford.If you got Need For Speed for Christmas and spent weeks pretending to be a flabby, sofa-bound version of Aaron Paul, it’s because of Guildford.If you ever spent the duration of a LittleBigPlanet loading screen trying to make Sackboy hump inanimate objects, it’s because of Guildford.Assassins Creed studio Ubisoft even has an office in town, so there’s probably even a case for blaming your sporadic desire to jump off a church roof on Guildford, too.Why Guildford?What’s astonishing is that even now, in an age where vast multinational teams spend tens of millions of pounds producing games so polished that it takes several calendar months to sit through their credit sequences, much of the work created in Guildford still retains a specifically British sense of quirk.LittleBigPlanet, made by Media Molecule, is the most notable case in point. That’s a vast jumble sale of a game, with a visual aesthetic cribbed from a 1980s schoolboy stickerbook. But newer companies have proved to be just as eccentric. The adorably nutty platform racer Joe Danger was made by Guildford’s Hello Games. The team behind the peculiarly addictive iPhone game GodFinger have formed JiggeryPokery and set up shop in Guildford.Guildford vidoe highlight: Mike &amp; the MechanicsBut why Guildford specifically? Although residents might not take this too well, it isn’t because the location is so inspiring – Need for Speed’s flat-out drag races probably didn’t spring into life after a bored developer gazed out across the joyless crawl of the A323. Nor is it down to cheap rents. Although an office in Guildford is cheaper than an office in London, it’s no cheaper than an equivalent space in Croydon or Woking or Reading or Staines.Peter Molyneux: the man who put the games into GuildfordPerhaps the answer lies with Guildford resident Peter Molyneux, a man who spent an entire career forcing the games industry to come to his doorstep. It’d be outlandish to describe Molyneux as messianic, were it not so patently true. Not only did he make his fortune creating God games – games like Populous, where players are given supreme powers of influence over entire virtual worlds – but then he reenacted one for himself using Guildford as the canvas.Bafta-winning Tearaway by Guildford studio Media MoleculeAfter a chance meeting with likeminded gamer Les Edgar in a Guildford computer shop, Molyneux created Bullfrog Games in the early 1980s. That meeting led to a gradual spidering-off that would eventually colonise the town as the UK’s centre of gaming gravity. Electronic Arts’ Guildford studio is there because it merged with Bullfrog in the 90s.Molyneux left Bullfrog to set up Lionhead, which in turn brought Microsoft to town. Then Bullfrog developer Mark Healey branched off to create LittleBigPlanet with Media Molecule, also based in Guildford. Little by little, the town was becoming a destination for developers; a self-sustaining talent pool for likeminded creatives.Les Edgar has long since drifted away from games – he’s now involved in the automotive industry after buying the TVR brand – but Molyneux is still plugging away in Guildford.The Hollywood of video gamesHis next project is a long-gestating Kickstarter-funded project called Godus – another God game, naturally – created with his new 22Cans outfit. Molyneux has claimed that the game will be released this year, and will act as the culmination of everything he’s ever learned. However it turns out, his transformation of Guildford will always be his greatest creation.To the casual outsider, Guildford might look like another identikit British town, but it’s nothing of the sort. Its contribution to gaming culture simply cannot be overstated. It’s the Hollywood of videogames. It’s an elysium of electronics. People should make pilgrimages there. They don’t – probably because it’s got such a crap Travelodge – but they should. Long live Mike and the Mechanics, long live Peter Molyneux and long live Guildford.•The 30 greatest British video games•What every parent needs to know about games - a crash course
Video games offer experiences that reflect and draw from the full gamut of human experience. However, as with blockbuster films, many of the most popular titles fall within a narrower band and feature violence more frequently.Chart-Track’s top selling games of 2013 are littered with severe descriptions in their age ratings: “extreme violence”, “multiple, motiveless killings”, “violence towards defenceless people” and violence that could be “upsetting to very young children”.Although this can sound alarming, the top grossing films of 2013 also include a roughly comparable number of violence descriptors from the BBFC. The disparity comes with the number of popular games at the extreme end of this spectrum - half of the top 10 titles of 2013 included “extreme violence” only suitable for those 18 or over.&quot;Games deal with adult themes in the same way that films, television programmes and books do,&quot; says Do Jo Twist, CEO of the UK’s games industry trade body UKIE. &quot;The PEGI system gives an age rating and a content descriptor to help parents understand the content contained in any game and how appropriate it is for their children to play.”The PEGI rating system helps inform parents&apos; decisionsGames suitable for children over 3 or 7 years old have an advisory green PEGI badge. Games only suitable for children over 12 or 16 year old have an orange PEGI badge. Games for those over 18 year old have a red PEGI badge. The 12, 16 and 18 age limits are enforced by law at the point of sale.The age rating is expanded upon by descriptors on the back of the box for Language, Drugs, Fear, Sex, Violence, Gambling and Discrimination. These signifya different severitydepending on the related game’s PEGI age rating.It’s at this level of detail that a full, and much less alarming, picture of violence in video-games can be seen. Many games have violence descriptors are for “implied” or “non-realistic” occurrences in 7+ and 12+ titles (556 in 2013) and fewer are labelled for the most “extreme” 18+ ratings (149 in 2013):• PEGI 3+ games won’t have a violence descriptor but may contain “Tom and Jerry” slapstick violence if it is not considered disturbing.• PEGI 7+ games flagged with a violence descriptor may include “non-realistic violence towards fantasy characters” or “implied violence”.(294 occurrences in 2013)• PEGI 12+ will have the Violence descriptor to signpost “violence towards human like characters” but this must be non-realistic so that bodies don’t remain when killed. This may also include violent sports like boxing providing there is no blood.(262 occurrences in 2013)• PEGI 16+ games are flagged for “violence towards human characters” who react to being shot as they would in real life. This will often include blood and bodies will remain once they are dead.(211 occurrences in 2013)• PEGI 18+ games are flagged for including violence towards humans that may make you “wince” or your “stomach churn”. This includes gross depictions of heads, arms, and legs being removed by way of chain-saw or shotgun. It also includes sexual violence such as rape and mass killings of civilians.(149 occurrences in 2013)This detailed account of video-game violence actually goes further than ratings for film or music, and dispels blanket concerns by clarifying who the violence is appropriate for. It enables parents to actively curate what is played in the home and avoid these choices being snap decisions.Talk and about games - and play togetherOnce we have a clear understanding of video-game violence, attentions turn to its effect on young people. Measuring this is more difficult however because it varies from player to player. While many in the media quickly link playing violent games with violent behaviour the reality is not as clean cut.We spoke to Andy Phippen, Professor of Social Responsibility in IT at Plymouth University. “Research is extremely patchy and inconclusive. Certainly from my own experience the vast majority of teenagers who play violent video games I have spoken with are well adjusted, likeable individuals who happen to like playing videos games.” However Phippen went on to reference the importance of using PEGI ratings because “some can be badly affected [scarred, nightmares, etc] by these things&quot;.Younger children will certainly be shocked by on-screen violence intended for adults, as suggested in the ratings. The effect on older players is more complex and needs to be distinguished from watching films or reading books containing similar scenes.Although the graphics in video games edge closer to photo-realism, their interactive nature does more than simply intensify the experience of violence.BBFC’s 2007 “Video Games Report” highlighted that being in control mitigates the player “losing themselves” in the violence because their suspension of disbelief is constantly interrupted by the need to take action. “The victims of violence [in video-games] have rarely been brought to life, no matter how realistic they may look; they do not have any stature – they are just a threat to the gamer and an obstacle to progress.”Don&apos;t let consoles migrate to the bedroomHowever, there are exceptions that use violence as more than a puzzle to be solved. Games like Shadow of the Colossus and The Last of Us work harder on context and character so that older players will find an emotional response to the loss, shock and sadness of violent scenes.“On the whole young people can differentiate between video game violence and reality but where PEGI ratings and common sense is ignored alarm bells start to ring,&quot; said Phippen.&quot;I have concerns when I hear primary aged children playing games like Grand Theft Auto and Call of Duty. My advice would always be to check out the game prior to the child playing it to decide whether you feel it is appropriate.”Unlike film and books, video-games are a new technology that we don’t yet fully understand, particularly in their potential for health or harm. That means that it is even more important for parents to accurately understand video game violence and the context in which it exists.Playing games together as a family, stopping technology migrating to bedrooms, making use of PEGI ratings and having open conversations about these topics creates a healthy environment to maximise the enjoyment of this aspect of family life whilst avoiding potential pitfalls.Further ReadingAsk About GamesPEGI Annual Report 2013Safe Children in a Digital WorldBBC One Show Healthier Gaming AdviceBBFC Video Games Report•What is the link between violent video games and aggression?
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamDuckDuckGo in Safari on iOS and OSX &gt;&gt; DuckDuckGoGabriel Weinberg:Yesterday at WWDC,Apple announcedthat DuckDuckGo will be included as a built-in search option in future versions of Safari on iOS and OS X. We are thrilled to be included in Safari and it's great that Apple is making it easy for people to access our anonymous search option. This makes DuckDuckGo the first privacy-focused search engine to be added to one of the top four browsers and is a huge milestone for both us and privacy supporters.DDG is still tiny - but this is one way that it could become much bigger. It's living proof that you can serve ads simply based on search keywords, not personal tracking. Anyway, themost expensive Google ad keywords- insurance, loans, mortgage, attorney and so on - really don't need your personal, trackable data to be served.Why only Beats can teach Google Glass how to be cool &gt;&gt; WiredMat Honan:Beats can now show off 3 billion reasons why critics don't matter. And that is a case study for how Google Glass could have done things differently, and might still have a chance to.…While there's not a Glass app that helps you with pitch counts and batter information, Google should team up to crank one out, and then get them on Hunter Pence's mug and make sure he's wearing his Google Glass Giants Team Edition at every photo opp, and in every appearance he has. Why isn't Shaun White wearing Google Glass Oakley Airwaves? I mean, sure his best days as an athlete may be behind him, but dude can still move some product. Heads-up displays inside goggles are already a thing on the slopes and in the half-pipes, and Google could own this niche by throwing enough cash around.And, look, in many cases, you won't be able to get athletes using them in competition. But you know what: Who cares if Lil Wayne is actually wearing Beats in the studio, as long as he's wearing them in public? And similarly, who cares if Tiger can't (or won't) wear them while he's teeing off at Augusta's Amen Corner, as long as he's wearing them on a practice round?Pixar RenderMan: It's distributing a version free for non-commercial use &gt;&gt; SlateYou may not be planning to start your own Pixar competitor any time soon, but if you like the idea of messing around with some of the same software that powered Wall-E, there's a way to do it. And it's actually free.Pixar is giving out a version of its RenderMan softwarebeginning in August, and you can sign up now so you're the first to hear when it's live. The program usually costs $500 per license, so this is the ultimate flash sale.The catch is that the free version of RenderMan is for non-commercial use only. So if Pixar catches you making money off of your Finding Shmemo release, you will get majorly sued.Why do people persist in believing things that just aren't true? &gt;&gt; The New Yorker[In the experiment] Each household received one of four messages: a leaflet from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention stating that there had been no evidence linking the measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine and autism; a leaflet from the Vaccine Information Statement on the dangers of the diseases that the MMR vaccine prevents; photographs of children who had suffered from the diseases; and a dramatic story from a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention about an infant who almost died of measles. A control group did not receive any information at all. The goal was to test whether facts, science, emotions, or stories could make people change their minds.The result was dramatic: a whole lot of nothing.Changing peoples' minds can be done, but it's really very hard.Clear off the table &gt;&gt; Darkhorse Analytics BlogIn the gif below we start with a table formatted similar to one of Excel's many styling options which, much like the chart styles, do nothing to improve the table. Progressive deletions and some reorganization deliver a clearer and more compelling picture.As with charts, rather than dressing up our data we should be stripping it down.Simple but effective way to make your data more presentable - and comprehensible.ComScore reports April 2014 US smartphone subscriber market share &gt;&gt; ComScore, Inc(When it says "market share" it means installed base.)167.9m people in the U.S. owned smartphones (69.6% mobile market penetration) during the three months ending in April, up 5 percentage points since January. Apple ranked as the top OEM with 41.4% of US smartphone subscribers. Samsung ranked second with 27.7% market share (up 1 percentage point from January), followed by LG with 6.5%, Motorola with 6.3% and HTC with 5.3%.Digging into the details shows that essentially nothing is changing, except that Samsung is tightening its grip on the Android market. There are 88.15m Android users (46.5m Samsung), up 5.5m since January; 69.5m iPhone users (up 3m since January), 4.2m BlackBerry users (down 0.75m since January), 5.5m Windows Phone users (up 0.4m since January) and 73.3m featurephone users - who are shifting to smartphones at a pretty constant rate of 1m per month.iOS 8 to Include battery usage per app and much more &gt;&gt; Mac RumorsAlong with the features that were demoed on stage, an iOS 8 graphic displayed some additional functions that went largely under the radar, many of which look quite interesting. For example, iOS 8 will apparently display battery usage by app, a handy feature that will let users monitor the battery drain of specific apps, shutting down those that are drawing too much power.iPads will gain the ability to take Panoramic photos like the iPhone, while the Camera will gain an instant burst mode, a timer mode, and separate controls for focus and exposure. iBooks will support an auto night mode and the ability to organize books by series, while notifications will include travel time.Also getting some very useful accessibility functions.Vulnerability found in the All in One SEO Pack WordPress Plugin &gt;&gt; Sucuri BlogThe team behind the All in One SEO Pack just released a new version of their popular WordPress plugin.It is a security release patching two privilege escalation vulnerabilities we discovered earlier this week that may affect any web site running it.If your site has subscribers, authors and non-admin users logging in to wp-admin, you are a risk. If you have open registration, you are at risk, so you have to update the plugin now.Plug-ins seem to be so liable to security problems.Star Trek is ridiculous when you eliminate the camera shake &gt;&gt; GizmodoI'm glad video stabilization technology is mainstream now. It's giving us new insight into historical events, opening new perspectives in scientific research, and then there is the endless fun factor—like seeing how ridiculous the battle scenes in Star Trek: The Next Generation are. Enjoy!The bonus, with a scene from Star Trek (the original series) is definitely worth the clickthrough. Hard to decide whether the prize for "most ridiculous acting of OMG THE SHIP IS BEING SHAKEN UP" should go to William Shatner or Nichelle Nichols. Not that the main one, with Captain Pickard, isn't. Acting at its finest.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The recent ruling by theEuropean Court of Justicein favour of the “right to be forgotten” is part of the coming of age of our information society.The tension between privacy and the value of controlling and shaping information about oneself, on the one hand, and freedom of speech and the value of having access to relevant information, on the other, has been with us for years.It is good news that we can no longer sweep it under technological or juridical carpets. Denial was the first obstacle to finding a solution.Now that the first step has been taken and the problem has been acknowledged, the debate about how to reconcile our cherished rights and values is too important and intricate to be left to the simplified and sensationalist slogan of &apos;the right to be forgotten&apos;.The delicate novelty of a cultural problemIn the heat of the debate, nuanced and more carefully balanced ideas may easily get lost. Our second step must be to work towards a more mature infosphere by recognising the delicate novelty of the problem we are facing, and hence the seriousness and complexity of the efforts needed to solve it.Rather than incremental changes in old conceptual frameworks, adapting previous legislation or tinkering with current technologies, we need new and bold ideasMost experts agree that current Europeandata protection lawis outdated. I see it as the expression of a time when there was a clear divide between online and offline. Today, that divide is being bridged in favour of the “onlife”, a mixture of analogue and digital, physical and virtual experiences, like driving a car following the instructions of a navigator.There is a subtlety and scale to the challenge of our onlife existence that calls for enlightened and innovative solutions. More and more, our lives are spent and shaped in the infosphere. Rather than just trying to adopt small, incremental changes in old conceptual frameworks, merely adapting previous legislation, or tinkering with current technologies, we need new and bold ideas.Sometimes what an old technology may break, only a new technology may actually fix. Though easier said than done, this open discussion is essential and in this vein, I look forward to being part of the advisory board of external and independent experts consulting to Google.This open discussion leads to a third step, which is to realise that - with the exception of a few fundamentalists - all parties involved have sensible points to make.The battle of internet philosophies - privacy vs free speech - is underwayThe current debate over “digital forgetting” may be exploited to fight proxy wars across the Atlantic, between different schools of political and economic thought in Europe, or between pro- and anti-European parties in the UK. But in reality, nobody is trying to destroy the internet, whitewash history, undermine an industry, or override one fundamental human right in favour of another.There are different rights, values, and interests - indeed different philosophies - at stake. We do not know yet how to harmonise them. Yet our effort should go towards finding a collaborative solution.The temptation is to portray the debate in terms of a zero-sum game: Team Privacy vs. Team Free Speech, only one of them can win. Of course,yes/noquestions are easier to explain, and zero-sum games are much more exciting to play.But this World Cup mentality is exactly the wrong way of conceptualising the issue. It is also a dangerous distraction, because it blinds us towards alternatives for reconciliation. What we must do is work towards a context in which all legitimate interests, rights, and values are represented and can find their optimal convergence. This is a very hard and tiresome task, but who ever thought that growing up was going to be entirely fun and easy?We cannot unplug our society any moreThe last preparatory step is to understand the depth of the consequences of our decisions in designing the infosphere. We would do well to pause and reflect on this moment - our moment - in the information revolution, beyond the particular scenario of the Google ruling. We increasingly live in a proxy digital world. We cannot unplug our society anymore.The result is a strange predicament: the map is becoming the territory. Anything may be “just a click away”, but in a sci-fi scenario in which one could remove all possible digital references to a closet, then that closet may practically cease to exist, regardless of whether it contains ugly skeletons or beautiful clothes.In computer science this is known as “negation as failure”: not found becomes synonymous with non-existent. This dystopia would be as unacceptable as its nemesis: keeping the wounds of history bleeding forever.Closure is not forgetfulness, but the capacity to remember without recalling. Such a capacity may require some compartmentalising and opacity. A common over-reaction to this suggestion is to speak of balkanisation: the risk of fragmenting the internet, for example, through a stricter protection for privacy rights in Europe than in other parts of the world.Is information being fragmented - or just distributed?I would disagree with such claims. “Fragmented” may just be another word for “distributed”. The onlife experience has been tailored for a long while; even the same search engine already returns different results depending on the user’s profile. When branches of the same bank or supermarket offer different services and products, we speak of variety, pluralism, and competition, so the problem is not fragmentation in itself.The problem could be a “divide et impera” (divide and rule): a balkanisation, yes, but one in which agents - commercial, political, or juridical - exploit walls and barriers to impose their informational monopoly locally, and have the last say on the region of the infosphere they control.Our culture is acquiring a limited taste for reversibility. It is an unprecedented opportunity in human history, which we should not abuse. Oversimplifying merely delays the moment when we deal with it seriouslySome non-democratic countries come close to this scenario. This is why gatekeeping is a headache. Who controls the controllers? The defence of privacy and the right to be forgotten should not lead to multinational corporations acting as unaccountable gatekeepers. Liberalism could become illiberal if it is so radical.Our culture used to cope with the past through sedimentation. Today it is quietly - and, if properly overseen, desirably - acquiring a limited taste for reversibility. Letting bygones be bygones physically is not the only, and sometimes not even the main, strategy in digital contexts: there are also the edit and undo commands.It is an unprecedented opportunity in human history, which we should not abuse, and that should not promote recklessness.We save by default, and erase by choiceInstead, we must be creative, sensitive, and nuanced; not falling for convenience, nor giving up because the challenges seem too difficult or intractable. The information revolution has brought a remarkable capacity to tailor digital services and products for commercial and scientific ends. We must pay equal, if not more, attention to ethical ends, reflecting on how we may respect fundamental values and rights, beyond merely enshrining them in aspirational statements.It is trivial to remark that today we save by default and erase by choice. Yet our memory is also very forgetful: inaccessible like your floppy disks, rewritable like your web page, fragile like your malware-prone laptop, limited like the Gigabytes in your smartphone, editable like your social media profile.Curating it is a complex problem and a difficult job with real human implications and sometimes dramatic consequences. Oversimplifying merely delays the moment when we deal with it seriously. To think twice: this is the luxury we must afford.Luciano Floridi isdirector of research, and professor of philosophy and ethics of information, at theOxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford, and has been appointed to advise Google on theRight to be Forgotten ruling•Google allows Europeans to ask for links to be removed
A threat to remove Adele and the Arctic Monkeys from YouTube should be investigated by the European Commission, according to the independent record labels they are signed to.The desperate plea for intervention – supported by the likes of Billy Bragg and Radiohead's guitarist Ed O'Brien – comes amid an escalating row about the fees that YouTube is prepared to pay artists signed to independents.Bragg accused the Google-owned site of "shooting itself in the foot" by trying to strong-arm indies into deals on low rates, in a dispute that has taken on an extra edge because YouTube wants to launch an online service to compete with Spotify."They are in danger of launching a streaming service that lacks the innovative and cutting edge sounds that independent artists bring. Would music fans be willing to pay for such an inferior product? I don't think so," Bragg said.O'Brien, whose band Radiohead once sold its In Rainbows album by asking people to pay whatever they thought it was worth, said marginalising indies meant a digital music world catering only to big names and corporations."Indie artists and labels are at the cutting edge of the future of music," O'Brien added. "To restrict them in this way is to risk creating an internet just for the superstars and big businesses."Faced with such high profile lobbying YouTube argues its online platform has become hugely important to help musicians build their fanbases. The company said that it has hundreds of successful commercial arrangements in place with record labels around the world.But the Worldwide Independent Network (WIN), a trade body representing independent labels worldwide, is so frustrated with YouTube's negotiating stance that it will lodge a formal complaint on Wednesday with the European Commission over the site's tactics.WIN represents 850 labels in the UK including Beggars Group – owner of labels including XL Recordings, which is home to Adele and The White Stripes – and Domino, which has signed Franz Ferdinand as well as Arctic Monkeys.Other acts threatened by the YouTube ban include Radiohead, Queens of the Stone Age, Vampire Weekend, Goldfrapp, The Prodigy, Nitin Sawhney, The&nbsp;xx, M.I.A. and Grimes.Three large music companies dominate the industry – Universal, Warner Music and Sony Music, known as the majors. In an attempt the match their clout in negotiations with digital media giants such as YouTube, the remaining independent labels negotiate collectively, but often complain that they struggle for the best commercial terms.They say YouTube  is trying to cut out Merlin, the body that represents them in rights deals, and is instead making direct approaches to individual independent labels with a "non-negotiable" contract for its proposed streaming service.The labels say they have allegedly been threatened that if they don't sign on YouTube's terms they could find their music videos blocked. Alison Wenham, chief executive of WIN, said: "We have been hearing from many companies across the world who are expressing fear, displeasure, outrage and confusion at the phone calls, letters and bullying they seem to be receiving from YouTube employees."A YouTube spokesman said the site "provides a global platform for artists to connect with fans and generate revenue for their music", adding: "We have successful deals in place with hundreds of independent and major labels around the world, however we don't comment on ongoing negotiations."Google and YouTube's sheer size mean that the group is frequently the target of regulatory and legal actions. A ruling by a European court ruling forced Google  to allow users to demand inadequate or irrelevant personal information be removed from search results, known as the "right to be forgotten".Wenham, who is also chairman of UK indie music sector trade body AIM, said the European complaint marks a "first step" in a global campaign in which small labels would use their artists to campaign against the digital giant."Our fellow trade associations around the world, representing tens of thousands of independent companies, also take issue with the actions of YouTube," she said.John Enser, partner at law firm Olswang, said: "Music services offered by big tech companies, not just in terms of YouTube but also iTunes, have often offered 'take it or leave it' terms to indie labels."While it is understandable that YouTube cannot devote resources to thousands of negotiations of small contracts, the indies do have a body, in the form of Merlin, that negotiates deals for them."For YouTube not to offer terms to Merlin on a similar basis to those it offers to the three remaining traditional majors does appear to give them a case to answer to the competition authorities."YouTube's plans to go head to head with Spotify, Deezer and other subscription music services have been rumoured for some time.In March the New York Post reported that the new service would be called Music Pass, and would be likely to cost $5 a month in the US with ads or $10 a month for an ad-free version.
Consumers will continue to be the victims of cybersecurity crises unless businesses take more steps to protect the personal information of users, Christopher Graham, the information commissioner, has warned.Graham said he was worried that the UK was not sufficiently alert to the security concerns of the 21st century."This sort of thing is going to go on and on and on until businesses wake up and realise that personal information is not their plaything; it's our information and it needs to be protected," he said.High-profile attacks, vulnerabilities and malicious software have created a string of troubling headlines in recent weeks, from the heartbleed flaw which undermined the security of hundreds of thousands of web internet servers, to what has been described as the biggest ever hack against eBay, which forced 145 million users to change their passwords.Last FridayOn 30 May, a joint operation led by the FBI, Interpol, and the UK's National Crime Agency, led to the closure of a criminal network that was using the cryptolocker malware, a "virus" that infects computers, encrypts files and demands a ransom (usually of about £400) to decrypt files. People have been tricked into paying after ransom messages accusing them of illegal activity."Cybercrime is real, hacking is real. Watch out there's a data thief about," Graham told the BBC. "As individuals we need to be very careful."Despite the rare success of a coordinated attempt to bring down a prolific network of malicious software, experts believe it will be only a matter of weeks before criminals adapt and relaunch the virus."There are more cybercriminals on the internet than ever before and their tools are increasingly sophisticated, but the weakest link in the chain is still the bit between the chair and keyboard – we need to patch the human," warned David Emm, a security researcher from the internet security firm Kaspersky Lab. "Cybercrime is as old as the internet, and that means we've had time to study it. We are now familiar with it and can often deal with it."The security and safety of computers used on a daily basis is serious as a range of activities, from banking and tax returns, to shopping and private messages, relies on the internet.Use of security measures and software updates can help protect stored data, but in the past week some large companies have come under attack by criminals online."There have been some very doomsday headlines recently and people are starting to suffer from notification fatigue," said Rik Ferguson, global vice president of security research at the security software firm Trend Micro. "We've had eBay first, then Spotify, [and the shoe retailer] Office – all within a week of each other as well as the heartbleed bug from April."The eBay break-in affected 145 million people, while heartbleed put most of the internet-using public at risk of data theft through a bug in the technology responsible for securing internet connections (commonly denoted by the padlock symbol in the address bar).Each of the break-ins has led to data being stolen. While for the most part that does not include financial information such as credit card numbers, it has included personal information which can be valuable to criminals."We have to take care of our data, but in many circumstances if we want to use a service we have no choice but to surrender data, stuff that is very difficult to change," said Ferguson.Personal information such as usernames, passwords, postal addresses, birth dates, phone numbers and email addresses, are often used to verify identity. Once that information is no longer private, verification checks become easier to fake, leaving people at risk of identity theft and phishing attacks where they are tricked into revealing financial information."All data that is shared should be done so in the knowledge that it absolutely is at risk from targeted attack," said Ferguson. "All of that data has financial value to the attacker, and they will continue to go after it."The eBay and Office attacks highlighted the lack of protection big companies have applied to user data beyond financial information, leading many security experts to call for companies to encrypt all user data as standard."It is inexcusable for a company the size of eBay with the amount of data it holds to not encrypt all personal information held and to not constantly be at the forefront of security technology," said Ferguson.Giving out personal information to companies is often unavoidable – a postal address must be given to online stores for deliveries, for instance – but some companies ask for information that is not crucial.Experts suggest the best protection is not to hand over the information in the first place. People, they say, should also use complex passwords unique to each service to avoid one online break-in affecting all the services used."None of us are taking this seriously enough, none of us are as good as we &nbsp;should be about passwords – changing them regularly and using credible, hard, passwords that aren't just the name of your cat or your mother-in-law," said Graham.Ferguson said: "The quickest, easiest and in many cases free way, to help protect yourself is to use a password manager." Password managers safely store passwords for users so that they do not have to remember them. "They mean that you can at least confine risks to individual accounts with unique passwords when they are breached," said Ferguson.As long as computers were "cleaned" and updated automatically, anti-virus software was updated and the online world was treated with the same scepticism as the real world, users could &nbsp;"go about their business as normal and not worry about it too much", Ferguson suggested.Consumers are being encouraged to update anti-virus software on their computers, make sure their PC is running a current version of Windows such as Windows 7 or 8 (not the unsupported Windows XP) and enable the automatic updates in the settings, which will make sure the system is as up-to-date and protected as possible.The other solution is to keep up-to-date backups of files on the computer, which would prevent a cryptolocker attack becoming an issue.Cybercrime affects 556 million people around the world every year, including 600,000 Facebook accounts, and is estimated to cost $100bn annually, according to the security firm Norton.Russia is by far the biggest source of cyber attacks, contributing to 39.4% of all cyber crime, while the US accounts for 19.7%.Nearly 40% of attacks relate to crime and stealing or defrauding victims of money or personal information, while 50% are protest hacks, 7% cyber espionage between corporations, and 3% cyberwarfare between nation states. Viruses, malware and trojans account for 50% of all attacks.
The US Federal Communications Commission website reported technical difficulties because of heavy traffic this week hours after comedian John Oliver called on viewers to share their thoughts with the agency about what he called “cable company fuckery”.We’ve been experiencing technical difficulties with our comment system due to heavy traffic. We’re working to resolve these issues quickly.&mdash; The FCC (@FCC)June 2, 2014We’re still experiencing technical difficulties with our comment system. Thanks for your patience as we work to resolve the issues.&mdash; The FCC (@FCC)June 2, 2014On Sunday’s episode of the HBO show Last Week Tonight, Oliver encouraged viewers to take advantage of the 120-day open commenting period on the FCC’s Protecting and Promoting the Open Internet proposal and tell the government what they thought of the plan.“Good evening, monsters,” Oliver said, before urging online commenters to submit their comments to the agency&apos;s site.Critics say the FCC&apos;s planwould destroy net neutrality because it creates a “tiered internet” where companies could pay for higher speed access. To maintain net neutrality, they argue, internet should be classified and regulated like a utility.Oliver&apos;s 13-minute description of the net neutrality debate was decidedly negative toward the FCC&apos;s plan, comparing TV and internet provider Comcast to a defence contractor for the amount of money it has spent lobbying for a tiered internet.“We need you to get out and, for once in your lives, focus your indiscriminate rage in a useful direction,” Oliver said. “Seize your moment my lovely trolls, turn on caps lock, and fly my pretties, fly, fly!”And, it would appear, they did.Just after the segment aired on HBO,Last Week Tonight, and its fans, said the FCC comment feature was not working. The FCC confirmed thatits systemwas experiencing technical difficulties because of heavy traffic on Monday, after Oliver&apos;s video was posted and widely shared online. By Tuesday, it had been viewed nearly 800,000 times.We may or may not have crashedhttp://t.co/st6DgFYdhH. Whoops!&mdash; Last Week Tonight (@LastWeekTonight)June 2, 2014“We’re still experiencing technical difficulties with our comment system,”the FCC said on Twitter. “Thanks for your patience as we work to resolve the issues.”The FCC told Varietythat it was “unclear if the high volume was directly related to the John Oliver segment.”More than 47,000 public comments have been filed on the proposal in the past thirty days. One comment published on Tuesday blasted &quot;cable company fuckery,&quot; using Oliver&apos;s line. Another user cited a claim made by Oliver on the show: &quot;It is embarrassing that Estonia has higher download speeds at lower prices than the USA.&quot;Oneprofanity-ridden postconcluded with: &quot;John Oliver told me to do this.&quot;
5.57pmBSTWell that&apos;s the end of my day at Bossa Studios. Thanks to all the wonderful staff here for making me feel so welcome, and thanks to co-founders Imre and Roberta for trusting me to wander around taking photos.Next stop: Creative Assembly!5.27pmBSTBossa Studios co-founder Imre Jele discusses the importance of game jams and how to get a job in the games industry.Updatedat 8.03pm BST3.54pmBSTThere's an old games business saying: never be horrible to anyone, this is a small industry and eventually you will end up working with them. To show what a small industry this is, here are indie developer Mike Bithell and freelance producer Georg Backer (Lionhead, Microsoft, Hotsauce Interactive) just having an impromptu meeting at Bossa Studios.3.38pmBSTA 360-degree view of Bossa Studios!3.35pmBSTKeith is hard at work writing about us.....@keefstuartpic.twitter.com/doR4RqU4qD&mdash; Bossa Studios (@bossastudios)June 3, 20143.30pmBSTHow to become a computer game artist in six easy stepsI spoke to Andy Green, Bossa&apos;s senior technical artist about what budding artists need to know.Be flexible:&quot;The old disciplines of animator, concept artist, 2D artist and 3D artist remain, but in smaller studios it&apos;s very difficult to specialise in just one thing. Iain Gillespie, a recent hire of ours, is an illustrator, a 2D artist and a 3D artist. We&apos;ve got Jack Good, whose primary discipline is modelling, but he&apos;s also really good at sketching and concepting. Even in a larger studio it&apos;s useful to have an understanding of what&apos;s come before you and what will follow you in the art pipeline. If there&apos;s a problem you need to be able to trace it back, you need to understand what&apos;s going in around you. The bigger your feild of vision, the more useful you are.&quot;Understand fine art:&quot;A good foundation in art history and art styles is useful. A lot of digital artists seem to forget about fine art, but the most talented artists tend to have an appreciation of art as a whole rather than just art and games. Even if it&apos;s just simple things like an understanding of colour theory, it&apos;s amazing how few game artists understand that. I saw Valve give a talk about Team Fortress 2 and the amount of fine art influences that went into the character design – even how they used shaders; they took a lot of inspiration from 40s and 50s illustration practices. The more you understand art, the wider your range of influences.&quot;Learn to sketch:&quot;Being able to visually communicate is important. A lot of artists would advocate trying to draw everyday – it gives you an appreciation of how to interpret what you see int he world. And it&apos;s a creative exercise if nothing else. Also life drawing is very useful – we all end up working with anatomy at some point. As a technical artist, I do a lot of rigging for characters so I need to understand how the human body works, for example, how joints bend, how an elbow will only bend along one axis and how the body is proportioned.A character model from Time To Live being built and manipulated in the 3D art package Maya, which is now the industry standardStudy beautiful games:&quot;It depends on your style, but Sword &amp; Sorcery is really interesting. The pixel art aesthetic has been done to death a little no, but what they did with composition, framing… they created a very atmospheric game with very low fidelity. Also, Journey, from an art perspective, is fantastic. When you look at how close the screenshots are to the original concept art, they really nailed it. Lots of indie titles are fascinating to look at because they do a lot with a little. Unfinished Swan uses very minimal texture work, but it&apos;s a very interesting approach, with some very clear artistic references.&quot;Art package skills are transferable:&quot;3D-wise,Mayais still the industry standard, along with 3D Studio Max. Most universities are teaching Maya predominantly. The problem is, it&apos;s bloody expensive. To be fair,Blender, a free 3D package is getting a lot better - and if you can learn it, you can transfer those skills: the tools are just tools, an amazing artist is an amazing artist. You won&apos;t get a job just by pushing the right buttons in Maya. For 2D, theAdobe Creative Suiteis still standard. There&apos;s a free alternative to Photoshop calledGimp, but it is very difficult to use, we tried it for a month and it wasn&apos;t pleasant. Photoshop has been very good for years so older copies are available.Learn Unity:The game engine of choice for indie games programmers is also a useful package for artists. &quot;It&apos;s intuitive enough for artists to put stuff straight in there. I have seen people use Unity for their showreels. It will take a little bit of coding or scripting to do anything bespoke, but if you just want to get a model inside a game engine, animating simply, Unity is a quick way to do it. UDK is also an option. And Marmoset does a real-time lighting package and I see a lot of 3D artists using that to show off their work as it has a very nice selection of shaders, it&apos;s very good for real-time rendering.&quot;Updatedat 3.34pm BST2.57pmBSTMike Bithell, the creator of Thomas Was Alone, has just popped in. Bossa recently converted his game to iPad and they&apos;re currently working on an update together. Famously, Mike didn&apos;t think a functioning iPad version of his minimalist platformer would be possible because he spent, like, an hour trying it himself before giving up. Bossa took on the project and spent rather longer on it.2.28pmBSTSo I have been corrected. The last image is actually Super Smash Bros on the Wii.2.27pmBST@keefstuart@Eternzand I were playing Smash on the Wii, not the Gamecube! It&#39;s a mod for Brawl called Project M and it&#39;s amazing.&mdash; Charles Ali (@Tanuki_Suit)June 3, 20141.37pmBSTIt's lunch time at Bossa, and this being a modern forward-looking studio, everyone is playing... Super Smash Bros on the NIntendo GameCube!12.28pmBST11.57amBSTA quick Vine of the Bossa office...11.42amBSTI&apos;ve just been chatting to co-founder Imre Jele about Bossa&apos;s current projects. Although this is a relatively small studio, there are multiple projects on the go at various stages of development. &quot;In some ways it would make my job easier to concentrate on one game,&quot; he says. &quot;But working on four or five at once means that, if one game fails, the others will make up for it. Well, that&apos;s the business reason. The other reason is that it&apos;s more fun. We have simulation games, adventure games, platform games… it&apos;s just fun to be able to work on different things.&quot;Right now, alongise Time To Live, the studio is working on an educational game named Dark Corner, which is a partnership with the US education technology firm,Amplify. It&apos;s a tablet-based point-and-click adventure designed to help 10-12 year-olds develop their vocabulary. Amplify sells its games and apps into schools and whole school disticts throughout the US. &quot;They&apos;re aim is to replace all text books with tablet apps,&quot; says Imre.Also on the slate is an update to the PC version of Surgeon Simulator 2013. The team is adding a few new features (which haven&apos;t yet been announced) as well as a visual overhaul. I can confirm that, if the bodily organs in the original operating sim didn&apos;t look meaty enough for you, oh boy, they do now. The artist shows me a minor operation to remove a lung, and the organ glistens horribly beneath the rib cage. When he removes it with a drill it spins on the bit like some horrific piece of offal then flops onto the patient&apos;s face, smearing blood everywhere. &quot;It looks so juicy!&quot; says Jele with barely disguised delight.Finally, there&apos;s a small team working on an update to the iPad version of Thomas was Alone, Mike Bithell&apos;s award-winning PC and PlayStation platformer, that Bossa recently converted to tablet.Apparently, staff regularly swap between projects, too, to keep everyone engaged.Updatedat 12.48pm BST10.27amBSTA teaser trailer for Bossa's arena-based card battle game, Time To Live – a kind of cross between The Running Man and Hearthstone...10.25amBSTBossa Studios has around 34 members of staff and currently they&apos;re split into teams and working on several development projects. During the morning, all the separate groups get together for informal meetings, discussing progress and viewing each other&apos;s work.This morning, the team working on arena-based sci-fi card battler, Time To Live, met up to view progress on the user interface, designed by Klaudia Kovacs, and some of the arena designs, courtesy of the artist Ross McCaughey. The studio has recently changed the look of the game – it seems to have a sort of 1980&apos;s cartoon feel, which is obviouslyvery pleasing to me.Updatedat 12.49pm BST10.18amBSTThe Time To Live development team meeting up and discussing progress10.05amBSTOver the next four days, as part of the Guardian&apos;s Games Week coverage, I&apos;ll be visiting three very different game development studios, and finding out how the modern industry ticks. Today I&apos;m in Bossa Studios, the creators of Surgeon Simulator 2013 and other offbeat, interesting titles. I&apos;ll be speaking to programmers, artists and the studio founders Imre Jele and Roberta Lucca about the process of making and releasing games. I&apos;ll also be drinking a lot of their coffee.
Britain has always punched above its weight in the video game industry. For many years it was in the world's top three games developing countries, just behind the US and Japan. And although Canada has crept ahead in recent years, the British Isles remain a stronghold of innovative and often idiosyncratic design.So to celebrate the county's profound contribution to interactive entertainment history, here are the 30 best British games of all time, as selected by three of the Guardian's regular games writers. Rather arbitrarily, we've gone for whole series' if the quality is consistent, and single titles if not. Sometimes we've just plain cheated.As ever, please feel free to add your own favourites in the comments section – we're bound to have missed some wonderful titles.Batman Arkham Asylum (Rocksteady, 2009, various platforms)Rocksteady approached DC's venerable comic book crime-fighter with a degree of care and respect matched by no other previous game-maker. The design draws inspiration from 2D classics such as Super Metroid and Castlevania Symphony of the Night. It presents a relatively small, gated world; each area within is accessible only when Batman unlocks the requisite skill. In this way its mysteries unfurl with rare elegance. But it's the feel of the character that proves most alluring. In combat Batman strikes with power and grace. In the shadows, he moves with cat-like grace, flitting from pillar to gargoyle in silence. In dialogue he growls through his lines. A definitive treatment.Burnout Paradise (Criterion, 2008, various platformsAs brash as it was slick, Burnout was always an arcade racer with teeth to spare. But Paradise was a revelation. It replaced 'Next Race' and menus with twenty-six square miles of open-world, squeezing a country's worth of diversions into its packed terrain, and then let everything happen on-the-fly. Effortless to drop into, gorgeous from any angle, and always easy to lose hours to, Burnout Paradise is also remarkable for Criterion's free post-launch support. Six years on, Paradise City still looks and feels like it.Cannon Fodder (Sensible, 1993, various platforms)"Cannon Fodder" is a pretty horrific phrase, but a game where your little soldiers mattered more than anything. Jools and Jops were your earliest, ever-so-vulnerable troops in Cannon Fodder, and the longer you kept them alive the better they got. The game is a top-down shooter that alternates between deadly precision and ice-rink mayhem – where, if a soldier falls, the size of the tombstone reflected their time with you. Developer Sensible Software's genius shows in how Cannon Fodder is so anti-war, yet the intro song remains accurate: "War! Never been so much fun!"Championship Manager / Football Manager (Sports Interactive, 1992-, various platforms)Set up by two brothers, Paul and Oliver Collyer, Sports Interactive has been making football management games for over two decades. But to compare 1992's Championship Manager '93 to last year's Football Manager 2014 (the name changed in 2003) would be like men against boys. This is because Football Manager, more than any other series, shows the value of iteration and regular releases. Over two decades the game has become more detailed, in-depth, slicker, smarter, and knowing about the crazy job it simulates. There are more superficially exciting games, but few as all-consuming and rewarding.DJ Hero (Freestyle Games, 2009, various platforms)DJ Hero wasn't the first videogame exploration of turntablism – that accolade belongs to Beatmania, the Japanese game that formalised the use of plastic peripherals in video games to approximate musical instruments. DJ Hero's set-up was more serious, however, in both the design of the controller and the game's mechanics too, which involve crossfading between two pieces of music according to on-screen directions, as well as reversing and scratching a turntable to rouse a virtual crowd. The soundtrack was created in collaboration with DJ Shadow, Z-Trip, DJ AM, Grandmaster Flash, DJ Jazzy Jeff, and Daft Punk, a studded line-up that, unfortunately, failed to reignite the audience's waning interest in music games at the time.Dungeon Keeper (Bullfrog, 1997, PC)The perfect blend of concept and content, Dungeon Keeper is an RTS where you play the bad guy – setting up a deathtrap of many rooms, tinkering until it purrs, and then watching the heroes try to invade. Dungeon Keeper was one of many great games from Guildford's Bullfrog Productions, sadly now defunct, and perhaps the best example of its mischievous humour and ability to put a a distinctive spin on familiar ideas.Elite (David Braben and Ian Bell, 1984, various platforms)It must say something that the greatest game of the 1980s presented a cold-hearted world where the only rules were get rich and don't get caught. Elite began as a game about dogfighting but, when co-developers David Braben and Ian Bell found this a little dull, a layer of amoral capitalism was added on top – the player can trade everything from food to weapons to slaves. What makes Elite resonate even now is the vast scale of its eight galaxies; the feeling that there's always something new to find. What makes it a classic is that there always was.Fable 2 (Lionhead, 2008, Xbox 360)Fable II is a celebration of the disorderly English fairytale, all fart jokes and buxom maids serving sloshing tankards of ale mixed up with Robin Hood-style chants of revolution and seasoned with the old magic of the countryside. As you canter through Albion's green and pleasant land, sheepdog by your side, thwacking trolls and flirting with the local men or women (this progressive game allows you to role-play any sexuality) you're free to choose whether you'll be good, evil or some more honest shade between. It's story is well-told, its soundtrack glorious. But most of all this is a generous, forgiving game that charms as much as it challenges.Geometry Wars: Retro Evolved (Bizarre Creations, 2005, Xbox 360)Originally made as a tech demo by a bored programmer, Geometry Wars, would come to define Xbox Live Arcade as the premier platform for new games created in an old style. An analogue twin stick shooter the game takes the principles of Robotron 2084 (the 1982 arcade classic where one stick is used to direct movement and another to direct bullets) and pares the venerable arcade shooter back even further. You play to delay the inevitable: dodging the incoming aliens and bullets in the midst of a symphony of exploding lights and sounds till you're finally overwhelmed. Pure and beautiful.Goldeneye 007 (Rare, 1997, Nintendo 64)Originally designed as a light-gun game in the style of Sega's arcade classic Virtua Cop, Rare's eventual take on the Bond myth – by far the most successful video game adaptation of Ian Fleming's series – demonstrated that the First Person Shooter could translate from the PC to the living room. From its cast of flailing Soviet soldiers to its elegant level design to its assured multiplayer, nobody's done Bond in video game better than Rare. Launched two years after the film on which it's based had left the box office, Goldeneye 007 sold slowly but steadily, breaking the ground from which Halo and Call of Duty would later grow.Grand Theft Auto (DMA/Rockstar North, 1997-, various platforms)The term 'virtual world' always has and will be thrown around thoughtlessly, and yet how few games deserve such praise. The first two instalments of the Grand Theft Auto series had, in embryonic form, freedom and chaos – but DMA Design's Grand Theft Auto 3D changed everything. It's not just the technical achievement, the vistas, crowds and cars that improve with each instalment, or the sheer production values – licensed tracks, famous comedians, TV shows, and voice talent. It's the choice. Players can be criminals, sure, and go on pyrotechnic rampages. But just as many put on a nice suit, get their favourite car, and set out for a country drive with the radio on. GTA is one of the few games to promise freedom, and then deliver something like it.Lego Star Wars (Traveller's Tales, 2005, various platforms)The idea to combine Denmark's most enduring toy with the cinematic imagination of George Lucas' most enduring science fiction myth was simple, unexpected and, with properties this gargantuan, risky. Traveller's Tales succeeded by striking a delicate balance of childlike irreverence and keen respect towards the source material, reducing the films' narrative down to a series of un-voiced pantomime scenes, while swapping out the fire and fury of its climactic battles with a shower of plastic bricks and coins. Parents and children could play together, breaking down the scenery with gleeful swipes of their lightsabers before rebuilding the pieces into unexpected shapes. The result established a template that has subsequently been used to rebuild colossi of contemporary family cinema, from Harry Potter to Indiana Jones.Lemmings (Dma Design, 1991, various platforms)Some games defy categorisation. Lemmings is like a puzzle game crossed with a tech demo, one that marries leisurely yet short play sessions to strategic thought and twitchy timings. It is unique and, over twenty years later, there's still nothing like it. DMA Design created 120 stages filled with devilish traps and fiendish puzzles, and every Lemming animation was imbued with more floppy-haired personality than entire other games. The British industry went on to produce glitzier masterpieces, but will it ever top the originality and purity of Lemmings? Oh no!LittleBigPlanet (Media Molecule, 2008, PlayStation 3)LittleBigPlanet started life as am indie project, conceived by a handful of breakaway developers before, as the idea gained shape and momentum, it became global poster-boy for Sony's PlayStation 3. Sackboy is the side-scrolling platform game's star, a knitted doll seemingly propelled by joy, leaping through the air from platform to platform like a puppy launching itself to bite at a Frisbee. It's handcrafted world, all cardboard and fabric texture, is quite unlike the futuristic surfaces that define most current video games, and, once the game is done, players are able to fashion their own levels and send them out into the world for others to try. Media Molecule's creation is both a humble platform game, and a platform for others to make games on -- at once, big and little.Manhunt (Rockstar North, 2003, various platforms)Time was that Rockstar North revelled in being the bete noir of British tabloids. And so was born Manhunt, a brutal game too clever by half for its many critics. Manhunt is nasty. You play a death row inmate given a surprise second chance, 'directed' through levels where you hide from and kill gang members. An unblinkered examination of the agency, nature and pleasure of videogame violence, Manhunt was unfortunately taken at face value by many – but, in 2014, is as relevant as ever.Manic Miner / Jet Set Willy (Software Projects, 1984, various platforms)This is your 2-for-1 cassette tape of the day, the main productions of designer Matthew Smith, a man with an eye for the surreal that made these classics then upped and left the industry behind. Manic Miner casts you as Willy, trapped with a dwindling air supply in a 20-screen mine filled with toilet seats and poisoned pansies. But Jet Set Willy is Smith's lasting achievement – a complex twitch platformer full of tricks, where Willy has to clean the mansion he bought with the proceeds of the first game. JSW remains fondly-remembered for set-pieces like 'The Nightmare Room' – filled with ghostly housekeepers, Willy suddenly turns into a flying mouse and has to dodge giant feet.Micro Machines (Codemasters, 1991, various platforms)Codemasters would later become one of the UK's best-regarded racing game studios, stewards of valuable licenses such as TOCA and Formula One. But in 1991 the studio kept its vision small, racing inch-long cars along billiards tables, kitchen counters and through the tall grass in Micro Machines. The game's appeal reflects that of Joe Johnston's film Honey, I Shrunk the Kids, released two years earlier: the opportunity to view the world's from an insect's perspective. Moreover, the game allowed children to bring their toy car races to vivid life, where every table edge becomes a cliff-top drop, every paperclip a hazard on the track.New Star Soccer (Simon Read, 2012, iOS)A mobile phone game that meets the apparent restrictions of its platform with towering ambition: to recreate both the on-pitch drama of the beautiful game as well as the off-pitch detail of the footballers' relationships and lifestyle. In Simon Read's BAFTA-award winning game you play as a single player. Whenever the ball lands at his feet you take control of the game. You draw your finger back to set the power of a shot or pass and then watch to see how the interaction affects the flow of the match. In between games you can train to improve certain character parameters, purchase new equipment and spend cash earned from matches and sponsorship deals. The result is a game as nuanced and comprehensive as many multi-million dollar franchises.Paradroid (Andrew Braybrook, 1985, various platforms)Set over several decks of a vast spaceship, this stylistically ingenious puzzle shooter put the player in control of a weedy robot, looking to destroy all the other droids roaming the craft's many rooms and corridors. The blasting action is fun, but the innovative addition of a mini-game allowing you to attack and over-take the circuits of other more powerful bots is the defining achievement. Programmer Andrew Braybrook, who also made the surreal Gribbly's Day out and stunning space shooter Uridium, squeezed every pixel of graphical performance out of the 8bit platforms – and the tension of exploring the labyrinthine space ship decks remains as compulsive as it was 30 years ago.Populous (Bullfrog, 1989, Amiga)The game that established Peter Molyneux as one of Britain's most storied and, at times, controversial designers, came about through a misreading of the phonebook. The PC manufacturer Commodore called Molyneux's company Taurus to offer the use of its computers by accident: they meant to call 'Torus'. Molyneux went along with the call, secured some computers for his studio and the result was the first 'God Sim', a game in which the game assumes the role of a divine protector who must increase the number of his followers so that they are able to decimate their rivals.Race Driver: Grid (Codemasters, 2008, various platforms)Driving games tend towards extremes: shell-tossing whimsy or straight-faced simulation. But Grid saw a gap, weaved through, and took off – this was a racer with character. The cars are iconic, the tracks are fine-tuned racecourses rather than authentic recreations, and it has a masterful gamey touch. A rewind button. Grid's production values are off the charts, but it's the ability to correct your mistakes – especially as you get better and they become fewer – that makes this a permanent game. Other racers have other priorities. Grid is simply an amazing ride.Rome: Total War (Creative Assembly, 2004, Mac/PC)The first game in the Total War series to be fully-3D also happened to hit upon the greatest possible subject matter. The battles of Rome are among history's greatest and developer Creative Assembly doubled the impact by recreating its armies with historical fidelity. And for the first time, Total War meant Total War. The battlefield is one thing, but here your success depends as much on trade routes, technologies, and spies; get caught out of position, and Hannibal may well re-write history to his liking. A world of miniatures that zooms out – and out and out, Rome: Total War is one of strategy gaming's pinnacles.SingStar (Sony London, May 2004, PS2)By 2004 the music game revolution was in full swing, led by Konami and its exacting approach to rhythm detection in Japan, and Harmonix with its air-guitar posturing in the West. The London-made SingStar was unlike either tradition. Rather, this easy-going, stylish karaoke game that was approachable in a way that neither Dance Dance Revolution nor Guitar Hero could equal. The game could detect the pitch of its two players' singing, scoring each on their performance and turning the drunken revelry of the karaoke bar into something approaching a competitive sport.Skool Daze (David and Helen Reidy, 1984, Spectrum/C64)A genuine charmer as well as an original, Skool Daze shows that you don't need mega specs and 8 gigs of RAM to create something truly memorable and evocative. You play schoolboy Eric, and on-screen can see the whole school and other characters – the headmaster, teachers, the bully, the swot and so on. Your goal is to get Eric's report card out of the headmaster's safe, but there were countless ways of doing this. And the pleasure of Skool Daze wasn't in beating the game anyway, but in playing around with it – causing mischief for others to take the blame, setting traps, or just watching the little people tick over.Speedball 2: Brutal Deluxe (Bitmap Brothers, 1990, Atari ST/Amiga)Video games more often imitate sports than invent them, but Speedball 2 is a glorious exception, a futuristic cyberpunk amalgamation of handball and ice hockey that reward violence and accuracy in equal measure. This sequel is the stronger game: increasing the size of teams from five players to nine and placing targets on the floor and walls that can be hit for bonus points. There's a pornographic delight to the game's cartoon violence, but its true joy is in the speed and jostle of play, where each goal is a triumph accompanied with a dopamine jolt.TxK (Llamasoft, 2014, PlayStation Vita)Jeff Minter, who lives on a farm in Wales, has been making games for just under four decades. An indie developer before there were indie developers, Minter has created countless games but will always be synonymous with Tempest. The original 1981 arcade game was created by the brilliant Dave Theurer, but over the decades our maverick has refined and reworked the tube shooter into a psychedelic hedonist's delight. Tempest 2000 is oft-cited as the highpoint, but the relatively recent TxK somehow manages to be even more colourful and intense – and as reliably brilliant as ever.Timesplitters 2 (Free Radical Design, 2002, various platforms)What do you do when you've made Goldeneye and Perfect Dark? For five former employees of Rare the answer was setting up their own studio, Free Radical Design, and hitting the Playstation 2's launch with the smooth-as-silk multiplayer-focused FPS Timesplitters. But it was Timesplitters 2 that really showed Free Radical's talents – the greatest local multiplayer of its era, hundreds of characters and ways to play, 60 FPS and stylised art that looks good even now. In a world where every device is online it's clear that the only thing Timesplitters got wrong, ironically enough, was arriving too soon.Tomb Raider (Core design, 1996, various platforms)Lara Croft, the 27-year-old archaeologist daughter of Lord and Lady Henshingly-Croft may not have been video gaming's first cultural icon, but she was the first to grace the magazine covers of Face, Time and Rolling Stone and to model for that bastion of middle English propriety: Marks and Spencer. Croft's handsome frame sold magazines and lingerie but her success was founded on a more resolute foundation: the taut, imaginative puzzle platform game she fronted. Since 1996 she has proven an inexhaustible icon, both in terms of her athleticism (the endless games, filled with endless tombs) and her marketing power.UFO: Enemy Unknown (Mythos Games, 1994, various platforms)Better known as X-COM: UFO Defense, from developer Mythos' small studio in Chipping Sodbury came an RTS balancing small-scale engagements and global management that, at first, chewed up and spat out the unwary. Minute in detail yet allowing freeform progress in each playthrough, X-COM is an oft-terrifying game about facing an alien invasion that depends on brass balls as much as careful plotting. Every player has tales of derring-do, last-minute escapes and determined hold-outs – and the stories they don't want to tell, about the time no-one came home.Wipeout (Psygnosis, 1995, PlayStation)Wipeout, a hover ship racer launch title for Sony's PlayStation in the West, marked the passing of video gaming's perception from childish diversion to the cultural zeitgeist. With futuristic, Japanese-esque packaging designed by the now-defunct Designers Republic agency, and a soundtrack from mid-90s club artists such as the Chemical Brothers, Leftfield, Orbital and Prodigy, the game is often remembered for its style more than its substance. But Wipeout's appeal runs deeper than its presentation: a racing game that demonstrated Sony's new machine's power, and a fresh way to paint Mario Kart's hustling road races. The sequel, Wipeout 2048, is the more refined game, but the debut's impact is unrivalled.• The 30 greatest video games that time forgot
When it comes to talking technology with musician Imogen Heap, you’re spoiled for choice.You could talk aboutMi.Mu, the wearable-tech gloves she developed that create music from gestures. Or the“Twitdress” she wore to the Grammys in 2010, flashing messages from fans as she walked on-stage to collect an award.Heap hasused video site Vokle to audition musicians for a tour; raised money to make her next albumon crowdfunding site PledgeMusic;solicited samples from fans on SoundCloudthen used them to construct a track;collaborated with developers in a Music Hack Day, and now…“I’m making some 3D-printed jewellery now, actually. It’s been completely unexpected,” she tells The Guardian.“Through a mixture of tweeting, making a video, meeting a fashion designer, speaking to an architect and knowing someone who can write software, now from out of nowhere I’m developing a program that you can sing into, and which will then manifest your voice into this waveform, that turns into this nice bracelet which you can then print. And you can have my music in the background, so you’re collaborating with me, in a way!”The news comes as a surprise in the middle of an interview that, in theory, is promoting Heap’s curation of theReverb Festivalin London this August, as well as her involvement in a project calledMomentumfor audio firm Sennheiser.That said, Heap’s eagerness to explore the potential of a new technology like 3D printing – and her ability to find willing collaborators – won’t come as a surprise to her fans. She’s consistently been one of the musicians most willing to experiment with technology not as a promotional gimmick, but as creative fuel.Reverb is a good illustration of that, based at London’s Roundhouse venue with performances from artists equally embedded in new technologies – Maja Ratjke, Pekka Juusisto, Peter Gregson and Tim Exile for example – as well as interactive installations, talks and workshops on music technology, and…“A massive tree. There’s going to be a massive tree in the centre of the building made out of 8,000 threads of LED-strip fibres that will stretch right up into the top of the building, up to the back, and through the doors into the bar,” says Heap.“It’s going to be absolutely beautiful, and people will be able to speak to it, and it will speak back to them via all the samples they’ve sent into it. It’s like a whispering tree, reacting to music and to how many people there are in the room. The building is going to be alive with technology.”The Mi.Mu gloves will figure prominently in Heap’s own performances at the festival. She’s been working on them for several years, with the first public performance taking place in 2012 at a gig in her garden streamed live on Facebook for Earth Day.Earlier this year,Heap launched a Kickstarter crowdfunding campaignfor the gloves, trying to raise £200,000 to take the project on:“Most of us on our small team are musicians who are tired of being stuck behind computer screens, keyboards, faders, knobs, and buttons to make our music. We feel there could be a better way that is more like the experiences we have with traditional instruments: using the dexterity and mobility of the human body.Imagine, for example, that instead of turning up a fader in order to bring in a sound or add reverb, you could be raising your arms to achieve the same effect. Or to move a sound around the room, you could simply point where you want it to be. Not only is this much more intuitive, it is also more enjoyable to watch, making it easier for your audience to connect with what you&apos;re doing.”The campaign fell short, raising just under £133,000. Heap, though, doesn’t sound too dejected.“It actually worked out for the best. Kickstarter as a tool to raise money and awareness is incredible, and has liberated many people and technology and products over the years, but it also comes with a lot of work,” she says.“You have to write to all these people, and send out all the stuff you promised. And actually, a lot of it, like the posters and the CDs that we were going to have to make, we don’t have to do now. And instead we can focus purely on the collaboration with the 10 people who want to buy the gloves, which is what we really wanted.”Imogen Heap's Mi.Mu glove missed its Kickstarter goal. Photograph: Fiona Garden/KickstarterHeap fits into a long line of musicians as hardware hackers, from the most traditional of instruments to the electronic music explosion in the 20th century.“There’s something about wanting to create kit or make it do something that nobody else has done: make it glitch, and then suddenly that’s your sound, the glitchy bit,” she says.There are frustrations here too, though, with the inability of a lot of music technology to work smoothly together: whether that’s old software that won’t work on new hardware, or different bits of hardware that resolutely refuse to talk to one another, at least not without more hacking.“It’s the frustration of technology: we’re at this point where there’s lots of new software and new platforms being developed all the time, but the common language isn’t quite there yet,” says Heap.“Eventually, there’ll be almost an Esperanto for technology that will mean nothing has to be defunct or obsolete any more: things will continue to grow and learn and feed each other, like the semantic web. People have to be better at making things speak to one another.”Heap is also keen on the idea of non-musicians – or at least people who think they’re non-musicians – getting to grips with new instruments and music creation technologies, from apps to gestural gloves. That’s a big part of Reverb: encouraging people to come in and get hands-on with some of this tech.“People say ‘I’m not musical at all’, but of course they are. Everyone’s musical. If you enjoy music, you understand the language of music. You may not know how to turn on a computer and create a whole song, but you’re musical. If I give you an instrument with a cool sound, all nicely tuned, and you just have to play around with it, you become musical,” she says.There’s a strong parallel here with the work of apps developer Smule, whose releases include Sing! Karaoke, Magic Piano, Guitar! and AutoRap. In August 2012,the company talked to The Guardianabout its desire to blur the boundaries between “a few individuals producing music and the rest of us consuming it” based on the belief that “every human is musical”.Heap agrees. “In the past, we’d all learn these folk songs and play and sing together. But we’ve somehow become intimidated, or have forgotten them because we leave it all to the professionals,” she says. “We’re all musical. It’s like making an omelette or a pancake. You don’t have to be a chef to make an omelette, and you don’t have to be Mozart to make a piece of music.”That’s the endgame for the Mi.Mu gloves, although it will take time: for now they’re expensive, and also require a complicated process of “mapping” – programming the sounds and audio textures to match the various gestures. It’s this process that the 10 initial buyers will help Heap and the Mi.Mu development team figure out over the next year, before – she hopes – making them more widely available.“Ultimately, I don’t want them to be a gimmick, because it just adds to the noise out there. Maybe they will, partly, but also become this incredible tool for people to feel free and get closer to that sound that’s in their head, or the performance they want to give, without being hindered by that thing that’s in front of them.”What about Heap’s own music? Since 2011, she’s been working on an album that’s now calledSparks, and is due for release later in the year. Her original aim was to make each song a self-contained project, getting her out of the studio to experiment with new technologies, collaborate with musicians and fans alike, and see the world.“Making an album for me had basically been me inside my studio, for a whole year driving myself mad trying to make 12 or 14 songs happen,” she says.“I just thought this time, I want to do an app, I want to make these gloves, I want to do more shows, see more music, make technology, create things with other people that I haven’t done before, and travel.”The first step was the SoundCloud project, crafting a song from samples uploaded by fans in an intense two-week process of writing and recording.It was followed by a song based on experimenting with 3D audio technology, then one based on a project working to restore a neglected garden in London. “For the fourth, I’d go to India, for the fifth I’d go to China, then the sixth would be Me, The Machine, with these gloves that I’d been dreaming of making,” she says.Since then, the Mi.Mu gloves have clearly become a bigger development task than originally envisaged, although the album is on its way – including deluxe box-sets for the fans who pre-ordered through her PledgeMusic crowdfunding campaign. The delay appears to be partly down to label wrangles though.“I’m worrying about the fact that the label I currently license my record to are being really annoying about not giving me a certain amount of money they’d promised me to do the videos and making-of documentary, which I’ve already made and paid for,” says Heap.It’s a rare departure from positivity during the interview, although that’s quickly remedied. “I’d love to be having that money to help pay for the gloves, but there’s no point complaining because what manifested was this great thing, the Kickstarter, which got loads of press, brought us the collaborators and helped us go go the next stage,” she says.“Many times in my career I’ve been really frustrated, but usually some good comes from it, maybe a couple of months or even a whole year afterwards. A label might mess me over, but it’ll give me an opportunity. Often, when something’s gone bad, it’s because it’s reached a natural end and really wasn’t working. I like finding solutions.”One of those solutions is crowdfunding, while partnerships with brands like Sennheiser, whose Momentum campaign – named after a line of headphones – involves various artists talking about how they use sound technology.Heap gracefully plugs the project by explaining why it’s not really a plug. “It’s this old model of patronage: they’re helping lots of artists, basically funding us to do our projects. And I do actually use their kit: it’s the only sponsorship that’s made any sense in my life on that score,” she says.•Imogen Heap: &apos;I&apos;ve just done a poll with YouGov to find out about my fans&apos;
Cryptolocker is back in the headlines, thanks to a coordinated effort to take down the computers and criminals that run the notorious &quot;ransomware&quot;. But what is it? And how can you fight it?Cryptolocker is ransomware: malicious software which holds your files to ransomThe software is typically spread through infected attachments to emails, or as a secondary infection on computers which are already affected by viruses which offer a back door for further attacks.When a computer is infected, it contacts a central server for the information it needs to activate, and then begins encrypting files on the infected computer with that information. Once all the files are encrypted, it posts a message asking for payment to decrypt the files – and threatens to destroy the information if it doesn&apos;t get paid.The authorities have won users a two-week window of safetyThe National Crime Agency (NCA) announced yesterday that the UK public has got a &quot;unique, two-week opportunity to rid and safeguard&quot; themselves from Cryptolocker. The agency didn&apos;t go into more detail, but it seems likely that at least one of the central servers which Cryptolocker speaks to before encrypting files has been taken down.The NCA has also taken down the control system for a related piece of software, known as GameOver Zeus, which provides criminals with a backdoor into users&apos; computers. That back door is one of the ways a computer can be infected with Cryptolocker in the first place.What that means is, until the window is closed – and the virus cycles to new servers – users who are infected with Cryptolocker won&apos;t lose their files to encryption. As a result, these users have the chance to remove the virus before it destroys data, using conventional anti-virus software. In other words, there has never been a better time to update the protection on your computer.But watch out – while the servers that control Cryptolocker are out of action, it&apos;s possible to be infected with it and not know. If you don&apos;t keep your computer clean, then at the end of the two-week period, you could be in for a nasty surprise.Cryptolocker only infects PCs, but there are other types of ransomwareCryptolocker is the name of one particular virus, which only infects Windows PCs, running XP, Vista, Windows 7 or Windows 8. So if you use an Apple computer, it can&apos;t affect you. Similarly, smartphones are safe from cryptolocker.Although it is the most famous example of ransomware, it&apos;s not the only one. Even in the two-week window, PC users may be infected with other types of ransomware, and Android and Mac OS users should carry on with their normal security precautions. Being safe from one type of malware doesn&apos;t mean you&apos;re safe from all of them.If you&apos;ve been infected by Cryptolocker, your files really are gone unless you have a backupSome ransomware is little more than a confidence trickster, presenting a message asking for payment without having done anything to the user&apos;s files. Cryptolocker isn&apos;t like that: the software really does encrypt your files, to a strength which renders it unbreakable even by the fastest computers in the world – even if they had the entire lifetime of the universe to work on it.That means you&apos;ll have to rely on any backups of your data to get it back. But it&apos;s important that you don&apos;t try and restore your data before you clear your computer of the infection, otherwise you could lose your backup, too.Sometimes paying the ransom will work, sometimes it won&apos;tExcept, of course, there is another possibility. Some users hit with Cryptolocker report that they really did get their data back after paying the ransom – which is typically around £300. But there&apos;s no guarantee it will work, because cybercriminals aren&apos;t exactly the most trustworthy group of people.What&apos;s more, if the NCA really is bringing down the command and control servers, then the criminals may not be able to return the data, even if the ransom has been paid. There&apos;s also a whole load of viruses which go out of their way to look like Cryptolocker, and which won&apos;t hand back the data if victims pay. Plus, there&apos;s the ethical issue: paying the ransom funds more crime.
Facebook is working on a way to allow children under 13 years old join the social network.The company has designs for a system that allows children younger than 13 to be supervised by parents, according to a new patent, to comply with the US Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (Coppa), which prohibits children under 13 from using online services that collect data without explicit “verifiable parental consent”.Facebook currently bans users under 13 from joining the social network.“Child safety advocates, policymakers and companies have discussed how best to help parents keep their kids safe online,” said a Facebook spokesperson in a statement sent to the Guardian. “Like any responsible company, we looked at ways to tackle this issue, but a patent application based on two-year-old research is not a predictor of future work in this area.”Parental controls and authorisationThe patent application filed in November 2012 was published last week by the US Patent Office describing a system that allows parents to authorise and supervise Facebook accounts for children.The parent would first have to verify their own identity, followed by their relationship with the child before allowing the creation of a child&apos;s account. Parents would then have parental controls tools to restrict access to certain content, friends and third-party applications such as Facebook games Farmville and Candy Crush.Child accounts would also have strict privacy controls privacy and permissions allowing parents to approve certain actions.A system proving the identity of a parent and their consent for children under 13 to join any service that collects data would likely have to be approved by the US Federal Trade Commission, which enforces Coppa.Access to children’s data and their access to online services is governed under the Data Protection Act in the UK, with extra guidance from the UK data protection watchdog the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). ICO is currentlypromoting the education of information rightsto children to help them decide what is appropriate and safe to share online.Any new system to allow preteens to join a service like Facebook would need to meet ICO guidelines.&apos;Children are, in fact, now on Facebook&apos;While Facebook currently prohibits children under 13 from joining the service, many children already join and use Facebook as verifying a person’s age is difficult online, especially for those without official government-issued identity documents or other age-related identities.“The truth of the matter is that children are, in fact, now on Facebook, with or without parental oversight. They won&apos;t stop getting on there, regardless of whether or not Facebook is kept from straightforwardly accepting preteen members,” explained Lisa Vaas from security company Sophosin a blog post.Facebook actively attempts to remove underage children, with around 800,000 preteens removed from the service through a tiered screening process in 2012 alone, according to data from Consumer Reports, which also estimated that there were still 5.6 million underage accounts on Facebook, many created with the help of parents.Facebook said it has nothing to announce regarding allowing those under the age of 13 to use the social network and that the patent was in response to research being conducted in the area but is not indicative of future work.•Facebook removes page glorifying Isla Vista killer•Facebook bows to pressure on privacy settings for new users
For a company that aims to excel in making information and products clean and easy to use - and one with an eye on consumer electronic devices for lucrative markets - it makes absolute sense that Apple should exploit the trend for fitness and health data with Health, its new app.Apple insisted from the first mention of its new data app Health on Monday that users&apos; privacy will be protected. But with a rapidly growing industry built around aggregating and organising health data, how far and wide is our health data being shared?Like many people, I’m more into the principle of fitness than the practice. I’m don&apos;t go to a gym, climb mountains or ride bikes down them, and am as far from early morning runners as its possible to be. I’d have my breakfast in bed, if I trusted anyone else to make a decent coffee.But I also like gadgets, so Fitbit&apos;s activity tracker - the slick, sliver of a device called the One - motivated me to start exercising and I&apos;ve been using one ever since.My first device was run over by a car (I wasn&apos;t wearing it at the time) and Fitbit replaced it free of charge. I&apos;ve worn it daily ever since.Until today.Before the break up, we’d had happy times. The experience of having technology as an integral part of your day, as part of your body, can be enlightening - a constant stream of information that reflects your behaviour and reports on your state of health. When you analyse this realtime feedback, you can&apos;t help but adjust your activity and, in a way, your behaviour.I never felt bullied by my Fitbit. It was more a gentle coercion to do a little bit more of what was good for me so that I&apos;d reach my daily exercise goal, and keep up with the handful of others with whom I share my data.Or rather Ithoughtit was only a handful of others. But it seems that data is being spread far wider than we thought. In reality it seems we are losing control over some of our most intimate data, handing over details of every heartbeat we have and minute we sleep.Apple may well leap ahead in this market, but at the moment FitBit is exploiting its lead. Sharing health data with third parties is potentially lucrative; think of the targeted drug adverts, health food drinks, low-carb low-calorie drinks and the rest. Imagine the life insurance salesmen either beating down your door or blocking your calls if the data says you look like a bad risk.Who is aggregating your health data - and at what cost?We should have seen this coming - it&apos;s pretty obvious that if you are aggregating data into a server you don&apos;t own, someone will think to make use of it. This happens all the time - it can even be useful to both company and customer - and it would be foolish of any firm, FitBit included, not to consider the value of this data in their business model. But at what cost to the individual?Early 2012 when I signed up to Fitbit, I paused to think about where my data was going, how it might be used, and couldn&apos;t think of a reason not to let them have my seemingly innocuous step data.But it&apos;s not just step data anymore. Unified hubs will give one overview of together data from apps tracking your weight, blood pressure, blood oxygen levels, sleep patterns, glucose levels, heart rate...Fitbit&apos;s privacy statement is more than 3,000 words long and regularly updated. It&apos;s reasonably open about what they will do with your health data, for those who bother to read it. (Anyone out there have their solicitor give those documents the once over? Me neither).But I am no longer happy to share what they want me to share.So, what if, like me, you don’t feel comfortable with Apple or FitBit’s vision of health data collection? What are the alternatives?New brands and devices surface regularly, but three of the best looking devices are Jawbone, Shine and Garmin.How much to access health data? Garmin&apos;s API access costs $5,000Garmin offers some interesting data-export options that would allow me to use my health data in useful ways, but there are worrying limitations in their Application Programming Interface (API), the window that specifies how programs talk to one another.In the Garmin’s case, the major limitation seems to be that the API is no longer free to access. It&apos;s bad enough that APIs usually offer access to a limited amount of data, but Garmin now ransoms it out at $5,000 a go.This means small software developers and coders who might want to design an app, or even someone who wants to get a complete dataset into a spreadsheet, have to pay through the nose for the right to do so. That’s hardly accessible to the not-for-profits and passionate bedroom coders who do some of the most interesting and innovative work in this brave new data rich world.This cuts right to the heart of the issue of data collection and data sharing. Why would I want my personal health data to be collected, shared, turned into profits by a company that will not also allow me to use that same data because it limits access to its API, that critical information bridge?Am I happy to collect information from the very heart of myself, and then not be able to use it as I want? For this data to be accessible only for wealthy corporate use?No, I’m not. They’remyvital signs,myvital statistics and I should be able to do with them what I want, not sign the rights to them over to someone else.The importance of the magical APIs and getting them right is hard to overstate; it’s partly about about taking data and making it genuinely useable, or &quot;rich&quot;, rather than just spewing out raw data and numbers - in the case of activity monitors, heart rate and distance traveled and so on.And it’s partly about tailoring use of data, so I can choose what apps and systems I share my information with, rather than giving one firm a monopoly over where my vital statistics are sent and analysed.An open source alternativeFluxstream is an open-source, non-profit organisation which deals with personal data, including the sort of health-related information collected by the likes of FitBit and Garmin.Candide Kemmler and Anne Wright, Fluxstream’s founders, make a persuasive case for having open and accessible APIs.&quot;Our take is that people should be able to use their data freely and that a good syncing API is the best way to enable that. Data export is simply not enough,” said Kemmler.The basic requirements are a few data points, and the ability to transfer them is all it takes.“These simple requirements are very often not met and one has to go through a whole lot of hoops and loops to achieve the desired result.&quot;Is charging for health data sustainable?Companies don’t always want to give something away when they can sell it -even if it enhances user experience and ultimately makes their product more desirable.In the short term, selling APIs can make a firm more money. Long term, they’re more likely to make a product obsolete by limiting its horizons.The sooner these device manufacturers realise we want, and have a right to, full access to the data we use their machines to aggregate, the sooner we can curate it how and where we want.Networked devices need to connect and share freely, and Apple, Fitbit or Garmin must acknowledge that. It will make these services for more compelling when they do, so that we can freely export, sync and analyse the data their devices allow us to compile.These data steams show the intimate workings of our bodies, our lives. It&apos;s not just the &quot;internet of things&quot; they are building technology for. It&apos;s an internet of people.•Apple reveals &apos;Health&apos;, its new app for tracking fitness and wellbeing
• Ensure your operating system and security software are regularly updated.• Consider investing in substantial anti-virus tools, including specialist Cryptolocker prevention kits.• Don't open attachments from unknown sources or from emails that appear to be from a legitimate source but are suspicious.• Regularly back up important data and keep it within unconnected storage.• Consider moving more data to cloud services offered by Google and others.• Businesses should check incident response and resilience protocols to monitor for infection.• Ensure staff are educated in good computing practices and how to spot threats.• Use software to identify if a computer is infected. If so, disconnect it from networks immediately and seek professional advice.• If you believe you have been compromised, change online account passwords and network passwords after removing the system from the network.• Block .exe files over email, including within ZIP files. This can usually be done using an anti-spam system.
Well, another Apple keynotehas come and gone. In the absence of any big hardware announcements, chief executive Tim Cook&apos;s biggest news on Monday was iOS 8, due in the autumn. Here are five other key takeaways from Cook&apos;s keynote address at the company&apos;s Worldwide Developer conference.New &apos;health kit&apos; relies on old hardwareiOS 8, which will be released in the autumn, willinclude a &quot;Health kit&quot;to organise data from fitness and health devices in a single place; it will also let you control connectedsmart home gearsuch as garage doors, smart light bulbs and door locks, and other internet-connected devices that comply with an Apple specification.Noticeably, Apple didn&apos;t announce any new hardware – no new computers, no new phones (though those weren&apos;t expected; it releases those towards the end of the year, when people spend more), no &quot;iWatch&quot;, no wearable fitness band, no new version of the Apple TV and nothing to do with Beats – apart from a phone call to Dr Dre by Craig Federighi, the head of software.The search engine that shall not be namedGoogle doesn&apos;t seem to be flavour of the month in Cupertino. Chief executive Tim Cook spent some time talking about how many people Apple had persuaded to shift away from Google&apos;s Android mobile software to use iPhones and iPads (130 million in the past 12 months, he said – which, given that Apple sold 230m iOS devices in the same time, is quite a sizeable proportion. Half of new iOS users in China were previously on Android, he said.)Google was mentioned a total of two times during the two-hour keynote. By contrast there were plenty more mentions for Microsoft&apos;s Bing search engine,which will provide translation in iOS 8. Also notable: DuckDuckGo, the tiny but privacy-sensitive search engine, will for the first time be available as a search engine option for both OS X (in the upcoming version,called &quot;Yosemite&quot;) and iOS 8.iMessagingiMessage, Apple&apos;s proprietary messaging service (which sends messages encrypted on the data channel – so your phone can send messages via Wi-Fi as well as the mobile phone network) is getting a steroid injection. It will be able to send audio or video messages (which will expire after two minutes unless you opt to keep them), and group chats have been made simpler to participate in and leave.Given that the Messages app (used to send iMessages and SMS) is the most-used app on iPhones, Apple is clearly looking to tie its existing user base in even more tightly. (The fact that iMessage ties people to iOS, the iPhone and iPad software, has led to a lawsuit: a woman who shifted to a Samsung phone and didn&apos;t get messages sent to her by her existing iPhone-using contacts issuing the company for $5m.)Apple&apos;s non-legal answer to that is to encourage people to stick with iOS – and get a Mac computer too: the combination of iOS 8 and OS X &quot;Yosemite&quot; will mean that SMSs and phone calls that arrive on your phone will be sent, via a technology it calls &quot;Handoff&quot;, straight to your desktop or laptop computer, where you can answer them – or initiate calls.Goodbye, DropboxAfter years in which Dropbox and Google Drive have gotten people used to storing files &quot;in the cloud&quot;, Apple is giving its iCloud service – introduced in 2011– a clearly visible file system, where you can sift through the files stored there and (try to) open them in any apps you have to hand on both your Mac and iOS device – and also on Windows, where iCloud will also be available as a web service.Although Apple was actually ahead of both Microsoft and Google in introducing cloud file storage – itfirst did it in 2000 with iTools, which offered a mighty 20 megabytes (yes, megabytes) of storage. However, it struggled to cope with the scale of demand, and gradually moved away from file storage – until iCloud, and photo storage.Photos will also be available across all your connected devices – and while Apple isn&apos;t quite offering to store them all forever for free, it is offering 5GB of storage for free (as happens now) and lower prices for larger stores – 20GB will cost $0.99 per month (or about $6 per year; UK prices haven&apos;t been released). That could be a problem for Dropbox.New keyboards! Apps talking to each other!Finally, for those who prefer Android&apos;s system where apps can talk to each other, and you can replace the default one with a third-party keyboard: Apple will introduce that in iOS 8. Third-party keyboards will be allowed, but the keyboard apps themselves won&apos;t be allowed to send data to the internet unless you explicitly allow it. (Apple has had longstanding concerns about keystrokes – which of course includes all your passwords for sites – being stolen.)And apps will get &quot;extensibility&quot; – which means that you will be able to call Bing&apos;s translation service if you&apos;re on a Safari page, or call up a photo filter app while you&apos;re looking at a picture and apply it there and then. For anyone who has ever wanted to apply an Instagram filter to an existing picture they&apos;re looking at in their library, and then send it to Twitter, that&apos;s going to mean a lot less jumping between apps: rather than going to Instagram and then to Twitter, you&apos;ll be able to stay in the Photos app and do it all from there.iOS 8 and OS X 10.10 &quot;Yosemite&quot; will be released in the autumn. Both will be free updates.
Apple has raised the possibility of using iPhones and iPads to perform transactions in bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, after a change in the rules by which it approves software for its app store.Until now, the company had gained a reputation for rejecting apps which enabled cryptocurrency transactions, generally citing rules which banned developers from submitting apps which break the law.Thenew App Store review guidelinesstate that "apps may facilitate transmission of approved virtual currencies provided that they do so in compliance with all state and federal laws for the territories in which the app functions."But the guidelines do not specify which virtual currencies are "approved", nor how one goes about getting approval from the company.Apple did not immediately respond to an email from Reuters seeking more information.An alternative possibility for the rule change is that the company is expressly allowing "currencies" like the coins used to buy upgrades in free-to-play games. Such payments are already widespread on the App Store, but have no specific rules enabling them.In the past, Apple has been aggressive about removing apps from its store which enable bitcoin payments.The Blockchain.info app, which flew under the radar for two years,was removed in February with little explanation given. In December 2013, a second app, secure messaging service Gliph, was forced toremove functionalityfor sending bitcoin payments with messages.Only one developer has received an open answer from Apple as to why their app was removed. When BitPak was pulled from the app store in 2012, its developer Rob Samasaidthat "I asked [an Apple staff member] why this had happened, and he said: 'Because that Bitcoin thing is not legal in all jurisdictions for which BitPak is for sale'".That requirement, rule 22.1 in the company's guidelines, is still present, but apparently superceded by the new rule about virtual currencies.The change may have come too late for Apple to capitalise on the bitcoin boom, however. Spurred on by the company's repeated rejections of bitcoin apps, a number of developers have built bitcoin wallets that work in a user's web browser, negating the need for Apple's approval entirely.Coinpunk, the most popular of these, was started by developer Kyle Drake in 2013, and funded by the Bitcoin Foundation thanks to its "ability to serve as a base for a wide range of innovations in keeping with open source ideals."•Apple bans another bitcoin app from iPhones
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple to Allow bitcoin Apps in App Store &gt;&gt; On BitcoinAccording to the Developer Guidelines section 11.17:Apps may facilitate transmission of approved virtual currencies provided that they do so in compliance with all state and federal laws for the territories in which the app functionsThis means that developers can now build iOS apps for Bitcoin wallets. And Coinbase, Blockchain, and Fancy can all return their apps to the store.How Web 2.0 killed the Internet &gt;&gt; Aral BalkanWant to blame someone for the death of the open web?Blame O'Reilly. Blame Web 2.0. Blame the swaths of 'open web' evangelists at companies like Google, Yahoo, Twitter, and Facebook who — either through naïvety or vested interests — pulled the wool over our eyes by evangelising Open APIs.It was Web 2.0 — with its central axiom that Open APIs would result in an open web — that got us to enthusiastically expend our energies building on closed platforms like Twitter, Facebook, and Google. Because, hey, if they have an Open API, they must be open, right?Wrong.He coins the term "openwashing". There's an undercurrent building up in some of the commentary online - which is that the promises of 2005, of eternal and open APIs connecting to forever-available data have been betrayed.Where Apple 'got inspiration' for seven of its big WWDC ideas &gt;&gt; Gizmodo UKSpoiler: Dropbox, Swiftkey/TouchWiz (really?), Android, Snapchat, MightySMS on Android or Skype, OK Google, Windows Vista. Though Apple had cloud-based files and desktop syncing long before Dropbox - it introduced iTools in 2000.Apple's latest offering explores the great indoors &gt;&gt; WSJApple has moved cautiously with iBeacon, in part because it might raise concerns about being tracked. Apple says iBeacon transmitters don't track users, because they only send out a signal, and don't receive information. The technology is in relatively limited use, deployed in many Apple retail stores and some Major League Baseball stadiums.…Here is how the technology works: Transmitters called beacons emit a low-power Bluetooth signal to smartphones within about 500 feet, depending on conditions. Apps are programmed to respond to those signals, so that a retailer can beam a coupon for detergent when a shopper is in the appropriate aisle, for example.By understanding a user's location, apps can begin to guess what users need or want to do next. It opens the door to a world of "ambient intelligence," an industry phrase describing an environment that senses a person's presence and responds accordingly.Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. has installed beacons in London's Heathrow Airport so a passenger's smartphone automatically displays a boarding pass when he approaches the gate or airport security. LabWerk, a Dutch startup, has an app to help drivers navigate parking garages and alert them to empty spots or guide them to their cars.Lots of really inventive applications of this.China wants to kick its Android habit in three to five years &gt;&gt; Tech In AsiaPaul Bischoff:as cyber security tensions between the US and China ramp up in the wake of Snowden/NSA, the perceived need for domestic operating systems is higher than ever. At a tech conference sponsored by China's Ministry of Telecommunications, Ni Guangnan from the Chinese Engineering Academy said China will kick its dependency on foreign mobile OSes in the next three to five years, according to Techweb.While Ni didn't mention exactly which OS China is pinning its hopes on, the front runner appears to be COS, short for China Operating System. We caught a glimpse of the Android lookalike back in January, but it hasn't been made available to the public yet. It appears HTC is assisting with development, as well.The hype for 3D printing has really gone way over the top &gt;&gt; The Molding blogDoug Smock:one of the really huge benefits of additive manufacturing is that it can create complex internal geometries, such as cooling channels. But it's expensive. And for mass production, it's way too slow a process to be realistic.  And there aren't really that many parts that benefit from its capabilities. Surface finish? Not Class A. Materials costs? Much more than molding grades of plastics or stamping grades of metals.  Materials used in many of the technologies are exotic and have limited, if any, functional applications.Stratasys created a neat niche in the assembly market (thinks jigs and fixtures) for its 3D printing systems, which have the advantage of using common plastics. 3D printing works great when there are a lot of design changes and volumes are low.It's the greatest invention ever for prototyping. It works great for dental and some medical applications. It works great for making custom designed, one-off toys and monsters. It works great for custom cranial implants, although many are still machined from stock shapes. Works great for architectural models. Some goofballs are even using cheap 3D printers to make guns.But a manufacturing revolution?Still, what does he know? He's just the former chief editor at Plastics World and been covering 3D printing since 1986.Intel to show thin tablet-laptop hybrid with delayed Broadwell chip &gt;&gt; PCWorldThe prototype, which is called Llama Mountain, will be among the thinnest hybrid devices shown by Intel, and will be based on a fifth-generation Core processor, sources familiar with the company's plans said. No more details about the Broadwell chip, or the hybrid's size or weight were shared.The manufacturing problems with Broadwell are a rare misstep for the world's biggest chip maker.Intel typically releases new chips on an annual basis but the multiple problems mark the first major processor delay since the Pentium 4 chip more than a decade ago.Intel has said Broadwell chips will be 30 percent more power-efficient and faster than their Haswell counterparts, and also boast better graphics. Desktop variants of the chip will support new technologies like DDR4 memory, and also have new graphics cores.Powered by Pano, focused on gaming: Google to announce Android TV at Google I/O in June &gt;&gt; GigaomJanko Roettgers:Android TV won't be another device, but rather a platform that manufacturers of TVs and set-top boxes can use to bring streaming services to the television. In that way, it is similar to Google TV, the platform the company unveiled at its 2010 Google I/O conference. But while Google TV was focused on marrying existing pay TV services with apps, Android TV will at least initially be all about online media services and Android-based video games.…The big question is whether Google will get consumer electronics manufacturers to support this vision. The failure of Google TV cost the company a lot of goodwill, but the success of Chromecast may have made up for at least some of that.It's unclear how Chromecast - made by one manufacturer - would make the consumer electronics companies that saw Google TV plummet (and the Nexus Q dumped after being shown off publicly) suddenly feel good.Doonesbury &gt;&gt; The Washington PostThe Sunday morning strip is about the search for a corporate motto. It's all in the punchline.From July 2008: iPhone: The bet Steve Jobs didn't decline &gt;&gt; CounternotionsFrom July 2008, pointing out (among other risks for Apple of building a mobile phone) thatIf you fail, it would be a public fiasco of the first order, likely lopping off at least a third of your market cap and seriously eroding financial sector confidence in your company's ability to grow and diversify beyond the Mac and the iPod businesses.What's also interesting, looking back, is that "a huge and risky bet" is precisely how Apple staff have described the iPhone - both in personal recollections and in court cases (against Samsung).You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
Blood pressure a little high? Need the lights turned off in your home? There's an app for that. Or there soon could be after Apple unveiled the latest plans for its iPhone software on Monday at its developers' conference in San Francisco.Chief executive Tim Cook heralded the new software, which will gather and store health-related data and also offer integrated control for "smart home" devices such as remote-controlled light bulbs.It will be released in the autumn and run on iPhones and iPads, as "something only Apple can do", Cook said, as he pointed to statistics which said that 130m iPhone and iPad buyers in the past 12 months out of about 230m sold were new to Apple's platform.The "HeallthKit" and "HomeKit" software are part of a concerted effort by the Californian company to position its smartphone as the hub of peoples' digital lives, much as it did more than a decade ago when it first launched its iTunes software for organising music files.In a speech to thousands of software developers at the Worldwide Developers conference in San Francisco's Moscone West centre, neither Cook nor Craig Federighi, Apple's software chief, announced any new hardware for the health or smart home categories. But Carolina Milanesi, analyst at the research firm Kantar ComTech, suggested Apple was aiming to get developers to build apps for both sectors before making its own move into them. "Otherwise you get the Galaxy Gear effect where Samsung announced a $300 smartwatch but there weren't any apps for it, so people say 'what's the use of that?'"Federighi was at pains to emphasise that the health and smart home systems will not share user data without explicit permission, as it seeks to position itself as an alternative to the datasharing approach used by Google, Facebook and other advertising-supported companies.However the $3bn purchase of the Beats headphones and music company was not mentioned in the two-hour presentation although Federighi did jokingly make a call to "a new Apple employee" the Beats cofounder Dr Dre, who sent developers his best wishes.Apple also showed off software called "Handoff" that will allow iPhone owners to answer incoming phone calls or texts on an iPad or Mac computer.With new smartphone buyers becoming increasingly hard to find as the US and European markets become "saturated", Apple is looking to attract users of Google's Android to use its phones and tablets. Cook put heavy emphasis on the success that the iPhone and iPad have had in China, saying that half of its customers there had switched from Android.Announcing HealthKit, Federighi said that presently apps retain their data inidvidually but do not interact or connect to make good use of it. "That information lives in silos," he said."You can't get a single comprehensive picture."The news follows archrival Samsung Electronics Co Ltd's announcement last week of a mobile healthdata store called SAMI (Samsung Architecture Multimodal Interactions).Samsung plans to market SAMI by hosting a developer challenge and setting aside a $50m fund for earlystage digital health entrepreneurs.The update to the iPhone and iPad software will be released in the autumn, Federighi said. Though Apple made no mention of new iPhones or iPads, those are expected to be shown off just ahead of the software's release, and to ship just after it.Among the expected updates are an iPhone with a larger screen to capture users who might otherwise shift to the increasingly popular "phablet" models, and to win back those who have moved away from the iPhone because they have preferred the larger screens available on Android. Presently the iPhone 5S has a 4in screen, measured diagonally, while products like the Samsung Galaxy S5 and HTC One M8 have screens measuring 5in or more, and analyst data shows that such larger screens are increasingly popular.Apple also showed off new OS X software for its desktop and laptop computers that will automatically connect to an iPhone, so that it will show the identity of a caller, and let them reply to SMSs directly from the screen. Codenamed "Yosemite", it will be available as a public beta so that any Mac user can apply to test it.
8.00pmBSTCook wraps up on the two-hour mark.Apple will introduce:HealthKit and Health app - letting fitness/health devices communicate to a centralised, privacy-respecting app on the iPhone which shares data between them as you allowHomeKit - coordinating smart home systems&quot;Extensibility&quot; for iOS 8 - so that apps can communicate with each other, and pass data between each other nativelyThird-party keyboards are now allowed - though they won&apos;t be able to connect to the network (to send usage data) unless you specifically allow them7.57pmBSTCook calls iOS &quot;the biggest release of iOS since the introduction of the App Store&quot; (which was in 2008). &quot;Together our devices provide an integrated and continuous experience across all of them. And developers can create powerful apps more easily than they&apos;ve ever been able to.&quot;Apple engineers platforms, devices and services together. We do this so we can create a seamless experience for our users that is unparalleled in the industry. This is something only Apple can do.&quot;7.51pmBST7.49pmBSTFederighi says &quot;what if you had Objective-C without the C?&quot; Apple introduces a new programming language, Swift. It&apos;s a modern programming language - for which the developers are going wild (if you know what a &quot;tuple&quot; is, then you&apos;d be excited. If not - it&apos;s an ordered list of elements. Programmers love them.) Swift benchmarks show it&apos;s very, very fast, Federighi says.7.47pmBSTThird-party keyboards will be allowed in iOS 8 - but won't get network access unless you sayKeyboards: Apple will let you install system-wide third-party keyboards. They will run inside the most restrictive sandbox - so without access to the network unless you allow them.Touch ID gets an API (application programming interface) so that developers can build to it.7.47pmBSTiOS 8 will introduce HomeKit to let you manage home automation&quot;We&apos;ve come up with HomeKit to allow secure pairing so that only your iPhone can unlock your garage door. With Siri integration you can say something like &apos;Get ready for bed&apos; and be sure the garage door is closed, the lights are dimmed, the doors are locked.&quot;7.46pmBSTLooking back at Tim Cook&apos;s &quot;130m new users on iOS in the past 12 months&quot; - in the four quarters to the end of March 2014, Apple sold 71m iPads and 160m iPhones, or 231m iOS devices (give or take a few million more iPod Touches).That means that 130m of the 231m iOS devices went to new users - 56%, which feels like a remarkably high figure.7.44pmBSTKIND OF WEIRD THAT APPLE DIDNT MENTION NEST **AT ALL** WHEN TALKING ABOUT HOME DEVICES&mdash; TOXiC HELLSTEW (@CLINT)June 2, 2014Note: I did not see@nestor@Dropcamon the list of Apple Homekit support -- did see August lock. Anyone know?#wwdc&mdash; jason (@Jason)June 2, 2014Updatedat 7.47pm BST7.34pmBST&quot;Extensibility&quot; - apps being able to offer services to other apps. This is like Android&apos;s &quot;intents&quot; - also called XPC (cross-program communication).&quot;Extensions live inside an application&apos;s sandbox, but apps can reach through the OS to request. Pinterest can offer a share sheet to Safari. Bing can offer translation inside Safari. Photo filters inside of photos. Third party apps can define widgets with notifications.&quot;Developers have been looking forward to this for a long time; iOS has lagged Android (which has had &quot;intents&quot; from its inception) and Windows Phone (which gained it in Windows Phone 8).Federighi demonstrates an app providing a watercolour effect to a photo in the photo library.&quot;Widgets&quot; appear in the Notification Centre - not on the Home screen. They are interactive and updated and you can interact with them directly - Federighi demonstrates an eBay widget that he can use to bid directly from the Notification Centre.Or Bing translation - which is offered directly. (It&apos;s noticeable that Apple hasn&apos;t gone for Google translation; Google has had very little mention through the keynote.)7.25pmBST&quot;There is a lot more - what iOS 8 provides for developers to create apps you couldn&apos;t create before,&quot; says Cook. The App Store now has 1.2m apps with an &quot;unbelievably vibrant&quot; market. 300 million people visit the store every week. 75bn apps downloaded.&quot;We want to make the App Store even better.&quot; New features on the store - an &apos;Explore&apos; tab, with trending searches, faster search, related searches, discounted bundles.App previews - short videos of apps. (Britain&apos;s Monument Valley by UsTwo shows on the screen.)Testflight - developers can ask users to beta test their app and get feedback.Updatedat 7.35pm BST7.25pmBSTStorage isn&apos;t quite free - tiered prices, though much cheaper than iCloud used to be. 5GB for free, 20GB for $0.99 per month or 200GB for $3.99 a month.7.24pmBSTiOS 8 adds Shazam song recognition - Siri will recognise a song around you. Streaming voice recognition, so that it will show what it thinks you&apos;ve said, and 22 new languages that it understands. Vector-based maps in China. A lot of improved elements for China - one of Apple&apos;s most important markets.7.23pmBSTPhotos get &quot;smart editing&quot; on the device - very simple interface for improving sharpness, colours and so on.Synchronised over iCloud to other iOS devices.&quot;What about the Mac?&quot; Working on a ground-up photo solution that will be shipping &quot;early next year&quot;.7.20pmBSTHealthA single place and app to collate your fitness and health metricsThird-party apps can plug into the app, but the data that those apps can access is carefully controlled to protect user privacyIntegrating with medical institutions - automatically sending data to doctors like the Mayo Clinc in the US or Cambridge University Hospitals in the UK7.19pmBST&quot;Family sharing&quot; will let you create a &quot;family&quot; photo stream, calendar, Find My Friends (&quot;with permission&quot;) and find your devices. Also sharing music, books, apps, films. &quot;With Family Sharing you can get at your purchases but also the purchases of members of your family. You just click right through and download. For up to six family members.&quot; All on a single credit card - but parents get an alert when a child wants to buy something in a story.In effect, it&apos;s Apple&apos;s response to Microsoft&apos;s &quot;Kids Corner&quot; (which ropes off part of the phone and its apps.)• Photos and iCloud: &quot;every photo you take on all your devices&quot;: &quot;We&apos;re not only preserving - your device has access to more photos in the cloud than you can store on your device.&quot; Adds search for locations, time and album titles.7.19pmBSTWhatsApp&apos;s co-founder is not too happy:very flattering to see Apple &quot;borrow&quot; numerous WhatsApp features into iMessage in iOS 8#innovation&mdash; jan koum (@jankoum)June 2, 20147.15pmBSTIntegrating SMS and phone calls from iPhone into the desktop (and laptop) is quite a move. Developers get their preview version from today.7.15pmBSTApple will have public beta program for OSX Yosemite - people can sign up online and will get access to the ongoing betas through the summer. It will be free when it is finally released in the autumn.7.15pmBSTiCloud Drive - puts all the iCloud documents straight into Finder allowing users more control over the files and synchronises them across Macs7.15pmBSTOS X 10.10 Yosemite:• New design that more closely resembles iOS for iPad and iPhone, with translucent windows and flat design• Make phone calls from Mac or desktop• Mail now stores attachments up to 5GB in iCloud Drive• AirDrop files from Mac to iOS device• Safari includes private search mode and Wikipedia has been integrated into a new, compact address bar• Text messages automatically sync with your other Apple devices7.14pmBSTMac iPhone integration reminds me of concepts &amp; alpha stuff Nokia had 200x... Cool to see them realized by Apple.&mdash; Juha-Pekka Helminen (@jphelminen)June 2, 20147.14pmBSTApple picking up lots of popular messaging app features for iMessage. With system level integration. But no word on usage volume in years&mdash; Benedict Evans (@BenedictEvans)June 2, 20147.13pmBST&quot;And now something that we all care a lot about - health,&quot; says Federighi. &quot;Developers have created a lot of apps for monitoring your health. But up to now the information gathered by those applications lives in silos. But now you can with HealthKit. A single place where applications can gather the data. And there&apos;s an app - Health.&quot;We carefully protect your privacy - you can decide what you want to share between apps.&quot; Working with the Mayo clinic so that if a patent takes a blood pressure reading, and it&apos;s out of normal bounds, it will feed back to the clinic automatically.Updatedat 7.50pm BST7.13pmBSTiMessage users can send picture, audio and video messages - which expire automatically in 2 minutes after being listened to, unless you choose to keep them.7.08pmBSTMessagesAdd or remove people from conversations, mute threads and name themLocation sharing within messagesVoice and video messages – recording similar to the way Instagram or Vine, hold down the record button to record and then swipe up to sendUsers can listen to audio messages and reply to them from the lockscreen by simply lifting to the earPhotos are collated into one place, as well as embedded directly into thread7.06pmBSTContinuity works across iPhones and iPads too.Messages is the most-used app. It adds Group Messaging, naming a thread, leaving a thread with multiple people, and &quot;do not disturb&quot;.Location sharing with people in a conversation. At-a-glance view of pictures and attachments from a thread.&quot;Tap-to-talk&quot; allows you to record a short message which can be sent to the other person or people on the messaging thread.7.05pmBSTApple iOS keyboard gets &quot;Quicktype&quot;. In iOS 8 you get predictive typing suggestions (a form of which has been in Android for a while) - but given the question in a message &quot;Do you want to go for dinner or a movie?&quot; You&apos;ll be offered different choices - &quot;dinner&quot;, &quot;movie&quot;, &quot;not sure&quot;.And &quot;none of your keystrokes leave the device,&quot; says Federighi.7.04pmBSTSpotlight suggestions: able to pull instant information from the web, from Wikipedia, iTunes to movie timesQuickType - supports predictive typing suggestions very much like Android has had for a while, including learning to the way that the user types. All done on-device ensuring none of the user typing leaves the device6.59pmBSTiOS 8 is a &quot;huge update&quot;, says Cook.Adds &quot;interactive notifications&quot; - respond to messages or calendar alerts etc in the pull-down Notification Centre. Also works for third-party apps&quot;Bird&apos;s eye view&quot; in Safari on iPadNew interaction with email to make access simpler6.59pmBSTiOS 8Notification centre: interactive notifications, like being able to reply to text messages straight in the notification barSafari: sidebar like Safari in OS X YosemiteMail: swiping gestures like delete, mark as unread or flag, very similar to apps like Dropbox’s MailboxDirect access from the lockscreen: Swipe from the lockscreen to accept or dismiss calendar invitesFrequently used contacts are now visible in the multitasking interface6.51pmBSTOverall satisfaction for iOS 7 is 97%, according to a ChangeWave survey, and 89% now using the latest version, says Cook. &quot;This is in stark contrast to Android, where &quot;when you look at their latest release less than 1 in 10 customers - 9% - are on their latest software. And over a third of their customers are running a version of Android from four years ago.&quot; That means they are not getting great new features or security updates that they may need to stay safe, says Cook. &quot;And this is particularly important for Android which dominates the mobile malware market.&quot;Updatedat 7.20pm BST6.49pmBSTApple has sold over 800m iOS devices in total. Here&apos;s a breakdown:300m iPod touches200m iPads500m iPhones130 million new Apple customers89% iOS 7 users6.49pmBSTiOS has brought more than 130 million customers in the past 12 months - it was their first Apple device. Many were switchers from Android, says Cook: &quot;they had bought an Android phone and they sought a better experience and decided to check out iPhone and iOS. In fact nearly half of our customers in China in the past six months switched from Android to iPhone.&quot;6.48pmBSTOS X Yosemite available to developers today with a public beta program running this summerAvailable to the public in the autumn for freeTim Cook (let) walks off stage next to Craig Federighi Photograph: Robert Galbraith/Reuters6.46pmBSTso Jony Ive walks into a flat translucent bar…&mdash; Matt Haughey (@mathowie)June 2, 20146.46pmBSTBeing able to call Dr Dre live on stage was so worth $3 billion&mdash; Jason Jenkins (@jenkojenkins)June 2, 20146.46pmBSTApple adds SMS reception (not just its own iMessage) and phone calls on the desktop – which you can accept and receive (and reply to, or take the calls) – &quot;even if your phone is across the house on a charger,&quot; says Federighi. You can dial your phone from your OS X device - essentially bringing the OS X user base into the iOS user base.6.45pmBSTContinuityAirDrop: send files from Mac to iOS deviceHandoff: start working on a Mac, pick up where you left off on an iPad or visa versa including iWork office apps and Safari browserInstant Hotspot: Mac will automatically see an iPhone as a hotspot when not in a Wi-Fi areaText messages and phone calls – relayed from iPhone to other Apple devices, including the Mac and iPadUsers can make calls directly from a Mac or iPad via an iPhone routing the audio through the other Apple devices6.41pmBST&quot;We&apos;re going to take proximity-awareness and make it easier. Your Mac will see your phone and it will automatically set up a hotspot without you having to type a password. Even if your phone is across the room sitting in a handbag,&quot; says Federighi.6.41pmBST&quot;Airdrop now works between iOS and the Mac,&quot; announced Federighi. This had been hoped for - but it hadn&apos;t been clear how it would be done.Federighi announces &quot;Handoff&quot; - your devices are aware of each other and you can pick up work from an Apple desktop or laptop onto an iPad or iPhone.6.35pmBSTOk, just 28 minutes into the keynote, and Apple is going after Dropbox, Google Drive, HighTail, and Docusign.&mdash; Zal Bilimoria (@zalzally)June 2, 20146.35pmBSTSafariFaster and more efficient, for longer browsing times on battery power (Netflix HD video playback is typically two hours longer than other browsers, for example)Integrates Wikipedia directly into the address bar, just like Google.Scrolling tabs in the tab barTighter integration with Mac Mail allows emailing directly from Safari using the recently sent to contact list6.34pmBSTCraig Federighi demonstrates the "simple and more powerful" design. Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images6.33pmBSTI think single-window mode is dead, too. Good riddance.&mdash; John Gruber (@gruber)June 2, 20146.33pmBSTSo far the WWDC keynote has been ripoff after ripoff after ripoff. Not one shred of originality. Yet.&mdash; Duncan Geere (@duncangeere)June 2, 20146.33pmBSTOS X will have a &quot;dark mode&quot; so that users aren&apos;t distracted by objects around the window in which they&apos;re working. &quot;It&apos;s a more usable version of OS X,&quot; says Federighi.The Spotlight inbuilt search also now taps internet sources.6.33pmBSTEmail can handle attachments of up to 5GB in size.6.33pmBSTMail Drop: attachments sent encrypted via iCloud up to 5GB in size. Seamless on Mac Mail. Other clients will be given a link to securely download itMarkup: bringing many of the document modification tools, such as signing signatures and editing documents, directly into mail6.31pmBSTSafari updates so far: added private windows -- a knock off of incognito from@googlechrome( aka &#39;porn mode&#39;) --#wwdc&mdash; jason (@Jason)June 2, 20146.28pmBSTCraig Federighi introduces Yosemite6.27pmBSTCraig Federighi announces &quot;iCloud Drive&quot; - showing the documents in the cloud-based iCloud, shows up like folders. It&apos;s very Dropbox-like. It&apos;s the first time that iCloud has had a filesystem-based appearance.6.24pmBSTMigrated from the design language of “aqua&quot; with the first generation of OS 10 to the new Yosemite design which apes Apple’s iOS on the iPad and iPhoneTranslucent look all over the windows allows users to see their desktop background through the windowsIcons have been cleaned, becoming much more flat, colourful and iOS-likeDark mode allows users to change the translucence to a darker smoke colour for night-time workNotification centre: a &quot;today&quot; view provides interactive at-a-glance information for both built-in apps and third-party appsSpotlight: moves from top right into the middle of the screen, making searching easierUpdatedat 6.27pm BST6.23pmBSTYosemite Spotlight uses Bing for Web search continuing the deGooglization of Apple products.&mdash; Ross Rubin (@rossrubin)June 2, 20146.20pmBSTTranslucent windows seem like a good idea only when you have just one or two windows open.&mdash; John Gruber (@gruber)June 2, 20146.19pmBSTRejected OSX names: OSX Oxnard, OSX Rancho Cucamonga, OSX Weed. (They went with OSX Yosemite.)#WWDC14&mdash; Wilson Rothman (@wjrothman)June 2, 20146.17pmBSTMac OSX, the desktop software, is getting a dramatic overhaul in appearance - its first big change since the introduction of the new software in 2001. It&apos;s a flatter appearance, echoing the IOS 7 change - but retaining shadows for the idea of depth.6.14pmBSTApple has 9 million registered developers - up 50% in one yearThere are 80m Macs in the world, of which 51% run the latest OS X MavericksThere have been 25 years of WWDC and attendees from 69 countriesUpdatedat 6.15pm BST6.02pmBSTApple&apos;s Craig Federighi has teased the most important news coming from the keynote today: a change in system font.Exciting.To those who are wondering, this is not quite Myriad.#ios8#wwdc2014pic.twitter.com/MyB0dw38B0&mdash; Craig Federighi (@craig_apple)May 30, 20145.48pmBSTApple’s share of the US smartphone users will rise to 40.5% up from 40% in 2013 and 36.5% in 2012, according to data from eMarketer. By comparison Google’s Android will claim 50% of smartphone users in 2014, up from 49.5% in 2013.In the UK, Apple’s numbers are slightly lower. Apple is expected to claim 30.5% of smartphone users this year, up from 29% in 2013, while Android smartphone users will account for 53% of the market in 2014 compared to 54.5% in 2013, according to eMarketer.5.48pmBSTPanoramic view of WWDC 2014 ahead of the keynote Photograph: Charles Arthur/Guardian5.44pmBSTJournalists with long lenses + computers apparently running OS X 10.10 set up on the stage = a first look of what&apos;s to come:Let&#39;s take a close look at those OSX icons, shall we?#WWDCpic.twitter.com/A03QTBXvrP&mdash; Lance Ulanoff (@LanceUlanoff)June 2, 2014Updatedat 5.45pm BST5.42pmBSTThe audience - some of whom have been queueing since 5.30am - is expecting an announcement around the smart home, the &quot;Healthbook&quot; app to store health data, and new versions of the desktop and mobile software.The latter tends to matter more because it will be pushed out to so many more people and so quickly: there are more people using iOS 7 than any single point version of Android. But don&apos;t expect new iPhones or iPads - it&apos;s the wrong time of year.Updatedat 6.05pm BST5.39pmBSTApple&apos;s annual Worldwide Developer Conference kicks off at 6pm UK time. Charles Arthur is there, and will bring you all the latest announcements direct from San Francisco. No frills - we&apos;ll pick out all the most essential details you need to know.Updatedat 5.47pm BST
Apple announced a new &quot;Home&quot; app and service that allows an iPhone or iPad to control smart appliances, lights and locks around the home.The Home app will securely connect to third-party products such as the Philips Hue lightbulbs, Honeywell&apos;s thermostats and Withing&apos;s smart alarm clocks.&quot;We’ve come up with HomeKit to allow secure pairing so that only your iPhone can unlock your garage door,” said Craig Federighi, Apple&apos;s software chief on stage at WWDC.‘Get ready for bed, Siri’Each connected device in the home can be paired securely, but also grouped and linked to specific scenes that can be activated for certain events like getting home from work or leaving the house.&quot;With Siri integration you can say something like ‘get ready for bed’ and be sure that the garage door is closed, the lights are dimmed and the doors are locked,&quot; said Federighi.Apple announced partners for its HomeKit – the developer platform underlying the Home app – including Texas Instruments, Philips, Haier, Netamo, Withings, Honeywell, Marvel, Osram and Broadcom.Apple hopes that Home will unify internet of things devices around the home into one common protocol, instead of the many separate proprietary protocols that each manufacturer users for its line of devices.•Apple demos Mac OS 10.10 &apos;Yosemite&apos;•Apple reveals &apos;Health&apos;, its data-tracking app•Apple previews new mobile software iOS 8
Apple demonstrated iOS 8, its newest version of its operating system for iPhones and iPads, at its worldwide developers conference in San Francisco.The new OS introduced a new Health app to offer &quot;a single comprehensive overview of your fitness,&quot; as well as updates to features including Mail and Notification Centre.The Health app integrates with apps such as Nike+, or even apps made by healthcare providers, to let users manage their health through their iOS devices.&quot;We believe Apple&apos;s healthkit will revolutionise how the healthcare industry interacts with people,&quot; said John Noseworthy, CEO of the prestigious Mayo Clinic hospital.Craig Federighi, the company&apos;s software chief, demonstrated the new features. Chief among them was a new typing function, called Quicktype, which offers predictive typing suggestions.Similar to Android keyboards such as SwiftKey and Swype, Quicktype looks at what a user has previously written and suggests what it thinks the next word in the sentence should be. When replying to a text suggesting dinner or a movie, for instance, it can automatically work out that the &quot;dinner&quot; and &quot;a movie&quot; are words which are likely to be written next.Photo handling has also been updated, with Apple offering users the ability to use the cloud to store every photo and video taken on their iOS devices. With iPhones consistently at the top of charts like Flickr&apos;s most-used cameras, that change is likely to be well received by snap-happy iPhone users. But the storage is not free – it will cost up to $3.99 a month.Other features receiving a overhaul include Notification Centre, which now allows users to interact with notifications inline, replying to text messages or liking Facebook updates without opening the app itself. Additionally, the multitasking view of iOS now includes recently contacted people, as well as recently used apps.Mail, the default iOS email app, received a small haul of updates too, allowing users to reply to, and delete, messages with just a single swipe. &quot;I think we&apos;re all going to love doing Mail this way,&quot; Federighi said as he demonstrated the email app. And Messages, &quot;the most-used app on iPhones&quot; according to Federighi, now offers the ability to mute multi-user chats, send video or audio messages with just a click and a swipe, and photos in the same manner.Although Apple didn&apos;t emphasise the fact, the audio and video messages borrow a feature from ephemeral messaging app Snapchat: they will automatically delete after a short time, apparently to save space on the phone.Federighi also demonstrated a new Family Sharing service, letting whole families share their photos, calendars and locations with each other. The service also allows children to use the App store themselves through their parents&apos; credit cards, by sending requests to the adults&apos; iPhones when a purchase is attempted.The total number of iPad users in the US continues to increase, but the expanding tablet market means that Apple is actually losing share of overall users as Samsung and others increase sales. Emarketer expects US tablet users is to fall to 51.8% in 2014, according to down from 54.5% last year.Apple is expected to claim 12.3 million iPad users in the UK in 2014, which represents roughly 50% of the UK tablet users down from 59% in 2013.Apple’s share of the US smartphone users will rise to 40.5% up from 40% in 2013 and 36.5% in 2012, according to data from eMarketer. By comparison Google’s Android will claim 50% of smartphone users in 2014, up from 49.5% in 2013.In the UK, Apple’s numbers are slightly lower. Apple is expected to claim 30.5% of smartphone users this year, up from 29% in 2013, while Android smartphone users will account for 53% of the market in 2014 compared to 54.5% in 2013, according to eMarketer.• Follow WWDC 2014 as it happened
Apple unveiled its highly anticipated health data monitoring app on Monday, announcing a slate of more than 20 medical partners in the US and Europe.Speaking at Apple&apos;s annual conference for developers in San Francisco, the senior vice president of software engineering, Craig Federighi, introduced Health, an app for iPhone and iPad.It will be powered by Healthkit, a set of tools that will allow developers to build bespoke apps around health and wellbeing, from sleep monitoring and stress reduction to exercise and blood testing.&quot;Developers have created a lot of apps for monitoring your health,&quot; he said. &quot;But up to now the information gathered by those applications lives in silos. But now you can with HealthKit. A single place where applications can gather the data. And there&apos;s an app - Health.Federighi assured the audience that the privacy of users health information would be protected. &quot;We carefully protect your privacy – you can decide what you want to share between apps.&quot;Partners include Cambridge University Hospitals NHS in the UK, and Mount Sinai, UCLA Health and Stanford Hospitals in the US.•Apple demos Mac OS 10.10 &apos;Yosemite&apos;•Apple previews new mobile software iOS 8
Transport for London (TfL) has begun to apply for a high court ruling on whether Uber, the car-booking software, illegally encroaches on black-cab drivers' exclusive right to charge metered fares.TfL, which licenses and regulates taxi and car hire in London, has asked Uber and the black-cab drivers' trade associations to take part in the action.It is asking the high court to decide if the Uber app, which lets smartphone users hail private cars from any location,complies with the law on taximeters.Only London taxis can charge using a meter but black-cab drivers claim  that cars using Uber are effectively metering fares because the app uses GPS tracking to measure the time and distance travelled by private-hire cars.TfL had said Uber was not a meter but the reaction from licensed drivers was so furious it decided to let the high court resolve the matter. The court verdict will also affect drivers in Manchester, where Uber launched last month.The Licensed Taxi Drivers Association is prosecuting six minicab drivers who use Uber and is planning a mass protest in London on 11 June. The cabbies' union is joining licensed drivers in European and US cities protesting at the new wave of taxi-hailing services.Leon Daniels, TfL's head of surface transport, said: "Apps can offer passengers the potential of better and more convenient services but their use must be legal and on the issue of taximeters the law is unclear. We have taken a provisional view and a binding high court ruling will bring clarity."
Apple&apos;s Mac OSX software has had a radical design overhaul, bringing its desktop and smartphone software closer together, and introducing a new feature called &quot;Continuity&quot; that lets users easily switch between the two.Continuity includes an expansion to the company&apos;s AirDrop software, allowing users to send files back and forth between iPhones and Macs. But it also lets users move work back and forth between the two at the click of a button, as well as automatically tether Macs to iPhones to use mobile internet on the move.Users of both Macs and iPhones will also be able to use their computers to send and receive text messages and phone calls – even to non iPhone users.Craig Federighi, Apple&apos;s software chief, demonstrated the feature by making a live call on stage to the &quot;new Apple employee&quot; Dr Dre, who joined the company when Apple bought Beats for $3bn last month.&quot;New employee orientation starts at nine, and you don&apos;t want to miss the free T-shirt,&quot; Federighi joked.iCloud Drive - directly competing with DropboxFederighi also demonstrated updates to the Mail, Spotlight and Safari apps, as well as a whole new cloud syncing service called iCloud Drive, at Apple&apos;s annual conference for developers in San Francisco.An expansion of iCloud, Drive is a direct competitor to services like Dropbox, letting users share files and folders directly in Finder, the file manager on Apple&apos;s computers. The change marks a step away from the company&apos;s app-focused cloud services, allowing users to share files regardless of the application that created them.Federighi also demonstrated an overhauled version of Spotlight, the built-in search tool.In Yosemite, users will be able to not only use Spotlight to launch apps and search for files on their computer, but also to search the web, and for locations in the real world. But the app will use Bing for its web search by default, further stripping integration with Google from Apple&apos;s operating systems.The changes to Mail include a new feature that lets users send attachments via Apple&apos;s servers, if their recipient can&apos;t take the file directly. Apple will allow attachments up to 5GB through the feature, which works when emailing non-Apple users as well as Apple users.50% of Mac users on MavericksFor the first time, Apple is offering a public beta version of its new OS, meaning all users will be able to give it a try this summer.Federighi and Tim Cook, Apple&apos;s CEO, shared statistics on the adoption of the previous version of Mac OS X, Mavericks. More than 50% of users have upgraded to Mavericks, which was made free last year.&quot;That&apos;s the fastest OS adoption in history,&quot; Cook said. That would put it on slightly under 40m computers worldwide, based on Apple&apos;s own data of 72m users given last year.Cook compared it to Windows 8, which shipped a year before Mavericks: &quot;It&apos;s on about 14% of PCs,&quot; Cook said.The name &quot;Yosemite&quot; was finally chosen as the codename for the next version after various suggestions based on place names &quot;OS X Oxnard&quot;, &quot;Rancho Cucamonga&quot;, and &quot;Weed,&quot; joked Federighi.Originally codenamed &quot;Syrah&quot;, OS X 10.10 is the 11th version of Apple&apos;s operating system, and the second to use its new naming system based on Californian place names.•Apple previews new mobile software iOS 8•Apple reveals &apos;Health&apos;, its data-tracking app• Apple unveils its smarthome program at WWDC 2014
Professional video game playing is becoming a global spectator sport, according to a study which says 2.4bn hours were spent watching gamers last year.A report from research firm IHS Technology suggests that e-sports, or watching other people play games, is far from a niche interest. The company says the number of e-sport viewing hours nearly doubled, from 1.3bn in 2012 to 2.4bn in 2013.Games fans watch people play online through services such as Twitch – which is a $1bn takeover target for Google – and on traditional TV channels or at live events.Dan Cryan, author of the IHS report, said that e-sports videos had "rapidly transformed from a niche activity into a widely watched, global, cross-platform entertainment category".The report picks out Dota 2, League of Legends and StarCraft II as the most popular games being watched, with factors such as the emergence of online video sites leading to the rapid growth in e-sports viewing globally."Key game titles have reached maturity and game publishers are taking a major role in promoting e-sports competitions. Furthermore, e-sports viewing has been boosted by the emergence of online video platforms that are capable of handling large-scale live audiences," he said.Twitch has more than doubled its monthly audience from 20 million at the end of 2012 to 45 million at the end of 2013. On average people have been watching 106 minutes a day.Its biggest audience occurred in October, with 32 million people watching the League of Legends Season 3 world championship event in a single day.
The Samsung Z will be its first smartphone to ditch Google’s Android and run its own Tizen software, the manufacturer has announced.The launch means that consumers now have more choice of mobile phone software beyond the dominant Google Android and Apple iOS operating systems.The Samsung Z device will now compete directly with smartphones running Android and Microsoft’s Windows Phone, employingthe Tizen softwarethat will be incompatible with Android applications and Samsung’s Galaxy smartphones.“Samsung is committed to enhancing the mobile experience of consumers with innovation that is both personal and unique to their needs,” DJ Lee, president of global sales and marketing for Samsungnoted in a blog post.“The Samsung Z integrates the power and adaptability of the Tizen platform, enabling users to browse the web faster and utilise applications more effectively.”The Z has features comparable to Samsung’s flagship Android smartphone, theGalaxy S5, with a 4.8in high definition screen, 2.3GHz quad-core processor and a fingerprint scanner – something the Korean electronics giant only introduced to its mobile devices with the S5 in April. The Samsung Z will launch in Russia first with plans to expand to other markets.Tizen versus AndroidSamsung’s Tizen software is similar to Android and based on the Linux open source software, but is controlled by companies including Samsung and Intel, rather than Google. It is not compatible with Android and its applications. Android development is driven by Google with the Android Open Source Project and the Open Handset Alliance, of which Samsung is also a member.Tizen affords Samsung more control over its software and avoids the need to include Google&apos;s software, search and applications such as Gmail, Google Maps and Google+. It also allows Samsung reduce its dependence on Google, something the company has tried in the past with its own Bada smartphone software, which eventually became part of Tizen.Samsung expects Tizen devices could make up as much as 15% of the company’s mobile shipments per year, a potential threat to Google’s Android where Samsung makes up 65% of all Android devices, accordingto data from analytics firm Localytics.Samsung claimed 31.3% of fourth-quarter smartphone shipments last year, with Apple making up 15.3% of the market in second with Samsung’s Korean rival LG in third with 4.8%, according to data from IDC.‘What does it mean to consumers? Nothing’“The launch of Tizen on Samsung handsets provides an exciting proposition for emerging market consumers, where accessibility to truly localised content and appropriate payment mechanics could at last become a reality,” said Marco Veremis, chief executive of mobile marketing specialists Upstream.Others are not quite as enamoured with the prospect of yet another mobile software platform.“What does it mean to consumers? Nothing. No additional value to make the switch from Android worth it,”said Francisco Jeronimo, research director at firm IDC.The Samsung Z follows the introduction of the Tizen-powered Gear 2 smartwatch, which replaced the originally Android-powered Galaxy Gear smartwatch from 2013. Samsung recently issued a software update that replaced Android with Tizen software on the Galaxy Gear, removing Android from all of Samsung’s smart wearable devices.The smartphone will be shown off at Samsung&apos;s Tizen developer conference on 3 June.• Tizen-poweredSamsung Gear 2 and Gear Fit: smartwatches on the up
US authorities named Russian national Evgeniy Bogachev as the face of a malicious software scheme responsible for stealing millions from people around the world, after a successful campaign to disrupt two major computer networks.Digital police from across the globe announced they had seized control over the weekend of two computer networks that had been used to steal banking information and ransom information locked in files on infected computers. But they warned people with infected computers to take action now to prevent further attacks.US and European officials announced they had managed to crack the malicious software (malware) known as Gameover Zeus that had been used to divert millions of dollars to bank accounts of criminals. The authorities have also cracked Cryptolocker – a viral scam that shutout hundreds of thousands of users from their own computers and ransomed the data.The UK’s National Crime Agency (NCA) told British victims that they have a two-week window to protect themselves, after working with the FBI, Europol and other law enforcement bodies to temporarily seize control of the global network of infected computers.The US authorities identified Bogachev, of Anapa in the Russian Federation, as Gameover Zeus’s main administrator. At a press conference, deputy attorney general James Cole called him “a true 21st-century criminal who commits cybercrimes across the globe with the stroke of a key and the click of a mouse …These crimes have earned Bogachev a place on its list of the world’s most-wanted cyber criminals.”According to the FBI’s “cyber most wanted” list Bogachev has been using variants of the Zeus malware since 2009 and communicates using the online monikers “lucky12345” and “slavik”. Gameover Zeus (GOZ) started appearing in 2011 and is believed to be “responsible for more than one million computer infections, resulting in financial losses in the hundreds of millions of dollars”.&quot;He is known to enjoy boating and may travel to locations along the Black Sea in his boat,&quot; according to the FBI.The Cryptolocker software locked PC users out of their machines, encrypting all their files and demanding payment of one Bitcoin (currently worth around £300, or $650) for decryption.It’s believed Cryptolocker, which the FBI estimated acquired $27m in ransom payments in just the first two months of its life, has infected more than 234,000 machines.A chief suspect from Russia has been identified, but is still at large, Troels Oerting, head of Europol&apos;s European Cyber Crime Centre (EC3) told the Guardian. He said other arrests related to the operation were “in progress”.The global effort to stop the spread of the Cryptolocker ransomware has focused on its delivery method, GOZ. The malware connected infected machines by peer-to-peer connections – in theory making it harder for the authorities to track and stop.GOZ was designed to steal people&apos;s online banking login details, who were usually infected by clicking on attachments or links in emails that looked innocuous. However, it also dropped Cryptolocker on their computers.&quot;Nobody wants their personal financial details, business information or photographs of loved ones to be stolen or held to ransom by criminals,&quot; said Andy Archibald, deputy director of the NCA&apos;s National Cyber Crime Unit.&quot;By making use of this two-week window, huge numbers of people in the UK can stop that from happening to them. Whether you find online security complicated or confusing, or simply haven’t thought about keeping your personal or office computers safe for a while, now is the time to take action.&quot;Affected users are being advised to update their operating system software and security software, and also to &quot;think twice before clicking on links or attachments in unsolicited emails&quot;.Not-for-profit body Get Safe Online has worked with the NCA to launcha dedicated section of its website to provide guidance and tools, although at the time of publication the website appeared to be offline.Behind the scenes, the law enforcement groups have been taking over points of control in GOZ&apos;s peer-to-peer network: an action known as &quot;sinkholing&quot; in the security world. By doing this, they have been able to cut off criminal control over the infected computers.Dismantling peer-to-peer operated malware is difficult, but it has been done before: for example one case of a data-stealing virus calledZeroAccess, which infected as many as 1.9m PCs in 2013.In that case, security researchers from Symantec managed to send lists of fake peers to infected machines, which meant they could no longer receive commands from the controllers of the malicious network, known as a botnet.Symantec researchers said today that key nodes in GOZ&apos;s network had been disabled, along with a number of the domains used by the attackers.Oerting told The Guardian the entire GOZ&apos;s operations infrastructure had been sinkholed, meaning the malware should “not reappear for … considerable time”.Although arrests have not yet been made, Oerting believes the eventual impact will be “great”. “[It will not last] forever, but the infrastructure is gone and the criminals will have to build and distribute from scratch,” he added.
You might not know Carl Ledbetter by name but you&apos;ll have seen his work. After all, it&apos;s plastered across billboards, nestling in living room cabinets and perhaps even wired up to your PC.In his two decades at Microsoft, the veteran industrial designer has gone from crafting computer mice and keyboards to leading the team that designed the Xbox One, including its controller and the Kinect motion sensor. Meeting up with Ledbetter during a recent tour of the new Microsoft Studios HQ in London, we were able to ask about the origins of Xbox One, and its future.Birth of a games machineThe concept for the console began with discussions about what exactly the phrase &quot;next-generation&quot; would mean this time around. Ledbetter and his team, based at the Microsoft campus in Redmond, needed to have an idea of what the games and other types of entertainment would like like, as well as the basic hardware architecture. &quot;Once you start to conceptualise those two spaces then it&apos;s like, how does that come together? That provides the frame for the design team,&quot; he says.&quot;We looked at our heritage and identified goals for the new design to express all this new capability. We knew because it had more power and was going to be quieter, that the console would need to be a little bit bigger. How do we take that as a constraint and then create a body around it that&apos;s expressive?&quot;Early design sketches for the Xbox OneThe heritage he talks of takes in the original Xbox, the Xbox 360 and the redesigned 360 with Kinect. The original was intended as a statement of raw power, with an intentionally other-worldly user interface. Ledbetter describes it as looking like the underneath of a Dodge pickup truck – a powerful engine. The 360, on the other hand, with its gently curving sides is referred to by Ledbetter as the &quot;inhale before the strike&quot;, something more subtle, more about potential. Its more accessible user interface was intended to mirror the softer styling of the chassis.To boldly goWith Xbox One, the guiding principle was apparently the phrase &quot;boldly understated&quot;. &quot;Xbox is doing more than it&apos;s ever done before and it&apos;s going to be used by more people than it&apos;s ever been used by before,&quot; says Ledbetter. &quot;We kept thinking maybe it&apos;s more about all the new content that&apos;s coming and a little less about being the game box. That&apos;s where &quot;boldly understated&quot; concept came in.&quot;The result is a black box which fits in with the rest of the systems and devices in your living room, but still has many subtle touches – texturing, different types of finish, responsive logo lighting... According to Ledbetter, it&apos;s all geared towards giving the machine its own unique identity while tying it to the overarching design language of Microsoft.&quot;We design hardware and software together,&quot; he says. So concepts for the onscreen dashboard, and the flow of the player from powering up to playing a game, were considered at length – all alongside the Kinect sensor design. &quot;Even though this is a year and a half or two years before the hardware would ship, we had the software people conceptualising with us. It wasn&apos;t just &apos;go build a random piece of hardware and throw in the software&apos;. They try to be perfect together.&quot;Aspects of the physical design are therefore linked with the digital. Speaking generally, one of the recurring motifs across Microsoft&apos;s entertainment offering at the moment is the 16x9 aspect ratio offered up by HD TV screens. &quot;That&apos;s the aspect ratio of entertainment,&quot; says Ledbetter. He points to the tile interface you&apos;ll find on the Xbox One dashboard and across Windows 8 devices. &quot;If you take two of the tiles they&apos;re perfect squares but when you put them side by side there&apos;s a little bit of a gap so that [arrangement] turns out to be almost 16x9.&quot; Even Microsoft&apos;s new London offices pick up on the theme thanks to wall panels created with the same aspect ratio.Looking at the Xbox One itself you get interface references like the white logo appearing from a black background – just as it does on-screen. The interface also impacted the design of the console&apos;s ventilation. &quot;If you look at the vent details on the top of the console there&apos;s a little bitty frame that goes around the pattern. That was inspired by – or inspired – the software hover state. When you hover over a tile it creates this little frame.&quot;The phrasing Ledbetter uses, &quot;was inspired by – or inspired,&quot; betrays how closely linked the physical and digital are in the design process. &quot;There&apos;s definitely one language, even in the smallest details: we use the same fonts on the labels inside the battery compartment on the controller as in the UI,&quot; says Ledbetter.Peripheral visionLooking beyond the main console you&apos;ve got the controller and the Kinect sensor. The former hasn&apos;t had a massive design overhaul since the 360, but the team spent a lot of time tinkering to try to improve it, and it claims there have been40 subtle improvements.&quot;About 50% of gamers are women so we started to do &apos;human factors&apos; research on our controller. We wanted to create a form that would fit a wider range of hand sizes - that&apos;s what led to the removal of the battery bump underneath. We found that people were sensitive to up to a tenth of a millimetre in thickness and size changing on the controller too.&quot;Human factors looks at how product design relates to the human body and its abilities. The Xbox One controller has thus been designed to be comfortable for hand sizes which fit into the 5-95 percentile range. Hands at the extremes of the size range will struggle but everyone else should be able to play comfortably. The emphasis here is on what suits the mass market and which hand sizes represent substantial proportions of the customer base.Prototypes of the Xbox One controller that would eventually make 40 changes over the Xbox 360 designWould the company be interested in creating controllers for smaller portions of the audience – perhaps for young children or more specialised designs for players with disabilities?&quot;We&apos;re definitely interested in it,&quot; says Ledbetter. &quot;There are a couple of people on our team who have disabled family members. We&apos;re always looking at different ways to improve or change or evolve the way things work. Back in 2010 after we launched Kinect for 360, I received a letter from a woman whose son always wanted to play Xbox but couldn&apos;t because of disabilities. Then when the Kinect came out he was able to play games.&quot;It liberating – he could do some new things he couldn&apos;t do before. [With Kinect] it seems like we&apos;re just starting to scratch the surface of new types of things that hopefully more people can have access to.&quot;As part of a group discussion earlier in the day the question of whether the Kinect was designed intentionally to look like a face also came up. &quot;It was not intended to be a face – I can honestly say that!&quot; says Ledbetter. &quot;We knew we wanted that RGB camera to be off to the left and we knew that the infrared emitters – the gesture sensors – needed to be towards the middle. The RGB camera on the left was going to stand out so it became more about balance – how can we balance and offset the brand with the camera?&quot;Best before…The Xbox One has been built with Microsoft&apos;s current product range and brand values in mind, as were its predecessors. But looking at the original Xbox, or even the first batch of 360s, not quite a decade old, they do feel dated. Is there any way that Ledbetter and his designers tried to futureproof the Xbox One?&quot;As industrial designers, everybody on our team strives to create things that are essentially timeless, that in ten years somebody might say &apos;Wow, it&apos;s classically beautiful.&apos;&quot;But technological progress, and the way that affects consumer electronics, makes change part of the business. There are doubts about whether a games console cane ever be considered timeless – it always betrays something of its era, whether that&apos;s the wood-paneling on the side of the old Atari 2600, or the garish &quot;16-Bit&quot; badge on the top of the Sega Mega Drive.&quot;We know in a matter of years from now things are going to become more miniaturised, power is going to increase, experiences are going to change,&quot; says Ledbetter. &quot;But we do know that [Xbox One] needs to hold up for 10 years.&quot;We try to create something that&apos;s very expressive of what we&apos;re doing right now and then we trust that the quality of the design is high enough it will stand the test of time.&quot;• Xbox One: USS Enterprise or HAL?• PS4 or Xbox One? A parent&apos;s guide
Price from £21,995MPG up to 74.3Top speed 117mphWhat makes you take your eyes off the road? The first, and probably the most important, lesson we all learn as drivers is that no good can come from letting your attention wander. All we have to do is stare at the onrushing grey ribbon with a&nbsp;fixed, unwavering focus… but gosh, it can be hard can't it? And this newC4 Grand Picassois so packed with digital thingumajigs and flashing screens and rubbery buttons, all encased in a vast wraparound panorama of glass, that looking at the car in front is almost the last thing on your mind.A survey of 1,500 drivers from theInstitute of Advanced Motorists(and these are people who take their driving seriously) found that a&nbsp;third said children were the biggest distraction to their driving. Close on the heels of those pesky kids were mobile phones (er, that's illegal, guys), changing radio stations, back-seat drivers, fiddling with the satnav, smoking, cuddling or kissing by a&nbsp;passenger (that would be distracting) and,lastly, attractive pedestrians… Just 14% of respondees admitted that, yes, very occasionally an attractive pedestrian had indeed caused their gaze to be dragged from the bumper of the car ahead.Well, that's a straight lie, isn't it – 14%? Come on, must be closer to 100%. And how come no one mentioned arguing? The greatest  rows my wife and I have always seem to take place in the car.Inside story: a view of driver's area, note the two large digital screens.Anyway, if youareeasily distracted, you are going to find Citroën's new MPV a nightmare. The Grand is the bigger, seven-seat version of the five-seat model which arrived on these shores at the end of last year, and there are signs of sibling rivalry bubbling up. Despite the fact that the Grand has just put rubber on British roads, it has already collected more awards than its little sister…This new C4 Picasso is lighter, roomier and quicker than the outgoing version. It has much-enhanced aerodynamics and an optimised range of engines that, at the extreme end, will deliver CO2emissions of just 98g/km and a class-leading combined fuel economy of up to 74.3mpg. The drive is assured and engaging. For such a large vehicle, it feels supple, almost athletic.If MPV means boring to you, this car will make you think again. It is bold and modern and quite unlike any other car you will sit in this year.Room in the back: the huge seating area of the Grand Picasso has been designed inspired by 'loft living'.From the outside, handsome flowing lines work hard to disguise the box-on-wheels approach of most people carriers. It has unusual squinting headlamps which sit beneath glinting running lights and a futuristic grille which cleverly incorporates Citroën's double- chevron logo. The short bonnet steps up to a huge curving windscreen that sweeps over your head. I've visited aquariums with less glass.Inside, the step-change in design continues. Citroën claims it was inspired by "loft living". That doesn't mean exposed brick and a steel beam through the centre. What it means… well, let's be honest – it doesn't really mean anything, does it? But, strangely, a loft really is what it feels like: you sit up high, surrounded by glass and nice design touches. There's a huge flat floorspace on which the three rows of large, comfortable seats can slide around. The dashboard is an appealing mixture of curves and angles, and there's a clever centrally mounted instrument binnacle. The digital screen can be configured any way you like – you choose from a&nbsp;range of themes and profiles. You can even upload your own picture as a sort of automotive desk top.Spacious, versatile, efficient and with plenty of pizzazz… More than enough to concentrate the mind.Purple Harry cleans upClean bikes go quicker: Jonny and Alistair Brownlee training near their home. Photograph: Levon Biss for the ObserverIt may sound like the kind of game Prince Harry plays late at night in his hotel room, butPurple Harryis in fact a new brand of bike cleaning accessories, scrubs, lubes and washes. Set up by Richard Hargreaves and Dean Perry in Derby three years ago, the pair appealed for investment using the websiteCrowdCube. The final investors were none other than Alistair and Jonathan Brownlee, the Olympic gold and bronze medal winning triathletes. The brothers had become interested in Purple Harry after trialling the products during their bike training, and they liked them so much they decided to support the business directly by becoming shareholders. Another chapter in the book of "I liked the product so much I bought the company" stories. Before starting up Purple Harry, Perry and Hargreaves worked in the logistics sector but spent much of their spare time cycling in Derbyshire dales. Witnessing the boom in popularity of cycling and the vast increase in people taking up the sport to keep fit, race and commute, the two decided to enter the cycling industry after finding a solution to an age old problem. How to reach the most inaccessible but crucial components of a bike, especially the rear cassette and drive train? After searching in vain for industrial grade dental floss the Eureka moment came when Perry was helping his daughter on a school project using pipe cleaners, and realised that a modified version could be ideal. They began working with a pipe cleaner manufacturer in Yorkshire which was keen to explore new ventures and 'Bike Floss' was born. The product sold well, so Purple Harry began branching out with a complementary range of non- aerosol cleaning sprays and chain lubricants, plus another simple but unique creation – a microfibre Wash and Polish Mitt. The products are all affordable and well made. Give them a shot. For more information, go topurpleharry.co.ukEmail Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
Google plans to spend more than $1bn on a fleet of 180 satellites to beam internet access to unconnected parts of the globe.The project will use small, but high capacity low-Earth orbiting satellites that sit lower in the sky than traditional satellites, areport by the Wall Street Journal indicates.The satellite venture will be an extension ofGoogle’s Project Loon, which uses high-altitude balloons to carry internet signal across areas of New Zealand with the intention of establishing an uninterrupted internet signal around the 40th parallel of the Earth&apos;s southern hemisphere.Reporting directly to Larry PageSatellite-communications expert Greg Wyler, who founded specialist startup O3b Networks, is reportedly leading the new project for Google reporting directly to chief executive Larry Page with a team of about 20 people.Googlerecently purchased drone-maker Titan Aerospaceto deliver solar-powered high-altitude drones that can stay airborne for five years at a time. The drones, called “atmospheric satellites”, could replace the balloons in Project Loon.&apos;Beam internet to people from the sky&apos;Facebook is also looking to connect unwired parts of the globe with its Connectivity Lab – a direct challenge to Google&apos;s Project Loon. The social networkpurchased Somerset-based solar-powered drone designer Ascentaas part of itsinternet.orginitiative, which plans to “beam internet to people from the sky”,according to Facebook’s chief executive Mark Zuckerberg.“It’s easy to take for granted that most people have access to the internet, but only one third of the world, 2.7 billion people, currently have access to the internet,” saidZuckerberg in his MWC keynote. “We’re not on a path to connect everyone right now, unless something dramatic changes.”Both Google and Facebook will have to overcome regulatory hurdles, as well as design and financial complications before their respective satellites and drones can be deployed.&quot;Internet connectivity significantly improves people&apos;s lives. Yet two thirds of the world have no access at all,&quot; said a Google spokesperson in a statement sent to the Guardian. &quot;It&apos;s why we&apos;re so focused on new technologies—from Project Loon to Titan Aerospace—that have the potential to bring hundreds of millions more people online in the coming years.”Google declined to comment further on the reported satellite project.• Facebook’s futureis to reach the billions of mobile usersconnecting beyond traditional broadband internet
For people who don&apos;t play video games, they can seem like a strange and vaguely threatening interloper into the household.These noisy yet seemingly seductive things are on computers, on smartphones and tablets, and on expensive consoles that your kids will tell you everyone else has. And if you&apos;re not buying them for your children, your children are probably playing them elsewhere.Even if you never intend to play a game in your life, you should probably know about them – if only to understand what it is that drags other people in. Here&apos;s everything you need to know and were to embarrassed to ask.How does the games industry work?There are three different sectors to the market:• Console games for dedicated machines like the PlayStation, Xbox and Wii (as well as handheld devices like the PlayStation Vita and Nintendo 3DS)• Computer games for the PC and Mac• Mobile games for smartphones and tabletsIt used to be that all video games were sold on discs (or even further back, cartridges) and bought in high street stores. With the advent of broadband internet, however, many games are downloaded straight to the PC, console, tablet or smartphone.Sometimes these games are free to download, but players may be asked to pay for extra content within a game – perhaps &quot;power-ups&quot; to help them when they&apos;re stuck. These are called micro-transactions and are very common on smartphone and tablet games.Who are the big companies?Most boxed games are produced by large multinational publishing companies. The console manufacturers Microsoft, Sony and Nintendo, and the major &quot;third-party&quot; publishers, Activision Blizzard, Electronic Arts and Ubisoft, are the traditional giants of the industry.These companies have their own in-house development teams designing games, but they also publish the games developed by smaller independent studios.After these come several Japanese publishers – Sega, Square Enix, Konami and Capcom – which used to dominate the industry, but have struggled with the decline of amusement arcades.In the era of digital distribution, more and more smaller companies are &quot;self-publishing&quot; which means they create the games, then sell them via online stores like Steam (on PC) or the Apple or Google App Stores. The UK has more than 500 development studios all over the country, many of them now self-publish in this way.There are also many huge new publishing companies specialising in mobile games and massively multiplayer online games. King, for example, is the successful publisher of smartphone hit Candy Crush Saga and many other casual titles.Meanwhile, the Chinese investment company Tencent is quickly becoming one of the biggest forces in gaming through its mobile and MMORPG (massively multiplayer online role-playing) titles. China is one of the key emerging forces in the global games industry. Here&apos;s a list ofthe world&apos;s top 25 video game companies by revenue.It&apos;s also worth noting that other big companies are very interested in games. Apple and Google run the app stores on their respective phones, while television manufacturers like Samsung are now including app stores on their internet-connected TVs. Furthermore, internet and television service providers like Sky and Virgin Media are keen to entice gamers who tend to pay for higher download and upload speeds.Where are games made?All over the world. The top five video game producing countries are the USA, Japan, Canada, the UK and China. UK does not have any major publishers anymore, but it does have some extremely successful developers. Most notable are Rockstar North in Edinburgh, which makes the Grand Theft Auto games; Traveller&apos;s Tales in Knutsford, which makes the Lego titles like Lego Star Wars and Lego Batman; Lionhead in Guildford, which makes the Fable series; and Codemasters makers of the F1 and Grid racing games.Scandinavia has also become a major game producing area, while India, Eastern Europe and South America have emerging game development industries.How big is the games industry?It&apos;s huge.According to research company DFC Intelligence, the global games market, including console, PC and smartphone titles, hit revenues of $66bn in 2013, and this figure is expected to grow to $79bn in 2017.By comparison, global box office revenues for the movie industry were at$35.9bn in 2013. The global music industry stood at $15bn in 2013according to IFPI figures.So the games industry is bigger than cinema and music put together.When is it OK for children to start playing video games?This is a controversial subject and academic researchers are only just starting to explore the effects of screened entertainment on very young children. However, the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) hasconsistently advisedagainst any screen time, be it TV or tablets, for children under two.Several studies published in the last decadehas suggested that screen time before the age of two can affect language development. There have also beenlinks to the later development of ADHDin children who were exposed to screened entertainment before the age of three.In 2012,psychologist Dr Aric Sigman advisedthat children under the age of three should not be exposed to any form of screen entertainment. More research is needed, though.Can games be educational to children over three?After the age of three, there is evidence that educational tablet and smartphone games can help children with numeracy and literacy. In 2012, the Department of Education studied the use of the iPhone app,Martha Speaks Dog Partyin schools. Children aged three to seven who used it every day for two weeks had widened their vocabulary by as much as 31%.Numerous computer and tablet games are now regularly used in education. Sites likeSumDog,BugClubandMathleticsare integrated into learning programmes, allowing teachers to monitor the reading and maths skills of students. The game give pupils points for successful tasks, incentivising development.For older children, there are plenty of games with creative and educational value. The most obvious example is the building simulator Minecraft, which can teach players everything from architecture and physics to electronics and geology. A company named TeacherGaming has developed a special version namedMinecraftEdufor use in the classroom, allowing teachers to set up and guide projects.Titles like Civilization and Sim City teach strategic thinking as well as providing information on history, geography and urban planning. There are also excellent space sims likeKerbal Space ProgramandOrbiterthat teach children about the basics of aeronautics.There&apos;s a wealth of evidence to suggest that games can help with hand-eye coordination, puzzle solving, logical thinking, spatial awareness, teamwork and a host of other vital, transferrable skills.What about video game violence?It is very important to realise that not all games are suitable for children. Indeed, many video games are designed for adult players only. Every game sold in stores is required by law to display an age rating on the box. In Europe, the certification body is calledPEGIand in the US, it&apos;sESRB. As well as an age rating, game boxes must also show a series of icons informing customers about the sorts of content a game will contain – including violence, sex and drug use.Dozens of studies have been carried out into the effects of game violence on teenagers, and many show a short-term spike in aggressive behaviour.However, the methodology is often questioned and there is very little research into the long term influence of violent games on behaviour. Whatever the case, if a game is rated 18 or over, it should be treated like an 18 certificate movie – it is unsuitable for younger children.Do games make children antisocial?Again, there has been plenty of research into this question. In 2009, researchers at Brigham Young University, Utah, questioned 813 college students and found a link between video game play and poor relationships with family and friends. However, it may well have been that antisocial people were drawn to video games, rather than video games making them antisocial.In 2012, researchers atIowa State University foundthat &quot;prosocial games&quot; – titles that encouraged players to co-operate and help each other – increased helpful behaviour.There are lots of games that people can play together in a co-operative rather than competitive way. Minecraft is a great example (and many of its fans also love the similar Terraria), as are the Lego titles.Setting limits on playThe authors of the Iowa report had two key pieces of advice for parents worried about games. The first was to keep games machines such as computers and consoles in a communal area of the house so that play could easily be monitored.The second was to set time limits on the amount of time children could play.Experts suggestthat children should not be exposed to more than two hours screen time a day, whether that&apos;s TV or gaming. If you can&apos;t monitor your child&apos;s use of games machines directly, you can use the parental controls on your tablet, smartphone, console or computer to restrict access. We&apos;ll provide guides to these elements later in the week.What are the most popular types of games?Well, that depends on the &quot;platform&quot; or type of machine they&apos;re being played on. In the smartphone sector, it&apos;s casual puzzle games like Candy Crush Saga. However, in the console and PC space, it&apos;s action adventure games like Grand Theft Auto, and &quot;first-person shooters&quot; like Call of Duty and Battlefield. However, sports games such as Fifa 2014 are also very popular, as are fitness and dancing games like Wii Fit and Just Dance.On the PC, massively multiplayer games like World of Warcraft continue to be popular, as do strategy simulation games like Starcraft. One of the biggest genres in PC gaming right now is the Moba, or multiplayer battle arena. Titles like League of Legends and Dota 2 have vast fanbases.The website Statista providesa handy chart of of popular genres, based on data from US gamers.What are the big games right now?For the last five years, the biggest brand in the gaming world has been Call of Duty, a range of first-person shooters from Activision; seeour guide on that series.Last year, however,Grand Theft Auto V, became one of the biggest entertainment releases of all time, making over $1bn in its first day on sale, and selling almost 30m copies within six weeks of its September 2013 launch.Elsewhere, the Fifa football sims from Electronic Arts sell well whenever a new title is released (every autumn), and the Assassin&apos;s Creed series of historical action adventures from Ubisoft has been very successful. In the family gaming area, Nintendo&apos;s Pokemon and Animal Crossing titles continue to perform well.Outside of mainstream gaming, the cult hit Minecraft now has 100m registered users and is available on almost every games-capable machine. There are also many globally successful online multiplayer games like World of Warcraft, and the free-to-play giants, Rift, Neverwinter and Tera Online.This year, the top releases have been the Wii U racer Mario Kart 8, the dark fantasy adventure Dark Souls 2, the online shooter Titanfall and the smartphone games Hearthstone, Threes and Monument Valley. There have also been excellent &quot;indie&quot; games, designed by smaller studios: the adventure Kentucky Route Zero, the fantasy role-playing game Transistor and combat platformer Towerfall: Ascension have all been crossover hits.What are some of the big discussion points in gaming?The battle between the two new games consoles – the Sony PlayStation 4 and Microsoft Xbox One – is getting a lot of coverage. Both machines have fast, powerful multi-core processors and advanced online features, but so far Sony has won the hype war and its PS4 machine is selling better, shifting seven million units since the launch last November.The rise of free-to-play games on smartphones has been controversial with many parents caught out by huge gaming bills as children download extra content, unaware that in-game micro-transactions are usually billed later.In terms of technology, virtual reality is once again picking up interest. The forthcomingOculus Riftheadset for PC and theSony Project Morpheusheadset for PlayStation 4 both promise to immerse wearers in the action. Players view the world via screens placed close to their eyes, while their movements are transferred into the game by tracking sensors. We could start seeing these devices hit the shelves by Christmas 2014.As for game genres, space games are having a surge in popularity thanks to forthcoming interstellar exploration titles No Man&apos;s Sky, Star Citizen and Elite 4. We&apos;re also seeing a lot of games that blend a single-player story with multiplayer features, so gamers can effectively drop in to the stories of other players. Dark Souls, Watch Dogs and the forthcoming space epic Destiny all support this feature.The phenomenon of professional gaming – or &quot;esports&quot; is also gaining a lot of interest. Over 70m people worldwide regularly watched coverage of professional gaming tournaments last year. The biggest titles are League of Legends, Dota 2, Starcraft 2 and Call of Duty. Coverage is shown mostly online via live-streaming channels likeTwitch.How do my kids find out about games?It certainly isn&apos;t from television, and dedicated video game magazines are also on a sharp decline. For the last five years, major video game sites like GameSpot, IGN and Eurogamer have provided video game news, previews and reviews to many millions of gamers around the world. These are still the industry leaders in many respects.However, more and more young gamers are turning to YouTube presenters likeSyndicateandPewDiePiefor their games coverage. Some of the most successful YouTube games &apos;casters have many millions of subscribers, and regularly post videos of themselves playing the latest titles.Could my child get a job in games?Yes. The games business is a huge employer of graduates, and is one of the UK&apos;s key creative industries. The government has just granted UK developers tax breaks in order to increase their attractiveness to foreign investors and publishers, and to support innovative development – this should provide a boost to development in the future.The games industry needs maths, physics and computer science graduates as well as skilled animators and artists. The organisationCreative Skillsethas advice and details on video games courses in higher education that are approved as fit for purpose.However, hours tend to be long and pay is often lower than in other technical industries requiring the same skills. Computing graduates will earn more developing software in finance or for the military than they will making games.However, the games industry is a creative industry, like film and TV, and carries a similar allure. Games are now recognised by Bafta which holds a video game awards ceremony every year. There is a skillset crossover between games and movies, with animators and artists usually able to move from one discipline to the other, though competition is fierce.Should I play games with my kids?Yes definitely. Sharing games with your children will allow you to keep an eye on what they&apos;re playing, and it will give you a common interest to talk about. Games like Minecraft have a rich culture and complex ruleset and its easy to be left behind if you don&apos;t understand what your children are enthusing about. Co-operative titles like The Lego action games also allow players to solve puzzles together.Playing and sharing games also provides a safe, enjoyable space to discuss other things. If you&apos;re finding it difficult talking to your child or teenager about their lives, a video game can provide a venue that fits their way of thinking better than the dinner table. Games should be considered a social space, not an antisocial waste of time.
For many people, the recent rumours that online video firmTwitch might be bought by Google for $1bnwere the first they&apos;d heard of the company and the world of professional video game competition – or eSports – that has fuelled its growth.A new report from research firm IHS Technology suggests that eSports was far from a niche interest last year, however. The company claims that the number of eSports viewing hours grew from 1.3bn in 2012 to 2.4bn in 2013.That&apos;s 2.4bn hours of people watching other people play games, either online through services like Twitch and its rivals, or on traditional TV channels.&quot;eSports videos have rapidly transformed from a niche activity into a widely-watched, global, cross-platform entertainment category,&quot; said Dan Cryan, senior director of digital media research at IHS, and author of the report.The report picks out League of Legends, Dota 2 and StarCraft II as the most popular games being watched, with Cryan suggesting that several factors have led to the rapid growth in eSports viewing around the world.&quot;Key game titles have reached maturity and game publishers are taking a major role in promoting esports competitions. Furthermore, esports viewing has been boosted by the emergence of online video platforms that are capable of handling large-scale live audiences,&quot; he said.Twitch isn&apos;t the only example – its rivals include Azubu and MLG – but it may well be the biggest. The company more than doubled its monthly audience from 20m people at the end of 2012 to 45m at the end of 2013, watching 106 minutes a day on average.Its biggest audience came in October, with 32m people watching the League of Legends Season 3 World Championship event in a single day.•What is Twitch, and why does Google want it?•Call of Duty World Championship 2014: gaming as spectator sport•Starcraft: how Day[9] became the biggest star in esportsIHS claims that 2013 was the first year when online viewing of eSports exceeded television viewing. By 2018, when the company expects eSports viewing to reach 6.6bn hours a year, it predicts that 90% of this will happen online rather than on TV.By then, the distinction between the two may well have disappeared, if more people are streaming video from services like Twitch to their televisions.IHS thinks that games companies will be able to capitalise financially on this boom in eSports viewing, mainly through advertising. The company expects the category to attract $300m of online advertising revenues in 2018, for example.eSports is already a significant business, with brands like Coca-Cola and American Express already sponsoring the biggest tournaments.That&apos;s translating into more money for the best players: this year&apos;sCall of Duty World Championships had a prize purse of $1m, including $400k for the winning team.eSports is not the only proof that watching games is an increasingly popular leisure activity. Gaming is one of the biggest categories on YouTube alongside music, for example.The most popular YouTube channel in the world belongs to gamer Felix Kjellberg, whose PewDiePie channel has 27.4m subscribers and 4.6bn video views so far,adding 296.6m of those in April 2014.Meanwhile, there&apos;s a massive pre-teen and early-teen audience for YouTube channels focusing on just one game, Minecraft.Analysis by The Guardian in March 2014 found that four UK-based YouTube channels focusing mainly or entirely on Minecraft – Stampy, The Diamond Minecart, iBallisticSquid and Yogscast –collectively generated 343.2m views in February alone.Competitive League of Legends, from 2013.
Some of the world&apos;s largest websites are planning a coordinated day of action on Thursday to oppose mass surveillance online.The sites, which include Reddit, Imgur and BoingBoing, will be taking part in the campaign, called &quot;Reset the Net&quot;, in a number of ways.Some will showing a splash screen to all users, reminiscent of the one used in the successful protests against SOPA, the US copyright bill which many feared would damage the backbone of the internet. But rather than telling users to write to their electoral representatives, this protest will push more direct action, encouraging visitors to install privacy and encryption tools.Other sites have committed to improving their own privacy as part of the campaign, by enabling standards such as HTTPS, which prevents attackers from eavesdropping on visitors. Such security standards are common in the world of ecommerce, but rarer for sites which don&apos;t think of themselves as holding sensitive information.&quot;We can take back control of our personal and private data one website, one device, one internet user at a time,&quot; said Reddit&apos;s General Manager Erik Martin. &quot;We’re proud to stand up for our users’ rights and help Reset the Net.&quot;The campaign is being co-ordinated by Fight for the Future, whose co-founder Tiffiniy Cheng said &quot;Now that we know how mass surveillance works, we know how to stop it. That’s why people all over the world are going to work together to use encryption everywhere and make it too hard for any government to conduct mass surveillance.&quot;There are moments in history where people and organisations must choose whether to stand on the side of freedom or tyranny. On June 5th, the internet will show which side it’s on.”•The Sopa protests successfully killed support for the act. Can Reset the Net do the same?
The banners have gone up around Moscone West centre in San Francisco: Apple&apos;s Worldwide Developer Conference (WWDC) is ready to roll. It will carry on through the week, but the public-facing part is the keynote address. On Monday (10am local time, 6pm BST) Tim Cook, Apple&apos;s chief executive, will open the show - in which he&apos;s expected to be aided by marketing chief Phil Schiller, software chief Craig Federighi and others.But what will they reveal? Based on the banners in which an iOS 7-thin &quot;X&quot; is overlaid on a picture of El Capitan in Yosemite in winter, and an &quot;8&quot; overlaid on what looks like an undersea view, it&apos;s obvious that there are going to be big changes coming to the desktop Mac OS X system, and perhaps some smaller ones to iOS, used on the iPhone and iPad, in its new iteration iOS 8.And what else will there be? After talking to developers and other sources – and looking too at past events – here&apos;s what one can expect, could expect, and probably shouldn&apos;t expect in software, hardware and services from the keynote.As Harry McCracken points out, people tend to expect too much from WWDC keynotes. (He&apos;sgone back over a decade of them, with animated GIFs - highly recommended.) Because Apple three times launched new iPhones at WWDC (in 2008, 2009 and 2010), an expectation arose that it would do this every year - to the extent that some people really have suggested that it&apos;s going to launch or preannounce the next version of the iPhone here. It won&apos;t, for reasons that will be explained below. And note that there were also unrealised expectations of an &quot;iWatch&quot; last year.Mac OS XYosemite's El Capitan in winter, in a banner at Apple's WWDC 2014 at the Moscone West centre, San Francisco. Photograph: Charles Arthur/GuardianApple&apos;s desktop operating system is going to get a new look. Version 10.10, which will probably be codenamed &quot;Yosemite&quot; (last year&apos;s was called &quot;Mavericks&quot; after a surf break; the names are based on famous Californian places) is expected to get the &quot;iOS 7&quot; treatment - that is, a reduction (or even elimination) of drop shadows in favour of a &quot;flat&quot; look like that on iOS 7. What&apos;s notable is that very little has leaked about this new version – not even a screenshot, which would normally be expected. Developers writing for OS X expect that they are going to have to rethink app interfaces so that they make sense on both this new look of OS X, and on the older ones that preceded it.iOS 8A teaser banner - apparently showing a view beneath the sea - for iOS 8 at Apple's WWDC 2014, Moscone West, San Francisco. Photograph: Charles Arthur/GuardianThe iPhone and iPad software will get a smaller update than last year&apos;s - partly because Apple has shifted engineers from its mobile team to work on the desktop software. Equally, it doesn&apos;t have to make such a dramatic change - much of that (the different appearance, and the inclusion of gesture-based interaction such as swiping) was done a year ago.While an update to the desktop software might attract some attention, it only has around 75m users - compared to perhaps 500m iOS users worldwide. That means that changes and additions to iOS are far more important, in terms of what they mean for developers and users.With that in mind, Apple is also expected to begin an iOS &quot;platform&quot; strategy - rather as it did back in 2001-2, when it launched its &quot;Digital hub&quot; platform strategy for OS X. That introduced programs to organise music, photos, videos and to create DVDs - iTunes, iPhoto, iMovie and iDVD. (Of those, iMovie was first - in 1999 - followed by iTunes and iDVD in 2001 and iPhoto in 2002.)Healthbook app for fitness dataThis time the platforms are expected to be &quot;Healthbook&quot;, an iOS 8 app which will allow separate fitness and health devices to send data to a centralised data collection app on the iPhone, and a &quot;smart home&quot; app that will let you configure and connect to smart devices - electricity meters, light bulbs, air conditioners, and so on - which have a special &quot;Made for iPhone&quot; label.Will Apple move into those markets, though? It would seem odd for a company that makes its money from hardware to offer a platform for hardware, and yet not exploit for itself by making its own products. However, if you look at the &quot;digital hub&quot; portfolio, Apple only made hardware for one of those strands of music, photos and film - the iPod. Unless, of course, you want to argue, as you reasonably could, that the iPhone does photos and video. But it came up with the digital hub well before the iPhone project began.So it&apos;s possible that Apple will get into the health/fitness and &quot;smart home&quot; hardware markets - but it might wait a little while before it does so.Missing from iOS so far is any equivalent to Android&apos;s &quot;intents&quot;, which lets an app signal to the OS that it&apos;s able to accept or send particular sorts of data - so for example a Flickr app would indicate that it can send and receive photos, which would then be signalled to any app that wanted to receive or send a photo within the OS. This is known asXPC(cross-program communication), and it has actually beenavailable - but not turned on - in iOS since 2012. However, it&apos;s a private API, reserved - so far - for Apple&apos;s apps.One argument I&apos;ve heard from developers is that after all the upheaval of iOS 6 and 7 (adding iCloud in the former, and the complete design overhaul in the latter), now could be the time for XPC to become visible in iOS 8. If you want to try to unpick clues - as people love to - then the relevance of the &quot;undersea&quot; picture in iOS 8 is that this previously-submerged system will rise above the water. It&apos;s as good a suggestion as any.Apple's 2013 WWDC poster for iOS 7 - which hinted at translucency, thinner fonts and primary colours. Photograph: /AppleLast year, the posters showed a wave (as it was revealed to be) at Mavericks for OSX, and a set of overlapping, translucent, primary-coloured rectangles for iOS 7 - which turned out to be about the &quot;flat&quot; design and translucency introduced in iOS. It makes sense, but only after you&apos;ve seen it.More confidently expected is that theMapsfunction is expected to add public transport information, at least in the US; for other countries, as so often with such services, other countries may have to wait longer (or it may be added piecemeal). It&apos;s easy to underestimate how vast a project getting public transport data for every city in every country is; Google has been at it for years, and it&apos;s likely to have cost millions and millions of pounds. Public transport data is a &quot;nice to have&quot;, but is it essential?There might be cross-platform integration of the&quot;AirDrop&quot; function, which currently works between iOS devices, or - but not also - between OS X computers. Being able to shift files between both platforms sounds attractive - but there&apos;s an obvious problem: what if you transfer a file from an OSX computer to an iOS device but there&apos;s no way to do anything with the file on the iOS device? For example, transferring an Adobe Illustrator file with multiple layers might sound great - but what&apos;s iOS going to do with it? And where would the file &quot;be&quot; on iOS when you tried to open it? One of Apple&apos;s biggest efforts has been to get rid of the visible file system, to focus instead on apps, which open files that are available to them (and stored in the non-visible iOS file system - it does exist). Cross-platform AirDrop might open up a can of filesystem worms.A similar to-be-avoided can of worms is the suggestion that there will be a &quot;split screen&quot; system on iOS 8. Although Windows 8 offers this, it&apos;snot obvious to invoke(and probably works best on screens which have a 16:9 aspect ratio), and figuring out what a &quot;swipe&quot; means becomes more complex if you have two apps that use swipes side-by-side - does a swipe from one to the other mean you&apos;re trying to move content, or just swiped too far?Possible but unlikely: some form ofmobile payment systemwhich turns iPhones into a way of paying for things. The obstacle here isn&apos;t that iPhones don&apos;t have NFC - while lots of Android phones do (though nobody, including Google, knowsquitehow many), the obstacle to their being used as mobile payments systems is the lack of standardisation. That hasn&apos;t changed; different retailers are using different standards, andfighting among each other. Apple would surely like to get into mobile payments, but the landscape seems too confused at present.Apple TVThis set-top box, which runs a skinned version of iOS, is seriously overdue for both a hardware and software update. Apple executives have been dropping gentle hints about the size of the business that the Apple TV installed base generates - a $1.2bn business (from people buying content such as TV shows and films) in the 2013 financial year, according to Tim Cook, who said it wasn&apos;t right to call it a &quot;hobby&quot; any more.The Apple TV lacks an app platform, except for a very select few developers - specifically, TV channels such as HBO (for its HBO Go service) and Major League Baseball (MLB). But all sorts of developers would love to build apps for Apple TV; it doesn&apos;t make sense either that the BBC can&apos;t build an iPlayer app, nor ITV or Channel 4.Looking at the Apple TV content list for the UK, it&apos;s alimited listahead of the keynote - Netflix, Sky News, Sky Sports, Bloomberg, MLB TV, MBA (basketball), NHL (ice hockey), Red Bull TV (&quot;live and exclusive events featuring the world’s greatest athletes, artists and more&quot;), WSJ Live (news from the Wall Street Journal), YouTube, Vevo (music streaming and video), Qello (music concerts and films on demand), Vimeo (the video site), Flickr, Crunchyroll (&quot;the best in Japanese anime and drama&quot;), and KOR TV (&quot;live Korean TV&quot;). It&apos;s hardly a UK-oriented list.Developers and others say that Apple has new Apple TV hardware and software that it has had in its testing labs since last year; they&apos;ve been expecting it for ages, and so far been continually disappointed. Updated software with an app platform and a smart home interface - because where better to control your smart home than through the biggest screen in your home? - would make a lot of sense.Don&apos;t expect a TV set; the replacement rate is too slow - about 10%, or once every ten years, compared to 50% for the iPhone, and 20% or better for laptops and desktops. But a set-top box like the Apple TV is additive - you can buy one without getting rid of everything else. (The hope that you might be able to route your other set-top boxes, such as digital TV or Sky boxes, through an Apple TV is over-optimistic. It&apos;s doubtful such a device can even be built.)Apple and BeatsThe Wall Street Journal suggests that the $3bn purchase price breaks down to $2.5bn for the (profitable) headphones business, and $500m for the (probably unprofitable) streaming music business. And it also gets Jimmy Iovine, who will be able to bring his considerable negotiating expertise and contacts in Hollywood and the music business. But given the demographic to which the Beats brand appeals, and the slightly different one to which Apple appeals, it&apos;s unlikely that they will be merged.What about an iPhone - or a hint?Apple makes phones in volume now - really big volumes. It doesn&apos;t launch phones in the summer now because it focusses sales towards Christmas, which is the biggest buying period of the year for mobile phones. But if - as many expect - it&apos;s going to launch alarger-screened iPhonelater this year, shouldn&apos;t it give developers some sort of hint about it? Or maybe even just announce it?That&apos;s easily answered. It didn&apos;t hint that it was going to change the screen size of the iPhone with the iPhone 5; developers had to adjust the layout of their apps to take account of the longer screen. (It took some a long time.) Apple didn&apos;t warn them because to do so might have slowed sales of existing iPhones. The chances of it doing so seem microscopically remote.What about simply announcing the new phone? That&apos;s where the volume becomes important. If Apple were going to announce the new iPhone on Monday, it would have had to get millions of them built already - because to announce something and then not release it for months would kill sales of the existing product.But there hasn&apos;t been any noise about new iPhones being built in huge numbers from the supply chain in China, which you would expect. That means there aren&apos;t any new iPhones coming.The same probably applies to the &quot;big iPad&quot;: if there&apos;s going to be a 12in iPad (measured diagonally), there should have been noises already from the supply chain. There hasn&apos;t been - and the usual focus on the September-December period would also suggest that, as for the past two years, the new iPad or iPads will appear around September-October.MacBook Air, MacBook Pro, iMac, Mac Pro, Mac MiniThis is the present computer line. Two years ago the &quot;retina&quot;MacBook Prowas introduced; last year it was the Mac Pro. But theMacBook Airhas been updated recently, the iMac doesn&apos;t need an update, and updating theMac Miniwould be underwhelming, to say the least. Even if Mac OS X is getting an update, it doesn&apos;t seem like the time for an update of any of the computer line.Is that it?On the user-facing side, yes. For developers, though, the promise is of a huge number of changes - as evidenced by the program, which ahead of the keynote includes such topics as &quot;No Comment&quot;, &quot;This One Is Sealed&quot;, &quot;Shhhh, Can&apos;t Tell You Yet&quot;, &quot;It&apos;s Under Wraps&quot;, and so on. Keeping the content of talks secret so that it won&apos;t tip developers off about what&apos;s coming up isn&apos;t unusual, but to keep the titles secret to such an extent - so that developers can&apos;t even plan their day (around iOS or OS X) is. Once the keynote is complete, the schedule will be revealed.Unusually, Apple is streaming its &quot;state of the union&quot; keynote for developers, which happens in the afternoon and is the in-depth explanation of the public-facing changes that have been announced in the morning. That&apos;s indicative of something going on.•Apple chief Tim Cook under pressure to prove innovative flair is still there
In September 2013, game designer Eric Zimmerman wrote what he called the Manifesto For A Ludic Century. His argument was that passive entertainment was a thing of the past, that interactive systems like games have beauty and meaning, and that they help us learn how to answer important questions. Also, they&apos;re really good fun.The Guardian has been covering games for a long time; 10 years ago this summer the Games Blog began, providing a daily look at the most interesting stories from both the mainstream industry and the growing indie scene. This week, with the giant E3 video game event just days away, we felt it was time to celebrate that; to consider the past, but to think about how the games industry works now, and where it&apos;s going.Over the next five days, we&apos;ll be bringing you a banquet of specially commissioned features celebrating and exploring games culture – and especially the games developed by British studios.Although times have been hard, Britain remains in the top five game development countries in the world; it has over 500 studios creating games like Grand Theft Auto, Lego Star Wars, LittleBigPlanet, and Batman: Arkham City. What drives those developers? What makes Britain such a powerhouse in game development? This week, our games editor will be writer-in-residence at some of the UK&apos;s most successful studios to find out.There are two distinct audiences coming to our games coverage: the committed gamers, and the newcomers or concerned parents who want to understand the games world that is such a big part of their children&apos;s lives.We write for everyone, and this week we&apos;ll be featuring a series of features explaining some of the basics to people who may only have glimpsed games on a smartphone or through the crack of a teenager&apos;s bedroom door.Games help us understand the world around usThis is a $70bn a year industry; games make more money than Hollywood box office. US research firm DFC Intelligence calculates that there are 1.4bn gamers in the world. We spend 3bn hours a week playing games. This is a mainstream, culturally significant industry often overlooked or dismissed.We are moving into an era, as Zimmerman put it, where game literacy will be a vital skill; it will be crucial for understanding the consumer technology around us, but it will also be paramount in understanding how digital culture and business operate.Games are becoming part of everything from finance and medicine to urban planning and education. Games help us to learn and to understand the world around us. We&apos;ll cover all that later too.For now, welcome to games week.Coming up this week:•Keith Stuarton how artificial intelligence research for games will create virtual characters that inherit our personalities and achievements - and can be passed down to our children•Stuart Heritageon why Guildford is the beating heart of the UK games industry•Cara Ellisonon her year of video game sex•Juliette Garsideon the rise of King and mobile games
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of the best new iPhone and iPad apps and games to have emerged on Apple&apos;s App Store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you&apos;re looking for Android apps instead, browse the archives of the weeklyBest Android Appsroundups.APPSSeamus Heaney: Five Fables (£7.99)If you loved Touch Press&apos; iPad apps for The Waste Land and/or The Sonnets by William Shakespeare, you&apos;ll also be impressed by the company&apos;s new release. It&apos;s based on the late poet&apos;s translation of five 15th-century Scottish adaptations of Aesop&apos;s Fables, with a mixture of text, animation, narration from Billy Connolly, and academic notes and interviews.iPadD-Day Hour by Hour (£2.99)Just in time for the 70th anniversary of D-Day comes this educational iPad app, telling the tale of the day the Allied forces invaded Normandy hour by hour – you may have guessed this from the title, of course. It offers text and audio eyewitness accounts throughout, along with photo, video and maps to explain what happened and when.iPadToca Town (£1.99)This is the latest children&apos;s app from Toca Boca, which is on a fine run of inventive, characterful kids&apos; apps. Here, your children can tap around a town, swiping characters from previous apps into six locations, while making up their own stories about what&apos;s going on. There&apos;s plenty to explore, but it&apos;s also simple to use – no adults required.iPhone / iPadDisney Karaoke: Frozen (£5.49)Talking of children and parents... Disney&apos;s Frozen film has had both hollering along to Let It Go and other songs on the soundtrack. Now there&apos;s an iPad app turning those songs into karaoke singalongs, using the original instrumental tracks. You can save and export the resulting recordings, if you&apos;re proud.iPadVivaldi’s Four Seasons (£7.49)It&apos;s been a busy time for Touch Press: its second app from the last fortnight is a sumptuous multimedia version of the Four Seasons. There&apos;s multi-angle video of an orchestra playing the music, along with a &quot;BeatMap&quot; feature to show which sections are playing at any one time. You can solo instruments, and browse text, video and audio to find out more about the piece and its composer.iPadPillow: Smart Sleep Cycle Alarm Clock (£1.99)Tracking my sleep is easy: my children and cats take turns to wake me up throughout the night. But if you&apos;re looking for something more... quantified, then Pillow is well worth a look. It uses a combination of sound and motion data to track your sleep cycle, running in the background on your iPhone. It promises to present the data neatly back to you, while also gauging the best time to wake you up in the morning.iPhoneWatch Dogs Dark Clouds (£5.49)Console game Watch Dogs is causing a stir at the moment, but if you&apos;ve finished it, this app is the way Ubisoft is hoping you&apos;ll continue to immerse yourself in its world. It&apos;s a &quot;digital novel&quot; set in Chicago&apos;s underworld, with video and interactivity complementing the text – written by author John Shirley.iPadPlants by Tinybop (£1.49)Developer Tinybop made the excellent The Human Body children&apos;s app, but this is the follow-up, focusing mostly on flora, with a spot of fauna too. It gets children to explore the temperate forest and desert – more areas will follow – tapping on plants to explore how they grow and reproduce, while spinning a dial to speed up the passing of time. There&apos;s a lot to it: schools as well as parents may well be interested.iPhone / iPadEno • Hyde (Free)Musicians Brian Eno and Karl Hyde have made an album together, Someday World, and this is its official app. It&apos;s an augmented reality app designed to work with the vinyl version of the album – although the necessary cues can also be accessed from its website if you own a different format – popping up &quot;outsider architecture&quot; virtual cities. Strange and creative.iPhone / iPadInky Mail (Free)&quot;Spend less time on email,&quot; suggests the App Store listing for Inky Mail. I wish! Numerous apps are trying to tackle awful inboxes, but this one looks like it has promise: drawing your different accounts into one place, and helping you prioritise important emails, unsubscribe from unwanted mailing lists, and tagging emails for easier reference.iPhone / iPadTwoDots for iPhone and iPad.GAMESTwoDots (Free + IAP)Betaworks&apos; original Dots game remains one of the most simple-yet-addictive mobile puzzle games of recent times. Now it has a follow-up, which sees you tracing more lines of same-coloured dots. This time, though, it&apos;s more structured: you work through 85 levels with different challenges to complete, while comparing scores with Facebook friends. It&apos;s got the makings of another mighty time-devourer.iPhone / iPadBattleheart Legacy (£2.99)If you love a good RPG, you&apos;ll absolutely love Battleheart Legacy: it&apos;s one of the most charming, playable examples of the genre yet on iOS. Released as a follow-up to the (also impressive) Battleheart, it sees you questing through a colourful world battling, looting and levelling up. Looks good, but plays even better.iPhone / iPadSXPD (£1.49)It&apos;s a good week for original, interesting games on iOS. This shooty-racing game is presented in the style of a graphic novel, all monochrome save for prominent red flashes. The idea is that you play and read your way through the gripping tale of the &quot;privately owned 52nd state of America called New Royale&quot;. Lots of ideas here, but also lots of fun.iPadBounden (£2.49)This is a wonderful idea: a game designed to be played by two people that gets you dancing ballet moves. It&apos;s the work of developer Game Oven Studios, working with the Dutch National Ballet. You both hold the iPhone, follow its instructions, and quickly you&apos;ll find yourselves dancing to its classical pieces. Or falling over amid recriminations over who sat on the iPhone. But hopefully the former.iPhoneDragon Quest VIII (£13.99)People who loved Square Enix&apos;s Dragon Quest VIII when it first came out in the mid-2000s are very excited about its sudden appearance on iOS: a faithful-looking port of the RPG classic, with some modern touches to make it touchscreen-friendly. The high (for iOS) price may put off people who are new to the franchise, though, which is a shame.iPhone / iPadF1 Race Stars (Free + IAP)This is a good idea: Codemasters using its Formula One licence to make a game that strips out all the boring bits of F1 in favour of power-ups and powerslides. So, the real F1 drivers are present and correct, but they&apos;re joined by ninjas, wizards and other characters, with local multiplayer thrown in for good measure. Would F1 be more interesting if it was more like Mario Kart? This suggests it would.iPhone / iPadPanzer Tactics HD (£5.99 + IAP)F1 would also be more fun with tanks, but that&apos;s unlikely to happen any time soon. There are lots of tanks in Panzer Tactics HD though, along with other second world war units. This sees you playing as the Soviet, German or Allied forces in 1939, with bags of depth across its 33 missions – some of which are bought using in-app purchases.iPadPES Manager (Free + IAP)As one of the console footballers who at some point in the last five years migrated from PES to FIFA, I was a bit wary of a new management-focused PES game on mobile. Still, this free-to-play title is worth investigating if you&apos;re a fan: it sees you collecting &quot;player badges&quot;, building a team and then taking on all-comers.iPhone / iPadCrobble (Free + IAP)Crobble&apos;s developers know the value of a good high-concept pitch: this word game &quot;blends Scrabble with Tetris&quot; as you create words from falling letter tiles. Facebook is baked in for social competition, and there are three game modes to keep your interest over time. Early indications are that it&apos;s a keeper.iPhoneSpacepants (£0.99)Could Spacepants be the new Flappy Bird? It certainly has the just-one-more-go replayability factor, as its exobiologist hero runs around the floor, walls and ceilings of a single screen jumping to catch hearts and avoid obstacles. Even if you didn&apos;t know that it&apos;s the work of a 12 year-old named Sam – which you do now – you&apos;d be impressed by its pixelly retro look and challenging (to say the least) difficulty curve.iPhone / iPadThose are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on iOS this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of the best new Android apps and games to have emerged on the Google Play store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest Android Appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you&apos;re looking for iOS apps, browse the archives ofBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups instead.APPSSunrise Calendar (Free)Sunrise has won plenty of acclaim on iOS since its release in 2013: a smart calendar app with neat use of colour and social data that&apos;s now also available on Android – complete with a nifty widget for quick access to your diary. It works well with Google Calendar, and also has a new website for desktop access.Secret (Free)It&apos;s a bit strange using anonymous-sharing app Secret in the UK: whereas in Silicon Valley it&apos;s all scandalous tech-gossip, here you&apos;re more likely to get mundane &quot;I&apos;ve been sleeping with three loads of laundry on my bed for the last week&quot; secrets. Actually, maybe that&apos;s a more interesting insight into the human condition than Silicon Valley tittle-tattle...Digital Concert Hall (Free)This classical music app comes from the respected Berliner Philharmoniker – an app for its Digital Concert Hall service, which streams more than 40 concerts live every year, while offering an archive of past events. You can use it for free to watch interviews with conductors and soloists, and a few concerts, or pay for membership to get the full content.Onefootball Brazil (Free)What&apos;s that? There&apos;s something going on in Brazil this summer? You&apos;d think it&apos;d be in the news... Okay, World Cup fever is getting underway, and there are plenty of apps available to keep up to date with news, results and stats. The Onefootball Brazil app is certainly one of the most polished on Android, with everything fans should need on the go during the tournament.Red Bull Wallpapers (Free)Yes, an advertising app, but Red Bull at least have a stable of sports stars from the worlds of racing, snowboarding and jumping out of space balloons to make this app more appealing than most. The photography looks top-notch too, with plenty of choices to adorn your homescreen with people more athletic and daring than you.Klout (Free)The idea of analysing people&apos;s social networking activity to assign them a score makes sense for marketers. The problem, though, is that it leads to Klout Bores – people spending way too much time trying to increase their rating, then bang on about it to all and sundry. For those people, the official Klout app is marvellous, but the company is trying to broaden its appeal.Bebop Band 1 (Free + IAP)This musical education app for children is the work of Macmillan Publishers: an English-learning app featuring a band of animal musicians. It works with the company&apos;s Bebop course books or as a standalone studying aid for children learning English, with a mix of songs, vocabulary and American Sign Language translations.Eat For Goals (Free)There&apos;s fun in the fact that Manchester City star Yaya Touré is one of the footballers contributing a recipe to this cookery app, given his recent involvement inBirthdayCakeGate. But there&apos;s a good cause here too: Touré, Frank Lampard, Steven Gerrard, Kaka, Cristiano Ronaldo and Rachel Yankey are among the stars suggesting their favourite meals, raising awareness (via the World Heart Federation) of healthy eating for youngsters.Downcount (Free + IAP)New Game of Thrones episodes aside, I&apos;m not quite sure what I&apos;d need an app for daily countdowns for. Still, this new app is getting plenty of positive reviews on the Google Play store for its simple, slick interface for creating, checking and deleting countdowns to big events, so it&apos;s worth a look.OTTTD for Android.GAMESOTTTD (£1.77 + IAP)Another week, another excellent tower defence game on Android: it&apos;s one of the best-stocked game genres on Google Play. Here, you&apos;re building and upgrading towers as usual, while also managing a team of heroes, duffing up bosses and generally admiring the fact that its gameplay matches its Over The Top Tower Defence moniker.Scurvy Scallywags (Free + IAP)How to breathe fresh air into the match-three puzzle games genre? Pirates? That&apos;s a good start. This sees you matching piratical items while collecting loot and upgrades, with a well-worked system of quests and ship upgrades around it. There&apos;s more to this than yet another Bejeweled-a-like, in other words. It&apos;s great fun.iON Bond (£0.69)If my physics GCSE studies had been as fun as iON Bond, I might have had more luck paying attention in class. It&apos;s a puzzle game that involves bonding and colliding particles within a simulated vacuum, with 70 neatly-designed levels to play through, and plenty of (not frustrating) head scratching in store.Heroes and Castles (£1.18 + IAP)Back to another common theme in Android gaming (and, indeed: gaming) – fantasy warfare. This mixture of tower defence and RPG sees you fending off goblins, orcs, trolls and other monsters with an army of defenders, upgrading your castle as you go along. Easy to get into, but looks to have plenty of depth.Push Panic (Free + IAP)Push Panic remains one of my favourite puzzlers on iOS, so it&apos;s really good to see it finally available on Android too. It sees you tapping blocks to make them disappear in same-coloured groups. Which sounds same-old same-old for this genre, but the gameplay quickly grips you as you clear away the blocks as they spill from the top of the screen. Several modes offer variety too.PES Manager (Free + IAP)As one of the console footballers who at some point in the last five years migrated from PES to FIFA, I was a bit wary of a new management-focused PES game on mobile. Still, this free-to-play title is worth investigating if you&apos;re a fan: it sees you collecting &quot;player badges&quot;, building a team and then taking on all-comers.Chef&apos;s Diner: Food Rush (Free + IAP)Developer Animoca has made its name with a series of colourful social games for mobile devices, with Chef&apos;s Diner fitting in nicely. It&apos;s a cookery-themed game where you take orders and serve dishes to impatient diners, while making sure that you don&apos;t run out of ingredients. Traditional resource-juggling gameplay done well.Romans In My Carpet! (£1.99 + IAP)&quot;Turn-based wargaming by way of Monty Python&quot; according to its developer, which is as good a description as any for this teeny-tiny strategy game. It&apos;s a turn-based game that&apos;s full of character, whether you&apos;re playing against your device or against other players – complete with taunting chat features. And while in-app purchases are used, they don&apos;t affect the gameplay itself: &quot;no pay-to-win rubbish&quot; as they put it.Nun Attack Origins: Yuki (£0.99)To be honest, the &apos;bizarre nuns in popular culture&apos; prize has already been bagged by 2010 film Nude Nuns with Big Guns. Even with &quot;nun-jutsu&quot; martial arts, this Android game can&apos;t quite reach those heights of absurdity. More importantly, though, it looks very fun, as your holy sister sets off on an action-puzzle adventure to rescue orphans.Jolt (£1.19)This is the latest game offering multiplayer designed for two people using the same device, rather than connecting from different devices over the network. Set in a neon-splashed futuristic arena, this involves lobbing a ball (well, an &quot;Icosahedron Omni-shot&quot;) at one another, bouncing it round corners and using forcefields to gain an advantage.Swipecart (£1.08)Extreme mine cart racing is a sport? Someone should buy the television rights... Until they do, this game will have to do: a neat racing title with simple controls to send your cart zooming through the three mountain courses.Those are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on Android this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.
The technology landscape could look very different if Dyson hadn’t decided to shelve a smartglasses project that had a working prototype more than 10 years beforeGoogle’s Glass arrived.The Dyson Halo, known only by its project number N066 until today, was originally developed in 2001 – a set of augmented reality goggles featuring a full-colour 3D heads-up display the kind that’s currently being developed by Google, Epsom and Vuzix.An original sketch of the Dyson Halo. Photograph: DysonThe glasses were head-mounted on a frame that sat around the back of the head and were powered by a pocket computer that resembled a Sony Walkman.Halo worked as a communications device, but also as a pocket PC, using audio and visual prompts to overlay information on the real world.The headset could be folded up for travel. Photograph: DysonThe headset used two mirrors to reflect the display of two tiny monitors mounted by the wearers’ temples into the eyes to create the illusion of a translucent 10in screen, projected about 1m in front of the eyes.Google’s Glass, first announced in 2011 and eventually released in 2013, uses a prism mounted above the eye to display at-a-glance information while the computing potion – a smartphone without the cellular radios – is mounted on one of the ear stems.James Dyson himself wearing one of the prototypes. Photograph: DysonSiri before SiriDyson also built a virtual digital assistant to help the headset wearer, that could read out emails and interpret basic voice commands like an early version of Apple’s Siri or Google Now.A wrist-mounted control pad could be used for mousing duties. Photograph: DysonUsers typed on a projected virtual keyboard which could track finger motions, while a wrist-worn device acted as a mouse pointer.The headset could also be used as a simple display for a separate computer.Dyson Halo being worn by an engineer. Photograph: DysonThe project ran for three years, but was eventually shelved as part of Dyson’s focus on the US. Some of the components live on in other projects, specifically around robot vision which is crucial to projects at the Dyson Robotics Laboratory at Imperial College London.An early prototype of the Halo smartglasses. Photograph: DysonDyson released details of the Halo headset and two other shelved projects – a filtration system for diesel engines based on the company’s cyclone technology, as well as a hydrogen fuel cell that used the company’s electric motor to boost efficiency and power – as part of the company’s 21st birthday.The shelved designs display some of the things beyond vacuum cleaners, fans and hand driers that the company has worked on, but decided not to bring to market.In addition to the £5m joint investment with Imperial College London for Dyson Robotics Lab, the company has recently ploughed £250m into an expansion of its research and development site next to its headquarters in Malmesbury in Wiltshire.•Google Glass goes on general sale in the US•James Dyson: &apos;vacuums are already smarter than people&apos;
It's Monday!
