Google has avoided a criminal prosecution in the US after agreeing to pay $500m (£305m) to settle a government investigation into its display of advertisements from Canadian pharmacies which illegally sold prescription and non-prescription drugs to American consumers.The settlement means the company will not face prosecution over accusations that it improperly profited from the ads. The $500m represents the gross revenues Google collected from the Canadian pharmacies plus the earnings generated by the illegal sales of drugs to American consumers, federal investigators said.The agreement ends speculation that began in May when the company referred to a justice department investigation into its automated system for placing ads alongside search results and subtracted $500m from first-quarter earnings to cover a potential settlement.That fuelled talk that the allowance might be against anantitrust investigationwhich the US federal trade commission has begun into its search policies. Instead the FTC investigation, like a similar European inquiry, appears to be continuing.US officials said Google knew as early as 2003 that its advertising system was allowing Canadian pharmacies to ship  prescription drugs into the country from abroad, which is illegal under US law. Prescription drugs shipped into the US from Canada are not regulated by the Canadian authorities.The investigation laid bare how vulnerable the company's automated ad system, known as AdWords, is to the machinations of shady operators. The ad network is a big money maker for Google and is expected to generate more than $30bn this year.Google acknowledged holes in its system in a federal case brought last autumn against dozens of "rogue" online pharmacies that were finding ways to place ads for drugs despite the company's efforts to prevent abuses. The individuals identified in the complaint were in New York, Tennessee and Ohio.In one of the more common practices, pharmacies would plug subtle misspellings of drug names frequently entered into the search engine. For instance, one illegal advertiser spelled the anabolic steroid Dianabol as "Diano bol" in Google's automated system to produce an ad, according to the lawsuit at San José federal court.Google has obtained court orders banning some of the rogue pharmacies named in the lawsuit and is still seeking injunctions against the others.The state of Rhode Island has aggressively investigated such activities recently. Last year, the Chinese company GeneScience Pharmaceutical and its chief executive pleaded guilty to selling human growth hormone and paid $7.5m.The Google lawsuit came seven months after the company imposed new restrictions on the kinds of pharmaceutical ads it would accept in the US and Canada. The new rules were supposed to allow ads only from US pharmacies that had been accredited by a special programme.Google's critics have complained that the company and other websites have not been vigilant about policing pharmaceutical ads because they are so lucrative. Drug and healthcare ads generated about $1bn in internet spending last year.
Joe Cooper, who has died aged 87, was the jovial debunker of&nbsp;the celebratedCottingley fairy photographs(supposedly showing fairies captured on film in a Yorkshire garden in&nbsp;1917). He remained a firm believer in unexplained phenomena to the end. In&nbsp;spite of finally prompting a confession of fakery by one of the two cousins who took the pictures, Cooper was far from sceptical about the existence of "little people" and thought that something genuinely unusual had happened in the West Riding village.His engaging and sympathetic approach ended the long deception by the cousins, Frances Griffiths and Elsie Wright, who were in their 80s when Cooper's interview appeared in the magazine The Unexplained in 1983. They described to him how the "fairies" had been copied by Wright from a well-known children's book of the time, The&nbsp;Queen's Gift Book, and then held in&nbsp;place with hatpins.Such trickery was widely assumed to have taken place by the time the interview appeared, in spite of the early endorsement of the images by&nbsp;photographic specialists and eminent figures, notably the writer Sir&nbsp;Arthur Conan Doyle. In a television discussion after Cooper's story had been published, Griffiths explained how she and Wright had seen a childish joke get wildly out of&nbsp;hand, because of people who "believed because they wanted to&nbsp;believe".In a sense, this was true of Cooper, who combined an academic career with less conventional enthusiasms to which he devoted great zest. He promoted astrology and psychic investigation winningly, believing in Conan Doyle's summary of the fairies: "The recognition of their existence will jolt the material 20th-century mind out of its heavy ruts in the mud, and will make it admit that there is a glamour and mystery to life."Cooper parted company with mainstream academia in research for his master's degree at Bradford University, which amassed data to suggest links between season of birth and eventual choice of occupation. One of his many other interests was playing the ukulele, and he performed his own astrological composition, Zing Zat Zodiac Zong, on TV after an interview with David Dimbleby in a series on the&nbsp;"beyond".Cooper was born in Leeds, but the family moved early to Southampton and he was educated at Taunton school. During the second world war he served as a navigator in the RAF.He tried various jobs after the war and&nbsp;had an early taste of the media when he appeared in a documentary made by the young Lindsay Anderson while working in a drawing office at Wakefield. He wrote material for Frankie Howerd and was an eager member of&nbsp;Leeds Art Centre in the 1950s, appearing in amateur dramatics with another cinema tyro, Peter O'Toole.It was not until the end of the decade that he settled down to train as a teacher, moving on in the 1960s to become a lecturer in sociology at&nbsp;Bradford University (from where he retired in&nbsp;1980). This led to wider involvement as the organiser of evening classes in&nbsp;psychic education in Yorkshire, and in the 1980s he wrote a&nbsp;column for the Guardian called Body and Soul.Cooper met the Cottingley fairies cousins in the early 1970s and got to know them well. He later wrote a book, The Case of the Cottingley Fairies (1990), about the episode which played a part in&nbsp;the 1997 film Fairy Tale – a True Story.He is survived by his son, David, and daughter, Jane.• Henry Joseph Cooper, sociologist, born 3&nbsp;February 1924; died 16 August 2011
The Aliens Colonial Marines demo shown at Gamescom last week was getting great feedback from journalists – and now you can see why. Sega has just released this brief but very intriguing demo of the forthcoming shooter. Developed by FPS specialist Gearbox and out early next year on PC, PS3 and Xbox, it's set after the events of Aliens, with the USCM dispatchinganothergroup of hapless marine grunts – and some nuclear warheads – to clear up LV 426once and for all. Yep, that plan is absolutely foolproof.The trailer suggests Gearbox has certainly mastered the memorable audio and visual style of James Cameron's movie. The eerie digital pulse of the movement detector has been brilliantly replicated, as have the dramatic opening bars of the score. The distorted sound of the pulse rifle is also present and correct, as well as a shotgun for Hicks fans.And I do believe there's a brief moment of human vs alien melee combat for good measure...I've watched it five times now.
An attractive brunette in a business suit is making her online pitch. "Are you tired of searching for legit CVV shops?" her animated form asks from the corner of the website. "Search no more," she promises. This site has "handpicked cards" with "high balances". "What are you waiting for? Register now."It looks like a legitimate business website, one for small business financing perhaps. But I'm being shown this site — and asked not to identify it — by FBI special agent Keith Mularski in the offices of the National Cyber-Forensics &amp; Training Alliance, a Pittsburgh-based alliance between international law enforcement agencies, business and academia that has been charged with tackling the growing menace of cybercrime. This is a site at the cutting edge of crime.CVV stands for card verification value. This site, and its equally professional rivals, are selling stolen credit card information to criminals who snap them up like songs on iTunes. A dollar buys enough information to use someone else's card online, $30 buys a "dump," all the information you need to copy a card and set off on your own real-world shopping spree with somebody else's plastic.There are millions of stolen accounts available, hacked from banks and online sellers, or swiped at cash machines. The FBI recently reclaimed 1.5m numbers from one seller alone. You can sort by type, MasterCard, Visa, or American Express, by geography, or just stick to business cards for their higher balances. There's no need to fear getting ripped off. Criminals peer-review each other's sites. It's eBay for crooks.Mularski knows a thing or two about cybercrime. For two years he ran one of the biggest underworld crime sites in the world. Using the pseudonym Master Splynter (a nod to the cartoon Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles) Mularski masqueraded as a spammer, winning the confidence of online crooks and eventually taking over as host of Dark Market, at the time the largest online forum for cybercriminals. The sting was a big victory for the US authorities, which, along with other governments, have struggled to keep up with the rapidly spreading threat.Police officers from the UK, Germany, Netherlands, Australia and other countries work alongside the FBI at the NCFTA. The organisation also has about 500 business partners, from the big banks to technology companies and links with academics at local universities Carnegie Mellon and Pittsburgh.The scale of the problem they are tackling is dizzying. According to a recent study by the British government, cybercrime is endemic and costs UK businesses an estimated £27bn a year. The criminals who buy this information operate a vast, international enterprise that employs teams of "mules" to buy goods either in person or online and yet more mules to launder their cash. They pay each other via digital currencies. "Would you take a credit card if you were one of these guys?" asks Mularski. These are multimillion-dollar businesses with serious costs. "This is serious money," says Mularski.Serious skillsAnd it is serious criminals who are doing it. Mularski says he hates the term "hacker". "It's so generic," he says. "Traditionally we have thought of this cybercriminal as a geek. When I first started in cybercrime, the impression I got was [of] the movie War Games, Matthew Broderick sitting in his parents' basement. That's not the case any more. These are serious businessmen with serious skills."One man arrested as part of a recent FBI investigation had contracts with a factory in China to mass produce fake credit card readers that could steal people's details. There's violence. Rivals have been kidnapped and tortured, and one spammer tried to take out a hit on a witness. "Very traditional organised crime is moving into the cyber realm," Mularski says.Traditional organised crime activities such as racketeering or prostitution are not going away, he says, but the new generation of criminals is as excited about online growth as their legitimate business rivals. But there are major differences. "This isn't the Sopranos, or gangs," he says. "You don't have the same physical interaction. Here you do your transactions with the push of button, click of a mouse."Internet crime also attracts people who would never get involved in a bank robbery. "When you are behind a keyboard, you're anonymous, you have more bravado. You need a lot of chutzpah to go into a bank and rob it. You do things online that you may not do in ordinary life. People don't start  out thinking they will be a cybercriminal. They start out exploring. And before you know it, the line is crossed from curiosity to crime," says Mularski.Mularski's high profile makes him a target for hackers. His office has also been working on tackling Anonymous, the hacker collective that has humiliated US government departments and big business on numerous occasions. He won't comment on them except to say: "Hacking into a company, whether it's to put information on the web for everyone to see or if you're going to make money, is still hacking, it's still a crime."So does he feel vulnerable? "I was worried for a bit, I'll be honest," he says knocking on wood. "I'm very careful now. But the best protection of all is to turn your computer off."
Swing a green robot at a mobile games industry conference, and you'll hit a dozen developers grousing about Android. They'll say its users don't want to pay for games, and complain about the payment methods and game discovery features on Google's Android Market store.With 550,000 new Android devices being activated every day, the platform's potential is huge, but paid games revenues have been distinctly below expectations. However, this week has seen three games firms buck the trend and talk about how well they're doing from making their games available on Google-powered smartphones.First, there's Godzilab, which makes the excellent Stardunk and iBlast Moki games. Both have been ported to Android Market, and according to ablog postby the developer, Stardunk was downloaded more than one million times in its first two months on Android.There are some good details in the post, such as the fact that Stardunk was generating around 16,000-17,000 downloads a day when hovering around 50th place in the free apps chart on Android Market, but that this rose to 50,000 a day when Google featured the app on the homepage, boosting it to 16th in the chart.The real juice comes with Godzilab's comments on revenues, though. "For Stardunk which is a free app and thus monetize the usage and not the download, the average revenue per daily user is 3x lower compared to the iOS version," explains the company. "But this is compensated by being downloaded by more users on Android. As of today both versions have about the same revenue, and we covered our initial development cost really quickly."The second company praising Android is Gameview Studios, a US developer acquired earlier in 2011 by Japanese mobile social games company DeNA. The studio says its Tap Fish game has been installed by five million Android users, which has resulted in two million monthly active players. More importantly, the average revenue per user (ARPU) is apparently approaching that of the iOS version."Many developers complain that Android only monetizes at a small fraction of their games on iOS, but that's not what we see," says co-founder Riz Virk in a statement. "Our Android games monetise almost on par with our iOS games, and as we focus on building out cool new features like live wallpaper, we expect usage, engagement and revenues on the Android platform to continue to climb."Live wallpaper? Tap Fish has a new feature that's exclusive to Android: a live wallpaper that enables players to check their virtual fish tank from their homescreen, without actually starting the game. The point being that Gameview is clearly making enough money from Android to justify developing such exclusive features for the platform.The third company publicly espousing its success on Android is not a developer, but rather a social games network: Papaya. The company says it has 25 million Android users who between them have bought 11 million in-app purchases of virtual items and currency.Its averagepayinguser spends $22.60 a month, and the more popular games on the Papaya network earn $20,000 a month on average. Papaya-enabled games like Treasure Fever and X-City generate monthly average revenue per paying user (ARPPU) of around $10.Godzilab and Gameview are not getting into the nitty-gritty of exactly how much money they are making, it should be noted: they are comparing Android and iOS revenues without saying what those revenues are.Even so, there is a clear trend: developers with games that are free to download and play, and which make their money from in-app payments and/or advertising, can make money from Android's growing scale as millions more devices are activated every week.As ever, the caveat being that this only holds true for games that are good enough to persuade people to play often, and for a large enough proportion to part with cash for in-app content. The question now is what Google plans to do now to create a healthier market for paid games on Android to match its platform's freemium success.
"This is your captain speaking. Can anyone recommend some good apps for my iPad after we take off?"Perhaps that won't be what you'll be hearing over the announcement system – but a growing number of cockpits are replacing sheaves of paper with Apple's tablet device, launched just over a year ago.Pilots on United and Continental Airlines in the US are replacing their heavy paper flight manuals with iPads loaded with a special aviation navigation application created by Colorado-based Jeppesen, while American and Delta are also testing the technology. Alaska Airlines has already shifted over to iPads.The move will mean more than 10,000 iPads being deployed in the United and Continental aircraft. Officials said the pilots' use of the 1.5lb iPad, instead of about 38lbs of charts, logbooks and handbooks, will save 16m sheets of paper and 326,000 gallons of jet fuel annually.That will improve fuel economy – important when margins are paper-thin – on United's 5,765 flights a day. And aviation experts say the "electronic flight bags" are more easily updated."The paperless flight deck represents the next generation of flying," Captain Fred Abbott, United's senior vice-president of flight operations, said, ensuring the pilots "have essential and real-time information at their fingertips at all times throughout the flight".The rollout is expected to cost $5m (£3m), while the scheme will save about $1m in costs annually.Jeppesen, an aviation navigation company based near Centennial airport south of Denver, began developing the iPad app shortly after the digital device came on to the market in April 2010, and the work took about 100 staff. But the rewards have been substantial: since its launch, pilots of aircraft of all sizes have downloaded the app 130,000 times. The app offers interactive, data-driven en-route navigation information and worldwide geo-referenced terminal charts, displayed and updated on the iPad screen.The US Federal Aviation Administration began by approving the electronic product for use by private pilots, business-aviation pilots, military pilots and small commercial pilots, and is now allowing testing in large commercial aircraft.United, the world's largest airline, is the first among major network carriers to switch to the technology. It argues that using the iPad means pilots can "quickly and efficiently access reference material without having to thumb through thousands of sheets of paper and reduce clutter on the flight deck".Pilots will also be able to download updates immediately to their electronic flight materials, rather than waiting for paper updates to be printed and distributed. And the bulky flight bags will see less baggage carried through airports and on board aircraft.The FAA requires six months of tests before the cockpit goes digital-only. Another requirement is redundancy, with pilot and co-pilot using authorised iPads to back each other up.In the "extremely unlikely" event both pilots' iPads fail, Rick Ellerbrock, Jeppesen chief strategist, said, navigation information can be radioed from the ground.
Launching this Friday,Deus Ex: Human Revolutioncould well be the most interesting mainstream video game for a decade. As with the original Deus Ex, released way back in 2000, it offers an intriguing conspiracy-led cyberpunk narrative and a structure that gives the player huge amounts of room to explore their own gameplay impulses. Through the augmentation system, lead character Adam Jensen can be gradually transmogrified into a stealth assassin or a heavily armed juggernaut, with dozens of variations inbetween.Although hundreds of games since Deux Ex have attempted to offer this choice, few have really allowed the player's selection to make a genuine impact on the story, and on the ramifications of each mission. Human Revolution does. And as a Triple A release, it is rather lonely.There remains an unsolved problem at the core of game design: how much freedom do players really want? Corridor shooters like Call of Duty have evolved because there is a large audience out there for very controlled, linear cinematic experiences. But at the same time, titles like Grand Theft Auto and Fallout have prospered by offering players a certain amount of autonomy in the game world. Would Black Ops have been a better game if the player had been able to run off and take side-missions in Vietnam or Cuba? Or do we need to think about it as a totally different form of entertainment?In that respect, studios often like to hedge their bets. For example, in Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim there will be a 30-40 hour main quest, but then another 200 hours of side-missions and non-essential activities. Grand Theft Auto and Red Dead Redemption work in a similar way. The designers are supporting freedom only by dislocating it from the main narrative. They are effectively creating two interconnected, but essentially separate gaming experiences.Providing choice within a functioning narrative is complex, because player choices often clash with pre-prepared plot sequences. I met the producers of Far Cry 2 a couple of months before the game's launch and they were burned out wrecks – they'd spent months designing the plot and its attendant cut-scenes and webs of causation, so that the player couldn't stumble upon inaccuracies or discrepancies by trying missions in the 'wrong order'. They weren't entirely successful, of course, and the nightmare of this endeavour perhaps explains why Far Cry 3 looks to be a much more focused beast.Making sure the player doesn't experience the story in the wrong order is the least of the problems though. For a truly open world game to work, every functioning element within that environment has to be systemic and emergent. You can't have set spawn points for enemies, because what if the player creeps up on them from the wrong angle? This happened dozens of times in the first two Doom titles, whichdidgive the player a certain amount of room to explore, and it was like shooting demons in a barrel.So enemies have to be given systemic AI, in order that they can act within the world in a believable manner. For a while, this meant constructingfinite state machinescapable of reacting to a modest series of inputs: I am under attack, I have seen the player, etc. Now developers are working with more complex systems such as AI planners andhierarchical task networksso that computer characters have more advanced behaviours and can be more proactive. The likes of Killzone 3, Crysis 2 and Halo Reach all have enemies capable of working in teams, flanking the player and avoiding incoming fire. What AI characters can't do, of course, is work out where the player is in the story and communicate with them accordingly. AI characters don't do narrative improvisation. At least not yet.Beyond all these technicalities is the fundamental concern that players don't like to get lost. In the early days of 'arcade adventure games' like Knight Lore and Dungeon Master, players were actively encouraged to map out the games themselves on graph paper, but no modern developer would ever get that idea past the marketing team (the closest we've come recently, is your ability to mark the game map in Legend of Zelda: Spirit Tracks). Shigeru Miyamoto championed the whole hub world concept to get round this, allowing players to cast off in any direction they fancied with the security of knowing they were only one step removed from a familiar locale. This set-up became a cornerstone of the platform adventure genre in the wake of Super Mario 64, but it severely limits the linear explore-ability of the world; all you're effectively doing is taking a single step in multiple directions.What worries players most about freedom is missing out on stuff. If you find yourself in a haunted house with dozens of doors, each leading on to corridors with dozens more doors, the completist won't be happy until every avenue has been explored – that's not gaming, that's conducting a police search. For this sort of design to work, gamers need to know there are limits, and that they won't be required to memorise and revisit multiple locations. Ocarina of Time gets this just about right, providing several locations that must be re-visited with new items, but ensuring there aren't too many so that the player dreads having to backtrack over countless areas.Deus Ex worked because it subtly reprogrammed the player's notion of freedom. It obfuscated the structure of the game behind discoverable conspiracy theories, multiple characters and a globetrotting design and it manipulated the player into perceiving character augmentation as a narrative component. In other words, the player's progress, the transmogrification of their character, became a plot point. Youwerethe story. Or at least your thought you were; and in game design as in life, perception is reality.Really though, what Human Revolution does is provide us with a rich functioning world and then invites us in to feel as though we're part of it, like a generous host at a successful cocktail party. But with futuristic weapons. Furthermore, as with JC Denton in Deus Ex 1, the story isn't something that's happening out there in the cut-scenes and non-player character interactions, it's happening internally: within the character of Adam Jensen. As a human-turned-cyborg who must adapt to survive he symbolises the game's post-humanist quandaries. Heisthe human revolution.Still, the game has been criticised a little for its steadfast reliance on hoary old conventions like boss battles. To get past these, studios will need to start thinking about games in a new way; as totally emergent systems. In some ways, this has been happening for years. Way back in 1980 we had the seminal role-playing game, Rogue, based around procedurally generated dungeons – it kickstarted a whole genre of randomised RPGs which has most recently led to the likes of Mystery Dungeon: Shiren the Wanderer andDwarf Fortress. In 1985, Datasoft released Alternate Reality: The City, an RPG set on an Earth invaded by Aliens; players simply had to learn how to survive, getting jobs and learning new skills. More recently, there has been the procedurally generated online co-op gameLove, filled with autonomous AI tribes, and of course, Minecraft, a game based around building stuff with blocks.There's a weird paradox here, though. As mainstream games have become more technically advanced, they have simultaneously become less structurally ambitious. This is mostly down to the huge budgets involved in triple A  production and the conservatism of the marketplace: if 20 million people are happy to buy the same Call of Duty every year, where's the impetus to invest in radical new notions of player freedom and game structure? In this context Human Revolution is an astoundingly brave project.If it is a success, maybe there will be an increased desire to give players more of a say in game stories. I'd be fascinated to see procedurally generated first-person shooters, set in worlds filled with AI characters complex enough to decide on their own factions within the environment. Whether or not a 'plot' could evolve within this set up is questionable, but of course, as Dungeons and Dragons taught us many years ago, story is a malleable commodity, and engaged players have the imagination to make up shortfalls. But what D&amp;D also showed, with its enormous rule books, is that all good games function like good democracies: players want freedom, but they also want structure (a government) and rules (a police force). Anarchy is not a game design, it's a dangerous sand box for minority thinkers.Certainly what's lacking at the moment is the player's imaginative investment. At Gamescom, I chaired a panel about the future of RPGs; at the start of it I asked the participants to name their favourite ever adventure title. Ray Muzyka co-founder of Bioware spoke eloquently and wistfully about the 1981 'dungeon crawl' game, Wizardry, which managed to provide an exciting and engrossing 'story' through limited graphics. He recognised the fact that what modern RPGs are doing is replacing the imagination with gorgeous visuals and epic, intricate mythologies.Is that the only way? The future of freedom relies on developers finding a way to utilise player imagination, without sacrificing the astonishing visuals we've come to love. That may well happen when procedural graphics and complex AI combine; perhaps a publisher like EA or Ubisoft, or a developer like Valve or Bethesda will look at the success of Minecraft and see in it the kernel of a new mainstream gaming paradigm. Like many gamers I've enjoyed corridor shooters and scripted action adventures, but I'm ready for what's coming next. Those games are benevolent oligarchies. Perhaps one day soon we'll achieve a perfect game design democracy.
Taiwan PC maker Acer reported a worse-than-expected quarterly loss, the first in the company's history, as it paid to reorganise the firm in a troubled first half. Acer also said it would be impossible to break even for the full year.Acer has been a dominant force in the PC business, particularly in the low-cost notebook market, but has failed to counter the runaway success of tablets such as Apple's iPad.The company has been refocusing on mobile devices to drive growth after a first half that saw the acrimonious departure of its chief executive following a row over the company's strategy and a series of cuts to its shipment forecasts.Shares of Acer, the world's No 2 PC vendor, closed down 2.92% on Wednesday ahead of the earnings announcement.They have fallen 65% this year in a broader market down 16.4%. Rival Asustek gained 6.8%.The Acer chairman, JT Wang, told an investor conference that the second-quarter was a "correction period" and its loss was worse than expected because the company cleared up excessive inventory and made severance payments for senior management resignations.Among those who resigned was Gianfranco Lanci, the former chief executive, who left abruptly in April amid a row over strategy and after a sharp cut in Acer's revenue outlook that triggered an 18% fall in shares in four days. Wang did not say how much Lanci received.Wang said although he expects the "fever" for tablet PCs receding and notebooks to regain consumer interest, Acer will see a loss in the third quarter, though it would be better than the second quarter."Today I have to say, trying to break even this year becomes impossible," Wang said, citing a worsening macro environment in Europe and the need for "more time and effort" for the restructuring.In July, Wang had indicated the company would report a loss in the second quarter before returning to profit in the third and posting a small full-year profit.Acer said in June it would take a $150m (£90m) charge to write off inventory and doubtful payments in Europe and will cut 300 jobs there.The Macquarie analyst, Andrew Chang, said in a report that recent checks indicate Acer has no new competitive products to launch in the third quarter to lift momentum and margins.Macquarie expects flat revenue growth in the third quarter from the previous quarter and a 29% drop from a year ago.Acer posted a net loss of T$6.79bn (£141.7m) in April to June, much wider than the consensus forecast of a T$3.3bn loss from six analysts polled by Reuters.The unaudited net loss figure compared with a net profit of T$1.19bn in the first quarter and earnings of T$$2.65bn in the same period a year ago.
A burst of 11 apps for your considerationEurostar TrainsEurostar has launched its official iPhone and Android app this week, which includes the ability to both book tickets and have them delivered directly to the smartphone as mobile tickets. The app also ties into the Eurostar loyalty schemes and also offers up service updates.iPhone / AndroidForklyThere are already several popular apps for food-lovers to share details of their meals with the wider world. Forkly is the latest, having been launched by the former team behind social location service Brightkite. Users share photos and thoughts about their food and drink, with the aim of generating recommendations for others.iPhoneMelon MeterMelon Meter is marvellously simple in its intent: it tells you whether a watermelon in a shop is ripe enough to eat. How? You thump it with your hand, then the app analyses the sound to tell you whether to buy or leave.iPhoneNokia NearbyNokia has launched a new "hyper-local search" app for Series 60 and Series 40 handsets that don't have GPS or mapping features. Launched by the company's Beta Labs division, it searches for venues near the user's current location.NokiaStar Alliance FareFinderThe Star Alliance network of airlines has a new iPhone app to help people compare prices and book flights. Well, the first of those anyway: they are then directed to the member airline's website to actually book their tickets.iPhoneUnited AirlinesUnited Airlines has just launched its official Android app, enabling passengers to book flights, check their status and check in on the go. Push notifications and airport maps are also included.AndroidSherlock Holmes w/ BooktrackStartup Booktrack has an interesting idea: to provide soundtracks for book-apps on iOS. This one serves up Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's The Adventure of the Speckled Band with atmospheric audio: horse's hooves, wood fires and other effects.iPhone / iPadRobin Nixon: HTML5 Crash CourseWith HTML5 mobile web apps rising up the priority list for many developers, what better way to learn how to make them than... a native iOS app? Robin Nixon's new book has its own app, offering 20 chapters and more than three hours of video tutorials.iPhone / iPadW Front RowW Magazine has launched a spin-off iPhone app focusing on the Fashion Weeks in New York, London, Milan and Paris. It offers a guide to shopping, eating and drinking, hotels and culture in the four cities, while pulling in Fashion Week tweets.iPhonePure FlowPure Flow is the work of Katy Connor and Duncan Rowland: a mobile artwork whose App Store blurb promises that it "transforms iPhone and iPad into a Live probe revealing the noise between GPS satellites, 3G networks and Wifi hotspots as a tangible presence in the environment". It ties in with September's Brighton Digital Festival.iPhoneDesire Wedding Inspiration Board CreatorIndulge your inner Bridezilla with this wedding board app for iPad, which makes it easy to save and display photos as inspiration for your wedding day, while sharing them via Facebook and email.iPadYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
I didn't plan on seeing this download-only first-person shooter at Gamescom last week, but somehow the Warner Bros PR man managed to wrestle me into the demo room and then shut the door. Fair enough, I thought, I'll giveGotham City Impostersa quick try. And I'm really glad I did.Designed byMonolith, the studio behind dark action adventures like FEAR and Condemned, it's an unashamedly cartoon-styled multiplayer romp, pitching two factions of crazed wannabes – The Jokerz and the Bats – against each other in idiotic four-vs-four street battles. Both sides have different classes to choose from including Mighty, Nimble and Tough, with each boasting different weapons and abilities. Nimble characters, for example, can don rollerskates, giving them super speed and the ability to jump over ramps.Characters can be heavily customised, allowing players to change their avatar's look as well as their loadout. Outifts range from homemade halloween versions of the Batman and Joker constumes, to garish creations that retain only the signature colours and symbols of their inspirations. It's a neat idea, maintaining a definite visual theme while allowing players to express individuality. If you want your Joker to wear stockings, a pair of Y-fronts and a huge orange bowtie, that's fine.Alongside main and secondary weapons, players can opt for a range of support items such as throwable bear traps and jack-in-the-box proximity mines. Matches take place in a variety of haunts around Gotham City, taking in city streets and abandoned amusement parks. We got to play amid a network of back alleys and car lots, jammed with vehicles, ramps and trampolines, allowing characters to leap high into the sky and onto rooftops.With hyper-fast, twitchcore combat and plenty of mid-air skirmishes, the feel is vintage Arena-based shooter – think Unreal Tournament or Quake III, rather than Call of Duty. The conquest mode has the teams fighting to control key points on each map – the structure is a tug of war over 100 points, and it's highly fluid so even when one side is on 90 and the other on 10, it doesn't take long to shift the balance back. The set-up makes for furious, highly aggressive bouts, enriched with knockabout humour. Definitely one to watch out for if the thought of Crackdown mixed with Unreal, DC Comics and a sort of Jamie Hewlett interpretation of the Batman universe appeals.Gotham City Impostors it out in early 2012 on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360
Apple is expected to release a cheaper iPhone 4 within weeks, cutting profit margins to win lower-end customers from rivals such as Nokia in China and other emerging markets.In addition to the launch of the smaller iPhone 4, Apple is targeting an end-September launch for the next-generation iPhone 5, one source told Reuters, confirming earlier reports on blogs and industry websites.The new iPhone – which some have dubbed the iPhone 4S because of its largely identical appearance to the existing iPhone 4 – will have a bigger touchscreen, better antenna and an 8MP camera, one source told Reuters.Its two manufacturers have been told to prepare production capacity for up to 45m units altogether, the source said. The phone will be made by Hon Hai Precision Industries and Pegatron Corp, the person added.Meanwhile, theWall Street Journal reportedon Tuesday that the Sprint network will begin selling a new version of the iPhone in the US from mid-October, which would make it the third distributor for Apple's products in the US after AT&amp;T and Verizon.Reuters said Asian suppliers have begun making a lower-cost version of the hot-selling smartphone with just 8GB of flash storage, to arrive around the same time Apple unveils its iPhone 5.The move would mean Apple, which has stuck to the higher end of the booming mobile and smartphone market since unveiling the iPhone in January 2007, would be seeking out new markets at new price points to sustain the rapid growth that has seen its stock value rise to make it the world's most valuable company by market capitalisation.Apple sold 20.34m iPhones in the second quarter versus an expected 17m to 18m, and is increasingly looking to Asia to boost future results. It is in talks with leading Chinese carriers China Mobile and China Telecom Corp, both are eager to begin selling the iPhone officially. China represents the largest untapped market for smartphones, a sector that is roughly doubling in size annually –although some analysts think that 2011 will mark its fastest growth."A lower-priced version of iPhone 4 seems to be a necessary evil at this point in the iPhone adoption cycle, especially in emerging markets where the average income of individuals is much lower," said Channing Smith, co-manager of the Capital Advisors Growth Fund, which owns Apple shares.Pat Becker, portfolio manager at Becker Capital Management, said Apple is looking to take a chunk of the market that is currently dominated by Nokia, which is widely expected to release a new phone running on Microsoft's Windows Phone software by the end of the year.Nokia dominates the lower end, while Apple has so far focused only on the premium market. But the Finnish company's decision announced in January to discontinue its Symbian platform, and the rapid sales growth in the far east of handsets using Google's free Android mobile operating system, has eroded Nokia's market share substantially in China, formerly one of its strongholds.Apple's move would also echo its approach to the music-player market, which it dominated by introducing a number of lower-cost devices such as the iPod mini, shuffle and nano once it had established its top-end dominance with the original player.A cheaper phone risks cannibalising Apple's premium iPhone model and pressuring margins, but the California company needs to expand its emerging market share, analysts say. "Your best defence is sometimes your offence," Becker said.The Wall Street Journal said Sprint plans to sell the iPhone 5 with an unlimited data plan for contract phones, a policy abandoned by other carriers but which is still seen as an effective method to attract new customers."Combined with the company's marketing focus on its unlimited plan, iPhone would drive a rebound in subscriber growth," said Mizuho analyst Michael Nelson who said it could help Sprint exceed his expectation for fourth-quarter net subscriber additions of about 190,000.Since Verizon and Sprint use the same CDMA network technology, which differs from the GSM system used by AT&amp;T and European carriers, analysts have long speculated that it made sense for Apple to widen its distribution to Sprint, having added Verizon in January. While Sprint executives have previously said they would like to sell the iPhone, they have never confirmed they were in talks with Apple to do so.Apple, which demands high levels of secrecy and security from suppliers and employees, would not comment.The iPhone 4 was launched June 2010 in black 16GB and 32GB versions, with white versions added to the lineup in April 2011. The 8GB version is expected within weeks, two separate sources have told Reuters."Apple may want to push into the emerging market segment, where customers want to switch to low- to mid-end smartphones from high-end feature phones, which usually cost $150 [£91] to $200," said Yuanta Securities analyst Bonnie Chang. "But I think for an 8GB iPhone 4, the price is hard to go below $200, so Apple will still need a completely new phone with low specifications for the emerging markets."An iPhone 4 without contract commitments now costs more than $600, and the largest untapped market for buyers lies among those who buy mobile phones on a "pay as you go" basis.Apple's chief operating officer, Tim Cook, said in July the company is optimistic about greater China, in which Apple includes mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan."I firmly believe that we are just scratching the surface right now," Cook said about China. "I think there is an incredible opportunity for China there."Asia Pacific – accounting for about one-fifth of Apple's total revenue – and greater China in particular helped Apple's revenue surge 82% to $28.6bn in April to June. Overall, Asia Pacific revenue more than tripled to $6.3bn in the quarter.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamChina's PC market now bigger than US's &gt;&gt; IC"PC shipments in the China market have exceeded those of the United States in the second quarter of 2011 (2Q11). Approximately 18.5m units worth US$11.9bn shipped in China during the quarter, compared to 17.7m units worth US$11.7bn in the U.S. China represented 22% of the global PC market's unit shipments compared to the US at 21%."Who's who in the phone hacking scandal (in HTML5) &gt;&gt;Nice implementation in HTML5 - though of course you'll need a compatible browser. Code athttps://github.com/emmasax/Phone-hackingby Emmasax.Windows Phone 7 Challenge: Week 2, the verdict &gt;&gt; Molly Wood, CNET News"Look, I recognize that no phone is perfect, no mobile OS is perfect, no technology is perfect, I'm not perfect, all of that. And Mango is, by and large, a good effort. But at this stage in the game, it's got to be on point if Microsoft has any hope of convincing people to turn their adoring eyes from iPhone or pull them away from the massive marketing machine of Android. Mango is good. A lot of people could use it every day and be totally happy with it. But it's not great."Molly Wood is usually thought of as a Windows fan. (Thanks @Avro for the link.)What does Google mean by "Evil?" &gt;&gt; Aaron Swartz"Pretty much ever since Paul Buchheit suggested "Don't be evil" as a corporate values statement (and Amit Patel begun writing it on whiteboards around the office), any time Google does something people don't like, they begin calling it 'evil' and complaining that Google is violating its prime directive."But surely 'evil' means something more than just 'wrong' or 'bad'. If the girl across the street peers through your window to watch you undress, we might say that was bad and wrong and awful, but I don't think anyone would try to claim it was evil."Thoughtful: captures the essence of how Google, and companies that succeed in building loyal customer bases, think, and how it differs from those which don't.Why Amazon can't make a Kindle in the USA &gt;&gt; ForbesIntriguing investigation of how the ability to build stuff has leaked away across the Pacific: the two companies given as examples make an interesting contrast.Infographic Of The Day: an animated GIF of the music industry's death &gt;&gt; FastCo Design"The series of pie charts shows the sales of various music formats: Thus, you can see cassettes begin devouring the LP, and then CDs devouring cassettes, and then, of course, downloadable MP3s decimating CD sales:"The trouble though is that it's jerky and less easy to follow than the same data as a straight line graph. Only us?Things Apple is Worth More Than &gt;&gt; TumblrIncludes Michael Dell.HP partners startled by TouchPad's demise, uncertain WebOS future &gt;&gt; Computer Reseller News"Robert McMillen, president of Portland, Ore.-based All Tech 1, a security solution provider with a strong mobile security business, said his company wasted no resources on the WebOS software or the TouchPad hardware because neither offered a value proposition for his customers."'We never had a single meeting with our staff about supporting [the HP TouchPad] platform,' he said. 'There was almost no information on security for this product. It wasn't built for business, it was built more for consumers. It wasn't even a blip on our radar.'"And he's not alone. HP has burnt a lot of boats with this move.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The plannedacquisition of British software company Autonomy by US tech giant Hewlett-Packardhas stirred up a lot of comment. Shadow business secretary, John Denham,said there might be a casefor looking at whether certain strategic industries should be protected from foreign takeover, and criticised financial backers of technology startups who insist on a sale of the business so they can recoup their investment. Tony Burke, Unite's assistant general secretary for manufacturing,claimedthe problem with merger and acquisitions is that they do not grow the economy and rarely create jobs.Have we really come to this? Instead of celebrating a great British success, our reaction is to wring our hands and discuss legislation to make sure such success cannot happen again. Something is very wrong with this picture.I spent more than a decade in San Francisco and New York working both for startups and for large tech companies such as Apple and Google. Two years ago I returned to the UK, where I'm now CTO of one of London's leading tech startups,Songkick. Much has changed in the UK since I left, but apparently we still have a fair way to go if we're to emulate the success of Silicon Valley.The UK has several concentrations of startup activity. A number have sprung up in "Silicon Fen" around Cambridge University, Autonomy among them. Another hub is in east London with more than 500 startups based around Shoreditch, in an area fondly known as Silicon Roundabout. Government support for these burgeoning communities is very helpful, but what we really need is a steady flow of money and expertise to fund exciting new companies. These companies are creating thousands of new jobs and are attracting new investment from within and outside the UK.What success looks likeAny success like Autonomy's is a huge inspiration for those who aspire to run a company. It shows that hard work, and building great products pays off. Mike Lynch, Autonomy's founder, was a penniless graduate when he founded the company in 1991 and now stands to reap the rewards of decades of success. He has a long history of investing in British startups. He and many others now at Autonomy will be ploughing their money and their know-how back into the UK startup scene, creating yet more jobs and, hopefully, more successful entrepreneurs.So let's look at Autonomy's acquisition a different way. This is not a threat to Britain's future, its a vital component of our future. If we want large, successful technology companies in the UK we first need lots of smaller, successful companies. Autonomy's acquisition will pump vast sums into both the UK government's coffers and into the hands of investors.Successful startups reach an "exit". This usually comes in the form of an initial public offering – such as Google's – or an acquisition, such as Autonomy's. In either case, the value created by the employees is transformed from a theoretical one into something that you can actually bank, and the employees and the shareholders make a lot of money. In the case of an acquisition, the company (hopefully) becomes part of a greater whole where it can continue to find success.Show me the moneySo, what happens to all the money HP just agreed to pay? A lot of it will immediately flow to the British government, through taxation. The several billion dollars of extra tax revenue will make a small but significant dent in our debts, or could be used to save thousands of vital public sector jobs.Meanwhile, many individuals will become wealthy. Some may retire to sail around the world. But others will become investors and use that money to fund new startup companies. This virtuous cycle is at the heart of Silicon Valley's success. Each generation of startups creates new wealth that is ploughed back into the next generation through venture capitalists and angel investors – such as the music executive who got Lynch and Autonomy started by loaning him £2,000 in a pub. Wealthy individuals with a passion for, and deep knowledge of, technology help budding entrepreneurs start their own companies. If we can ignite this cycle here in Britain, we can spawn an entire new technology industry to rival America's.So, let's toast Mike Lynch and Autonomy. Let's welcome the influx of HP's money and all the good things it will bring to the UK. We should be celebrating this very British success, not looking to stifle it.
Wednesday time! You know the drill: come this way and talk about games.
Motorola Mobility, the US mobile company Google isset to acquire for $12.5bn(£7.6bn), has been banned from claiming it makes the world's most powerful smartphones following a ruling by the advertising watchdog.Motorola ran an a TV ad campaign that claimed the Atrix mobile phone was "the world's most powerful smartphone".The Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) received two complaints from fans of Samsung's Galaxy smartphone range claiming that Motorola's Atrix was inferior.The complainants argued that the Samsung Galaxy S II i9100 had a more powerful processor and said that Motorola's claim to be the fastest was therefore misleading.Motorola said that in addition to its processing capability, the Atrix had other slick features which, although not promoted in the ad, included a battery 20% more powerful "than all known worldwide competitors" and an ability to "read fingertips" to provide better security and protection.Motorola said that while the Samsung Galaxy did have a "slightly faster" processor, the combination of Atrix features makes it "the world's most powerful smartphone".The ASA said that consumers would understand the TV ad to mean that the phone by itself was the world's most powerful smartphone.The advertising watchdog said that because the Samsung Galaxy posseses a faster processor, Motorola's claim had not been substantiated by evidence in the TV ad.The ASA banned the ad for breaking advertising code rules relating to misleading advertising, substantiation, exaggeration and comparisons, and ruled that Motorola must not stake claim to being the world's most powerful smartphone again.Separately,Apple has accusedSamsung of "slavishly" copying the design and functionality of its popular iPhone and iPad lines with the Galaxy range of smartphones and tablet computers.Apple won a preliminary injunction against the Korean electronics giant earlier this month in an acrimonious patent dispute.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
Facebook has moved to address one of its biggest privacy challenges by finally giving users more control over photos tagged and shared on their profile.Facebook users could previously be tagged in any pictures uploaded by their friends to the biggest photo-sharing site on the web, which hosts an estimated 100bn photos.Acknowledging one of the most common requests from users, one of a new swath of feature improvements being rolled out by the site in the next few days a new drop-down menu will now allow users to request their friend remove the photo or even block that friend. Users will also be able to chose to approve or reject any photo they are tagged in before it goes live.Two further changes will be seen as responses to Twitter and Google's surging social networking tool, Google+.Facebook's status updates will now include an option to add a location, link to other users mentioned in the post – both features that will be familiar to Twitter users – and chose whether the post is shared with friends or the wider public.In a nod to the popularity of "circles" in Google+, which allow users to group contact, family and friends and set an appropriate level of content sharing, Facebook has said its new sharing option will eventually be expanded so that users can decide whether to share individual posts, links and photos with specific sets of friends."This dropdown menu will be expanding over time to include smaller groups of people you may want to share with, like co-workers, friend lists you've created, and groups you're a member of," said Facebook's vice president of product, Chris Cox, in a blog post. "These will make it easy to quickly select exactly the audience you want for any post."These improvements mark a change in tactic for Facebook, which has regularly aggravated users with its rapid development policy, rolling out new features with no warning. Several of these have sparked concerns over the site's attitude to privacy, including the introduction of the now standard news feed in 2006which shared users' activity with friends, and the FacebookBeacon featurewhich displayed users' commercial activity.Cox insisted Facebook had "done a better job" of consulting privacy advocacy groups and studying privacy controls before introducing the features. Six months in development, they also include moving much of the privacy and sharing settings on to pages and posts themselves to make them more accessible.New features will also allow users to tag other users that are not friends, though they will need to approve that photo before it goes live, and the sharing option for "everyone" has now been renamed "public"."This won't be the last iteration of our privacy settings," said Cox. "We're always trying to improve, always doing user testing and always feeding in to improve the controls on who can see content."Cox rejected comparisons with Google+ and Twitter. "People will always talk about Google no matter what we do and that's fine – we're not using Google to determine the work we do. As for Twitter – it's a pretty different service and I'm not sure how they will respond. We just want people to be clear on the differences between sharing behaviours."The changes will also mean that the opt-in "Places" feature on Facebook's mobile app, which had caused some controversy among users concerned about sharing their location, is phased out. Instead, users can chose to add their location to status updates they post."Location is not about checking in," said Cox. "Places was rather a monolithic feature, but we've taken that to the sharing tool and made it one common flow."
Louise Mensch, the Conservative MP, didn't react as perhaps the sender of thethreatening email she received on Mondayhad hoped. She came out swinging - as anyone who knows her even a little might have been able to predict."Had some morons from Anonymous/LulzSec threaten my children via email. As I'm in the States, be good … to have somebody from the UK police advise me where I should forward the email," she tweeted. And then followed up byrefusing to be cowed: " I'm posting it on Twitter because they threatened me telling me to get off Twitter. Hi kids! ::waves::".Sticking two fingers up at Anonymous might have drawn some gasps a while back. (Of course, it's impossible to prove that it really came "from" Anonymous, and many Twitter accounts from members denied the idea: "1. Not discussed in IRC [Internet Relay Chat, the favoured gathering place for Anonymous members]. 2. Email &amp; threats of violence not Anon's MO [modus operandi]. 3. @louisemensch is not important enough,"tweetedone such, JohnDoeKM.) But the group is looking less like a force and more like an incoherent rabble as a result of the past two months, when many of its ideals have been washed away in a tide of misdirected hacking, which in turn has led to a number of public defections by people disaffected with its lack of focus.Departing nowAs one departing memberposted on Pastebin(the favoured site for declarations relating to the group):"Anonymous fights for freedom, you don't like people controlling you, that is admirable. But while you fight to remain free from government tyranny, you've shoved your views, into the faces of others. Because of your recent acts you've gone from liberators to terrorist dictators. I'm posting this as a guest because I feel that by simply disagreeing with you, I run a risk of attack."Andhere's another(I've tweaked his Capitals For Every Word style):So when I started with Anon I thought I was helping people but over the past few months things inside anon have changed. I am mostly talking about Antisec [an "anti-security operation being run by Anonymous] and Lulzsec. They both go against what I stand for (and what Anonymous says they stand for). Antisec has released gig after gig of innocent peoples information. For what? What did they do? Does Anon have the right to remove the anonymity of innocent people? They are always talking about peoples' right to remain anonymous, so why are they removing that right?Oranother, from "cornfog":They jump on any possible chance they get to make headlines. Do you honestly think anonymous cares about BART... well of course they don't, why else would they release tons of personal information on innocent users who they are fighting for? Yeah... what? I don't understand this, but I don't seem to be the only one. Which leads us to our next topic, which would be Freedom Of Speech, another cause anonymous fights for.... until it's a negative comment on them, then they bash you beyond hell and harass you, and your family, for simply speaking out freely, again, something they fight for.You get the idea: Anonymous isn't really winning hearts and minds. But the reason why not – and particularly why not in the past couple of months – is down to a group which you might have thought had taken Anonymous's ideas to a new level. That would be the hacking group LulzSec.This was the crew gathered from within Anonymous which hacked Sony Pictures Europe, and PBS, and a number of games companies, and then raised their sights to hit the US Senate, and then the UK Serious Organised Crime Agency and finally – aftersaying they had disbanded– News International's site,planting a fake story claiming Rupert Murdoch was dead, and then redirecting readers of the Sun front page to their Twitter feed.The fun may have stopped, though. In Britain three people have been arrested and two charged with offences relating to LulzSec's actions.For some time after the UK arrests, the only visibly active member of LulzSec remained its leader, known online as "Sabu", who would simultaneously deny that he was its leader and then use phrases such as "my team". Detail about him suggested that he is Puerto Rican, living in New York and – critically – at least 30 years old. That would make him very different from the others said to be involved in LulzSec; the chat logs show that he was the mature one who directed operations. Most of Anonymous's hangers-on, who tend to range from early teens to early 20s. For almost a month after LulzSec's final hack he remained on Twitter at the@Anonymousabuaccount, generally either arguing with people or boosting those he backed. (For a period he seemed to share the account with at least one other person: the timings of the postings, with a "double peak" roughly correlating to one person based in Europe, and another on the east coast of the US, and the multilingual content at particular times, didn't quite tell the story of a single person. But the second "identity" went away in the past couple of weeks.)Who's snitching on whom?Then came avicious chatroom disputewith Mike "Virus" Nieves, whom Sabu accused of having passed on information to the New York police following a comment he, Sabu, had made about nyc.gov. Sabu denounced Virus on Twitter as a "snitch" and began putting out details about him. Meanwhile, the "doxers" - people in the online world who like to make individuals' details public - began putting together their profiles of Sabu. The most recent ones pulled together a number of details, including photos, emails, websites and history for someone who is claimed to be Sabu. Unlike previous "unmaskings", Sabu didn't deny these ones; he simply disappeared, leaving agnomic tweetechoing The Usual Suspects ("The greatest trick the devil ever pulled was convincing the world he did not exist. And like that... he is gone.").He hasn't been visible online since. It's not presently known whether he has been - as they say in hacker circles - "V&amp;". (V + "and" = vanned, or "given a ride in the party wagon": in other words, arrested.)But Sabu's actions, while he was visible, left a vacuum in Anonymous. One prominent hacker,The Jester– reckoned to be an ex-US military member whose aims are antithetical to those of Anonymous, and who operates on his own targeting what he sees as anti-American jihadist sites (but also, when it released the US diplomatic cables, WikiLeaks) – asserted thatSabu was doing everything you'd expect of an Islamic cyber-terrorist. Most notably, targeting western government sites rather than those of Burma, Libya or China or any of a number of arguably more repressive regimes than the US or UK. Sabu denied this vehemently.The trouble was, LulzSec's aim – to hack for laughs – didn't seem to hold up. The game had gotten serious. Which meanwhile left Anonymous wondering what the hell it was for.Of course, the thing about Anonymous is that it isn'texactlyorganised, and it doesn'texactlyhave a manifesto; more amodus operandi, which is to use computing and networking technologies to protest at what it sees as infringements of what it sees as rights. Sometimes these are spot-on: when the members of the collective used their power to overturn attempts by the Church of Scientology to suppress discussion (and even publication) of its documents, it was definitely acting as a force for good – against repression. Some of the actions early in the Arab spring – aimed against the websites of governments trying to suppress citizens – were arguably useful (though it's hard to evaluate their real impact).Moving out of creditAttacking PayPal and MasterCard,though, was less smart, even if it was principled (the principle being that Anonymous likes WikiLeaks, and PayPal and MasterCard were doing things that didn't help WikiLeaks, so Anonymous would be unhelpful in return). The flaw though was that many people were recruited to allow their PCs to be used as bots in botnets targeting those sites using the LOIC software. The problem with that is that knowingly being part of a DDOS attack is against the law in the US, UK and a number of other countries; arrests followed. The FBI is reportedly working through a list of a thousand IP addresses whose owners may face arrest; so far it's still in the first hundred or so.Further down the defensibility scale was theattack on the website of ACS:Law. The London solicitors firm had already made a bad name for itself by sending out letters to people claiming that they had illicitly downloaded music or pornographic films, and that they could avoid a costly legal case by just stumping up a few hundred pounds. ACS:Law's site collapsed under Anonymous's attack, and spilt its guts – in the form of emails and internal details. Arguably, that hastened the end of the firm by embarrassing it terribly and bringing it into the spotlight; but the speed with which it capitulated in the court cases brought against it, and that its founder Andrew Crossley had already been investigated by the Solicitors' Regulatory Authority, might have had just as much to do with it. What's also definite is that huge amounts of personal data that was leaked as a direct result of those attacks, and a significant amount was embarrassing, containing as it did ACS:Law's allegations of the names of people who had downloaded films – and the names of the films.And similarly there was thehack by Anonymous (and including members of LulzSec) of HBGary, a US military contractor. HBGary came to the group's attention because Aaron Barr, its chief, decided to try to penetrate Anonymous (Ars Technica has the full story).it was offering to help the Bank of America, which was worried that WikiLeaks had sensitive internal documents relating to its activities during the US mortgage boom leading up to 2008.Anonymous turned over HBGary, but nothing of any great value emerged – although there are plenty of nuggets amid the many emails, not least that there is a whole cadre of private companies in the US which are setting themselves up to provide cyber-defence – or possibly attack – to the highest bidder. (There's anexcellent article on this in BusinessWeek.)But part of that hack also involved leaking personal details of HBGary staff, and threats against them. Ugly? Yes. Avoidable? Yes: it's very simple to obfuscate contact details - it's the work of two minutes usingregexto blank, say, all but the last four digits of a mobile or home number, or only the last four digits of a number. It proves that you've got it, but without the collateral damage of spreading it over the net. Certainly there's nothing to be gained from posting the full details of people who had entered competitions on the Sun's site; yet they were splattered over Pastebin.Rules of engagementPerhaps Anonymous needs to figure out some rules of engagement, because it's actually starting to repel some of the people who thought they liked its ideas; that's clear from what we might call the "Not so dear John Doe" letters on Pastebin.All that seems to be left, as a result, is a few hacking crews. who seem to be of an age which doesn't yield that much wisdom: folks such asTeamPoison and his disappointing grade in Computer Science AS-level; or another (we're fairly sure) British-based hacking crew who would like to emulate LulzSec, and have spent the past week or so hacking and DDOSing (unwisely, I think) various government, police and military sites in the US and UK. (I'm not going to name them, because it only encourages them).OK, so it's hacking, and it seems like fun, at least until the police come knocking on your door. But for Anonymous, which for a while entertained the idea that it could be so much more, the past couple of months have seemed like the downward arc from something that seemed promising to something that is just a mess. Cyberactivism? Well, perhaps if you subtract the "activism" part. As one well-publicised tweet says, you can't arrest an idea. But you can certainly corrupt it.[Please note: comments relating to any ongoing court case in the UK could constitute contempt of court and will be removed.]Updated:corrected chronology relating to HBGary; clarified re TeamPoison.
Research In Motion will release an updated version of its "affordable" BlackBerry Curve handset through Vodafone in the UK this September, in a move to cement the product's popularity with young consumers.Prices have yet to be announced, but are likely to be in line with the £110 to £120 range of Curve phones issued during the last two years for pre-paid customers.BlackBerry phones are used by 7 million in the UK and reality caught up with its outdated image as a product reserved for the corporate market during this summer's unrest. Its popularity with young, cost-conscious users came to light as BlackBerry Messenger played a key role in the communications which facilitated the looting and subsequent cleanup.BlackBerry Messenger – which is free – is popular with users on low cost contracts looking to save money by replacing phone calls and text messages with email as the primary means of communication.With five more upmarket, touchscreen handsets announced earlier this month, Rim is gearing up for what it says is the largest global launch of smartphones in its history, as it tries to claw back market share from Apple and handsets using Google's Android operating system.Rim's co-chief executive, Mike Lazaridis, said: "The new BlackBerry Curve smartphones ... offer a significant performance upgrade with an unmatched mobile social experience for the millions of feature phone users in the market as well as our existing curve customers."Using the BlackBerry 7 operating system, the BlackBerry Curve 9360 includes cutting-edge features such as GPS, which helps locate a lost phone, and Near Field Communications (NFC) technology, which allows phones to be scanned by special readers at tills to pay for small items such as snacks and newspapers. Curve's Facebook and Twitter applications have also been updated, with new features such as Facebook chat.Ernest Doku, technology analyst at uSwitch.com, said: "High functionality at that price is very compelling to kids who want a cutting-edge experience. Future proofing with features like NFC when we are making low-cost transactions with our mobile is going to appeal to the new demographic who have latched on to the messaging functionality."
If the future of computer is iPads and smartphones then why is HP cancelling its webOS mobile platform and Touchpad tablet – after just 49 days?The company also intends to buy the British Autonomy Corporation, and Jemima Kiss, Charles Arthur and Juliette Garside find out about their impressive client list and why that may hold a clue as to why HP are interested in purchasing the company and moving into business services.Also on this week's Tech Weekly, Aleks Krotoski casts a critical eye on social media, asking what we can learn about ourselves and other cultures by looking at how we use the web.Facebook's director of policy in Europe, Richard Allan, talks about openness, politics and debate, and how the company intends to keep its platform accessible in territories that want to censor information.Finally, HP Labs' Bernardo Huberman offers insight into the differences in social media use in China, where 140 million people have signed up for Twitter-alike Sina Weibo. What do the Chinese tweet about?Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Ambitious music streaming services launched by Google and Amazon in the US have been boosted by a district court ruling that digital music lockers do not directly infringe copyright.In a summary judgment at a district court in Manhattan, Judge William Pauley ruled that the music website MP3Tunes.com was protected under US law because its users, not the website, were responsible for uploading the tracks and potentially infringing copyright.Google and Amazonunveiled music lockers similar to MP3Tunes.comearlier this year, allowing listeners to upload music from their computer to the internet for playback on smartphones and other devices.Major record labels, including Sony and EMI, had suggested that such cloud-based lockers were unlawful because they made a copy of a file without seeking permission from the rights owners. Sony at the time said it was keeping its legal options open overAmazon's Cloud Player.Pauley, however, ruled on Monday that MP3Tunes.com was lawful under the "safe harbour" provision of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), which protects online services from potential infringements by their customers.Michael Robertson, the founder of MP3Tunes.com, said: "We're pleased that the court upheld our fundamental business model and, more broadly, unlicensed cloud music. This is great news for those that are emulating our personal music service like Amazon and Google and those involved in lawsuits like Grooveshark."Robertson previous fought, and lost, a similar court battle in the late 1990s as the head of MP3.com, which offered a similar service.Duncan Calow, partner in intellectual property at the law firm DLA Piper, told the Guardian that the ruling gave the "thumbs up" to the online locker services launched by Google and Amazon.He added: "Ultimately, the services that will be successful are those that are able to strike a deal with content owners, so from that perspective I don't think this will make that much difference."Tim Bamford, intellectual property partner at Withers law firm, said: "On the face of it, it does fall in favour of Amazon and Google as it justifies [the MP3Tunes] basic business model. Subject to the appeals process the judgment is a green light for others to jump on the same bandwagon."Alexander Ross, head of commercial music at the London law firm Wiggin, said the judgment made clear that the user was responsible for uploading material, rather than the service provider. But he noted that there were still legal ambiguities over how copyrighted works were transmitted over cloud players.EMI, the label behind Jay-Z and Usher, and 14 other record labels launched the legal battle in 2008 in an attempt to force MP3Tunes.com to store a separate copy of each track, rather than one track for multiple listeners.But although the MP3Tunes.com cloud model was ruled lawful, Pauley said the website contributed to online infringement when it failed to take down infringing material after being notified by the rights holders.A spokesman for EMI said: "We are pleased that MP3tunes and Michael Robertson have been held liable for infringing hundreds of sound recordings and musical compositions through their Sideload and MP3tunes websites. The court's decision confirms that businesses cannot simply pay lip service to the law while undermining the rights of the musicians, artists and writers that create popular music.."He added: "At the same time, we're disappointed that the court found that MP3tunes was entitled to a safe harbour for some of its conduct under the DMCA. EMI believes that companies like MP3tunes, which knowingly build a business based on stolen music, should not be entitled to any DMCA safe harbour defence."We will continue to fight – in this case and in the future – for the rights of our artists and writers, and to ensure that they are always properly compensated every time their music is used in a commercial setting."In Europe, the legality of cloud-based services remains far from clear. Neither Amazon nor Google has offered any timings for the launch of their music services outside the US. Europe has far tighter laws restricting the copying of songs, even in digital form. Strictly speaking it is still illegal in the UK to transfer a song from a CD to an iPod.Calow said it was unclear whether the internet giants would have the same protection under European law as in the US. He added, however, that rights holders could be forced to support cloud-based services if they want the protection of the law. "European law will continue to support copyright but at the same time [legislators] need to see steps from rights holders to embrace new services," he said."Since cloud is the flavour of the month, there will be a specific pressure on engaging with service provders. Whether that is sufficient to launch over here we'll have to wait and see."•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
Last week, at the Gamescom festival in Cologne, I got my first proper hands-on time with Battlefield 3. A five minute blast through the Operation Metro level during E3 provided a quick glimpse, but EA brought a 64-player PC level and a PS3 co-op stage to Germany; a great opportunity to assess the game's scope – especially after playing Modern Warfare 3's exciting Survival mode.To show off the newly announced two-player co-op missions, EA Dice was running a level named Exfiltration. Set in a dilapidated corner of Tehran, the mission involves rescuing a PLR defector named El Zakir from a guarded apartment block. Our demo has one player taking on an Assault role, while the other goes Recon, with a silenced pistol and scoped rifle.The action starts with the duo creeping through the lower floors of the block, simultaneously taking out small groups of guards, while also shooting down security cameras. If the alarm sounds, troops will swarm in making the rescue offensive much more difficult. Once we grab our man, it's back out into the streets to load him into a Humvee. Then we have to scout ahead, clearing the darkened street of enemy troops to provide a safe escape route.It's an okay co-op experience. The different weapon and item sets tempt players to actually work together, rather than simply running and gunning side by side. In the final section, the Recon character is able to pick off the enemies on raised terraces and in upper windows while the Assault guy heads down the street clearing out the ground level. The earlier stealth sections are more disappointing, though, requiring little in the way of planning or tactical interplay. I wish we'd seen a more varied, more open co-operative mission, but as a taster, it was interesting.Spawning into the 64-playerCaspian Border map, the first things that hit you are sheer size and detail. Around our airfield there are acres of rolling grassland, sloping down toward a snaking river. On the other side, in the distance, there are threadbare woodlands and concrete buildings dotted about. A single track zigzags toward a bridge at the base of the valley. There is no sign of enemy activity, just an HUD showing the map's four conquest points.  For a few second the eerie silence is broken as a helicopter zooms over, beneath it, the blackened vapour trails of speeding missiles.A short tank ride later and we're in the midst of a skirmish around a wrecked military outpost. Heading up onto a rooftop, the crackle of gunfire surrounds me, above the trees I can see billows of smoke from another conquest point. Picking out enemy troops amid the shrubs and concrete blocks is tough; the Frost Bite 2 engine has been used to create an environment of lush, but naturalistic detail – lone soldiers blend easily into the flora. Meanwhile, the labelling of your own troops is subtle and easy to miss, so early on, every encounter involves a millisecond of confusion – usually, for me, it ends badly.It is tense, exhilarating stuff, and it is no place for lone run-and-gun nut jobs. There are four classes to opt for – Assault, Engineer, Recon and Support – each with a huge range of weapons and items, easily selectable through a lovely smartphone-style user interface at the start of the session. They will all be vital components of a successful team. I can see Recon becoming key-team players, spotting and marking enemies so that they're clearer amid the foliage. The Support guys will also be valuable in larger battles, using light machine guns to lay down suppressing fire which causes the screens of nearby enemy players to go blurry. Tactical play is in the DNA of the Battlefield series, but it is absolutely paramount here.There are stunning moments. Tank battles amid crumbling buildings, looking up while on a sniping mission to see dog-fighting jets zoom way over head. What Battlefield 3 does is emphasise the three dimensionality of the war zone; the soldiers, the snipers on rooftops, the choppers, the jets; a series of interacting vertical compartments. On a high-end PC, the detail and fluidity is breathtaking.But yet, it is not over-powering. The sense of space means there are long periods between frantic face-offs. "We have the Swedish mentality of subtlety, of focusing on the right things – it's not a complete sensory overload," says producer Patrick Liu. "With Battlefield 3, we've been concentrating on creating the most authentic, the most physical, experience you've ever had in a first-person shooter. You are in the body of the soldier. But at the same time, it has to be playable – it's not realistic in some senses, not exactly…"And this is an important point. It's weird writing about war games at the moment, knowing what's going on in the world, specifically right now, in Libya. It is troubling to use terms like 'authenticity' in relation to a game, where the parallels with brutal reality are confined to equipment, setting and noise. Yet it does feel much more as though the inspiration behind Battlefield has been documentary realism rather than Hollywood melodrama. In terms of tone and ambition, Battlefield 3 is the Generation Kill to Call of Duty's Inglourious Basterds.The key is in the audio. Those echoes of distant gunfire, the metallic ringing din of your own assault rifle. Everything sounds as though it is being generated within a true 3D environment. The award-winning Dice sound team has been using a technique known as high dynamic range audio, which mixes sound effects in real-time for each player so that they hear the important stuff, rather than a barrage of noises all at the same amplitude. (There's a good slideshow of a GDC talk on the subjecthere.)"In reality you don't hear all the sounds in your environment – you brain picks out a certain amount of sounds for you, which it thinks are important," says Liu. "That's what HDR audio does. There are footsteps, people talking, gunshots… but usually what really matters is the fact that you're being hit by bullets; when that happens it has a higher priority than all other sounds!"The sound team has also structured the audio effects for different environments. Each weapon has a range of samples, depending on where it's being used, so that firing it in a forest will contrast heavily with firing it in a subway station, while a claymore will sound different on a dirt surface than on concrete. It's not a major gameplay feature, but it adds to the sense of detail and – that word again – authenticity.EA Dice also called in a familiar figure to help with this aspect of the game. Andy McNabb, the ex-SAS author of Bravo Two Zero, has advised on both the campaign and multiplayer elements. "He brought a few things to the table," says Devin Bennett, of EA Games. "The way soldiers speak was one of them. They're always very positive 'we will do this', 'we will meet here' as opposed to 'we're going to try'… the banter at the start of the tank level we showed at E3 was all Andy. And there's the way they personalise their tanks – these things are their homes." McNabb also contributed heavily to the look of the Thunder Road tank level, providing EA Dice with photos of military outposts he'd spotted while on an MOD mission over the Iraq-Iranian border. Those buildings are now in the game."Oh and the other thing he told us is that guns are never clean," says Bennett. "You see all these military games with shiny guns… he said yours need to be dirty and beat up because they are in real-life. They've been through it."On the last day on Gamescom, I managed to sneak into EA's community lounge with writers from FHM and the Sunday Mirror. Ill-advisedly, we gatecrashed a team deathmatch session being held for the winners of an ESL Battlefield tournament. This was a much more frantic experience, a taut urban face-off throughout the Operation Metro map. There are pitch battles across courtyard cafes, there are snipers in the windows of glorious Parisian terraces; great chunks of plaster are blown from historic buildings. Yet, it still feels more measured than Modern Warfare.Here, I think it's down to the intricacies of the map design. In CoD, the arenas are designed for movement and insecurity – every cubbyhole has two entrances, every building is a route. From what I've seen, it's possible to bed down in Battlefield 3 – although campers are easily spotted, and the armoury range is there to flush them out. Yet still, it's thesenseof time and space that is different.So far, I've had just the slightest taste of these online experiences. I've yet to see how vehicle customisation works, or how the classes will be able to exploit the myriad equipment options. It will be fascinating to see how Battlelog functions to create a more social online gaming experience (and how it will compare with CoD: Elite). Also, I haven't flown a jet. But what I have found is a cutting edge re-interpretation of what made Battlefield 1942 so enormously enjoyable and compulsive all those years ago; vast, detailed maps, tactical depth and the ability to play as you want, within an environment that offers many possibilities. That is Battlefield.Battlefield 3 is released on 28 October for PC, PS3 and Xbox 360.
It's not always easy for a fuzzy-headed festivalgoer to remember on Monday morning all the bands they saw over the weekend. British band A Genuine Freakshow are hoping to jog a few memories as soon as they finish performing at this weekend's Reading and Leeds festivals, though, with a canny promotion for their new HTML5 mobile web app.The app is already live, and can befound here– although it's obviously best accessed from a smartphone or iPad. During the band's performances at Reading and Leeds, iPhone-shaped cards will be thrown into the crowd, with each one having a QR code on the back that when scanned, will take people directly to the web app. A Genuine Freakshow are launching their new single over the weekend too, so when people reach the site, there'll be something to listen to.The band are using a service calledSongpierto create and maintain the app. The service only publicly launched 10 weeks ago, making A Genuine Freakshow one of the first bands to put some oomph behind promoting one of its apps to their fans."It is the ability to give fans at shows and festivals immediate access to the music that makes Songpier incredibly powerful," says the band's manager Erik Nielsen – a man who knows a thing or two about bands connecting with their fans, having overseen Marillion's very successful digital campaigns to get fans funding their albums in recent years."Because there is also a depth of band information available in Songpier, and the ability to access it from just about any smartphone, it's a way for a new fan to discover a lot more right there and then, and walk away from a festival with more than just a vague memory of 'that new band they saw'."Mobile web apps, QR codes and festivals are, let's face it, a good PR combination for an emerging band looking to create a buzz around its music. There is a serious point here too, though, which is the decision to go for HTML5 rather than a native app for iPhone and/or Android.Most music artists with a mobile strategy still focus only on native apps - and a good proportion of them are still iPhone-only at that. Startup Mobile Roadie has been working hard in recent months to make it affordable for bands to simultaneously launch on iPhone and Android, although it pulled back from BlackBerry after finding users of those smartphones were seemingly much less interested in using artists' apps.Mobile Roadie doesn't make mobile websites, though. One advantage to HTML5 is the ability for a site to run across a wider range of smartphones with relatively little tweaking, assuming it has a capable browser and the site is set up to elegantly work across different screen sizes.There are cost benefits too: no registration fees or approval costs from the app stores for starters, while startups in this area are offering bands good deals in order to build momentum for their platforms. For now, Songpier is free, although it is planning to introduce premium features.Perhaps the strongest argument in favour of bands and mobile web apps, though, is the idea of search. Scanning a QR code remains a slightly fiddly discovery method for a music app, given the need to a.) explain to many people what a QR code is, and b.) provide instructions on how to scan it, which on iPhone requires  downloading an app to do that.But think of music fans hearing a band for the first time at a festival and wanting to know more. Will they go to their smartphone's app store to see if that artist has a native app, or will they fire up their browser and Google their name? If the latter, often the sites at the top of the rankings won't be optimised for mobile, which is where a slick HTML5 web app will be increasingly useful to have.
A burst of 7 apps for your considerationAdaptive PathWeb designers and app developers will be scrambling for their iPads to download this app from US experience design firm Adaptive Path. It offers more than 100 talks from the company's UX Week and MX: Managing Experience conferences, including execs from Facebook, Twitter and NASA talking about user experience.iPadOfficial Rugby World Cup 2011 AppThe International Rugby Board has turned app publisher in the run-up to the World Cup, with this official app for iPhone and iPad. It will include live match commentary and stats, video highlights, and news from the tournament in New Zealand.iPhone / iPadFlattrSocial micropayments service Flattr started life as buttons on websites allowing visitors to donate money to whichever creative owned it. Now it's moving into the real world: Flattr's app can scan "IRL" codes to donate there and then.iPhoneSquare Card CaseMobile payments startup Square is getting a lot of buzz in the US, helping retailers and venues take payments without credit cards. Now there's a separate Card Case iPhone app that helps users browse daily menus, store digital receipts and pay with their name. US-only for now.iPhoneKidsProof LauncherHanding your Android smartphone over to a child to keep them occupied? KidsProof Launcher may be just the thing to ensure they don't monkey about with your crucial data and apps. It lets you specify which apps they can use, while locking up the ability to text or make calls.AndroidDJ ShadowDJ Shadow is the latest music artist to launch an Android app to complement an existing iPhone version. Like many of them, he's using Mobile Roadie to do it.AndroidA.plus for TwidroydActor Ashton Kutcher is also making a name for himself as an investor in tech startups. Now he has his own branded Twitter app for Android, courtesy of UberMedia. It's the mobile version of an existing A.plus desktop Twitter client.AndroidYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
If one game experience is capable of tempting 3D naysayers to don a pair of active shutter glasses and gawp in wonder at their screens, it could be Batman: Arkham City. Warner Bros announced this long-awaited title's support for the oft-maligned stereoscopic technology at Gamescom. The title now joins Gears of War 3 as an interesting fresh recruit to consumer electronics' latest marketing drive.And in a demo room in the Gamescom business centre, I watched impressed as Batman spread out his wings and swooped above a city that unfolded in three dimensions around him. Immediately, there was a real sense of scale, inclusion and distance; it works in the way that successful 3D cinema works, by grabbing the viewer and for a few brief seconds taking them onto the other side of the screen. Sadly, I didn't get hands-on time with the 3D version, but I wonder if it will be useful as well as visually impressive, providing more depth perception for those precarious landings on tight ledges or looming gargoyles.Where it didn't really help, or indeed work amazingly well, was in the actual combat segments. For Gamescom, Rocksteady Studios was also showing off Arkham City's expanded Challenge mode, which provides players with a range of contained gameplay tasks, based within familiar campaign locations. Two of the studio's team showed us a combat challenge where you select a character then battle ever-larger, more insistent waves of enemies. Taking place on a static Gotham rooftop, the stereoscopic visuals added little in the way of depth, while Catwoman's speedy animation gave me double vision at times.My hands-on 2D demo with the Challenge mode worked brilliantly though. You can choose from Batman, Robin or Catwoman (though more characters may be announced) and the latter is just an absolute pleasure to control, her lithe animation and roster of slinking moves combining beautifully to create a combat system that both flatters and challenges the player.Just pounding the buttons and analogue stick produce an acrobatic display, with Catwoman, high-kicking here, whip-cracking there, and occasionally pausing, bending over to peck an enemy on the cheek, before throwing him over on to the ground. With better knowledge of the combo system, however, you start to string more flamboyant moves together, chaining multiple attacks, moving seamlessly from one baddie to the next. While showing off the Challenge mode, Rocksteady's community manager was effortlessly attaining 50+ combo chains, wracking up mountainous scores. It's beautiful to watch.The skill is also in developing context-appropriate reactions. If an enemy throws something at you, you can deflect it right back using the counter button. If a character is marked with yellow arrow indicators it means they're about to attack with a knife; to counter, you'll need to move back on each stab, before going back in to take them down. You can also finish off moves with a beatdown, mashing the strike button to pummel your foe – however, you're defenceless against other attackers during this process. When your combo counter gets up to eight you open up an armoury of specials – apparently for Batman, the number of animations and moves has been doubled since Arkham Asylum.As well as Combat challenges, there are also stealth-like Predator matches, where you have to get though a map by sneakily taking out every guard. While Batman swoops above the action, using his bat claw to get around, Catwoman is able to crawl across ceilings, arching down like some sinister arachnid to silently dispatch her prey. In each of these challenge modes, there are also optional sub-challenges set by the Riddler – for example, in the level we see, 'Meltdown Mayhem', you can gain extra points for using smoke pellets to sneak up on an enemy, or by knocking down a henchman with the batarang before finishing with a ground attack. These are all listed at the outset so you know what'll score well before you start.The other big Gamescom revelation was that insane scientist, Mr Freeze, will be appearing in Arkham City. The design team and their DC comics collaborator Paul Dini have adopted the modern-day interpretation of the character as a tragic figure, whose wife has contracted a rare and fatal disease. In DC lore, his attempts to cryogenically freeze her until a cure can be found are sabotaged and he sets out for revenge – pretty much on the rest of the world. In the game, he needs to bargain with Batman and other characters for the equipment he needs to resurrect his wife, but it's bound to go messily wrong."Every character that we add to the game, every bad or good guy that we include, we do it because they're characters that peoplewantto see in the game," says narrative designer Paul Crocker. "But also, we look at ways in which they can challenge Batman and the player. We've had the brute force approach of characters like Solomon Grundy, but Mr Freeze is as smart as Batman, and he's a much more sympathetic character – he only wants to fix his wife. But he's on a collision course with Batman in this game…"According to Crocker, battles with Freeze are going to be about variety. As soon as you attempt an attack he learns it and can use it against you, so delving into Batman's full repertoire of combos and manoeuvres will be essential.So yes, another three reasons to seek out Arkham City when it arrives later this year. While 3D support is certainly no killer USP, it'll be an interesting addition for those who already own a compatible set, while the challenge mode should extend an already huge game for many more hours. Mr Freeze is also an interesting proposition, bringing a little tragedy and solitude to counter the grotesque posturing of Joker, Two-Face and co.Importantly, Arkham City shows that Rocksteady is really getting to grips with the complex Batman mythology. "We're part of that now," says Crocker. "I mean, they're now making comics based on our games! It's come full circle. And we love working with Batman, he's one of the greatest characters in the world. To be given the freedom we have… it's incredible."Batman: Arkham City is released on 21 October for PC, PS3 and Xbox 360
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFlashy cars got spam kingpin mugged &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityGo on, enjoy the schadenfreude.Cheap smartphones could transform Africa &gt;&gt; Internet EvolutionRom Miller: "When it comes to greenfield economies, the fastest way to the Internet is via a cellphone. It's a lot more affordable for a country with little infrastructure to put up some cell towers, and the phones are cheaper than PCs, laptops, and tablets for individual citizens.&#10;"That's why it's so interesting that Safaricom, a Kenyan ISP that reportedly has over 17m customers, has decided to get into the low-end smartphone business. And over 350,000 Kenyans have reportedly bought the cheap phones.&#10;"The phone itself is the Huawei IDEOS. Click through and have a look. This is not half bad for the money. It runs Android 2.2 and includes WiFi, a camera, and, of course, access to the Android app store.&#10;"I can't say how well the smartphone works or how responsive it is. When the Website itself claims 'higher overall performance compared with previous releases,' you can infer that it might not be the highest-quality phone on the planet, but it's not supposed to be."How to initiate kids (or anyone) in coding &gt;&gt; Emma MulqueenyInteresting roundup of languages to let your ...eight-year-old upwards?.. teach themselves with. (Perhaps with a little help.)How much did HP lose on the TouchPad? Here's a good guess &gt;&gt; AllThingsDArik Hesseldahl: " Thus our range is somewhere in the neighborhood of $140 million to $300 million spent on hardware alone, depending on how many units ordered." Where the units ordered are reckoned to be between 500,000 and 1m.Google+ Gets a "+1″ for Browser Security &gt;&gt; Barracuda Labs Internet Security BlogGoogle+ does browser security the right way: no sniffing, HTTPS only, no framing. Facebook? Not so much.From April 2010: HP's Palm purchase: the analysis &gt;&gt; Technology GuardianJack Schofield again, interesting in retrospect: "Was it a good idea for Hewlett-Packard, the world's biggest computer company, to buy Palm – which now specialises in mobile phones – for $1.2bn?"The initial response from analysts has been as mixed as you'd expect – see the comments from Forrester, Gartner, IDC, Informa, and Ovum below – but almost everything depends on what HP intends to do with its new company."Will Samsung buy HP's PC division? &gt;&gt; ZDNet UKJack Schofield (formerly of The Guardian) thinks Samsung is the only likely buyer because it's so big and would want a big PC division: "Although it hasn't been widely discussed in the west, it looks as though HP has been talking to Samsung for many months. For example, the Taiwan-based Want China Times ran a story in March, Samsung's planned acquisition of HP sparks market concern, which said that 'rumors that HP would sell its PC business have been circulating in the market for some time now.' It adds: 'there are also reports that HP has talked with Hon Hai [Foxconn] and Chinese high-tech giant Lenovo to explore the possibility of a deal.'"Makes a lot of sense, apart from the penultimate sentence, which says "PSG could be Samsung's Trojan horse in the US market, enabling the innovative giant to take the battle to Apple." Er, what battle, exactly? Mac buyers aren't likely to be tempted by Samsung/HP Windows PCs.PHP 5.3.7: Bug #55439 :: crypt() returns only the salt for MD5Which is why you should not upgrade to PHP 5.3.7 (or downgrade if you have). Perhaps a new function in 5.3.8, regressiontest() ?2006: Palm's Ed Colligan laughs off iPhone &gt;&gt; EngadgetRyan Block turns out to have been prescient about Colligan shrugging off the threat from the iPhone - two months before it was made visible outside Apple: "No, the iPhone will have its own set of annoying issues, but believe you us, Ed, Apple will 'just walk in', so you'd better have a few and-one-more-thing-s up those sleeves of yours if you're thinking about stopping a mass defection."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Amid the tumult of Microsoft's Gamescom 'play day' event, with Gears of War 3 pummeling the ears on one side of the room, and Forza 4 revving away on the other, David Braben was showing off a queietly impressive new project.Frontier Developments has created a mini-version of its hit pet sim Kinectimals for Windows Phone 7. The format is similar to the Kinect original: you get to select, customise and care for your own unbearably cute little critter, this time using the touchscreen interface to stroke it and teach it tricks. There are also a range of mini-games designed to exploit the phone interface – Braben showed me a skipping rope challenge in which you stroke the screen to get your cub to leap over a swirling rope. The pet and its movements both look smooth and detailed. "It's using the same animations as the Xbox version," says Braben. "It's a lower-res screen, but the models are very detailed."This, however, isn't the impressive part.No, the clever bit is that you can import animals from the Xbox version of Kinectimals (or the new addition, Kinectimals Now With Bears) to your phone, and vice versa, via an onscreen QR code. Simply hold your handset up to the Kinect camera and your mammal will swap between the two devices. It's a similar technology to the Kinectimals plush toys that can be held up to the Xbox title's Scan Stone so that they transfer into the game. But here, the exchange includes all your stats, achievements and details, and if you unlock items in the mobile version, they're available when your animal is transfered to Xbox. It's a persistant cross-platform experience.Intriguingly, it'll be possible for people to use the feature in order to exchange pets between each other's systems. "I hope that they'll spread around virally, especially the rarer ones," says Braben. "There's a pet you get at the end of Kinectimals, it will be exciting to see it shared around."Elsewhere, there's an augmented reality mode, which lets you overlay your pet onto your real environment using the phone's camera. You can then take a photo of the cub, and of course share it via email or social networks. It's all really sweet and – alongside the excellent Fable Coin Golf (a WP7 game which earns you gold to spend in the console version of Fable 3) – Kinectimals hints at the possibilities when there's real interoperability between a console and a mobile device. Regardless of what we think about this mobile handset's chances in the smartphone warzone, Kinectimals is a neat use of QR technology applied to a WP7 game that looks rather lovely in its own right.Kinectimals is due for release on Windows Phone 7 this winter.
It's Tuesday! The perfect day to talk about video games.
Hewlett-Packard Co will complete a strategic review of its personal computers unit in the next eight to 12 weeks, the company's PC chief, Todd Bradley, said on Monday.Bradley, the former Palm CEO who has led HP's PC division for the past six years, also plans to stay with the PC division of the company – which would include aiming to lead it if it is spun out of HP. The PSG group hadrevenues of $9.6bn and profits of $567m in its latest quarterly results.The world's largest technology company by revenue shocked investors last week with a series of announcements, including that it might spin off the PC business and would kill its new tablet as part of a major revamping away from the consumer market.Some of the alternatives HP is exploring for its PC unit include hiving off the business into a separate company through a spin-off or sale. HP had said any move could take 12 to 18 months."Work will get completed probably over the next eight to 12 weeks and we will sit down with the board and take them through the results," Bradley told CNBC.He added that looking at options for HP's PC business was a "very, very valid exercise" for the board and company to do.Meanwhile the discontinued HP TouchPad has been doing bumper business at its new loss-leading price, with the device selling out in Australia and New Zealand, and stocks in stores at Dixons Store Group selling rapidly in the UK after they went on sale for £89 and £115, rather than their previous prices of £350 and £450.But WebOS, the operating system used on the TouchPad and Pre phones, is already seeing a haemorrhage of developers to Microsoft's Windows Phone platform.Last week Microsoft's senior director of Windows Phone development Brandon Watson offered the prospect of a free Windows Phone and other help to WebOS developers to help port software over to the platform. On Monday he said he had received more than 500 emails from would-be developers and that the figure was heading towards a thousand. In an email sent out to would-be partners, he said "To be honest, we didn't expect this level of response, so we were caught a bit flatfooted."HP's WebOS-based TouchPad was killed after sales failed to take off. The company is now exploring options for its WebOS software, which it acquired through the acquisition of Palm.Bradley, who described WebOS as a "strategically important asset," said the company has received interest from "a number of large parties" interested in licensing the software since the announcement.The executive, the internal front-runner for the HP CEO job before it went to Leo Apotheker last year, also knocked down widespread speculation in Silicon Valley he was looking to leave HP."There are plenty of ridiculous rumours on the internet today, all unfounded," he said, adding he plans to work through the PC unit review process."At the time of whatever action is determined with the PC business, then if it's a spin-out it will be my intent to lead that," he said. "If it stays within HP, I plan to continue to run it."HP shares, which fell 20% on Friday, closed up 3.6% at $24.45 on the New York Stock Exchange in a market that was broadly up.
Google is finally addressing the disorder of the Android Market experience, teaming up with Vodafone to allow consumers to buy apps and add the cost to their phone bill or taken off their prepay balance.TheRegisterreports that the objective is to encourage more app purchases without needing to take credit card details, but also to "increase the barriers to entry for Marketplace competitors". Operators favour this kind of billing because they retain control of user information, and though it is likely others will follow suit it is also surprising it took so long for Google to set this up.Photo byjonoakleyon Flickr.Some rights reservedPart of Apple's success in pushing apps to the masses was in using the existing iTunes Store model to manage payments, which encouraged consumers to try out apps on a device they were already familiar with and without having to sign up for a new payment system.The plethora of Android phones have never had that advantage, and the Android Market has, in my experience, been a far less reliable platform on which to consume apps.A straw poll of the four geeks on our desk revealed not one Android app between us that wasn't free. When we tried to pay on our different devices, there was no prompt to sign in to Checkout - just a "server error" message. Not a small mistake in a fiercely competitive market.Teaming up with operators will route round that kind of of basic interface error and help make Android apps slightly more accessible and mainstream, but it's a long overdue move.
HP faces losses of millions of pounds by refunding retailers who are slashing prices of its TouchPad tablet, which was discontinued on Friday after being on sale for just 48 days.Dixons Stores Group (DSG) and other retailers are cutting prices on the TouchPad from £350 to £89 for the low-end 16GB model, and £450 to £115 for the 32GB version, in what is effectively a closing-down sale for the range of tablets – which HP had been positioning as an enterprise-focused product to rival Apple's iPad tablet, which sells for the same price.But on Friday the head of HP, Léo Apotheker, announced that the TouchPad would no longer be manufactured, as the company shifted towards a service-focused drive in which it is buying the UK data mining company Autonomy and seeking to sell off its PC division.The discontinuation of the TouchPad after such a brief period makes it one of the shortest and most expensive product launches in history, narrowly beating Microsoft's Kin phone, which wasdiscontinued in June last year after 49 days on the US market.HP spent $1.2bnbuying Palm, whose WebOS software powers the TouchPad, in April 2010. Now it is reckoned to have set aside up to $100m to compensate retailers who are selling their stocks of the discontinued tablet at around the wholesale price. Customers who bought TouchPads before the announcement will be able to get refunds of the difference in price, according to a spokesman for DSG.The decision to stop making the TouchPad leaves open a slim chance that WebOS will be licensed by other hardware manufacturers, but industry sentiment does not suggest any strong interest, with the principal rivals to Apple's iPad using Google's free Android mobile operating system.A DSG spokesman declined to say how many TouchPads it had sold compared with the iPad: "the iPad 2 remains our best-selling tablet by some distance," he commented. Since the iPad was launched in March 2010, Apple has sold more than 29m iPads.TouchPad stocks in Australia and New Zealand sold out as prices were slashed to bargain-basement prices, and US stores which took up the opportunity also sold thousands.
OK, gamers, your enforced summer recess – the industry never releases anything major when half of the population has headed for sunnier climes – is about to end. This year, the resumption of normal service will be signalled by a particular event … the release of Deus Ex: Human Revolution.The third instalment of the much-loved but long-dormant action-RPG may lack any input from original creator Warren Spector, but it has benefited from all the resources that Eidos can throw at it, and the outcome is pretty spectacular.As a franchise, Deus Ex's overriding concern has always been to offer an antidote to single-path games, and to let you navigate it using your chosen play style, be it stealth, gun-toting brute force or strategic nous manifested in activities such as hacking. Previous iterations of Deus Ex – in common with pretty much all other games that set out to support multiple play-styles – never quite lived up to that ambition. But Deus Ex: Human Revolution does.You play Adam Jensen, head of security at Sarif Industries, a Detroit-based company specialising in human augmentation and weapons design (the latter pays the bills for the former). After a military-style raid on the Sarif HQ results in the death of its top augmentation scientists (including Jensen's ex), you embark on a quest to find those responsible, which naturally escalates into a twist-heavy uncovering of a monumental conspiracy.Story-wise, Human Revolution is unimpeachable, impeccably exploring what would happen if, in the near-future (it is set in 2027), humankind became able to cyborgise itself. Visually, the game is fantastic, making heavy use of a futuristic palette of black, gold and orange married with environmental design reminiscent of Blade Runner – appropriately enough, as that film also explored the removal of boundaries between human and machine.But it's the gameplay that blows you away: it really does let you play however you prefer. There's a great stealth engine, which lets you creep around, take down enemies and hide them, and get to otherwise inaccessible places by crawling around ventilation ducts. A rather excellent hacking mini-game lets you acquire control of turrets, cameras and security robots when you find security stationsOnce Jensen has been suitably augmented, he can use psychology and charm to talk the info he seeks out of people – again, the game possesses a more logical and less hit-or-miss persuasion system than any previous games. And there's a great first-person shooting engine, with a wide choice of weaponry and explosives that can be upgraded – although the AI is sufficiently unforgiving that, if you encounter a significant number of enemies, your chances of survival are minimal. And anyway, there are so many ways around each obstacle that the guns-blazing approach seems, frankly, a bit rude.Jensen's ability to add to his base level of augmentation is at the game's core. You earn Praxis points with which to buy augmentations through hitting experience point milestones, or you can buy them from so-called LIMB clinics. The augmentation tree is a gamer's dream, giving you access to a vast array of futuristic abilities – such as temporary invisibility, punching through walls, resistance to EMP blasts and electric shocks, the ability to fall from heights without sustaining damage and lots more.It would be handy if you were given a bit more guidance as to what augmentations to buy, though, particularly in the build-up to the boss-battles. The boss-battles are the reason why Human Revolution hasn't quite managed to achieve our ultimate five-star grade.The later ones, especially, are fearsomely hard, which is fair enough, but they force you to take a single approach, which is completely anathema to everything the game stands for, and is particularly irritating once you get used to the freedom of approach which the rest of the game gives you.That wouldn't be an issue if you could even partially (and temporarily) rejig your augmentations. So, make sure you perform all the side-quests, in order to upgrade yourself to the max, and it's a good idea to loot all the enemies you kill and look in every drawer for items like painkillers and credit chips.Deus Ex: Human Revolution falls just short of perfection, then, but it is, nevertheless, an amazing game, which will confound those who persist in tarring games with the brush of mindlessness. The future it presents may be worryingly dystopian, but by God, it's fun to explore on the safe environment of your console.• Deus Ex: Human Revolution was reviewed on Xbox 360
A burst of 6 apps for your considerationReading Festival 2011This year's Reading Festival has an official app courtesy of Mobile Roadie, with music from the participating artists, videos, a schedule and community features. And yes, there's also a version for the Leeds leg of the festival.iPhoneComics + KidsThere are a number of digital comic apps for iOS already, but this one focuses on a specific demographic: children. That means titles from a range of print publishers aimed at kids, with a mixture of free and paid titles.iPhone / iPadBaseball ConnectFor perhaps-obvious reasons, this app has launched in the US rather than the UK. Still, the idea would work well for sports that are popular here too. It's an iPad game that turns live sporting events into effectively a multiplayer bingo game: each player has a virtual game board listing things that might happen during a baseball match. Get five in a row, and they earn points against their friends.iPadDo Some GoodOperator Orange has launched its Do Some Good app, which encourages people to take photos and geotag litter, graffiti and dog eggs on the streets of Britain. LoveCleanStreets, which is behind the campaign, will then alert local councils so they can clean it up.iPhone / Android / BlackBerry / SymbianUberMageUberMage is a new Windows Phone 7 RPG adventure game that's been two years in the making. It offers dual-stick controls and visuals making use of XNA's 3D graphics acceleration.Windows PhoneGobbyGobby is an iPhone app that aims to fill in the colloquial gaps in the vocabulary of people learning English. Break a leg, throwing toys out of the pram, play a blinder... The app explains what they mean, with Londoners speaking them for good measure.iPhoneYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
Juliet Starling is a beautiful, popular cheerleader – the kind of idolised creature who provides the antagonist in every Hollywood teen flick. But in the latest third-person hack-'em-up from Grasshopper Manufacture, she is about to become the hero. A zombifying virus has hit the brilliantly named San Romero high school and the only way she's going to escape is by harnessing her athletic skills – oh, and a chainsaw. The chainsaw is definitely going to come in handy.Nowadays we know what to expect from Grasshopper founder Suda51. Violence, bizarre humour, punk music, some more bizarre humour. He is a sort of games industry combination of Roger Corman and Takeshi Kitano; he makes games about his own obsessions and seems to pay only fleeting attention to how others will interpret his works. How else can you explain Killer7, an action adventure game that's essentially about split personality disorder? And this time the story has been co-written by cult director James Gunn, responsible for the likes of Tromeo and Juliet and sci-fi horror comedy Slither, so don't expect anything as mundane as coherency to suddenly get in the way of a good evisceration.In the Gamescom demo I saw, Juliet must navigate through the classrooms and corridors of her school, dismembering her undead peers. She has multiple chainsaw and pom pom attacks, as well as a handy dodge manoeuvre. And of course, all of these can be combined into a series of histrionic combos. Pull off enough of these in sequence (usually by manipulating and juggling zombie bodies) and a gauge in the bottom left of the screen fills up, giving access to the glorious special move roster. There are some belting executions: you can leapfrog over a zombie's head then jam the chainsaw up between their legs, continuing the slicing trajectory until the blade bursts out the top of their skull, slicing your victim in half.Everywhere, arms and heads are flying off, and bodies slump like discarded clothes. But this is no blood-red torture porn shocker. The clue is in that oxymoronic title, with its combination of sweet and deadly. In Lollipop Chainsaw, the visual style is comic book horror re-imagined as kawaii cute-fest; so decapitations are accompanied by rainbows, flying pink hearts and twinkling sounds. It shouldn't work, but the slightly cell-shaded visuals and brash primary colour palette provide a sympathetic backdrop, while all the onscreen messages and HUD elements are in a grainy comic font. It's a stylistic, hyper-kinetic smorgasbord of pan-global, pop culture references that draws its visual logic from the likes of Steve Ditko and Naoko Takeuchi. Who needs reality when you have illustration?Amid the madness skulks a zombified teacher, Mr Fitzgibbon, who lumbers in shouting "no talking!" before trying to eviscerate you. He quickly becomes the centre of a mini-boss battle, picking up school desks and using them as makeshift shields against your flamboyant attacks. "Do you homework," he growls, as you pom pom him from above. The only way to defeat him is to leap over his head and attack him with a special move from behind his desk. When you've finished with him, there will be no detention ever again.We're also shown a full boss battle against a zombie punk named Zed who works a Mohawk and tartan trousers combination, and lists his favourite bands as Black Flag and The Misfits. He looks like the sort of emaciated drug causality you might have spotted at Jane's Addiction gigs in the late eighties. "I love the smell of dead cheerleader in the morning," he whines in a cockney accent. His weapon is an electrified mike stand and the fight takes place on an under-lit disco dance floor. When you chainsaw him in half, he just pushes the two sections of his head together again with his bony hands. Instead, you need to chainsaw his mammoth stage amps in half; mammoth stage amps that, by the way, have a giant neon sign at the top, flashing the word "cocksucker" at you. For Suda51, subtlety is never the best policy. When he is eventually beaten, he cries and screams, the blood spurting from various dismemberments. "He's such an emo," Starling witheringly protests.One of the criticisms levelled at Suda51's previous Grand Guignol romp Shadows of the Damned, was that there was little gameplay substance beneath the ironic gore. Lollipop Chainsaw could well be another generic third-person slasher – and lord knows, we've seen enough zombie games recently. However, it seems as though there are multiple routes to take through the school (indicated by great big arrows shakily pointing at different doors), and it looks like there are uninfected pupils to rescue, bringing in a shepherding mechanic (no, that didn't do Dead Rising any favours, but let's see). Also, there's the small matter of Nick Roulette, the talking decapitated head that Juliet has tied to her belt. What's his role? Another joking accomplice, a la Johnson in Shadows of the Damned? They're not saying just yet.If the combat system is tight, if the visual imagination stays at this level and if the narrative pushes us along through the corridors of gore and rainbows, this is set to be another Grasshopper Manufacture title that you just have to experience for yourself.•Lollipop Chainsaw will be released on Xbox 360 and PS3 in 2012
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 20 AugustPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (91)Xbox 360 (7)PS3 (2)212 (2)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)Xbox 360 (29)Wii (24)DS (17)PS3 (17)153 (3)Cars 2(3+)DS (37)Wii (31)Xbox 360 (18)PS3 (14)54 (13)The Legend Of Zelda: Ocarina Of Time 3D(12+)3DS (100)55 (5)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (42)PS3 (25)PSP (10)DS (10)476 (6)Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4(7+)Wii (38)DS (25)Xbox 360 (21)PS3 (14)257 (–)Xenoblade Chronicles(12+)Wii (100)18 (4)Dirt 3(12+)PS3 (50)Xbox 360 (50)PC (0)139 (12)Brink(16+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (36)PC (7)1510 (10)LA Noire(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (48)1411 (17)Wii Sports Resort(3+)Wii (100)9412 (15)Battlefield: Bad Company 2(16+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (31)PC (6)3213 (9)The Sims 3(12+)PC (38)DS (22)Xbox 360 (14)Wii (12)3914 (11)Harry Potter: The Deathly Hallows Part 2(12+)Xbox 360 (33)DS (26)PS3 (21)Wii (19)615 (7)Just Dance 2: Extra Songs(3+)Wii (100)516 (–)Lego Star Wars III: The Clone Wars(7+)Xbox 360 (41)DS (23)Wii (13)PS3 (10)1917 (8)Call Of Juarez: The Cartel(15+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (41)518 (–)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)PS3 (43)Xbox 360 (41)Wii (9)PC (5)3819 (14)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (28)33UKIEvideo games chart (compiled by GFK Chart-Track)
Just as the US software industry is experiencing thelong-anticipated all-out software patent wars, the European Union has a plan to follow the same course. When theHargreaves reporturged the UK to avoid software patents, the UK government had already approved a plan that is likely to impose them.Software patents are dangerous to software developers because they impose monopolies on software ideas. It is not feasible or safe to develop non-trivial software if you must thread a maze of patents. (SeePatent absurdity, Guardian, 20 June 2005.)Every program combines many ideas; a large program implements thousands of them. Google recently estimatedthere might be 250,000 patented ideas in a smartphone. I find that figure plausible, because in 2004 I estimated that the GNU/Linux operating system implemented around 100,000 actually patented ideas. (Linux, the kernel, had been found by Dan Ravicher to contain 283 such ideas, and was estimated to be 25% of the whole system at the time.)The consequences are becoming manifest now in the US, but multinational companies have long lobbied to spread software patents around the world. In 2005, the European parliament took up the second reading of a directive that had been proposed by the European Commission to authorise software patents. The parliament had previously amended the directive to reject them, but the Council of Europe had undone those amendments.The commission's text was written in a sneaky way: when read by laymen, it appeared to forbid patents on pure software ideas, because it required a patent application to have a physical aspect. However, it did not require the "inventive step" – the advance that constitutes a patentable "invention" – to itself be physical.This meant that a patent application could present the required physical aspect just by mentioning the usual physical elements of the computer on which the program would run (processor, memory, display, etc). It would not have to propose any advance in these physical elements, just cite them as part of the larger system also containing the software. Any computational idea could be patented this way. Such a patent would only cover software meant for running on a computer, but that was not much of a limitation, since it is not practical to run a large program by hand simulation.A massive grassroots effort directed at convincing the European parliament to change its mind resulted in defeat of the directive. But that does not mean we convinced half of parliament to reject software patents. Rather, it seems thepro-patent forcesdecided at the last minute to junk their own proposal.The volunteer activists drifted away, thinking the battle won, but the corporate lobbyists for software patents were paid to stay on the job. Now they have contrived another sneaky method: the "unitary patent" system proposed for the EU. Under this system, if the European Patent Office issues a patent, it will automatically be valid in every participating country, which in this case means all of the EU except for Spain and Italy.How would that affect software patents? Evidently, either the unitary patent system would allow software patents or it wouldn't. If it allows them, no country will be able to escape them on its own. That would be bad, but what if the system rejects software patents? Then it would be good – right?Right – except the plan was designed to prevent that. A small but crucial detail in the plan is that appeals against the EPO's decisions would be decided based on the EPO's own rules. The EPO could thus tie European business and computer users in knots to its heart's content.Note that the EPO has a vested interest in extending patents into as many areas of life as it can get away with. With external limits (such as national courts) removed, the EPO could impose software patents, or any other controversial kind of patents. For instance, if it chooses to decide that natural genes are patentable,as a US appeals court just did, no one could reverse that decision except perhaps the European Court of Justice (ECJ), the highest court in Europe.In fact, the EPO's decision about software patents has already been made, and can be seen in action. The EPO has issued tens of thousands of software patents, in contempt for the treaty that established it. (Seehttp://webshop.ffii.org/, "Your web shop is patented".) At present, though, each state decides whether those patents are valid. If the unitary patent system is adopted and the EPO gets unchecked power to decide, Europe will get US-style patent wars.The ECJ ruled in March that a unitary patent system would have to be subject to its jurisdiction, but it isn't clear whether its jurisdiction would include substantive policy decisions such as "can software ideas be patented?" That's because it's not clear how the European Patent Convention relates to the ECJ.If the ECJ can decide this, the plan would no longer be certain disaster. Instead, the ball would be one bounce away from disaster.Before adopting such a system, Europe should rewrite the plan to make certain software is safe from patents. If that can't be done, the next best thing is to reject the plan entirely. Minor simplifications are not worth a disaster; harmonisation is a misguided goal if it means doing things wrong everywhere.The UK government seems to wish for the disaster, as it stated in December 2010 that itdid not want the ECJ to have a say over the system. Will the government listen to Hargreaves and change its mind about this plan? Britons must insist on this.More information about the drawbacks and legal flaws of this plan can be found inunitary-patent.eu.• You will note that the term "intellectual property" has not been used in this article. That's because the term spreads confusion because it is applied to a dozen unrelated laws. Even if we consider just patent law and copyright law, they are so different in their requirements and effects that generalising about the two is a mistake. Absolutely nothing in this article pertains to copyright law. To avoid leading people to generalise about disparate laws, I never use the term "intellectual property", and I never miss it either.• Richard Stallman will speak this week in Leeds, Nottingham, Birmingham and Edinburgh; seefsf.orgfor details.Copyright 2011 Richard Stallman. Released under theCreative Commons Attribution Noderivs 3.0 license.
It's Monday morning (just about). Come on in and tell us what you got up to over the weekend!
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSkype To Acquire Year-old Group Messaging Service GroupMe &gt;&gt; TechCrunch"Skype will acquire group messaging service GroupMe, a service that was born at a hackathon at TechCrunch Disrupt in New York in 2010. GroupMe was founded by Jared Hecht and Steve Martocci."Software patents: foolish business &gt;&gt; Guardian EditorialWhat the Guardian thinks of software patents.HP's decade-long departure &gt;&gt; AsymcoHorace Dediu: "But that's the nature of unforeseeable growth: you cannot foresee what will happen and plans never work out. Data and planning don't help. The lesson is that you need to plan for that which cannot be planned. When you are at your peak you must assume failure is imminent and when you are at the trough you must assume success is inevitable."All failures of strategy are rooted in the assumption that outcomes are predictable."Is HP's WebOS Surrender A Win For Microsoft? &gt;&gt; paidContentRobert Scoble: "If you want to be a leading platform today you MUST get third-party developers on your side. To rub that in a bit, today I was hanging out with Photobucket's CEO, Tom Munro. I asked him what he thought about the HP news. You can listen in on that conversationhere."Don't know why Photobucket is relevant? They have nine billion photos. Flickr only has five billion. They just made a deal with Twitter to become the photo sharing system underneath Twitter. Twitter made a deal with Apple to become the official social network for iOS. IE, he's now the official photo sharing guy for Apple's iPhone and iPad."Developers like him keep telling me 'Apple is first in my mind, Google is second, and I don't have time for #3, but if I do, looks like Microsoft has the best future.'"Google: Most Vulnerabilities Only Exploited For a Short Time &gt;&gt; threatpostGoogle has been looking at malware attacks, with a big report: "The report looks at a number of evasion and defensive techniques employed by attackers and malware distributors and concluded that not only are the bad guys quite skilled at adapting to new behaviors by users and browsers, they're also doing some of their own innovation. One of the more interesting findings in the report is that socially engineered malware--the kind that uses various tricks to goad users into visiting a site or downloading a file--make up barely 2% of all malware observed by Google. The volume of socially engineered malware has been rising steadily during the course of the last few years, but Google's engineers said it's still a tiny piece of the overall picture."Steve Jobs' post-PC credo &gt;&gt; Fortune TechFrom March; worth reading again in the light of HP's withdrawal from the tablet market.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Already there is plenty of talk about the possibility of HP licensing the WebOS operating system – used previously in Palm's range of phones, and most recently in the TouchPad tablet (which, sold for $100, has done bumper business over the weekend in the US, we hear).According to a few hopeful people both inside and outside HP, the idea is that some company somewhere has a hardware specification sitting there, into which it is just aching to pour someone else's OS and software.So how likely is this?Not at all.Consider a few facts and problems that any manager that wanted to license WebOS would have to face.WebOS has failed not once, but twice in the marketPalm – which, it's easy to forget, used to be a force in smartphones – had a good run at getting WebOS established in the smartphone market in 2009. Wereviewed the Palm Preand thought that it was "valiant", though of course even then the comment was that: "The Palm store, by the way, is easy to navigate but sparsely populated."The Pre didn't make enough of an impact, however – too much competition from everything else, such as the iPhone and the fast-rising Android segment – and Palm almost ran out of money before being bought by HP for $1.2bn in 2010. And you know how that turned out: from being a consumer-focussed company led by Mark Hurd, HP has transmogrified into an enterprise-services-facing company led by Leo Apotheker. That meant that the rug had been half-pulled out from under WebOS's feet.But don't think that Apotheker didn't give WebOS a chance. I didn't hear anyone say that they thought the TouchPad wasn't given a chance. Everything around its launch – which has been simmering since February at least, when HP was briefing journalists (including me) at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona about how determined it was and how it would push the enterprise capabilities of WebOS and use its heft to make it take off – had the determination of a big company.The TouchPad was priced to sell and to make a profit – which is always important: no point selling hardware at a loss unless you know you have your customers locked into something very profitable. (Even mobile networks don't sell handsets at a loss now; they just subsidise the price over the life of the handset, but you pay for it.) I never saw anyone suggesting that the TouchPad launch and promotion (ah, Russell Brand adverts – hope you got paid, Russell) was half-hearted.The TouchPad didn't take off, though; enterprises didn't go for it and consumers seem to have decided that they had other options.At the launch of the TouchPad at the end of June, Richard Windsor of Nomura Securities said that "latest into the fray are Cisco with a tablet (aimed at enterprise) running Android priced at $750 and the HP Touchpad that starts at $500. We think that the two newcomers offer nothing that is going to put the consumer off buying the iPad. Consequently, we continue to expect that all of the other tablets combined will be little more than a rounding error in 2011. The key here is price. If a half-decent tablet can be launched at around $300, then we can start to see some meaningful volume and this is something we expect to begin happening in 2012."Turned out right, didn't he?But that's not the only problem a WebOS licensee would face.App marketThere isn't really one. The TouchPad aims to be lots of things to lots of peoplethrough the browser; its app market remains, just as in 2009, sparsely populated, and compared to Apple's App Store or the Android Market, it's simply empty. (RIM has the same problem, which will be exacerbated by its move to QNX.)Why, if you had the manufacturing set up to make a tablet, would you choose to build it with WebOS when you could have Android? If you were building a smartphone, why go with WebOS when you could have Android – or Windows Phone? True, those two have lots of competition – but they also have lots and lots of apps, which is what users want.SupportWebOS isn't really going to get a lot of love from HP. So if you were to license it, what guarantee would you, the user or licensee, have that updates to browsers – for security or just improvements – would come through in a timely fashion? Only if the cost per licence were large enough for HP to want to work on it would that sort of development happen. But that requires a critical mass of users, which requires a critical mass of tablets in peoples' hands, and income. All HP is seeing from WebOS at the moment is a big fat loss – it is said to have put aside $100m for writedowns on TouchPad stocks.No enterprise buyer in their right mind would make an order for TouchPads now, and nobody buying one now should expect much from software updates.PatentsA subject that has to be mentioned these days. If and when software patent disputes arise in the US (rather as Lodsys has), would HP really be willing to spend the money fighting and defending it for an OS that wasn't really making much money? I doubt it.WebOS apps could become the target for patent troll attacks, just on the basis that the parent wouldn't be willing to engage. Bad news for app developers, who would likely shift to other platforms where at least they can be sure that there is some backing: Apple is backing its developers against Lodsys, and Google has weighed in too. (No sign yet of whether Microsoft will join in.)In summaryWebOS is going to be one of those footnotes in history: a great little operating system that appeared about a year too late because Palm didn't see the threat that the iPhone represented, and couldn't shift its development quickly enough to be able to compete with it. Nobody is going to license WebOS because it's a dead end. (One person on Twitter did suggest that it could find a home in automotive systems. I'd be happy to see that.)I should point out that I've nothing against WebOS: I liked using it, asmy review of the TouchPad shows. But the market is more brutal than user reviews.At this point an epitaph seems appropriate. And for that we dig back to November 2006, when Ed Colligan, then head of Palm, was having a breakfast with a number of US journalists. The rumours about a forthcoming phone from Apple – computer makers with no experience in phones, of all people! – came up. Colligan was dismissive."We've learned and struggled for a few years here figuring out how to make a decent phone," Colligan laughed. "PC guys are not going to just figure this out. They're not going to just walk in."Two months later, Steve Jobs launched the iPhone. Just under five years later, Palm is effectively dead. Technology is a brutal world.
If you were told YouTube is awash with videos of teenagers showing off their hauls – piles of consumer goods, which they're showing off to their peers – you might be forgiven for thinking it was a reference to the looting of shops in England's cities this month. And, yes, there has been plenty ofcoverage of looters taking to the web to flaunt their ill-gotten bounty.But "hauling" is actually rather less sinister: instead of masked youths bragging about what they've stolen, it's a phenomenon whereby kids – usually teenage girls – go online to show off what they've been buying. That's it: they show off their shopping, holding up their new clothes and describing them. The word "cute" is used frequently.The videos – there are thousands of them on YouTube – are a strange combination of materialism and innocence: the provenance of the goods is crucial, but there's no hint of one-upmanship or exclusivity; these girls are sharing their joy at having shopped at such "hauler" outlets asHollister,Jack Wills,Abercrombie &amp; FitchandForever 21. It's almost like a pubescent hive mind, dictating that a generation of teen girls look identical.Hauling became news in the US last year, when major retailers realised there was amarketing opportunityin independent members of their target market shouting to thousands of others about how great their clothes are. The influence wielded by the most popular haulers is colossal: take Blair Fowler – AKAJuicyStar07– whose barely comprehensible homemade videos get millions of viewers, and have made her a style guru in her own unlikely right.For most, though, it's a less professional affair and all the more charming for it. TakeRainbowsandGlitter, who explains that she's not growing as quickly any more, so isn't visiting Jack Wills as frequently. Mind you, as a father who has balked at spending £69 on a Jack Wills hoodie for his daughter, I bet her parents raised a quiet toast when they watched this one.
Once upon a time, dinosaurs roamed the Earth – huge, dim-witted monsters that spent much of their time savaging one another in tar pits. They were succeeded by mastodons, lumbering giants with bigger brains and huge tusks but not much in the way of IQ. Their spiritual heirs are the vast corporations that spend much of their time slogging it out in a swamp labelled "intellectual property".Last month, there was much hullabaloo because Nortel, a bankrupt Canadian telecommunications manufacturer, put its hoard of 6,000 wireless patents and patent applications up for auction. The scent attracted a herd of corporate mastodons – Apple, Microsoft, RIM, EMC, Ericsson and Sony – which eventually won the auction with a $4.5bn joint bid.This attracted much attention from the commentariat, which interpreted it as a slap in the eye for Google, perceived as a rogue participant because it had made a series of apparently fatuous bids for the patents. At one point, for example, Google bid $1,902,160,540. At another, its bid was $2,614,972,128. And when the herd's bid reached $3bn, Google countered with $3.14159bn.Commentators were baffled by these numbers until mathematicians came to the rescue. The bids were, in fact, celebrated constants in number theory. The first isBrun's constant, the number towards which the sum of the reciprocals of twin primes converge. The second was theMeissel-Mertens constant(which also involves prime numbers). And the third, as every schoolboy knows, represented the first six digits of pi. At this point, the penny dropped. Perhaps the Google guys were playing silly buggers – but with a serious motive, namely to inflate the price that the herd would have to pay. And so it proved.Then, last week, Google dropped a bombshell. It bought Motorola Mobile, a manufacturer of handsets, for $12.5bn. In the process, it acquired Motorola's huge cache of 17,000 patents – and 29,000 employees. This was variously interpreted either asa masterstrokeorthe dumbest movesince, well, Rupert Murdoch bought&nbsp;MySpace.In hisblog postjustifying the acquisition, Larry Page, Google's co-founder and now its CEO, wrote: "Motorola has a history of over 80 years of innovation in communications technology and products, and in the development of intellectual property, which have helped drive the remarkable revolution in mobile computing we are all enjoying today. Its many industry milestones include the introduction of the world's first portable cellphone nearly 30 years ago, and the StarTAC – the smallest and lightest phone on Earth at time of launch." All of which is true, but is also ancient history. He went on to point out that Motorola had bet its ranch on Google's Android operating system for mobile devices and that this implied "a natural fit between our two companies. Together, we will create amazing user experiences that supercharge the entire Android ecosystem for the benefit of consumers, partners and developers everywhere."Oh yeah? There are several flies in that ointment. First, the price Google paid for Motorola represents roughly the same amount per patent as the inflated price the hapless herd paid for Nortel's trove. Second, the move puts Google in a business that no sane executive would want to be in, namely the manufacture of hardware, described by one analyst as a "crappy, low-margin commodity business". Worse still, it puts Google in direct competition with the other handset manufacturers – HTC and Samsung, for example – which have bet their respective ranches on Android. And, worst of all, it means that a software company with 20,000 employees has moved into an area – running a hardware company with a payroll of 29,000 – that lies way beyond its core competency. In the circumstances, it's not surprising that Google's shares are down nearly $90 from where they were on 25 July.Some masterstroke, eh? But even if Google's shareholders are unimpressed, there's precious little they can do about it, for the same reason that News Corporation's shareholders can do nothing about Rupert Murdoch's tendency to run a public company as if it were a family business. Google, you see, has the same shareholding structure as News Corp, one that ensures that only a minority of the shares have voting rights. When they set up the company, the Google guys explicitly stated inthe prospectusthat they didn't want mere investors to constrain their freedom of action. They didn't want their freedom to make bold strategic moves to be constrained by Wall Street jitters. And they got their way. One wonders if they've ever heard of that old English adage: "Be careful what you wish for"?
More an experimental piece of interactive storytelling than a game,Traumainvolves a young woman who wakes up in hospital having survived a car crash that killed both her parents. The player assumes the role of a psychologist, exploring four separate dreams constructed from real-world photographs mixed with strange, mildly hallucinatory images.Clicking on certain areas of each photo shifts the perspective, while drawing symbols learned from collectable Polaroids allows the player to examine or manipulate objects. The imagery is often striking: a building bends and collapses as if made of thin rubber; a wall is sucked into an imaginary plughole; a blurry figure suddenly shatters into tiny fragments.The few puzzles are straightforward; indeed, the biggest riddle is to figure out what it all means. The central theme of grief is pervasive, but it's hard to connect emotionally when it's presented so obliquely, particularly given the flat performances from the two leads and the brevity of the experience. Still,Traumais a thought-provoking work that marks Polish developer Krystian Majewski as one to watch.
Microsoft's third "Summer of Arcade" promotion continues with two titles that could hardly be more different.Fruit Ninja Kinectsees Halfbrick Games' popular iPhone title move to a larger screen, though sadly its rather shallow mechanics haven't been expanded along with its inflated price tag. What was a perfect confection for on-the-go gaming feels slightly out of place in the home, even if it does makes solid use of Microsoft's motion camera as players flail their arms to slice flying fruit. Competitive and co-operative multiplayer modes make it enjoyably silly, throwaway fun for parties, though it's difficult to see lone players wanting to return once the initial novelty of chopping peaches, passion fruit and pomegranates has worn off.Insanely Twisted Shadow Planet, by contrast, is aimed at a very different audience. Its side-scrolling gameplay is redolent of 2D classics such asMetroidandCastlevania, and it's likely that fans of those titles will get the most out of exploring Fuel Cell Games' beautiful yet hostile world. A curiously old-fashioned flying saucer is the avatar, with myriad obstacles and enemies to surmount. Its pacing is impressively precise, introducing new items regularly enough to prevent minds from wandering, yet the imposing atmosphere and those gorgeous otherworldly environments are unable to disguise the fact that it's never particularly exciting to play. In short, Insanely Twisted Shadow Planet is neither insane nor twisted enough to warrant the charmingly silly Fifties-B-movie title.
Search and software giant Google has, almost imperceptibly, integrated itself into the fabric of our daily lives. We use it to find and track news and information, to connect with friends, to increase our productivity, to locate ourselves in both the physical and the virtual worlds. And with the data it collects on us through each of its services, it has an extraordinary ambition: the tracker of our activities wants to become the catalyst for innovation and director of our dreams.With all the ephemeral and seemingly disconnected data that it holds on us, the company hopes to "one day tell people things they may want to know as they are walking down the street, without having to type in any search queries", reports Scott Morrison in theWall Street Journal. "Think of it as a serendipity engine," said Google's Eric Schmidt at theTechCrunch Disrupt conferencelast September."Serendipity" is the latest holy grail in the Silicon Valley software zeitgeist: an ill-defined buzzword that developers use to describe services that will connect people with online ephemera they would not normally find on their own. Yet a website's success relies on delivering successes, and something that tries to predict serendipity will fail almost every time. "If you can plan it, how is it serendipitous?" asks reader ShockJockey on theGuardian's Technology blog. Indeed.Serendipity is a description applied to an innovation post-hoc, after the process of bumping into something unexpectedly turns into a new idea, a medical discovery, a new recipe, a new relationship or a new artistic&nbsp;movement.In other contexts, with different frames of reference, these innovations might be attributed to divine intervention. Here, in our pragmatic, delivery-oriented social world, Google's theoretical "serendipity engine" – and the technology behind websites such as Amazon, StumbleUpon, or Last.fm – aims to serve up a result that will appear novel and unexpected, but is in fact tightly algorithmically defined, based on a user's profile and derived using the data collected on him or her.Computer-mediated "serendipity" is therefore constructed by carefully controlling the connections people make between pieces of information and one another in order to maximise delight. This keeps the consumer brand-loyal and the company's shares high. It does not take people in totally new directions; rather, it filters out the stuff that Computer Says is Irrelevant.In real life, serendipity is a multifaceted, shape-shifting social and human process that is impossible to reduce into immovable computer code. Sure, a delightful and inspiring discovery may result from sticking a string of words into a search box, but what makes this outcome serendipitous depends on what you do with the information spat out by the engine. You have to recognise it, know what to do with it, and make the essential lateral connections necessary to transform it into something meaningful. You have to analyse and synthesise it, consider your own experience and the knowledge of your personal and extended networks. All Google – and any other site that purports to offer "serendipity" – really wants is to build a predictive algorithm that filters out the happy accidents that they don't know about, and which might turn into something more.In his book,Where Good Ideas Come From, Steven Johnson proposes several ingredients for serendipity. They are almost all impossible to replicate on a machine: sleep, coffee, a creative walk, a hot bath, a broken treadmill, chaos and an open system are among them. Yet Johnson still describes the web as "the greatest serendipity engine in the history of culture", because it allows us to traverse Wikipedia – from an article about fountain pens to one about monarch butterflies via links to chocolate-chip cookies and the chancellor's real name. That is not, I would argue, serendipitously discovering something about insects; it's discovering something about insects via a path laid out by the people who edit the articles. It's not making conclusions, drawing parallels or creating something new.The directed nature of how we use the web is therefore in contrast to, say, taking a hot bath: we can collect information along the way, but the process of serendipity happens&nbsp;elsewhere.Innovation brokers consulting to business will not tell you that good ideas are virtually impossible to predict, even offline – they'll give you exercises to increase your exposure to randomness. In this way, the web should offer an opportunity to meet new things, but its controlled binary mechanics actually make them more challenging to find. Branching pathways of possibility are too difficult to code and don't scale, which is why success is perceived as degrees of relevance. As Matt Jones, co-principal at London design consultancy Berg, argues: "Results are not 'here-ish/soon-ish/there-ish/then-ish' or even 'good enough'." Vagaries do not compute. We aren't given a range of opportunities, even on Wikipedia; we are served The One.Digital serendipity solutions, like Google's theoretical engine, frame the experience as solution-driven. What is produced is self-fulfilling: the inputs anticipate the outputs. That doesn't sound like accidental discovery to me. Innovation demands the sagacity to know what to do with discovery wherever it is found, not the happy accident in itself. The machine is not human. Stop pretending it can be.
Fighting games are enjoying a resurgence at the moment, but for a small, committed group of gamers the genre never went away. Their jargon is dense, their fingers dextrous and it is for them thatArcana Heart 3, in all its dizzying complexity, is intended.The main innovations are midair combat and the ability to bring an outsize supernatural buddy – or "arcana" – into the fray. The 23 fighters are a zany melange of anime cliches: bat-winged nuns and bunnygirl robot pilots; an 11-year-old PhD physicist in a snorkel who fights from within a sentient blob; a character called Petra Johanna Lagerkvist. Takashi Murakami might cut it when it comes to wowing gallerists, but by these standards his stuff is positively pedestrian.Between the language barrier, the intricacies of the fighting system and the wackiness of the plot, most players will find this maddeningly impenetrable; the subpar visuals don't help either. But for any lapsed fighting fans who harbour an affection for the genre's late-90s heyday,AH3's loose and hectic combat makes it a worthy alternative toWaku Waku 7.
Final Fantasy Tactics: The War Of The Lions, iPhone &amp; iPodThe Final Fantasy series is the apotheosis of Japanese role-playing games, with androgynous spiky-haired teenagers going on to upgrade their skills enough to save the world. Final Fantasy Tactics, however, is a spinoff that's much more concerned with combat. There's a full plot, but the focus is fighting, which takes place on a cute, 3D plane that you can scroll or spin for a good view of proceedings. Characters take turns to move and act, removing dexterity from the equation and relying on your strategic mastery to win. That involves nurturing and placing your team, as well as equipping them, gaining new skills and making sure you have the right combination for each encounter. As ever, the path of gradual improvement creates a powerful hook, with the incremental development of your party as absorbing as the fights. Almost identical to the PSP version – although lacking multiplayer – The War Of The Lions is deceptively vast and complex.Square Enix, £10.99Games newsAlthough you can play multiplayer games online with dozens or even hundreds of fellow combatants, there's something better about simulating beating up people in the same room rather than at a remove. Capcom realises this and is arranging a series ofFight Nightswhere you can join likeminded people for punch ups on the as yet unreleasedStreet Fighter X Tekkenamong others. The first event is in London tonight at the KO Gym, The Arches, E1 with others to be confirmed ...The New York Times reports that North Korea's eccentric dictator,Kim Jong-Il, has been raising cash using gold farms, where groups are hired to gain equipment and money in online games, which are then sold to players for real cash. It may sound like an amusing cottage industry but police in South Korea estimate he's made $6m out of it over the last two years.
The Lexus CT200H represents a whole new experience for me: I've never driven a&nbsp;hybrid before. I did once consider buying a Prius, largely because I worried my brother-in-law might be running low on material for his hilarious, sharp-eyed observations about Guardian writers and readers. But I demurred because the interior felt poky with two children's car seats in it and, faced with a choice of contributing further to the Earth's slow death or spending a long trip in cramped conditions with my kids, I decided the ice caps would have to take pot luck.So initially I found the CT200H deeply disconcerting, not least the fact that the engine makes no noise when you switch it on. In fairness, that sometimes meant I hadn't switched it on properly, an activity so complex a man from Lexus had to come out to show me how to do it. The handbrake is operated with your foot. There's a parking mode you can't deactivate unless you press the foot brake. No, not the handbrake foot brake, the foot brake foot brake. I dealt with this manfully, crying only after he'd packed up his overhead projector and gone home.The CT200H's selling point is supposed to be its sportiness. When appended to a car, "sport" is one of those words that tends to mean the opposite, like "collectible" when applied to plates featuring pictures of Princess Diana. Here, "sport" seems to have little to do with the way the car drives, which is fine, but unlikely to get it confused with aBugatti Veyron. Maybe it is to disguise the fact that the CT200H is essentially a Prius with a different chassis and suspension. Toyota have clearly noted that some people are turned off by a car with eco-credentials and come up with something that doesn't trumpet its greenness with its appearance. You could argue that's deceitful, but equally you could argue that the kind of person who gets upset because a compact hatchback isn't a sports car needs to take a good look at themselves. You're in the market for a compact hatchback – how sporty do you need it to be? What were you planning on doing, entering the24 Heures du Mans? Or are you mostly going to Waitrose? Exactly. So button it and consider the interior, which is luxurious, or the fuel consumption, which is amazing. You can even drive it entirely in electric mode. This seems to switch itself off the minute you accelerate, but it's plainly a boon for anyone who plans to drive at 5mph along a flat surface. In fact, the only real Prius issue the CT200H fails&nbsp;to address is the cabin size, which still feels poky. I thought about what it might be like with my kids in it and shuddered. Once again, it seems, the ice caps are going to have to manage without my help.Lexus CT200HPrice£23,485-£30,635Top speed112mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.3 secondsCO2 emissions94g/kmAverage consumption68.9 mpgEco rating8.5/10In a wordHushed
It has been another busy week for new apps across the various platforms, including iOS, Android and BlackBerry. Here's our weekly selection of apps that we've had a proper play with, to see how they rate.V Festival 2011iPhone / Android / BlackBerry / Symbian, freeReviewing the V Festival app before the actual event is necessarily problematic: we haven't been on-site with the app. But then reviewing it after the festival would be even more worthless. As a free download, it's worth having on your phone for the weekend – for the site map alone – but it falls down on one rather important feature: no stage times in the Line-Up section. A shame, considering that other festival apps have helped you create your own schedule. The other headline feature is the ability to find your Facebook friends on the in-app map. A nice idea, but one that won't prove its value until the actual event.DK The Human Body AppiPad, £9.99At 381MB in size, Dorling Kindersley's new iPad book-app is a meaty download, but it's worth the wait. The app lets you dive into the human anatomy, with more than 270 images and 99 pages of text, illustrations and annotations. The level of detail is hugely impressive: having sat down with the app for a few hours, we feel as if we've only scratched the surface. The app's physical book roots are clear: it's well designed with novelty touchscreen interactivity used sparingly. The £9.99 price may put casual users off, but if you have a keen interest in the body's workings (and especially if you're studying it), this is an excellent app.VevoBlackBerry PlayBook, freeMusic videos service Vevo has been available on iOS and Android for a while now, but it has just made the leap to the BlackBerry PlayBook tablet, holding on to its slick design in the process. The app makes it easy to browse popular videos or search for favourites, with nifty playlist creation features too. The PlayBook's size suits Vevo's app too, whether you're watching videos alone or showing them to someone else. The promised 720p HD streaming is flagged as a feature that outstrips the other versions of the app, but realistically it's the ease of use and deep content that make this a treat for PlayBook owners.Flick Soccer!iPhone, £0.69In 2010 there was a rash of flicky football games for iPhone, putting the player in control of a free-kick taker to swipe the ball into the goal repeatedly. The reigning king of the genre is Flick Kick Football, but it may finally have been knocked off its perch by newcomer Flick Soccer. Launched by the same developer that made iOS hit Flick Golf, its physics feel just right as you curl the ball into the goal, aiming at bullseye targets while avoiding defenders and a sprightly goalkeeper. There are several fun game modes, some of which are played against the clock. "Addictive" is an overused word in the world of apps, but when we found ourselves playing it at 2am with eyeballs on stalks, that was exactly the word that sprang to mind.Telegraph Clearing 2011iPhone / Android, freeJudging by this week's media coverage, 2011 is another year when the vast majority of successful A-Level students are attractive girls with the ability to jump in the air while smiling. It's the pimply boys we feel sorry for. Still, for those students (whatever their level of attractiveness) who didn't quite nail the grades for their desired university, it's time to enter the clearing process to find an alternative. The Telegraph bagged the rights to work with Ucas on an official clearing app for iPhone and Android, which is suitably no-frills in helping students quickly find potential courses. You can search by course, location or Ucas code, refining your query if too many results come back. Find a course, and there's a phone number to tap on to make a call to find out more. Most students will prefer to conduct these searches on a computer, we sense, but as an app, this is efficient and impressive.FourFourTwo Football Stats ZoneiPhone, freeiPhone-owning football fans who just want Premier League score updates and tables will be able to get by with Barclays' official app (or indeed the Guardian's app). However, for those who relish the chance to immerse themselves in statistics around the new season, FourFourTwo's app is the one to go for. A partnership with Opta means those stats are comprehensive: passes, tackles, shots, fouls and assists, with the ability to compare individual players and teams. You can download the app for free and browse last season's data to get a feel for it, before deciding whether to pay via in-app payment for the data from this season. Need to feed your inner Statto? It's £2.49 well spent.
What do you call it when the world's biggest PC manufacturer gets out of manufacturing PCs?Wise.Though people have been surprised by HP's announcement on Thursday that it is getting out of all its hardware businesses – PCs, the TouchPad tablet and the smartphones that were to have followed – the inescapable conclusion is that Leo Apotheker, the new head of HP who came from the enterprise-focused SAP last September, is declining to throw good money after bad (to wit: the purchase of Palm for $1bn) and shifting HP's focus towards the places where he sees profit: enterprise services.The Wall Street Journal reported:"The tablet effect is real, and sales of the TouchPad are not meeting our expectations," Apotheker says, explaining the movement of consumers from PCs to tablets as one of the problems with the PC division. So HP is exploring options for its unit that "may include separation through spin-off or other transactions."For the PC market, it marks the most important inflexion point since IBM caused a collective gasp at the end of 2004 by announcing that itwas selling off its PC business to Lenovo– then an unheard-of Chinese company.PCs are now like shoes or shirts or lightbulbs or vacuum cleaners or plastic geegaws: they're commodity items that can be more cheaply made in China. What's different now, though, is that the growth in sales is in China – or more generally the far east – too.The Lenovo deal has worked out well for IBM, which has cemented its position and profitability in offering enterprise services (and earlier this year celebrated 100 years of existence, looking healthy for it). Lenovo meanwhile has grown to become one of the top five biggest PC manufacturers: by Gartner's figures, Lenovo had a 12.1% worldwide share in Q2, selling 10.2m PCs.Ahead of it were only Dell (10.6m shipped) and HP (14.8m).The question people are asking, of course, is: why is HP getting out of the PC business?Simple enough: there isn't enough profit in it. The Personal Systems Group (PSG) generated a wonderful $41bn on around 48m PC sales. But profit? Just $2bn, or about $40 per computer.And while selling PCs to enterprises might be a neat way to spearhead its way into businesses – selling the PCs along with the services – IBM has demonstrated that you don't need a dedicated PC business to make enterprise services (and installing other people's PCs) very profitable.Who will buy?I fully expect that HP's PC business will be sold to a Chinese company – the two most likely candidates being Lenovo and Huawei. The alternative would be Dell, but the question for Michael Dell is whether the game would really be worth the candle.That's because the PC market is shrinking in the west: the US market dropped by about 5% in the second quarter (mainly because the consumer market remained weak), and Gartner announced earlier this week that the European PC market fell by 19%: "The PC market in western Europe suffered from weak demand in both the professional and consumer sectors, a market which also faced inventory issues caused by overstocking in 2010," said Meike Escherich, principal analyst at Gartner.Dell is getting stronger in the Asia/Pacific segment – but so is Lenovo. Asia and Latin America are the only places where PC sales are really growing, and Dell's problem is that selling to consumers (the real growth market) in those areas is going to be a cut-throat proposition that will be tricky against well-funded (that is, Chinese-backed) companies.Here's Dell's problem: HP would demand a premium, and the sell-off would quickly turn into a bidding war. And I don't think Dell could afford it.Dell'slatest financial resultsshow that it has "a record high $16.2bn in cash" – revenues $15.6bn, net income $890m – with public sector sales and the far east helping it. But does it have enough to buy HP's PSG? Typical sale prices are around 10 times earnings. That would price PSG at $20bn. For Dell, which is struggling with a corporate changeover and saw its share price fall despite spending $1bn on a share buyback (the worst way of inflating the share price), that would be too tall an order.So I don't think Dell will bid for PSG. But for a well-backed Chinese company? No problem. Bank loans would be cheap and it would be perfectly placed to aim at the far eastern market.Last two standingThat leaves two American companies standing in the PC market: Dell and Apple.Dell has said that it is in the midst of a reorganisation to focus more on the corporate side.Apple, meanwhile, looks comfortable in the PC business: it makes aboutseven times as much profit per machine as HP, while selling about a quarter as many. (Note too that Apple was the only company to increase its European and US market share in the past quarter according to Gartner.)The fact that Apple is presently the world'smost valuable company by market capitalisation(the valuation being, let's remind ourselves, the market's estimate of the net present value of the total profits it expects the company to make in its lifetime) may indicate that the stock market thinks Apple is rounding up a lot of the value to be had from consumers in three key markets – personal computers, smartphones and tablets. We already know that it is the most profitable (and biggest, by revenue) mobile phone maker, and the same is quite surely true for tablets. PCs? Not the most profitable, but maybe you just want to give it a little time.Inflexion: post-PCTo repeat, though: this is a key inflexion point in the PC industry. Dell will now be the only US-based company selling Windows PCs at anything near a profit (unless the HP PSG somehow manages to make a go of it under its own steam – something I think unlikely). That poses an interesting question for Microsoft too, since there's far more piracy of its product in the far east, where the focus of PC growth is going to be.And for the western world, where now for the personal computer? The netbook has fallen away. The tablet is clearly where the growth is, partly because it's about the same price as a cheap laptop (if you get an Android tablet – or a remaindered HP TouchPad – very much cheaper) at a time when everyone is feeling squeezed by the economic circumstances.Yes, we will still need PCs in the future. But for the western world, it has turned into what analysts would call an "ex-growth" business. It's just about replacement – and barely profitable for the makers. Except, of course, for Apple, which continues to confound everyone – RIM, HP, Nokia, Google – by making products that plenty of people buy and also making a profit. Someone should really ask Apple what its secret is.
Kinect was definitely the focus of Microsoft's E3 earlier this year. A whole bunch of game announcements, including Star Wars and Fable: The Journey, plus lots of added support from hardcore titles, such as Mass Effect 3. Would the company be selling the same story in Cologne?Well, partly. But we found some really compelling little treats in the Kinect cavern on the Microsoft stand. Plus, we got to see the new dashboard. Here are the highlights.Kinect Fun Labs AirbandDeveloped by Relentless Software, the creator of hit PlayStation quiz series, Buzz, this is one of Microsoft's new Kinect Fun Labs titles: experimental, downloadable mini-treats designed to showcase the abilities of the peripheral. Here, participants just need to stand in front of the Kinect camera and mime playing a guitar, keyboard or drums. A stylised neon rendition of the correct instrument will then appear onscreen in the participant's hand, as music plays in the background.There's no skill involved as such, just making the correct action allows you to "play along". However, where you stand in front of the screen affects the type of instrument; so if you select to play a guitar, it might sound like a slide guitar on the far left, but then you move to the centre and it becomes an electric guitar, go further right and it's a banjo. Two people can play at once, and it's really quite fun. There are several tunes to choose from, representing different genres taking in country, rock and dance. A great little family timewaster.Kinect Star Wars – the Rancor Rampage modeOkay, so we're not entirely sold on this movement-orientated stab at the Star Wars universe. The Jedi lightsaber mode thatwe saw at E3felt unresponsive, and no one seems completely sold about the mechanic. However, at Gamescom, I was introduced to the Rancor Rampage mode in which you get to be one of the giant slobbering beasts from Return of the Jedi. The aim is to inflict as much damage as possible on your chosen area; we selected Mos Eisley, but plenty of other classic locations will be available.To move, you have to perform exaggerated stomping steps, you can also wave your arms to knock over buildings or swipe desperately escaping humanoids. Shannon Loftis of developer Good Science showed me a demo and how you can even reach down, pick up and throw teeny characters. She illustrates this by casually plucking up a fleeing jawa and lobbing the poor screaming thing into the side of a building. If you jump in the air, your rancor jumps too, smashing over buildings. You'll be attacked by Tie Fighters, but you can swipe them from the air like King Kong. There is even a co-op two-monster mode. I laughed a lot.Darts in Kinect Sports: Season 2Okay, this has areallyentertaining darts game. You simply adopt a dart-throwing stance and the Kinect camera picks up on the position of your hand, showing a cursor on the board. When you get the target over the sector you want, bring your arm back in a throwing gesture – this freezes the cursor in position (a vital touch) then you launch forward and the arrow flies into the triple 20. Sometimes. It's impressively precise (cleverly, if you move position to the left or right, the camera tracks you and angles the board slightly to compensate) and really social. The tennis is quite good too, and there is also American football, golf, skiing and baseball. It's out in October.New Xbox dashboardLaunching in the winter the brand new dashboard is essentially the Windows Phone 7 UI writ large. In other words, a series of squares, themed around all the important functions such as games, settings, music, videos and social. The Bing search engine has been added so you can check YouTube and VOD services for content that you like, and Kinect voice commands have been integrated into the same setup rather than shifting you on to a dedicated menu system like the current version. It doesn't look as friendly or game-like as the current dashboard, but it seems very easy to navigate and of course it "unifies the Microsoft entertainment experience". We can also expect plenty more partner announcements with content providers. That means more on-demand services, especially TV-related services. "2011 is the year of TV on Xbox," the friendly PR chap told me. I thought it was the year of Mass Effect 3, Fifa 2012, Modern warfare 3, Battlefield 3 and Dark Souls. Just goes to show whatIknow.Xbox joins the cloudYes, cloud storage is coming soon to Xbox 360. In the near future you'll be able to upload your profile, gamer score and game saves on to the net, so you can retrieve them whenever you're playing at a mate's house. You won't be able to store photos or music though. Yet.
If Demon's Souls had been released 15 years ago, would it have been considered a difficult game? In those days of testing adventures such as Monkey Island and Broken Sword, getting stuck on a tricky lateral puzzle for several hours was considered fairly typical, welcome even. And it struck me while watching Namco's demo of the Dark Souls level The Duke's Archives that this game is actually a classic point-and-clicker, just with an updated control system. It wants to test the player, frustrate the player and make the player master its internal ruleset. It is not a corridor between cut scenes.The point-and-click analogy seems immediately relevant on this intriguing stage. The action begins with the character locked in a cell, with a sleeping snake-headed guard outside. This is classic Broken Sword territory – even though the solution is more the stuff of the brutal third-person hack-and-slasher (and I won't give it away here). Outside, the player knight finds himself in a vastly tall circular library, with book shelves lining the walls to the very heights of the edifice. Suddenly, the snake-headed enemy (seen previously in my last preview of the game) pulls a lever on a machine that resembles a gramophone horn, a haunting, swirling sound is emitted and a door opens revealing a group of hideous, octopus-like monsters that squirm toward you like slugs, spitting out a poison goo."You can't beat all these creatures," smiles publisher producer, Kei Hirono, "you must run". And run we do, up a staircase, and toward a ladder – but the snake-heads, which also seem terrified of the blue octo-monsters are legging it up the ladder themselves; and they kill you if you get close. You'll need to start again, but this time ascend faster to escape. But at the top is a vast iron door, which is of course, locked. The key, you sickeningly realise, is probably down on the ground floor. We attempt to leap across to another platform, but the knight falls to his death. At least we're at the bottom now.Here is another adventure game staple: the disassociated connection puzzle. You have a door object somewhere, and a matching key object somewhere else far away, and it's up to you to make the mental leap to connect those items. In the LucasArts titles, retracing your steps around each location set-piece was necessary; it was part of the system. We accepted it.Down on the floor, it seems that the octo-monsters won't stray into the jail section, so we hop between the cells, staying out of reach, before climbing another ladder and yanking that lever back. The horn falls silent and the monsters shuffle away. From here, we get to walk out on to a balcony and view the battlements of the towering castle, its walls extending out hundreds or metres, and in the background, misty countryside and mountains like gigantic shards of ice, jutting through the earth. Here, even the landscape is aggressive. This is From Software's achievement; a complete logical universe. Like Gormenghast. Like Melee Island.We also meet twisted, skeletal figures who rattle at us from the darkness; we wander along narrow ledges and battle amid the stuffed bookshelves, spilling their pages on to the drab grey floor. As in Demon's Souls, players will be able to leave messages for each other in the single-player realm, but this time, a new "Covenant" system, gets players to commit – at the very outset of the game – to good or evil. Adventurers in the former camp can help other participants, but darker protagonists can set traps. This crucial choice also shapes elements of the gameplay experience, though Hirono won't explain how. Another intriguing little mystery.Dark Souls is three times the size of Demon's Souls, and it has twice the number of items to collect. But most importantly, it builds on the atmosphere of its predecessor. There is dread and fear leaking out of the scarred stone walls, but there is also acceptance. "You will die a lot," says Hirono. "But this is part of the game. Part of the trial and error. You have to work with it."Many years ago, Charles Cecil enraged gamers with Broken Sword's infamous goat puzzle, in which the only way to pass the tethered and violent animal was to break the established "rules" of the game world. Somehow, the player had to know that clicking on one object at the right moment, would allow the character to run for the first time in the game. Cecil has repeatedly said sorry to gamers, but he always does so with a mischievous sparkle in his eyes. He should play Dark Souls. This is a game for adventure fans who don't require apologies. Its logic system is a trap; when you enter, whatever you do, you will spring it.•Dark Souls is coming to PS3 and Xbox 360 on October 8
