There are people out there for whom buying a car is a labour of love. They look forward to test drives, smile at the prospect of bagging a bargain, and read Exchange &amp; Mart - even if they're not looking for a new car. For the rest of us, it's a long, drawn-out ordeal and anything that speeds the process up can't come too soon.So it is no surprise that online classified services specialising in the buying and selling of cars are one of the fastest-growing sectors on the World Wide Web. The best place to start is with a more established player likeAutotrader, which has listings for literally thousands of cars, bikes, trucks and caravans. The advantage of sites like this is that they carry ads from their regional editions and are more searchable (and easier to obtain) than their paper cousins. Autotrader also has links to the beeb'sTop Gearwhich supplies interactive used car reports. You simply state car type, price, and even the level of fuel consumption and a list of suitable models pops up, complete with Quentin Willson's verdict.Other established classified operations are good too. Key inAuto Expressfor good, searchable databases on both new and used cars, and a useful price index. Another good site isWhat Car?which boasts an AA used car data check, which helps avoid buying insurance write-offs or stolen cars. Other sites likeMotor Trakmay not have the backing of an established classified publisher, but its comprehensive content and client base of second-hand dealers make it also worth a look. You'll findAuto Huntermakes use of regional press listings and offers an impressive database, plus an email alert service that notifies you as soon as a car matching your criteria becomes vailable. Sites likeNew Car NetandAuto Locatealso offer online insurance quotes via links to insurance companies and invaluable tips on buying cars.Still, once you have found the car for you, road-tested it, checked the clock and looked at its history, there's still no guarantee the clutch won't pack in tomorrow. That's why more people are opting to put their faith in God and buying cars direct fromAutosaveSet up in 1983, through a deal with the Central Board of Finance of the Church of England, Autosave is now a burgeoning company specialising in supplying vehicles to churches, charities and the 'caring' professions, as well as the general public.If it's a new car you're after, try looking up manufacturers' sites likeFordandNissan, most provide details of specifications, news of new products, online financing details as well as a helpful nudge towards a local dealer. Many offer lists of approved used car dealerships too. Alternatively, for A25,Car Dealwill try to buy a new car on your behalf from local dealers, and claim to be able to broker the sort of deals usually associated with fleet purchases. They promise to repay the fee if they fail to find the car you want or can't beat a quote you obtain yourself. If the deal is successful the firm takes 18 per cent of the discount they obtain.Plenty of sites can help you buy a whole manner of motors but there are gaps - particularly if you want something a little esoteric. However, Usenet newsgroups like the one atVintage Carscould help find your dream car.Buying a car this way is like buying a car conventionally, but quicker and easier. Most sites won't actually buy the car for you, just help you find it, so remember: stick to your price, ensure the car you buy is the car you need, and always buy a car with a full service history.
What do you drive?A blue Honda Accord. It's five years old, and I don't want to get rid of it. It's done 135,000 miles, but still goes like a little gem. It got broken into before Christmas. The baddie must have known the car better than me. He found drawers in it I never knew existed!Does it have any extras?Leather seats and a personalised registration: SYD 126. I'm not egotistical. I just had it offered to me. We were doing this club in Nottingham and a fella in the audience wrote to me saying somebody in showbiz ought to have his registration plate. He wanted A120 for it. It's not like I'm on an ego trip, and it has been a talking point. People kept asking what the 126 was for. Well, coincidentally, I weigh 126 pounds exactly, so that's what I say. But don't ask me how I got the Syd bit, my real name's Cyril! Ha ha!What state is it in?Oh, great. But inside there's loads of litter! Me and Eddie were thinking of a sketch where you can only pass your test if you can open a Coke, sandwich and crisps at the same time, while driving and speaking on the mobile phone. I know that's illegal, but it's getting like that, isn't it!PWhat does your car say about you?It's small, dependable and never lets you down! I don't think I've ever let anybody down - after 35 years in the business. People say: "Where did you get to? I thought you were dead." But we're still cracking on!Describe your driving.I wouldn't say I was the best driver in the world. But I wouldn't say I was the worst. My concentration has got better over the years. Our road manager's not keen on my driving, though. I don't frighten them or anything, but everyone has their own way of driving, don't they? And mine doesn't suit everybody else's.Ever experienced road rage?Eddie's the best at that. He's had a few run-ins. But what gets us is that there are more women with road rage than men. They give us the V-sign the whole time!What do you listen to on the road?Wogan in the morning and John Peel at night - with some of the old rock'n'roll things, cos I am an old rocker.Have you ever had sex in a car?SEX!? Er, no. Especially not in this one. It's too small. I'm a bed person!• Little and Large are appearing in Robin Hood at the Royal Theatre in Hanley, until January 17.
A million shoppers used the Internet to buy products worth a total of more than £400 million last year, more than double the number in 1997, and the figure is likely to double again over the next six months.But Verdict Research, which publishes these figures today, says the Internet still accounts for only a tiny part of Britain's shopping bill and, even today's rates of growth, the Internet will account for only 2.5 per cent of all retail sales by 2003.Richard Hyman, Verdict's chairman, said: 'It does represent meteoric growth but there is still a long way to go. You shouldn't expect a significant change in life as we know it in the next few years.'The growth of Net retailers such as the bookseller Amazon has given a high profile to electronic commerce. But Mr Hyman pointed out that it is possible to buy products over the Net at only 14 of Britain's top 100 retailers. More than half of those store chains have still not opened a website of any kind.A separate report warned last week that American retailers were dominating electronic commerce. But Mr Hyman said this did not necessarily mean British store groups would lose out. 'It's just the beginning. The Americans are definitely ahead but they are not going to have this channel all to themselves. Customers are going to want UK products sold by UK companies.'Verdict says the typical Net shopper has changed radically in profile over the past year. It estimates that many younger e-shoppers have been put off by the unsophisticated nature of most websites. As a result, Verdict says, there has been a big drop in the number of 15- to 24-year-olds shopping on the Net, and a growing number of shoppers aged over 45. This should be good news for retailers because older shoppers' tastes are more mainstream, opening up the possibility of mass-market selling over the Net.When most retailers are on the Net, it will be easier to shop around for the best price. But today's e-shoppers are less interested in price than convenience. More than a third of them said they would not have bought the product if it had not been available online. Speed of response and delivery were more important to them than price.Mr Hyman said easier comparisons might drive down prices, but even the most successful Net stores had yet to make a profit and the present level of discounting might not be sustainable.Verdict believes books, computer software and music are ideal products for web sales, and forecasts that as much as 40 per cent of sales in these categories could be via the Internet by the year 2003. But it says clothing will be the biggest online product sales, even though only 5 per cent of clothes via the Net.
EverythingAlta VistaThere's no shortage of search engines and directories online, and you may as well gravitate to your own favourite such as Excite or Yahoo! But if you want a really strong search engine capable of pulling in thousands of sites from just one request, then check out AltaVista. Spend a little time learning how to use the advanced search techniques and it will become easier to find what you need online. Its associated services let you translate text between languages and find people's email.E-mail addressesBigfootWhoever you've lost touch with, it's increasingly likely he or she has an email address. If so, it's a fair bet you'll find it at Bigfoot.Professional helpLisztLiszt is a wonderful idea well executed. Get people with a professional service who use other services and let them talk to each other online. Digital age bartering.PlumbersYellow Pages on the NetYou know Yellow Pages. You know the web. Now you've got one on the other. Let your mouse do the walking.House pricesUpMyStreetGiven the parlous state of the housing market, it's interesting to know how much your place is worth. Simply add your postcode and see how much a similar property is worth in other parts of the country. There are also related details on local MPs, unemployment, maps, chemical releases, hospitals, doctors, dentists and cinemas.Your MPHansardShould you care to find out how your MP is representing you in the House, you can see his or her speeches here.CarsAutotraderIf you are looking for a motor, or indeed most things with a motor in it, then check out the Autotrader site which now includes boats, bikes and caravans.Telephone codesThe Big NumberThe changes in UK telephone codes have left most people flummoxed, and created a whole forest of paper with out-of-date letterheads. To find out what number you'll be calling from next year, click here.Someone to talk toDejanewsA long time ago there were useful news groups which you could join and chat about a staggeringly large number of subjects. Over time these groups became populated by nutters and conspiracy theorists, not to mention pornographers. But when Dejanews came along it meant you could search each discussion list without having to trawl through irrelevant postings and you can quickly search the archive to find out what someone has said in the past.PicturesCorbisIt's that man again. Yep, Bill is back, and this time there are pictures. Millions of them. Over the last few years Bill Gates has been hoarding some of the world's largest picture resources: classic posters, postcards and a search engine capable of looking through half a million images.
The Internet is lifting off in Britain as a mass medium widely used by the public and is no longer the specialist preserve of academics, scientists and "net nerds", according to a Guardian/ICM opinion poll published today.The ICM survey shows that just under one third of adults in Britain - 29 per cent - are online. But Internet growth in Britain looks set to surge with a further 14 per cent saying they plan to get access within the next 12 months.By the end of this year, nearly half - 43 per cent - of the adult population will be wired up, according to the poll. This shows a rate of expansion more than double last year's 1 per cent every two months.The growth confirms that the Internet has caught on faster than any previous new technology, including video recorders and compact discs.The poll also shows that most British users are attracted by the huge amount of information available, feel slightly overwhelmed by it, and are frustrated by the time it takes to find it.Users are split over whether to trust the information and are very concerned about the availability of sexually explicit pornography to children.The details of the poll show that the Internet is very much a work tool and a leisure toy for twenty- to thirtysomethings, particularly men. More have access at work (20 per cent) than at home (14 per cent), although there is some overlap with 5 per cent using the net at home and at work.Some 25 per cent of men have access at work, compared with 18 per cent of women. Use at work peaks among the 25 to 34 year age group with 33 per cent using it. Only 4 per cent of manual workers are online at work.Eighteen per cent of men say they have access at home, compared with 11 per cent of women. One in three of those in social class AB say they are online at home, compared with 16 per cent of the C1 white collar workers and only 2 per cent of the DE semi-skilled and unemployed.Internet use at home, at 14 per cent, is still far behind the levels found in the US (27 per cent), where telephone links are free, and in Scandinavian countries such as Sweden (21 per cent). But it appears the biggest growth will be in home Internet access.• ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,209 adults aged over 18 by telephone between December 30 and January 3 1999. Interviews were conducted across the country and the results weighted to the profile of all adults.
Confession (or boast): I am not an anorak. I do not know what http stands for, nor URL. I do not know the difference between http and www or why they seem forever destined to be separated by ://. I am the wrong person to ask about html, Boolean search engines, Javascript or cookies. I could no more build a website than build a cathedral. Whatever the opposite of an anorak is, I'm it.But in my simple, untutored way I love the Internet. Indeed, I sometimes rather envy the life of an anorak. Nothing to do but surf all day long, the world literally at your fingertips. I could become a geek in no time at all.I remember the early thrill of being let loose in the Cambridge University Library - one of the three copyright libraries in England and the only one with open access to most of the shelves. I went to the library every day for weeks on end, but I did virtually no academic work. I just ferreted my way through the stacks - miles and miles of them - like a dog in a rabbit warren. That, cubed, is the Internet. Except you never have to leave your seat, there's no closing time and there's three times as much fun to be had.When I first used the Net I did what most net virgins are said to do: typed my name into a search engine. I sat back and waited. After a minute or so one response popped up: For 'Rusbridger' try the Harry Ransom Humanities Research Center at the University of Texas at Austin.It made no sense. I double-clicked and waited (this was the early 90s: things were slow back then). 'Rusbridger' turned out to be in the index to the archive of Tom Stoppard's papers which had been lodged with the University. This puzzled me, for I could not remember ever having written to Tom Stoppard. Then I recalled that I had once dropped him a postcard 10 years previously while editing a Christmas round up of Books of the Year. This was presumably the precious document meticulously archived and indexed in Austin, Texas.I was first dazzled then disappointed. All that awesome computing power labouring to produce such a trifling mouse! How useless and how sad. The nerds could keep the Net.Around the same time I met a couple of the first Net visionaries, both of whom spoke in plain English and neither of whom seemed to mind that I didn't know my browser from my server. They were Louis Rossetto, editor of a San Francisco-based magazine, Wired, and Nicholas Negroponte of MIT's Media Lab. We talked late into the night about how the Internet would change the world. I was hooked by the vision. And I was learning not to be scared of it all.It was drugs that converted me from Netophobe to Netophile. My doctor had just told me I would have to take something called Losec to counter acid in my stomach which, thanks to a faulty valve, was leaking into my oesophagus and causing me some discomfort. If I started, he said, I might well have to take it for the rest of my life. The leaflet accompanying the drug was as useless as all such leaflets tend to be. Most people taking Losec tended to be just fine. But some suffered from (as it were) total hair loss, wracking coughs, scabid noses, purple teeth, dementia and death.Before signing up to a lifetime of side effects I decided to check this Losec stuff out. The information on the Internet was awesome, and included full reports of clinical trials from all over the world. I was reassured enough to start taking Losec - another thing that changed my life.www.druginfonet.com. After that there was no stopping me. The Internet became my first port of call for, well, more or less anything. Stuck for thatOasislyric orEmily Dickinsonline that is needed for an editorial? It's there. What about trying to find my old school friend Scot who disappeared off to California 20 years ago, never to be heard of again? I find an astonishing database and search engine which, in five seconds flat has located Scot in Chalcedony St, San Diego. In another 20 seconds I'm looking at a map of downtown San Diego and my computer is telling me his local pizza shop, his nearest gas station and where he goes shopping.Alta Vista.The next night I'm at home and my daughter's fretting because she's got to write about Antigone and she's left her text at school. It takes three minutes to find thecomplete text, with very useful footnotes. Daughter hugely relieved. She never knew her father was such a nerd. A small, proud milestone.Shortly afterwards I'm writing a speech about defamation and I've been told there's an important South African Supreme Court judgment which I ought to read. I find it at theSouth African Law reports. Later, writing about theTruth and Reconciliation CommissionI am able to download the report before our South Africa correspondent has been able to stagger back to the office with his five volumes of paper.There's a Weber CD I've been hunting for ages, and I can only half-remember the clarinetist. I find it at a site calledCD Nowand within a week it's been mailed to me. The same site helps me sleuth out a snatch of Brazilian music that's been haunting me. Now, once a week, I get an e-mail from CD Now telling me about new clarinet and Brazilian music.And while we're on the clarinet I want to know where I can find a list of all the music written for clarinet, cello and piano for an amateur trio I'm playing in. There are, needless to say, numerous websites devoted to nothing but clarinets - buying them, selling them, playing them, repairing them. This is dangerous territory: hours could pass while I explore deeper and deeper. Eventually I come across one site in America with a section entirely given over toClarinet Chamber Musicwhich mails stuff cheaply all over the world. My piano teacher has an Eames chair which, after his Steinway, is his pride and joy. After a few months of trying it out while listening to him playing as I can only dream of I decide I wouldn't mind one. You too? Do as I did. Go towww.mancha.demon.co.uk/eames.htmland see if anything suits you. A nice man called Graham delivered mine two days later.If you live near a giant Waterstones or a small, knowledgeable bookseller you may not need to use the Internet to buy your books. But the chances are that you'll find what you want quicker, and possibly cheaper, by searching electronically first. The best sites (Amazonis the obvious one, but others are catching up) will behave almost as a friendly bookseller would. Now they know you're interested in that author or this subject they'll guide you gently by the elbow towards other books you might be interested in. They'll even write to you in a rather old-fashioned way to let you know when something that might amuse you has come in.I'm off to play golf at St Andrews. TheBBC weather servicehas a four-day forecast for the Fife coast. I check the times of the trains from theRailtrackinformation site. I find an extremely thorough hole-by-hole guide to playing theOld Coursecomplete with maps and detailed contours for each green. The course still massacres me, but it has been a pleasant moment of fantasy. While searching I come across an Internet booking service for other great courses in the region:www.linksnet.co.uk. I will try and plan my next golfing holiday on the Net.And so on and so on. I now never read Hansard on paper: it's quicker and simpler (and searchable) on the Net. The full House of Lords Pinochet judgement was on my screen as fast as the Press Association newsflash. Ditto the Starr Report and Reuters. I get my instant daily take on American news from Slate's catch-up summary of the US papers, e-mailed to me twice a day.I am following the BSE Inquiry through the Guardian's reporting - but also through the official site, which has every witness statement as well as a full transcript of every day of the hearing. I have bookmarked newspapers all over the world from the Times of India and the New York Post to An Phoblacht and the London Review of Books. The only thing that has defeated me so far is Tesco Online, which persistently rejects me for not living in a posh enough neighbourhood.Just when you think you've exhausted present possibilities you bump into another surprise. One of my press-related interests is the great battles that raged around the time of George III between Parliament and press. I have two books on John Wilkes as well as a first edition of the letters of Junius, the anonymous essayist who caused so much trouble with his prose that he was charged with sedition. A minute or two searching for material on Wilkes led me to the fullest bibliography imaginable of literature to do with newspaperswww.lib.siu.edu/cni/index-w.html.If anything is certain it is that this astonishing new medium will provoke further great battles over free speech and control to rival those of the late 18th century.It's worth reading the full judgments of the district and supreme court in rejecting theCommunications Decency Act (CDA)of 1996. They are more radical than anything you can easily imagine a British judge delivering.Pennsylvania District Judge Steward Dalzell concluded his judgment in these unequivocal terms, which bear quoting in full: "Cutting through the acronyms and argot that cluttered the hearing testimony, the Internet may fairly be regarded as a never-ending worldwide conversation. The Government may not interrupt that conversation. As the most participatory form of mass speech yet developed, the Internet deserves the highest protection from governmental intrusion."True it is that many find some of the speech on the Internet to be offensive, and amid the din of cyberspace many hear discordant voices that they regard as indecent. The absence of governmental regulation of Internet content has unquestionably produced a kind of chaos, but as one of the plaintiff's experts put it with such resonance at the hearing: 'What achieved success was the very chaos that the Internet is. The strength of the Internet is that chaos.' Just as the strength of the Internet is chaos, so the strength of our liberty depends upon the chaos and cacophony of the unfettered speech the First Amendment protects. For these reasons I without hesitation hold that the CDA is unconstitutional on its face."
The SpinnerWork is hell but at least there's a soundtrack. If you need an excuse to get a sound card and speakers for your computer, then here it is. Over 100 music channels streaming music to your desktop in real time, the Spinner has sections on urban, folk, oldies and classical music plus the usual chart fodder. You'll need a Real Audio plug-in for your browser, but you can get that free by following a link from the site.The Dance Music Resources PageJuno Records has created this shrine for dance anoraks. A complete listing of UK dance releases and imports, it also offers a popular weekly email, a searchable back catalogue and the usual e-commerce service.Underground Custom CDsCductive is not just another CD ordering site. With over 150 record labels supplying content, Cductive lets you listen to tracks and then compile your own playlist. It can then cut a CD with your own personal playlist which you can order online. More fun than home taping and completely legit.TimecastIf you need to find a list of TV and radio stations offering streaming media - either audio or video files - then this is the place. Over 1,200 audio selections and over 100 video feeds.Channel 4An excellent addition to the TV station, C4's site has off-screen, film and archive sections that embellish its role as a non-mainstream media company. And in case you want to catch up with what's on, the site also has TV listings for the next seven days.Andrew Wiseman's TV PagesYearn for the old days of TV? Confused by digital TV? Want to hear Zippy from Rainbow swear? Here's the place. Andrew Wiseman's paean to TV is one of the most amusing and informative personal sites online. The TV themes section, where you can watch all those old intros, including Yorkshire TV and Thames programmes, is particularly funny, and you can download those old public information films that saw small children being taught how to boil a kettle by a screeching cat called Charlie.Discovery ChannelThe galaxy's first and only daily science television magazine, part of which includes a roundup of new technological and scientific advances made in just the last week! Unbeatable.Yahoo GamesYahoo is one of the leading directory and search sites online, and as such commands an enormous loyal community. And now they are playing games ranging from bridge to blackjack. Deeply addictive, so watch out for those phone bills if you're playing from home.Ministry of SoundYou've been to the club, seen the video, read the magazine and heard the CD. Now visit the site replete with albums, merchandise, competitions and giveaways. At least you can get in without queueing for two hours.Multi-player Online GamingThe web is great for games and at this site you can find gaming communities and learn how to play in real time across the net.
Football:Hoddle.comThe web is awash with South Park references, but few are stranger than this eulogy to all things Glenn. Taking the beleaguered England boss as the starting point, Incline Media has created a parallel footballing world where Michael Owen kicks Ulrika Johnson's balls into Glenn's ever-open mouth. If you're still bitter with the boy David for his costly kick in the World Cup, then you can play Kickham, a game which gives you points for kicking Argentine attackers, and you get bonus points when Posh Spice is watching. In a fight between Ince and Hartson, who would win? The monthly series of Wembley Park which sees England players assume South Park roles add to the fun.Football:Football UnlimitedThe Guardian's brand new football site escapes from the usual trap of repeated soccer news feeds by bringing in the fans. Containing the Football Unlimited Network, where fans can control parts of the site about their favourite teams; Statland, a comprehensive statistics service; and quiz and chat areas, this site is the best football community site bar none.International Football:ReteMore information than you can possibly need about European soccer, but watch out for the occasional hilarious English translations.Football:UK Football PagesAn excellent starting point if you want to find web pages on any UK side from Premiership to Unibond leagues.Cricket:Cricket UnlimitedThe Guardian's new cricket site has daily columns from Jonathan Agnew and players' diary pieces that you won't see in the dead-tree media.Cricket:CricinfoThis site is, indeed, the home of cricket on the internet. Run by a collective of cricket fans in the UK, Australia and the Indian subcontinent, Cricinfo has more information than is healthy about all aspects of cricket, and its recent deal to show live video of test matches will make it de rigueur for cricket obsessives without satellite TV.Rugby:Scrum.comAll the fixtures, interviews and match reports from the domestic game plus extra coverage of the upcoming Rugby World Cup coming to these shores in October.Betting:Bet OnlineSick of wading through fag ends and crumpled betting slips just to stick a few quid on the gee-gees? Then just point and click. You'll need to open a regular account, but at least you won't have to put up with hard-luck stories and outrageous odds. All in all, a more civilised way to lose your money betting on racing, football, cricket and even NFL.Surfing:SurfstationSick of having your holiday ruined by wannabe-hip surfing accountants? The introduction: "Mother Earth, she feeds you she clothes you and she entertains you. Have you said thank you in some way today?" means this is for you.Running:Run LondonOne hundred runs spread over Greater London, each with printable maps and advice, for beginners and seasoned runners. It's not that cold out there. You know you can do it.
AmazonThe pin-up boy of e-commerce, Amazon is the web's biggest bookstore with 1.5 million titles in its portfolio. It offers sizeable reductions over high-street booksellers and you can now order CDs, videos and assorted gifts from its big sister site in the States. The best thing about Amazon is that you can read reviews penned by other Amazon users before you buy, and even leave your own thoughts on the site.Last MinuteIf you're in any way hassled or disorganised, or just plain lazy, here's the solution. A combination of a bargain basement sale and an online auction, Last Minute offers holidays, gifts, tickets and much more at knockdown prices if you are prepared to buy immediately.QuixellAnother online auction with a far-from-cryptic name. Quixell ("quick sell") is now Europe's largest auction site and is particularly useful for knockdown electrical goods and computers. Recent successful bids include £52 for a rechargeable, personal CD player.Sovietski CollectionIt is simple to sell online, hence the increasing number of popular commerce sites. Occasionally though, you come across someone who sells stuff that you rarely see in the high street. Sovietski sells all manner of Soviet-related goods, from World War II posters to replica Fabergé egg pendants.CDnowThe net's number one music store, it does what it says on the front of the site. Well, not quite. It may not be "CDs now" exactly, but it is certainly "CDs in a few days after ordering at substantially lower prices than your local record store". Which is just a little less catchy.Interactive Music and Video Store (IMVS)This UK store has grown so fast that it is one of the first e-commerce outfits to be a success on the financial markets. Videos, CDs, T-shirts and much else on offer here.The Internet BookshopWH Smiths' own bookshop now offers 1.4 million titles to choose from.TicketmasterBook tickets for all manner of events in the UK, from exhibitions to concerts. You can use the search tool to find events in your locale; and there are also Canadian, Australian and American sister sites if you want to liven up your holiday. It is not the prettiest site on the net, but it beats holding on the phone for ages just to find that all the tickets are already sold.Sainsbury'sThose goodly grocers don't yet cover the whole of the UK with their online ordering option, but you can find out if they will deliver to your house by simply entering your postcode. If they do, then you just fill your online basket with goods, choose home delivery or collection, and your account is debited accordingly.TescoMore of the same but with added news and links sections, and some recipes thrown in. Plus there's the chance to open your own TescoNet internet account if you want to take your loyalty card pledge to the extreme.
Microsoft ExpediaYou've seen those ads for Microsoft that say: Where do you want to go today? Well it seems Uncle Bill has found another way to add to his burgeoning fortune by answering the question for us. If your answer is on holiday - and, let's face it, who really enjoys British weather in January? - then you need to go to Expedia. A long-established US travel service, its recently opened UK counterpart offers hotels, plane tickets, car rental and package deals, all bookable from your browser. There's a section for business travellers and a nifty map service: just enter a place name and back comes a map.Bargain HolidaysFor a quick break, the best place is Bargain Holidays which has 70,000 late-availability flights and holidays on offer, plus loads of travellers tips and tricks for popular European 
destinations.LeisureHuntWherever you are going in the UK, you may want to find out some information: whether there is a hotel, golf course or park nearby, for instance. LeisureHunt will tell you.Internet Holiday RentalsIf you don't want to buy a package holiday, then book a flight and go to Internet Holiday Rentals to book a villa or apartment. Here you'll find over 1,500 private homes to rent, plus ski, golf and B&amp;B vacancies as well.The UK Travel Guide and Interactive Map of the UK and IrelandStaying closer to home, the UK Travel Guide is a good starting place to find links and details about breaks in the UK - and the section for foreign visitors is particularly interesting. Did you know our glorious Queen is the descendent of both King Egbert of Wessex and MacAlpine of Scotland? Maps and photographs complete the picture.SkiingIf you want to get back on the piste after Christmas, then slope off to 1ski.com. From the people who brought you bargain holidays, 1ski.com contains flight offers - including the top 10 deals - snow reports, ski news, a resort finder, plus that all-important holiday 
insurance.Currency ConverterWherever you go abroad this year there are two sites you should check. The first is the Currency Converter to find out just how overvalued sterling really isGovernment Passport Pagesand when you've turned off the gas and checked your tickets, log on to the Government's passport pages to make sure you can get past Terminal One.RailtrackLetting the train take the strain is not something that many Virgin passengers would know about lately, but if you are planning a break by rail then the excellent Railtrack site can help you make sense of the unholy mess that is the balkanised British train network.Paris Street MapIf it's Eurostar you're travelling on, make sure you peek at this street map of Paris. With photos covering nearly all of Paris, you can arrange your shopping route before you arrive.
Find A GraveThe web is not short of those who appear to be less than a full shilling. One such man is Jim Tipton. He has photographed over 1,000 graves of the famous and infamous. Even more scarily, you can now buy 'Find A Grave' T-shirts from the site.Supermodels"Forget geeky nerds - let Supermodels explain Cattle Insemination." What follows that introduction is similarly alarming: Liz Hurley and cattle insemination, erogenous gum massage and phone condoms. The phos4 site (so named because it "brings news" to the phosphor inside your monitor) is "just slightly ahead of the truth".French Fries Around The WorldProof that chips are different the world over.The Surrey Stick Theatre Of DeathIs it art? Is it serious? We don't know, but it's very amusing.Name That Candy BarThink you can name a chocolate bar by sight? Even if it's a cross-section view? This site has images of loads of them. Just one question: why bother?Scan Your Cat1. Take a household feline. 2. Place aforementioned moggy on a scanner. 3. Voila! One idiotically funny and morally questionable website.Name Your BabyFrom Xeney to Xylia, you can pick from a bizarre list of names at the New Baby Name Index. Those two are girls' names, by the way.Driveways Of The Rich And FamousPublic access TV in the USA has its fair share of eccentric programmes. Here's one translated to the web. Picture after picture of incredibly dull driveways that happen to belong to Hollywood stars. As its creator says: "Perched precisely and marvellously at that point where cyberwonk fandom, responsible journalism, and pop-culture Dadaism all meet."The Schwa CorporationThe Schwa Corporation has grown into a vast network of interrelated entities that is "responsible for over 37.15 per cent of the new ideas being generated in the world today," it claims. And most of them come from space aliens, it would seem.The Official Darwin AwardsThe Darwin Awards are handed out for those who remove themselves from the gene pool in the most spectacular fashion. So popular have these become that there are now several so-called award-winners - such as the man who attached a jet engine to his car and flew into a canyon wall - that regularly appear all over the web and in tabloid papers. Unfortunately, these are urban myths. Here, though, you can check out real award-winners (such as the lawyer demonstrating the safety of windows in a downtown Toronto skyscraper who crashed through a pane with his shoulder and plunged 24 floors to his death).ToastersToasters. That's all. Just toasters. But why?
A sombre group of Austrians - including a minister or two - gathered at Vienna's unfinished Technical Museum last week to hear an Englishman, Jonathan Minns, tell them about the massive steam engines he has just restored for them.What they got was an enthusiastic oration on what Minns calls, with drawling relish, 'the rabid sexuality of steam', complete with dry ice theatricals and video projections. Then, with gusto, he fired up the engines themselves. 'They get so damned serious,' he confided later.It's not the expected approach for a discussion on the restoration and conservation of mechanical antiquities, but Minns is not your average conservator. Tall and striking, with one of those booming, throaty public school voices which easily carries across a crowded exhibition room and straightens people's spines, Minns has been an underwater archaeologist, an actor in Paris, a rancher in Mexico, a London plumber, a television presenter, a consultant on mechanical antiquities for Christie's, a museum founder, and a judge for 18 years for Prince Charles's awards scheme for industry and innovation.But at heart he is, most extravagantly, an engineer, a calling he answered at 14 and which is clearly closer to a priestly vocation than a career choice. His father was an engineer, and an uncle, Sir Christopher Cockerell, invented the hovercraft. 'Engineering is the international language of making and doing,' he says. 'Engineering is the art that works. Beauty is a conscious decision.' Nothing is more beautiful, to his mind, than the flywheels, pistons, valves and gears of the engines of years gone by. He rushes around his four enormous engines in Vienna, some dating back to the 18th century, like a boy with his first train set.He explains how missing flywheels, melted down for armaments during the wars, had to be recast, and internal engine parts cleaned of centuries of oily grime. One engine was found in a mouldering barn, another in an ancient hospital. One, he points out with obvious pleasure, comes from a Victorian-era Austrian firm called von Prick. Now they glisten in a pristine white display room, to be fired up for visitors, a process which induces another fit of excited description.The Vienna Technical Museum, slated to open in a year's time, is the 28th museum Minns and his support crew have done work for, either conserving relics from engineering's past or, if appropriate, restoring them to full running order. Minns obviously most enjoys the latter. 'When you bring back something which has lain silent for many years, you realise it is a living thing,' he says, tenderly eyeing the old hospital air compressor.His conservation and restoration program, which features a five-year apprenticeship, is run out of the British Engineerium, a museum of working steam engines he helped found in 1975 in Hove. What was a derelict Victorian pump house, now houses road, rail, marine and stationary steam engines, hot air and internal combustion engines, and domestic tools. Its centrepiece is the 10 metre-high Easton and Anderson beam engine which was installed in the pumping station in 1875.Minns's passions are now focused on a three-year engineering course at Brighton University on technology conservation he's helped design which launches next September. The course will, he hopes, bring together students of all backgrounds and teach them more than the 'pure interpretation' of industrial archaeologists. He wants them to be able to rationalise the conservation process, and 'ask the right questions'.Foremost is whether an object can, and should, be restored to working order. 'Part of the decadence of moving away from the post-industrial age is we've lost touch with moving objects. We're losing touch with three-dimensional thinking,' he says. Skills passed from one worker to the next are dying away, and museum curators think only of saving the object, complete with rust, which infuriates him.'Pure interpretation is not enough. Someone has to get their hands dirty,' he says. He points, deploringly, to the latest tendency of science centres like London's Science Museum to put the real mechanical objects in storage and instead offer multimedia interactive displays.'We shall end up with international science centres with the same feeling as the product displays in an airport,' he booms. If any voice can get decision-makers to listen, it's certainly his.
You've taken up a trial offer to connect to the Internet, persuaded your computer to dial up a link over the phone line, surfed the Web and even sent some e-mail. And now you want to know what on earth is going on - or not as the case may be.First, a history lesson. In the mists of time, all of four decades ago, computers didn't talk to each other. Then, in 1966, the US Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA) enabled a few of its staff to exchange messages through a handful of computers spread about the country. This ARPANET, was the ancestor of the Internet, and was based on two important tenets. It was 'distributed', meaning that it had no headquarters, and it could connect computers of different types, irrespective of make. Telephone lines leased from AT&amp;T, the US phone company, linked the computers. Modems, which let digital computer hardware communicate with analogue telephone equipment (as they do today, only very much faster) tied up the loose ends.A community of users quickly developed around it. This led to the development of a protocol for passing messages over the network, the Internet Protocol, or IP. When you write a message, you don't need to be aware of the protocol; that's the job of your software. The IP determines how a message is broken up into packets of data, and tags them so every device on the network knows how to deal with any one packet that comes its way (each packet can take its own individual route before being reassembled into the message at the destination). A guiding maxim for the design of the IP was that there should be just enough information in the packet for the network to handle it.Before you can send any messages, your computer must be assigned a unique set of four numbers, known as the source IP address. At work, this is probably done by the IT department; at home, it happens automatically every time you dial into the computer belonging to the company that is providing you with access to the Net, your Internet Service Provider, or ISP. To find your computer's IP address on a machine running Windows 98, for instance, select the Start Menu, then choose the Run option and type 'ipconfig'. Alternatively, install a copy of NetScanTools (available from www.netscantools.com). Run it and your IP address appears on screen.But, you may well ask, why pay for an ISP? Why doesn't my phone line link my computer straight onto the Internet without any intermediaries? Your ISP is your gateway onto the Internet. Without it, you'd be forced to buy your own big, expensive computer, known as a router, and worry about managing Internet red tape.The Internet is not a single network, but a large collection of networks joined by routers. Your computer knows the location of its nearest router - that's another thing it's told when you dial into your ISP - and sends packets to it.Routers forward packets down their attached phone lines, satellite links or other networks to another router in the general direction of a packet's destination. Much like train spotters recording identification marks, networking specialists often count the number of 'hops' between routers to determine how far a packet has travelled; generally the more hops, the slower a communication. You could use NetScanTools to find out the number of hops between your machine and any other on the Internet, say the Guardian's web site. Select the Trace Route option and type in online.guardian.co.uk. Your machine will display each hop between you and the Guardian as they are discovered.Did you notice that there's been no mention of the Web, e-mail or any other Internet application? That's because each IP packet knows only where it is going, and where it came from; what it carries is important only when it reaches its destination. The routers need to know only the destination address to pass on packets; all the other information is inside them. Only when the packet reaches its destination does the packet get opened to reveal a Web request, or e-mail message. But that's another story.• John Graham-Cumming works in Silicon Valley, designing software to manage computer networks.
Digital Radio Now, the fourth International Digital Audio Broadcasting Forum, Singapore.Call 0171 896 9050. January 13-15BETT '99. Educational technology show. Olympia, London.Call 01203 426458 orwww.education-net.co.ukJanuary 13-15American Association for the Advancement of Science Annual Meeting Anaheim, California.Call 001 202 326 6440 or visitwww.aaas.org/meetings/scope/program/default.htmJanuary 21-26Guide Share Europe, a management symposium on IBM mainframes, sponsored by IBM. Berlin, Germany.Call 0041 41 748 7020 or visitwww.gse.orgJanuary 25-26ComNet communications trade exhibition and conference, Washington, DC.Call 00 1 (781) 551 9800 or visitwww.comnetexpo.comJanuary 25-28Corporate Intranet 99 conference on Web integration, intranets and extranets.Call 0181 879 3355 or visitwww.business-intelligence.co.ukJanuary 27-28Composium 99, two days of seminars in corporate computing. Millennium Centre, Gloucester Hotel, London SW7.Call 01753-774000 or visitwww.composium.co.ukFebruary 1-2Financial Markets Summit 99, conference and exhibition sponsored by Microsoft and Compaq. The Brewery, Chiswell Street, London EC1.Visitwww.fms-event.comFebruary 3Milia '99 Interactive media and gaming industry trade shows. Cannes, France.Call 00 331 4190 4452/4644 or visitwww.milia.comFebruary 9-12ISPCON '99 Conference and exhibition for Internet Service Providers. Hammersmith, London.Call 0171-976 0405 or visitwww.uk.internet.comFebruary 23-25
The trouble with computer and video games is that most are dreadful. If you're not dealing with horrible bugs or gaps in basic gameplay design, you're being insulted with rip-offs of whatever happens to be hot. Last year's proliferation of realtime strategy games - mostly variations on WarCraft 2 or Command &amp; Conquer - is just one example of gaming's lack of creativity. With game prices at anything up to £60 each, it's as well to buy carefully.This year will be no different in offering a few wonderful games among a general swill of mediocrity. Here's a quick rundown of the best things to expect in 1999, including one hardware launch, and two games each for PlayStation, Nintendo 64 and PC.The Dreamcast games console from Sega arrives in the UK later this year. Major software titles to be offered at launch are: Virtua Fighter 3 Team battle, a multi-player 3D combat simulation; Sonic Adventures, a rapid 3D scrolling, jump and explore romp; and Shenmue, a vast adventure mixing classic story-orientated decision-making along with arcade action.Silent Hill from Konami is one of the few truly original PlayStation releases this year. It's a horror adventure set in small-town USA. The player must search among mad townsfolk for a lost daughter. Weapons are placed along the way to aid your quest. Special effects and long cinematic shots will make this a must for anyone who loved Resident Evil.Chief among the many 'latest-in-the-series' PlayStation offerings is Final Fantasy VIII. It aims to focus on emotional involvement in the starring characters, as well as graphical and motion improvements. Expect it also to be beautiful.Any Nintendo 64 owners who enjoyed the depth of gameplay in Goldeneye, arguably the best game of 1997, must be relishing the arrival of Perfect Dark. The same team at Rare is creating this new shooter with better graphics, improved lighting effects, smoother movement and smarter enemies. It stars Joanna Dark who must identify the bad guys before killing them. The bad news? It's not out until the end of this year.There's no shortage of racing games for the Nintendo 64, but a good pick for this year must be LucasArts' Pod Racer, based on the new Star Wars movie. Little is known about this title, other than a general expectation that it will involve improvements on Rogue Squadron, the excellent flight combat game from the same company. Expect to be able to drive various neat Star Wars land-based and hover-vehicles; four-way head-to-head racing is also being rumoured.A bunch of humans colonise a new planet. Some believe in living according to nature, others want to create a hyper-efficient race; others want to make money. In Alpha Centauri, a new PC strategy game from Sid Meier, you guide one of the colonies through its ages of development. It's a strategy epic which takes the best of Meier's Civilization II, and explores themes of a possible future, rather than the past. The beta, released just before Christmas, has already won much admiration. This is going to be one of the great gaming achievements of the year.While the PC has excelled as the platform for in-depth epics like King's Quest and Myst, it's usually managed to disappoint in the console stronghold of cute Sonic the Hedgehog style jumping graphic adventures. Rayman from French outfit Ubisoft looks the best of the new bunch. It offers an innovative look-and-feel as well as varying modes of gameplay.
Your PC has come a long way since the early 1980s. The first PCs were simple with command line-driven interfaces and practically required a degree in computer science to operate. If you understand what &#91;&#91;xcopy a: c: /s/v/m&#93;&#93; means, chances are you're the person in your company people turned to when they needed computer help.The difficult and limited nature of these command strings, combined with the ability to add a variety of different peripherals to the PC, created a thriving and diverse business of innovative software developers who crafted programs to make the PC more reliable and easier to use. They became the utility merchants and existed due to the simple fact that the PC was difficult to administer and didn't work as well it should. Today, things are far different.With the advent of the graphical user interface (GUI), more powerful processors and greater integration of programs within the operating system, the need for people to understand the line &#91;&#91;xcopy a: c: /s/v/m&#93;&#93; in order to use their computer has practically been eliminated. The need for many utilities published by small third-party software developers has been obviated by the feature expansion of the operating system such as the Windows 98 feature to automatically back up files on your PC on a scheduled basis.Combine this with the power of the modern CPU, which now permits many tasks to be automated and run in the background, you'd think that the need for utilities to enhance performance or fix problems when things go wrong would have been eliminated.But additional utilities to keep your PC running at peak performance are still needed because of two factors.First is the simple truth that the PC still doesn't work as well as it should and second is the Internet.The functioning of today's PC is still based on some very basic computing concepts with regards to how the disk functions and feeds the rest of the system with information. As the disk spins and moves information around, it scatters the various pieces of data all over itself and it is the responsibility of the operating system to keep track of this information. Over time, as the data gets scattered over a greater area of the disk, performance starts to slow as the data becomes fragmented on the drive and it takes longer and longer to find and retrieve the necessary information.This also makes the disk work harder than it has to and can lead to it failing prematurely. Utilities that can efficiently defragment the data during idle periods, and keep track of the wear on your hard disk, watch for any possible failure and keep an eye on all your system resources will give you better performance and fix problems before things go wrong.This is just one example of the types of problems you're likely to run into with today's PC and utilities such as Check-It 98 (£42.99 ex VAT) fromTouchStone Softwareor Norton SystemWorks (£89.99 ex VAT) fromSymanteccan solve these problems and more.Of course, the biggest challenge to today's PC is the Internet. When surfing various Web sites, you can download many applets, programs and data files. If you don't know or can't trust the content on the site, it's very easy to download a file that has a virus that can corrupt your computer's file system or attach a macro virus to your word processing or spreadsheet program.It is said that as many as nine new viruses are produced in the world every day and the chances are that if you surf the World Wide Web, you'll run into a file with a virus.Fortunately, as the Internet has created this problem, it also provides a solution. With a modern anti-virus program such as Norton AntiVirus or McAfee VirusScan, you can easily obtain and install updates to your anti-virus program that can catch all the latest known viruses keeping your system protected from potential attack.Additionally, most major utility suites offer updates to all of their components over the Internet. This provides the most complete protection, maintenance and performance for your PC. As these software publishers discover bugs in their products, new ways of optimising performance or enhancements to cope with new functionality enabled by new Internet technologies, you can keep these utilities up to date. With continual Internet updates, the concept of buying a program and installing and using it for a few years before you buy a new update has been made obsolete.The PC has come a long way in the past 20 years. The Internet has posed both challenges and helped to solve many of the PC's problems. Internet-savvy utilities will drive the PC to even greater levels of reliability and performance. And one day, we might all forget what &#91;&#91;xcopy a: c: /s/v/m&#93;&#93; actually did.(Just in case you've forgotten already: it performs a multiple file copy from the floppy disk to the hard disk reading as much information from the floppy disk as it can into available memory, preserving the subdirectory structure on the destination drive as it appears on the source drive, verifying each new file with the source after it has been written but only copying those files where the archive bit on the file has not been set.)• Bob Kane is editor in chief of PC Magazine. For the full report, see February's issue, out tomorrow
In perhaps the most hotly-anticipated keynote he's given since returning to the helm of Apple Computer in 1997, Steve Jobs took the stage at the major Mac event of the year, San Francisco's MacWorld Expo, and wowed the crowd with a family of see-through, iMac-like G3 computers and a new line of multi-coloured iMacs.'What we're going to do here today is kick off 1999 with a bang,' said the blue-jeaned 'interim' CEO, who returned to the Apple fold as 'special adviser' to then-CEO Gilbert Amelio in 1997.Jobs is riding high. PC Data, the analyst based in Reston, Virginia, recently released figures pegging the iMac as the number one-selling retail PC in November, with 7.1 per cent of unit sales in America.Crucially, 32 per cent of iMac buyers were first-time Macintosh customers, and 13 per cent were converts from the Windows/Intel platform.Apple once held 18 per cent of the computing market, but years of clumsy marketing, bungled relationships with developers, and unruly product lines left it almost a nonentity: a mere 3 per cent of the computing population used Macs prior to the iMac. The iMac - and to a lesser extent, the G3 line of desktop systems - have pushed Apple up to a healthier, but still skimpy, 5 per cent market share.As John and Yoko smiled down benignly from a huge 'Think Different' banner, part of Apple's most recent advertising campaign, Jobs paced the stage and revealed a new line of translucent white and blue G3 computers based on 300, 350 and a new 400MHz G3 chip.'We wanted to make not only the most powerful Macintosh ever built but the best PC in the industry,' said Jobs. With built-in 3D acceleration in the form of the ATI Rage 128 card, 16 megabytes of graphics memory as standard, 64Mb of main memory, and a 6 gigabit drive (expandable to 100G), Apple is also pitching the new line squarely at a market it must capture if it is to have any viability with future consumers: gamers.'We recommitted Apple to games nine months ago and we've been working really hard at this,' said Jobs. 'Now, we want to be the best gaming platform in the world.' The Rage card will render 68 frames per second, compared with 50 for VooDoo 2, the most popular PC graphics card. Jobs clearly hopes that by following the old Macintosh practice of incorporating mulitmedia technologies directly into the system as standard, he will win over gamers who would have to pay $200 for a graphics card.Obviously games mattered to the crowd, who cheered Jobs's announcement that 12 current games, including Tomb Raider III, StarCraft, Heretic 2, Age of Empires, Quake and Quest for Glory 5 would be out on the Mac within the next 120 days. An appearance by games software house iD Software's co-founder John Carmack, in which he pledged to release Quake Arena simultaneously on Mac and PC, no doubt helped convince many in the crowd that Apple might be ready to flex some games muscle.But the stars of the show were the new computers. The new G3 towers have twin handles moulded into the top of the casing. In a simple but surprising innovation, the entire side of the tower drops down when a recessed handle is turned. This gives easy access to the Mac's innards: a major change for a company which traditionally encouraged consumers to leave system alterations to Apple professionals.Like the iMacs, the new G3s lack a floppy drive, but some incorporate a Zip drive. An Ethernet connection and USB ports are standard and the G3s incorporate a fast FireWire connection for external devices like video cameras and portable hard drives.
One flu over. . .'If a virus as deadly as that Hong Kong strain tore through the world's crowded communities today, 30 per cent of the earth's population could conceivably be dead (from the virus itself or secondary bacterial infections) before a vaccine became available to protect those who initially managed to escape infection.' Graeme Laver, Norbert Bischofberger and Robert Webster. Scientific AmericanLife on Mars (maybe)'Biology has taught us that if you have water and energy and some organic compounds you can produce life even in the most extreme environments. This forebodes well for the possibility that life existed on Mars sometime in the past or even perhaps today.' Ed Weiler, NASA's head of space science, launching the Mars polar lander. ReuterThe Pandora problem'My wish for this millennial year is not for yet another scientific breakthrough, but for a humanistic one. Our resolution must be to come to grips with the marvels - and the perils - of the scientific knowledge we already possess. The box is open. The miracle will be in finding the will, if need be, to close it.' Ellen Ruppel Shell, of the graduate science journalism department, Boston University. Washington PostHave gun, please grovel'The most deadly combat system of the current epoch: the adolescent human male equipped with a Kalashnikov - an AK47 assault rifle.' Michael Klare, professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College, Amherst, Masschusetts. Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists• Compiled by Tim Radford
Lake Baikal, the deepest and oldest lake in the world, has become a symbol for conservationists of man's inhumanity to nature. They say this unique natural resource which contains 20 per cent of the world's fresh water and supports a unique ecosystem, is being destroyed by pollution.But a joint British-Russian study shows the effects of pollution on Lake Baikal have been grossly over-estimated.The lake has certainly had a rough time as the dumping ground for agrochemicals such as DDT and PCBs, untreated sewage and industrial wastes such as organochlorines. The most infamous industrial culprits are two paper and pulp mills, producing high quality cellulose for the Russian defence industry. Although regulations now govern their waste output, it has been estimated that more than 1.5 billion tonnes of waste has already been dumped into the lake.It is home to the world's only freshwater seals and when thousands began dying in 1997, environmentalists were quick to point the finger.'For now it is evident that this is the largest environmental catastrophe in Baikal Lake for decades,' said Alexander Knorre, executive director of Greenpeace Russia. 'This way or another it is directly connected with the damaging human activity on the shores, with the pollution of the lake by the pulp and paper mill.' As accusations of environmental damage built up, the reputation of Lake Baikal declined, resulting in a delay of six years before it was declared a World Heritage Site by Unesco. Yet so far the predictions of ecological disaster at Lake Baikal have failed to come true. Even the seal deaths have been shown by recent alternative studies to be due to a distemper virus.Despite the claims of some scientists and environmentalists, the link between pollution and the supposed deterioration of the Lake Baikal ecosystem has never been proved. We at University College London, with colleagues from the Russian Academy of Sciences and Liverpool University set out to determine what effect the pollution was having on the lake, using techniques pioneered in the UK during the acid rain debate of the 1980s.To examine the effects of pollution on the water quality of Lake Baikal, the present situation must be compared to what it was like before the industrial revolution. Lake sediments provide the perfect answer, as these build up continuously from material that drops out of the surface waters. The deeper the sediment, the older it is. We recovered more than 40 cores from all parts of Lake Baikal. These were radiometrically dated and the oldest material recovered was found to be more than 2,000 years old.Lake Baikal's sediment is primarily composed of beautiful, minute silica shells of algae called diatoms.Diatoms live and photosynthesise in all types of surface waters and, as shown in the debate on acid rain, are very sensitive to changes in water quality. Each diatom species has its preferred water quality and all have unique shell patterns, allowing them to be accurately identified.When they die and drift to the bottom of the lake, their shells are preserved and accumulate in the sediment. By using microscopes to count the proportions of the various species found at different depths in the sediment, we were able to reconstruct past changes in water quality. In addition we measured the amounts of heavy metals and carbonaceous particle in the sediment, which provided us with a guide to pollution levels.Our British-Russian lake sediment study shows the environmentalists' assertions to be wrong. Local water quality problems were observed, but these are restricted to very small regions of the lake, shattering the assumption that pollution has ruined its ecology.We concluded that the ecology of Lake Baikal has been unaffected by all the pollution the Soviet Union could throw at it because of the lake's immense size.This does not mean we can be complacent. The residency times of the water in Lake Baikal are about 300 years. So if pollution is left unchecked it would accumulate over a period of centuries to toxic levels. But this biodiverse hotspot - home to more than 2,500 species, 75 per cent of which are found nowhere else in the world - can be preserved.The only major ecological shift we found in the Lake Baikal sediments was during the dramatic warming at the end of the Little Ice Age, 140 years ago, when there was a shift to diatom species which prefer ice-free conditions. This was not detrimental to the lake's ecosystem, but more importantly, it demonstrates the sensitivity of Lake Baikal to global temperature changes, providing us with a unique window through which to view our changing environment.• Mark Maslin is a marine geologist at the Environmental Change Research Centre, University College, London. His co-researcher is Anson Mackay of the same department.
The Ellmann effectWhen I started reading Online (The Iceman Cometh, December 17), I was disturbed that you had given over the front page of the section to some mad person wittering on about Martinis and how everywhere in the world was equally bad except for New York. Still, I thought, inside there'll still be all those interesting well-written articles about science. WRONG. 6 Pages. SIX pages! Of badly written irrelevant unamusing rubbish.Andrew DuckerAndrew@Landmaster.co.ukWhat is the point of RANDOM capitalisation? What does it add to THE article? I could only take two PARAGRAPHS of this nonsense. A TRIUMPH of appearance over content? WhEre will it all end?Steve Daysteveday@wizzle.globalnet.co.ukRate for the jobIf John Taylor wants to attract first class scientists to research he could start by improving funding for PhD students (Second raters need not apply, December 17). Having failed to find a funded PhD place this year, I'm currently shelf stacking in a local supermarket and earning more than my peers who've stayed in academe.A M Gregory, GranthamI note with interest that the new head of the research councils, John Taylor, is full of phrases like 'excellence' and 'world class'. If I were a researcher I'm not sure I'd be looking forward to 1999 a great deal given that the person responsible for making funding decisions seems to have graduated in what we have come to know as the language of Blairbollocks.Keith Flett, London N17Talented poolYou assume, as usual, that in-breeding, with its inevitable narrowing of the genetic choice, is generally inadvisable and dangerous, sometimes fatal and always deplorable (End of the toad? December 17). That may be true, but how does it square with the belief that all life ultimately began with a gene pool so restricted that it was virtually unitary; and that if not Adam and Eve, all human ancestry goes back to a single progenitor - Lucy?John Roberts101540.3640 @compuserve.comCamera secretsPlease don't believe a word of what Dixons said (Touching scenes, December 17). You can buy tapes &#91;for digital cameras&#93; cheaper at Techno and Jessops branches. The camera will resolve about 450 lines horizontally and VHS only about 240, so the suggestion of copying to VHS is no go for best quality pictures. Even super VHS is usually &#91;less than&#93; 400-line resolution (though I use it for editing videos - not being able to afford a digital recorder).Geoffrey Mossgeoffrey.moss@cwcom.netPopular voteYoav Tzabar (Feedback, December 17) is on to something seriously important, but we would still need elected representatives to generate initiatives for policy and practice, and to supervise the administration. However, after their debates, and after we have been clearly informed of what they are proposing, there should be a trigger mechanism by which we, the Sovereign People, could require a referendum on any proposal which we did not like the sound of. Technology could allow real, direct democracy.Howard Wilson Hiltonh.w.hilton@btinternet.comAnd finally...Graham Figg's geography may be suspect (Feedback, December 17), but I'm sure Brighton was in East Sussex when last I looked?Graeme Kerrgraemek@dial.pipex.comEditor's note: Many apologies to Robin Guenier for suggesting that his organisation, Taskforce 2000, which campaigns to raise awareness of the Year 2000 problem, had been disbanded (Defusing the time bomb, December 10). Nothing could be further from the truth.
'I migrated from studying philosophy in order to ask deep questions about the Universe, to studying physics in order to answer deep questions about the Universe.''The revolution so far has been for computers, not people.''A computer with a keyboard and mouse can be used by only one person at a time, helping you communicate with someone on the other side of the world but not with someone in the same room.''Information technology is at an awkward development stage where it is adept at communicating its needs and those of other people, but not yet able to anticipate yours.'
The internet was a hit this Christmas, as surfers spent from $2.5bn to $3.5bn online, according to some estimates. America Online reckons its members spent $1.2bn between November 26 and December 27. The most popular products were toys and 'baby items'.But the Christmas present for the surfer who has everything else could be the Finnish contraption spotted by an Online reader in a new shop in Brick Lane, in the East End. The price of the Netsurfer Max computer divan, excluding PC, is £2,605. E-commerce may be seen as a step backwards from the days when space physics analysis ruled the Net, but it's surely better than testing the original design spec: the Net's ability to survive a nuclear strike.The bad news for AOL came on Tuesday, when a US Federal judge refused an order forbidding AT&amp;T from using phrases such as 'buddy lists' and 'You have mail'. The latter is close to the movie-title phrase AOL has used for a decade - 'You've got mail!' - but not in the UK, of course, where AOL users get post.Back in the anti-Microsoft trial, which restarted this week after a fortnight off, the important questions are still not being asked. For example, which Teletubby does Bill Gates like best: Tinky Winky, Dipsy, Laa-Laa, or Po? American sources (not confirmed by Microsoft), say Billionaire Bill's company will soon produce high-tech ActiMate versions of the famous foursome, to follow up Microsoft's version of Barney, the insufferable purple dinosaur. Gates's kids are presumably doing their bit as beta testers.Also in the US, Compaq is launching a 'Networked Home in a Box' which uses home phone wiring to link computers. The system includes two PCs with 17in colour monitors and a colour printer, but there's no word on how many it sleeps.
It's been a long time coming, but then it's come a long way... a quip about Apple from the forecourt of innovation in Silicon Valley. The champers promised last year for such an effort has already gone, sadly, but we'll rustle up something by way of compensation. Anyway, here it goes.Steve Jobs, Bill Clinton and Tony Blair are flying together on a plane when it crashes. All three are killed and ascend to the Pearly Gates where they confront The Lord who is sitting in a magnificent celestial chair. The trio are required to answer a single question before being allocated an appropriate place in the firmament.God turns first to Tony Blair and says: 'What do you believe in?' Shocked to be caught so unawares and without a spin doctor at his side, he blurts: 'I believe in the people of Britain and their greatness.' The Lord frowns a little, but is a kindly sort and so lets him through the gates.Bill Clinton is asked the same question. He replies: 'I believe in the individual and the power of the individual's personal journey through life'. The Lord frowns again, but lets the former president pass into heaven (without a formal vote in any of his three houses).Finally The Lord turns to Steve Jobs, who has made it clear that he's impatient for his turn: 'And what do you believe in?' Jobs frowns, and then replies with a gleam in his eyes: 'I believe you're in my chair.'
This column appears in the February edition of PC Magazine, on sale now
The euro is so simple even a child can understand it - or should be able to, through the animated cartoon-based Captain Euro site atwww.captain-euro.com. Captain Euro is a sort of propaganda superhero, though he looks more like a steward from a Eurostar train-set. But the main problem is the size of the thing: is it aimed at rich kids with 21in monitors and networked Internet links? For grown-ups, Conosco Communications' EmuNet (www.euro-emu.co.uk) is hard to beat.Go Network aspires to be the next big 'portal' to rival Yahoo, Excite, Microsoft's MSN, Snap and all the rest - which is probably why it looks just like them. It could be considered an improved version of Infoseek, one of the Net's older search engines. However, there seems to be much less input from Infoseek's partner and major (43 per cent) shareholder, The Walt Disney Company, except for a GOguardian search facility that 'lets you eliminate most adult-oriented sites'. Go will feed traffic to other Disney sites such aswww.disney.com, ESPN, the sports network, and ABC, but it's not as jolly as DIG, Disney's Internet Guide (www.dig.com), to judge by the version on test atbeta.go.com.New year, new diary, new calendar . . . so this year, why not keep your appointments online? Yahoo is probably the market leader, having taken over the pioneering WebCal to get the basis of its free service,calendar.yahoo.com. You can now synchronise your Yahoo calendar with a Palm Pilot hand-held computer or a desktop PC running Microsoft Outlook 97 or 98. And if you want to put your Outlook contacts list (addressbook) on Yahoo, you can join a beta test that uses Starfish's nifty TrueSync program. There are, of course, some rival calendar services. India's Ruksun Software offers Easy Diary atwww.easydiary.com, while business-oriented Bridgeline Technologies caters for both individuals and groups atwww.jointplanning.com.One date will dominate this year's calendars, and should mean lots of traffic for the better Millennium sites. The Eiffel Tower is worth a virtual trip to Paris for The World-wide Observatory of the Year 2000 (www.tour-eiffel.fr/an2000_uk), which provides a fascinating guide to events all over the world. Other sites: trywww.everything2000.comorwww.countdown2000.com. The competition now includes the English Tourist Board's site (www.TravelEngland.org.uk) which is counting down to the Millennium, while London (www.LondonTown.com) is billing itself Millennium City.Resolution: to slim? The BBC wants to help with Fighting Fat, Fighting Fit (www.bbc.co.uk/education/ health/fightingfat/). It includes details of the huge number of diet and fitness-related programmes the BBC is broadcasting this month.The Superbowl, climax of the American Football season, is another chance for the National Football League to make a bit of money on the Net. As well as running its site atwww.nfl.com, it has launched a new fan-oriented SuperBowl site atwww.superbowl.com. The NFL and Lycos are splitting the ad revenue.Yesterday the 110 nominees for the annual Webby Awards were announced in San Francisco and they should now be on the Web atwww.webbyawards.com. Not all these 'Web Oscars' are chosen by computer-celebrity judges (not quite an oxymoron): there are also People's Choice awards. Register to vote.Flatland isn't flat, it's three-dimensional, like an old game: like DOOM with no enemies, and no guns, in fact. Flatland, a start-up company from San Francisco, points out that its new mark-up language, 3DML, enables users to create 3D Web pages very easily from Lego-like blocks. For the 3D effects, however, visitors have to download a browser plug-in called Landrover fromwww.flatland.comand then wait while the 3D 'blocks' are downloaded from each site. It's a nifty idea, but the quality is lower than VRML (Virtual Reality Mark-up Language) systems like Superscape, so the novelty may wear off even quicker.The Oldie magazine claims to be 'Overtaking the whizkids on the information superhighway' with its new Web site atwww.theoldie.co.uk. Sadly there's not enough sample content to hold the interest of silver(-haired) surfers.The Texas octuplets, born last month, may already have been forgotten by most of the media, but the Texas Children's Hospital is providing updates on the survivors' progress atwww.txchildrens.org.Pi, the festival-winning SF film released tomorrow, is online atwww.pithemovie.co.uk.Instant portal: just add e-mail, message boards, mailing lists and chat-rooms. Outblaze, in Hong Kong, is offering Webmasters these services for free atwww.outblaze.com, but seems to be looking for professionally-run partners, not just anyone with a personal home page.
To order a copy of the book for £14.99 plus 99p UK p&amp;p, freephone 0500 600 102 or send your order with a UK cheque to The Guardian CultureShop, 250 Western Avenue, London, W3 6EE.
Joe Public, not James Bond, is the most important person in the armoury of the intelligence services. It is vital that our intelligence agencies maintain the confidence and support of the public. Both MI5 and MI6 depend on sympathetic members of the public to carry out their duties effectively in the UK.A foreign intelligence service needs an untarnished image at home if it is to be trusted by its agents overseas. If public confidence is lost, the lifeblood of intelligence work is lost.During the cold war, the value of the intelligence service was unquestioned by the majority of the public. There were failings, but hiding them from the public under the cloak of the Official Secrets Act was preferable to exposing the failings, and risking a chink in the intelligence armour. A culture of excessive secrecy grew up in the agencies, and with it the view that the public would unquestioningly support heavy-handed punishment of any member of the intelligence services who chose to breach the act.Britain still faces threats to its security, but they are now multifaceted, diffuse and far less tangible to the public. European unification, greater cultural diversity at home and the ease of foreign travel have broken down old-fashioned, xenophobic concepts. Words like 'traitor' and 'defector' no longer carry the same gravitas as during the cold war, and patriotism is almost a dirty word, especially among the younger generation. The intelligence services cannot take for granted unquestioning public support for prosecutions of individuals under the draconian Official Secrets Act.David Shayler's release by a French court on Wednesday leaves the intelligence services in a dilemma. Do they encourage the French to appeal against the judgment and continue to harass Shayler pour encourager les autres but risk alienating public opinion? Or do they concede defeat, drop the charges against him, admit that things have been going wrong with the intelligence services recently, and publicly address the problems?I strongly urge the latter. The former option will merely reinforce MI5's image of a wayward, unreconstructed monolith, and show the public that it has refused to learn any lessons from Mr Shayler's case. Even if the Government appeals against the French decision, there will be nothing to stop Mr Shayler leaving France for another country, where any French decision will be irrelevant. The Government would only postpone a humiliating climbdown, or have to raise the stakes and risk looking even more foolish by launching a fresh case against him in his new country. He would become a cause celebre.By continuing to hound him, they will risk having him retaliate by exposing more secrets. British intelligence will be sending a clear signal to the world that it considers it more important to silence its critics than to safeguard national security. Public sympathy will swing even further towards Mr Shayler, and will make any other revelations from him about his work in MI5 yet more marketable.Far better, then, to admit defeat and do a deal - drop all the charges, allow him to return to the UK, and give him the opportunity to put his arguments to the Parliamentary Intelligence and Security Committee. If he is allowed to air his concerns privately, he will find it difficult to justify publicly any later revelations to the media.In the long term it will be to the good of the intelligence services. It will show the public that they are prepared to adapt to a changing world order and learn from their mistakes.For the blame for the Shayler episode lies entirely with MI5. By failing to anticipate and answer his concerns while he was employed, and by allowing its relationship with him to break down after he left, MI5 neglected its responsibility for safeguarding national security. It should be held accountable for it.The Intelligence and Security Committee needs to be elevated to select committee status, so that members can cross-examine the heads of MI5, MI6 and GCHQ when things go wrong. That way, Messrs Lander, Spedding and Richards will take good care that things do not go wrong in the first place. With an adequate and fair internal complaints procedure, plaintiffs would not be forced to go to the media. Where there are security concerns, the services should ensure that they stay in touch with former staff members and ensure they are helped in their new careers.The Official Secrets Act needs reforming to reflect the changing world order. It should be replaced with a Freedom of Information Act, and a distinction made between harmless revelations, those genuinely dangerous, and those in the pubic interest. Punishment for breach of the act should equate with the damage caused, not simply for the fact of a breach. Shayler's case, and others like it, have set the ball rolling unstoppably in the direction of these changes. The intelligence services will gain far more respect from Joe Public if they recognise and embrace the need for change. Offering an olive branch to Shayler is the only way forward.Richard Tomlinson was sacked by MI6 in 1996 on the grounds that he was an unsuitable spy, and he was prevented from taking his case to an industrial tribunal. He pleaded guilty to breaking the Official Secrets Act after sending a book synopsis to an Australian publisher. He was released from jail this year.
High-speed surfing on the  Internet may soon be available at much lower cost thanks to new technology from BT.Existing phone lines will be transformed into rapid multi-media connections using 'digital access technology', allowing customers to surf while using their phone.Trials of the service, to be called Home Highway, begin in 300 households in the Midlands in February, and it may be offered nationwide in May.Home Highway will allow customers to view goods for sale on the computer screen and phone up to order them, or play Internet -based games while talking to other players. At present, most computer users surf the net using their existing analogue phone line, which is slow and hampered by noise on the line. The only alternative is an expensive digital ISDN line.BT and its suppliers, GPT and Ericsson, can now send digital signals down the copper phone wire, allowing householders to use up to four lines in future - two digital - from one junction box.BT anticipates customers will pay around pounds 100 for the new service to be installed, and 'slightly more' than today's pounds 26 quarterly rental.BT, which estimates there are 6 million households with a PC, but only 1 million on the Internet , hopes 2 million more will be surfing by 2003.
The first Internet terminal equipped cafe will finally open in London after several false starts. Named Cyberia , the cafe is at 39 Whitfield Street near to Goodge Street tube station rather than in the trendier Soho area. Cyberia will be the focus of a new UK 'Point of Presence', Easynet.Founders Keith Teare and David Rowe have taken the name Cybercafe Ltd for the company that will operate the establishment. This has irritated Heath Bunting, who had hoped to establish an eatery called Cybercafe in Soho's Bateman Street. Bunting has complained that 'these people are government agents.' Bunting has been using the e-mail address heath@ cybercafe. org for some time.Like cybercafes in other countries, Cyberia will have at least six terminals providing access to the Internet. The intention is to utilise Pentium-based PCs supplied by Carrera Technology running the NCSA Mosaic browser. Rowe was anxious not to put a price on how much it would cost customers to use the terminals but hinted that it would be around pounds 2.50 per hour. For those planning to access the Internet via Easynet, the company has yet to decide on a supplier for V34 compatible modems, so access is restricted to 14,400 bps at present. According to Teare, ISDN access is also a possibility.Teare says Easynet's 'primary business will be as a reseller of Internet connectivity.' It will compete with Demon Internet, CityScape and similar suppliers. Easynet can be reached by voice on 071-209 0990, by modem on 071-209 0220 (14.4K bps), and by e-mail to keith@easynet.co.uk
The Government has increased five-fold the money spent on employing outside contractors and consultants in the past three years to speed up its huge  computerisation programme, according to internal figures obtained by the Guardian.Spending has risen from pounds 20 million in 1984 to more than pounds 100 million this year to meet a serious shortage of trained staff. The private companies can therefore pay more than pounds 33,000 a year to staff who work alongside civil servants doing the same job for about pounds 11,000 a year.The Guardian revealed yesterday that a contract, worth up to pounds 500 million over five years, to run a pounds 1.6 billion national insurance record and social security scheme could go to an American firm.This would double at one stroke the amount being spent on private computer consultants. The Department of Health and Social Security computer alone is the largest in Western Europe.A report prepared for the executive council of the Society of Civil and Public Servants union shows how unsuccessful Whitehall has been in recruiting computer specialists.This year the Government tried to recruit 260 senior computer staff to the Civil Service. The net result was the appointment of 13 outside staff and 55 posts filled internally. The SCPS blames the low pay levels.The special allowance for computer staff was raised this year by only pounds 90 a year, and the Treasury has refused to consider any increase until March.The unions are suspicious that the Government's aim is not to recruit and train existing civil servants in computing but to bring in outside firms to replace their jobs.Whitehall sources have made it clear that the aim in privatising the new computer network is not to save money but to ensure that control is not handed over to the trade unions.The Government is known to be determined not to face a repeat of the long-standing dispute at the DHSS pension headquarters in Newcastle upon Tyne.A key part of its strategy is to employ short-term contract labour to set up the scheme rather than create large numbers of permanent and pensionable jobs for civil servants. It is therefore prepared to pay much higher salaries in the short term.Its longer-term strategy is to reduce the number of civil service jobs, which have already decreased nationally from 740,000 to around 640,000 since 1979.The move towards consultants has caused considerable concern at the National Audit Office, the official watchdog on government spending.In a recent report Sir Gordon Downey, the Comptroller and Auditor General, attacked the Government for allowing a four-fold increase in staff spending in computerising the Inland Revenue. In some cases it was discovered that consultants had raised their fees by between 25 and 63 per cent in one year.
Not since Lewis Carroll's Snark has any creature been hunted with such a variety of techniques and technology as the Loch Ness monster. Now, once again, its hunters are claiming triumph with a series of murky photographs and lurid descriptions.Sceptics will continue to be plagued by doubts. What happens to the bodies of monsters which die - or is immortality yet another of Nessie's amazing attributes? If the monsters are reptiles, why is it that other big reptiles - including the largest known to exist, the crocodile - are found only in tropical waters?All the other explanations put forwards in recent years, from wind and waves to 50 giant seals swimming in formation, are more convincing than that of a lost tribe of plesiosaurs.But nothing would be sadder than for Nessie's existence to be established beyond doubt. Sooner or later, monsters would be captured. The 1876 Cruelty to Animals Act offers, as a debate in the Lords six years ago revealed, no protection to monster invertebrates. And the Inverness bylaw probiting the removal of "unidentified creatures" from the Loch is small defence.To find the monster, moreover, would kill off the flourishing tourist industry which the Loch has built up. Few Scottish decisions have been less canny than the grant by the Highland Development Board of £1,000 ten years ago towards the cost of a Loch Ness search.Besides, a world where dodos are dead and Phoenixes fabled needs the odd mythical beast. Once Nessie has been found, only the Abominable Snowman will be left to quest for.
This year's show of the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders at Olympia certainly surpasses its predecessors in excellence of workmanship as well as in the number of exhibits.The whole of the huge hall is insufficient to accommodate the demands for space which were made, and the annexe was also unable to cope with the overflow, notwithstanding that the entries are, for the first time, restricted to pleasure cars.So much opposition was raised to the proposed uniform scheme of decoration that the old system was retained, and as a spectacle no doubt the whole suffers accordingly, for the wealthy firms, who spend a large amount of the decoration and lighting of their exhibits, rather cast shadows on the more modest brethren, whose excellence of design may, however, be as great.Whilst the show is thoroughly representative both of English and Continental makes, it may be said that there seems no very revolutionary trend in design observable anywhere. The car of to-day seems to be settling down on more or less conventional lines, as one would expect as the outcome of ten years of trial and experience.Improvements will come and are coming slowly and surely, but they are being introduced along sound and safe lines; greater attention is being given, for instance, to the composition of the various metals and to the improvement of carburation and oil foil. The multiplication of cylinders, if one may judge by the exhibits, seems to have stopped at six, and most of the important makers are now adopting this number for their high-powered cars. In these cars the practice of casting the cylinders in threes (as in the Rolls Royce) instead of in pairs is being largely followed.A feature of the show is the increased use of high-tension magneto ignition. Even on small cars where it is not a standard fitting provision is usually made for it, and it is not infrequently relied on as the sole form, though in many cases the dual system, with accumulator and coil, is also used.The live-axle drive seems to be ousting the chain drive, except with the very large cars, though many of the firms (eg the FIAT) state that they are altering their practice in this respect rather as a concession to public opinion than as a change in their belief in the efficiency of the chain drive. If the chain drive is to survive,except for racing cars, it will only do so by more general attention being given to the quiet-running chains and to the protection of the chain, for an effective chain-case and an oil-bath like that which the Sunbeam Company provide enable a well-made chain to run sweetly and smoothly and wear almost indefinitely.There has been some reduction in prices generally, but it has only been substantial in the case of the large cars supplied by the few firms at the top of the tree, who have been able so far to get what may be termed fancy prices; in smaller cars the reduction is not very noticeable, if we except the Coventry Humbers, though in most cases it will be found that improvements are introduced and better value is thus given even if there be no actual reduction in price.The Darracq Company show one of the most interesting novelties on an 18h-p model with live-axle drive. The speed gears, bevel and differential gears, are all brought together and combined in one unit, the box being mounted on the rear axle. This gives a neat appearance, and its practical merits have been most thoroughly tested on the high-powered Darracq racers for some years. In this model the four cylinders are casten bloc.The Berliet firm exhibit for the first time live-axle models of 14 and 22hp. They have the reputation of being economical in petrol, and being lightly built they should not be heavy on tyres. The 22 hp, with chain drive only, weight 15cwt.The Clement Talbot Company devote the centre of their exhibit to a splendid collection of cups and medals (about 90 in all) won during the past season, principally with their celebrated 15-hp car. This car will only be altered in minor details. A new model, 25-hp four cylinder car, is being introduced with cylinders cast in pairs and a brake horse-power of over 50.The Daimler Company have adopted the live axle, and show a 30-hp landaulette with four cylinders 110mm by 130mm. No anxiety need be felt as to this innovation, for the Company have for some time been manufacturing live-axle cars for italian use and for a few private users at home.Their other new live-axle model of 38 hp (cylinders 124 by 130) is not shown, but the cam shaft is now enclosed in the crank chamber and the distributor has been redesigned. Gearcases are being fitted to the chain-driven models.Messrs Horsfall and Bickham, of Manchester, show their well-known six-cylinder and four-cylinder Horbick models, both of which have the excellent White and Poppe engine. The former is now provided with a new disc clutch; the foot brake operates on the back wheels and the side brake on the propeller shaft, and a transverse spring has been introduced at the back.Two interesting exhibits are the Itala and De Dion cars, of Pekin and Paris fame. They are shown with what may possibly be the dust of Asia still upon them, and are a striking contrast to some of th epolished chassis beside them.The Silver Ghost, of 15,000 miles renown, is also shown by Messrs Rolls-Royce, with the parts taken to pieces for inspection. The marks of the tools are still evident, and in no case is any wear appreciable to any but the most expert eye. The exhibit is a splendid advertisement both to the designer of the car and to the staff who turn out such conscientious work.In this year's models, a three-quarter elliptical spring is introduced at the rear, and the frame is slightly dropped. A two-jetterd carburetter is now used with control from the dashboard.The Lanchester Company, not content with their excellent reputation for moderate-powered cars, show an interesting 50-hp six-cylinder engine. This model breaks away in some respects from Lanchester practice, being wheel-steered and foot-controlled. A cross shaft drives both magneto and water-circulating pump, and there is a positive drive for the fan. The car still retains, however, the Lanchester system of suspension, the worm drive, and also the wick carburetter which as been so successfully used for the past ten years.The Napier cars, as usual, form one of the finest exhibits in the show, and their new model, a 30-hp six-cylinder, fitted with the "Ideal" Cape hood, at once attracts attention. The chassis is of the famous six-cylinder type, with synchronised ignition, forced lubrication, a live-axle drive, transverse backspring and other Napier refinements, and the price is £575. It is claimed that the patent hood can be raised single-handed in about one minute, and lowered in half that tie.The FIAT cars make another fine stand, but show no great divergence from the previous patterns, except that they have adopted the live-axle drive for their 20-hp as a concession to demand. The lubrication is forced from the exhaust, and high-tension magneto ignition has replaced the low-tension.
Important Lancashire InventionThe great number of shuttle-changing devices recently brought under the notice of Lancashire cotton manufacturers is a proof of a general desire for labour-saving improvements in weaving mechanisms.The possibilities of automatic looms are admitted to be great, but there is an equally general disposition amongst manufacturers to await developments before plunging into capital expenditure upon new machinery. Readers of the "Manchester Guardian" will not fail to recognise the great interest of the latest invention which, if its claim to effect a 10 per cent increase in production, a 10 per cent economy of expense, and at least a 10 per cent advance in the weaver's wages be established, may approach in importance the invention of the fly-shuttle itself.What are the qualifications - apart from original genius and brains - most likely to be of service to the inventor of a successful automatic loom? In the first place, he must have been a weaver. Even the mechanically trained loom-making expert is not so well qualified to judge as [if] he had he been an intelligent, practised and alert weaver. Next, he must have been a tackler. The weaver may run the loom to perfection, but when it comes to setting the crank, adjusting the pick, judgment of the right cover, [correcting] fixing of tappets and economical use of leather fittings the skill of the experienced tackler is necessary.In addition to the qualifications of the weaver and the tackler, the ideal loom-inventor must have the commercial instinct of the employer.He must provide such attachments as will involve the minimum of alteration in, and be easily affixed to, existing looms. The close riddle of this test will sift the wheat from the chaff.The loom attachments now under notice are the devices and property of a man who has successively, and successfully, occupied the three positions named. As weaver, tackler, and employer, the inventor of the Cowburn patent shelf-shuttling motion has had special training and experience."Putting two shuttles in" the loom is an experience dreaded by every weaver. The "trap" caused thereby is temper-trying and waste-making.This need be no longer possible [thanks to] Mr. Cowburn's cunning little "shuttle stop motion". The employer need no more be vexed by the sight of looms stopped during the repair of a smash caused by the putting in of two shuttles.The device is astonishingly simple. If it fails it will, I think, be for some other reason than undue complexity.
