German employment minister Andrea Nahles is considering new “anti-stress” legislation, banning companies from contacting employees out of hours.Reacting to rising levels of workplace stress, Nahles has commissioned a report investigating the viability of legislation that would restrict the use of emails to contact staff outside of work.Speakingto the Rheinische Poston Tuesday, Nahles said: “There is an undeniable relationship between constant availability and the increase of mental illness. We have commissioned the Federal Institute for Occupational Safety and Health to work out whether it is possible to set load thresholds. We need universal and legally binding criteria.”It is already illegal in Germany for employees to contact staff during holidays. Several major companies such as Volkswagen and BMW have also implemented their own restrictions on contacting employees out of hours. Last year the German Labour Ministry banned managers from contacting staff outside of work. Recently, car manufacturer Daimlerinstalled software on its systemswhich automatically deletes emails sent to staff out of hours.This month, a study by the German Pension Insurance Union (DGB) showed that increasing numbers of German workers are retiring early through stress. The pressure to remain constantly in touch with managers and colleagues was reported to be a key cause. The newspaper Bild recently ran a headline story claiming that one in five German employees is reachable to bosses out of hours.Speakingto the Wall Street Journalat the time, Clemens Kirschbaum, professor of psychology at the Dresden University of Technology said: “Far too little time is spent switched off, just to withdraw in peace. It’s not conducive to good health.”The findings of the workplace stress report will be delivered next year.
The company behind hugely successful PC games service Steam is being sued by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC). The watchdog alleges that US-based Valve Corporation is contravening the county’s consumer laws by not offering refunds on games sold via its digital distribution platform.In documents filed to the Federal Court in Sydney, the organisation argues that Valve does not offer refunds on digital games, restricts statutory guarantees and places itself under no obligation to repair or replace faulty downloads.“The Australian Consumer Law applies to any business providing goods or services within Australia,” said ACCC chairman, Rod Sims. Valve may be an American based company with no physical presence in Australia, but it is carrying on business in Australia by selling to Australian consumers, who are protected by the Australian Consumer Law.“It is a breach of the Australian consumer law for businesses to state that they do not give refunds under any circumstances, including for gifts and during sales. Under the Australian consumer law, consumers can insist on a refund or replacement at their option if a product has a major fault.”Valve has since responded to the allegations. Ina statement to US game site, Kotaku, the spokesperson Doug Lombardi said: “We are making every effort to co-operate with the Australian officials on this matter, while continuing to provide Steam services to our customers across the world, including Australian gamers.”Launched in 2003, the Steam service has become the biggest digital store for PC game sales with over 65 million customers. In 2013, Valve was sued by a German consumer group over Steam’s refusal to allow customers to re-sell purchased games. However, in that case, the courtruled against the group.In the UK, consumer contract regulations stipulate that purchasers must be given a 14-day cooling off period when buying goods online. However, this only applies to tangible goods, such as books, CDs or clothing. Sites selling games, music and other data downloads usually require the user towaive the rights to the cooling off period.In a press release,the ACCC has statedthat it is seeking, “declarations, injunctions, pecuniary penalties, disclosure orders, adverse publicity orders, non-party consumer redress, a compliance program order and costs.” A hearing has been set for 7 October.
The Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak has spoken out against wearable technology, slating most smartwatches as no more than smartphone accessories that could be relegated to the same category as Bluetooth headsets.Apple is expected to release its first smartwatch on 9 September in California, alongside a new larger iPhone. Samsung and LG released two new smartwatches this week, joining a growing number from various manufacturers.“I feel that wearables are a hard sell,” Wozniaktold technology site Cnet. “They are go-betweens for your smartphone but are an extra piece and need special advantages that the smartphone doesn’t have, in my opinion.”“If they are just a Bluetooth go-between then it could wind up in the category of Bluetooth headsets: fun to wear and show off for a day,” said Wozniak, describing the derision that Bluetooth hands free voice calling headsets suffer and their propensity to be bought and played with for a day or two before being abandoned or left for trips in the car.‘Chance to set the direction of wearables’Despite sales data suggesting that consumers are tiring of current feature-light, Bluetooth-based wearables, Wozniak said he would expect Apple to offer something more akin to a mobile phone.Samsung has also just announced a Gear S smartwatch which has built-in data capability, and can be used for phone calls and messages rather than just relay notifications from a paired smartphone.“Apple works very hard to produce exceptionally great products and doesn’t quickly release things like a wearable. So if one is introduced I expect it to have a chance to set the direction and make the product category finally viable,” Wozniak said.Apple confirmed that it will hold its highly anticipated iPhone 6 launch event on 9 September in a specially built large auditorium at the Flint Centre in Cupertino, where there company has its headquarters.Its invitation included the cryptic words “wish we could say more”. Apple has dropped hints in the past about what it is set to unveil with its invites, placing multiple colours on the card for new colours of iPhones, for example.It is unknown, what the current invite hints but the event is expected to be the biggest launch in Apple’s history.•Apple confirms 9 September event - expect new iPhone and wearable•iPhone 6 screen could be sapphire-glass blend, says expert
When Israel stepped up Operation Protective Edge in Gaza in July, a crew of hackers going under the name of the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters readied their attack tools to show support for their Palestinian brothers.They attempted to flood a core piece of Israel’s internet infrastructure, the Domain Name System that acts as the web’s phone book for the country. They also tried to take down websites for the national stock exchange and Mossad, the intelligence and special operations body.Thanks to Israel’s capable cyber defence systems, the attacks caused little trouble, though security firm iSight Partners says the websites were briefly out of action.Their attacks previously knocked out the websites of top US banks, under the moniker Operation Ababil, but the Cyber Fighters’ gaze has shifted to events closer to home in recent months.What makes them especially fascinating to the West, however, is that they are almost certainly sponsored by the Iranian government, according to various sources with knowledge of the matter, speaking with the promise of anonymity to the Guardian.The group, which has compromised large numbers of websites by exploiting vulnerabilities in tools like WordPress, pooling their resources to launch their Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) strikes, is just one of many actors that form part of Iran’s growing cyber capability, according to US firms.Indeed, there is a rising anxiety amongst US public and private sector mandarins surrounding Iran’s apparent digital prowess, as evinced by research the Guardian was briefed on ahead of its September release.‘The groups are allowed to operate on financial crimes...’Rather than large, singular groups of digital spies, Iran has quietly built up a secret, disparate army of “mercenaries”, each separate from one another but with similar aims, according to the authors of the report, which will be published soon by Silicon Valley security company Norse.Months of research into Iranian networks uncovered at least 16,000 systems controlled by Iran outside of its borders, 2,000 of which were infected machines of businesses in the US, Israel and other nations of interest, claims Norse chief technology officer and co-founder Tommy Stiansen.Many of the Internet Protocol addresses (IPs) of those machines are hosting .ir websites - domains that are being used as platforms for attacks. In many cases, visitors to those sites are subsequently infected with malware - software designed specifically for surveillance and to siphon off valuable data from target organisations, according to the firm.These Iranian mercenaries were ostensibly hacking foreign businesses both for their own gain and for the benefit of their country, says Stiansen. “Cybercrime is tied to the same people doing cyber warfare in Iran,” he adds. “The groups are allowed to operate on financial crimes as well as state sponsored crimes… They don’t have a military machine for their cyber warfare programme.”Most targets are based in the US, though attacks have also hit the UK, Israel, Germany and Canada, amongst others, Stiansen says, claiming successful attacks were taking place “every week”.“In US there is a huge infiltration of Iranian activity,” he adds, noting the attacks were “geopolitically tuned”. Critical infrastructure bodies, including utilities and internet service providers, and government bodies are among those on the hit lists of Iran’s online soldiers of fortune.Various US and European hosting companies have been abused by too. Cloud and hosting services of industry giants like Amazon and GoDaddy are being used to launch the attacks, Norse’s research indicates.Kurt Stammberger, senior vice president at the firm, suggests Iran’s digital hirelings have used external hosting firms as they “don’t necessarily have access to [the technology] inside of the country to launch attacks”. “They’re using western infrastructure to launch attacks against western infrastructure.”‘We’ve got telescopes where others don’t...’Norse believes previous research into Iranian activity may have included false assumptions about the actors involved, as Iran has been adept at creating disinformation, using more than 5,000 fake social networking profiles to trick onlookers into following tracks that led to nobody and nowhere.iSight released a report in May, claiming these fake profiles were being used to spy on military leaders and political staff from across the world. The company told the Guardian it had seen the so-called Newscaster team target Iraqi ambassadors in recent months.In its own research, Norse set up fake systems that appeared to belong to businesses and critical infrastructure providers that would have proven attractive to attackers. They then collected data on subsequent attacks, tracing a large number back to Iran. Norse also relied on “millions of sensors dropped all over the world” and analysis tools to connect the dots.Meanwhile, it has mapped networks throughout the Middle Eastern nation to gain a good understanding of the nation’s cyber capability, uncovering various malicious hackers operating within Iran. “We’ve got telescopes where others don’t,” adds Stammberger.Stiansen also believes he has evidence indicating Turkish and Iranian collaboration on cyber issues. In exchange for oil and other goods Turkey reportedly helped Iran circumvent US and European sanctions, implemented in response to the country’s nuclear programmes. Stiansen suspects there may also be digital deals on the table.“There was a huge surge of attacks coming out of Turkey once they started cooperating. Believes there is a correlation with Iran’s cyber warfare programme. We will be looking at how Turkey’s cyber programme is being infused with knowledge from Iran probably in exchange for violating sanctions in Iran.”Neither the Turkish nor Iranian embassies in London responded to requests for comment from The Guardian.The company plans to release its full ‘Pistachio Harvest’ research in September with two Washington D.C.-based think tanks. Stammberger says the firm will share the most sensitive information with the relevant intelligence agencies, but the rest will be made public.Security consultants the Guardian contacted on Norse’s claims aren’t entirely sure there is enough proof of Iranian involvement. Some of the systems identified by Norse were hosting all kinds of malicious activity and the use of .ir domains was not enough to confirm the Iranian government backed the attacks, according to researchers from security companies Rapid7 and AlienVault Labs.“The fact of .ir domains being in there does not lead to any attribution by itself,” says Rapid7’s Mark Schloesser. But Norse believes it has enough evidence to substantiate its claims, which it will soon detail in full.“When you start seeing this pattern of thousands, tens of thousands of sites that all are controlled by Iranian nationals, that are all located in the West, then you start to think: this seems like more of a programme that has been thought out, that is sophisticated and is directed at a higher level,” Stammberger adds.‘Recent college graduates who are very technically proficient...’Though Norse itself is unsure about previous research into Iran, it couldn’t rule out the claims of a rival firm, CrowdStrike, which says it is tracking four different Iranian groups it calls Kittens. Each Kitten is separate from the other and has its own modus operandi and target list, says Dmitri Alperovitch, CTO and co-founder at CrowdStrike.Flying Kitten, also known as the Ajax hacking team, is focused on gathering intelligence on foreign governments and corporations of interest. Magic Kitten targets dissidents within Iran, whilst Charming Kitten uses social networking platforms to attack various targets. Finally, there’s Cutting Kitten. “This is a group that has produced a lot of website penetration tools that we see used by Iranian intrusion teams,” Alperovitch says.CrowdStrike is also tracking a number of individuals – “young individuals, recent college graduates who are very technically proficient”. Alperovitch believes these hackers are likely to strike if the extended negotiations between Iran and the US over the former’s nuclear programme come to nought.The US is hopeful it can strike a deal which would see sanctions lifted if Iran agrees to limit its activities and turns stores of its enriched uranium into fuel rather than weapons. In July, the deadline for an agreement was extended by four months and moved to November.“We are very concerned about what is going to happen over the next four months as we wrap up the negotiations. If things don’t go well, we expect to see some of these [Kittens] supported by the regime lashing out to send a message to the West that they’re a power to be reckoned with,” Alperovitch adds.Iran was the victim of what remains the most infamous act of nation state-sponsored cyber activity: Stuxnet. In 2010, it emerged the Stuxnet malware was used to infect an Iranian nuclear plant in order to upset the nation’s uranium development. Reports later suggested the US and Israel orchestrated the attacks, though neither has confirmed nor denied the claims.‘We have seen a few cases that had a big impact...’Iran has been suspected of various documented attacks since then, including the Shamoon event of 2012, which saw 30,000 PCs at oil giant Saudi Aramco infected and wiped.The DDoS attacks of Operation Ababil knocked out websites of some of US’ top banks, from Bank of America to Wells Fargo. And according to DefenseTech, the Iran Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC) has a budget of $76m to spend on its cyber efforts.All this has led to understandable anxiety in the US over Iran’s ability to disrupt American infrastructure at a critical time in relations between the two nations. Iran is certainly a cyber power to watch in this arena, adds Alperovitch.“The Iranians have gotten a lot more proficient in recent years. They used to be a third tier cyber power in our estimation and they’ve rapidly moved up to second tier,” he says. “They’ve invested a lot of resources into offensive and defensive cyber measures.”Though it would be easy to accuse American firms of hyping up the threat, the US and others appear to have good reason to be paranoid about Iran’s digital capability. “While some of the campaigns coming from Iran are not very sophisticated we have seen a few cases that had a big impact and were far more sophisticated,” says Jaime Blasco, director of AlienVault Labs.Professor Ian Brown, associate director of Oxford University’s Cyber Security Centre, says given the past attacks on Iran, it’s highly likely to be shovelling vast sums into offensive technologies.“Obviously, many other countries will be developing their own capabilities, even if they are unlikely to get to the scale of the Five Eyes. And given Iran was the target of the most sophisticated cyberweapon that is publicly known to date (Stuxnet), I would be surprised if they were not investing in their own capabilities,” Brown adds.Whatever the truth about the nature of the attackers, and whatever their levels of skill and power, Iran certainly has the attention of the digital defenders of the Western world.•Cyberwar on Iran more widespread than first thought
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle's self-driving cars still face many obstacles &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewMistakes on maps could be dangerous, because there are some objects, like traffic signals and intersection stop signs, that the car needs the maps to handle, even though it also has several on-board sensors. If it encountered an unmapped traffic light, and there were no cars or pedestrians around, the car could run a red light simply because it wouldn't know the light is there.Alberto Broggi, a professor studying autonomous driving at Italy's Università di Parma, says he worries about how a map-dependent system like Google's will respond if a route has seen changes like the addition of a new stop sign at an intersection.[Google car team director Chris] Urmson says the company had a strategy to handle the updating issue, but he declines to describe it in any detail.Some experts are bothered by Google's refusal to provide that sort of safety-related information. Michael Wagner, a Carnegie Mellon robotics researcher studying the transition to autonomous driving, says the public "has a right to be concerned" about Google's reticence: "This is a very early-stage technology, which makes asking these kinds of questions all the more justified."Certain aspects of the car's design do not seem to be widely appreciated. For example, Bernard Soriano, the California DMV official responsible for autonomous vehicles in the state, was unaware that the car couldn't handle unmapped intersection stop signs, despite numerous briefings from Google. When told about the limitation by MIT Technology Review, he said he would be seeking a "clarification" about the issue from Google."Unmapped stop signs" could also include stop/go signs or temporary traffic lights (around roadworks).Motherboard price competition expands to Europe &gt;&gt; DigitimesThe fierce price competition between Asustek Computer and Gigabyte Technology has recently expanded to Europe as demand in China is falling short of expectations and is putting strong pressure on ASRock and Micro-Star International (MSI), which have a large proportion of their shipments coming from Europe, according to sources from motherboard players.With overall motherboard demand dropping and Asustek and Gigabyte still expected to ship over 20m units in 2014, small players, which are not able to survive the price war, are expected to be eliminated from the market.Any time IDC or Gartner says PC sales are falling, there are some who say that all that's happening is that "finished PC" sales are being replaced by "build your own" PC parts sales. This puts some context to them (total finished PC sales are expected to be about 303.5m in 2014). Of course, a proportion (unknown) of motherboards will go for replacement/repair of existing PCs. Notable too that Digitimes says that "overall motherboard demand" is dropping - which suggests that "build your own" isn't expanding.In fact, according to aTaiwanese research company, "the worldwide motherboard shipment volume in 2013 reached approximately 143.2m units, down 2.8% year on year."The End of Gamers &gt;&gt; Dan GoldingWhen, over the last decade, the playing of videogames moved beyond the niche, the gamer identity remained fairly uniformly stagnant and immobile. Gamer identity was simply not fluid enough to apply to a broad spectrum of people. It could not meaningfully contain, for example, Candy Crush players, Proteus players, and Call of Duty players simultaneously. When videogames changed, the gamer identity did not stretch, and so it has been broken.And lest you think that I'm exaggerating about the irrelevance of the traditionally male dominated gamer identity,recent news confirms this, with adult women outnumbering teenage boys in game-playing demographics in the USA. Similar numbers also often come out ofAustralian surveys. The predictable 'what kind of games do they really play, though—are they really gamers?' response says all you need to know about this ongoing demographic shift.Golding's starting point is the ongoing misogyny around women who play, write or analyse games. See also Andrew Todd's article below. Something is going very wrong. (Via Mary Hamilton.)Sliding rocks on Racetrack Playa, Death Valley National Park: first observation of rocks in motion &gt;&gt; PLOS OneIn contrast with previous hypotheses of powerful winds or thick ice floating rocks off the playa surface, the process of rock movement that we have observed occurs when the thin, 3 to 6 mm, "windowpane" ice sheet covering the playa pool begins to melt in late morning sun and breaks up under light winds of ~4–5 m/s. Floating ice panels 10 s of meters in size push multiple rocks at low speeds of 2–5 m/min. along trajectories determined by the direction and velocity of the wind as well as that of the water flowing under the ice.Included simply because it's such a fascinating phenomenon.Video games, misogyny, and terrorism: a guide to assholes &gt;&gt; Badass DigestAndrew Todd on video gaming's problem with women:I have a friend who plays a lot of Call of Duty. He's a brilliant comedian whose name you'll probably know in the future, though I won't mention it here. One of his favourite aspects of the game is verbally abusing other players - he LOVES it. It's another game within a game. But it doesn't matter if you're the funniest or cleverest abusive dick on a server - you're still being an abusive dick, and you're still perpetuating a problem that has visibly grown way past that comparatively innocent context and into actual terrorism.There's no reputable research that states violent video games create violent video gamers, but I'd be curious to see whether they create abusive ones. At this point, abuse and harassment are as ingrained into gamer culture as headshots and killstreaks - but the difference between the two is that while the violence is fake, the abuse is real.This is an intriguing suggestion that seems worth pursuing. The focus though of Todd's piece is rampant misogyny:The ultimate, hilarious irony to these douchebags' worldview is that they claim to want gaming to be taken seriously. In their blinkered eyes, women are ruining gaming, because in their blinkered eyes, change that benefits anyone other than them is inherently bad. But feminist criticism can only be a boon to the games industry.Wearable device now, iWatch later &gt;&gt; AAPL OrchardApple may view the wearables category as requiring training wheels as consumers may not understand or connect with a full blown "iWatch" right out of the gate, so an in-between wearable device would be required to make the learning curve more manageable.  For example, an iPad introduced in 2005 probably would not have done as well since people wouldn't have been familiar with a touch interface - not to mention the lack of an app ecosystem.  It is possible Apple will initially sell a wearable device similar to a fitness band, but focused on the much broader and mainstream subject of health, only to expand the lineup in subsequent years with various editions, price points, and styles.  I have a growing suspicion that Apple's wearables category will not be comprised of just one or two models but an array of devices as wearables will usher the era of fashion into personal technology. Apple's recent retail hires support my thesis that a new way of thinking is required to sell a range (maybe up to dozens?) of wrist devices.Contrast with Google's full-on approach - Google Glass hyped ahead of any release to the public (even beta testers) and again with Android Wear, shown through "concept videos" ahead of the availability of any product.iPhone 1 vs Intex Cloud FX: is the £20 smartphone modelled on the original iPhone? &gt;&gt; Phone CruncherMat Toor:The Intex Cloud FX aims to bring base level smartphone functionality to the millions of Indian mobile phone users stuck on feature phones.But what was interesting when looking at the detailed technical specifications of the Intex Cloud FX was how similar they were to those of the original Apple iPhone launched back in 2007.For instance, both phones boast of 128MB of onboard RAM and sport 3.5-inch capacitive touch screens. The resolution of the two displays is identical at 320 by 480px and the actual dimensions of the phone cases match almost to the millimetre.Acute observation. The Intex Cloud FX is Mozilla's Firefox OS phone.First 64-bit Android phone has no 64-bit software &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaRon Amadeo:While the chip is 64-bit, the HTC Desire 510 doesn't actually run any 64-bit software — it runs Android 4.4, a 32-bit OS. The hardware is ready, but the rest of the Android ecosystem still needs to catch up. The first version of Android to support 64-bit apps will be Android L, which is due out sometime this year. Hopefully HTC takes advantage of its forward-looking hardware and updates the OS.When full 64-bit support does come, it won't just be about more memory; the ARMv8 instruction set that comes with the new architecture also offers a performance boost. In the iPhone 5S, 64-bit ARMv8 CPU benchmarks runabout 30% fasterthan 32-bit ARMv7 benchmarks on the same hardware.Use of sapphire in smartphones may take off in 2015, say Taiwan makers &gt;&gt; DigitimesFollowing the use of sapphire to make covers for the home button and camera of the iPhone 5, China- and South Korea-based smartphone vendors are considering the adoption of sapphire, and therefore the application in smartphones is likely to take off in 2015, according to Taiwan-based sapphire makers.LG Electronics has also adopted sapphire for covers of smartphone cameras and China-based smartphone vendors ZTE, Huawei Device and Xiaomi Technology as well as Samsung Electronics are very likely to follow suit, the sources said.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The Australian tax commissioner has left open the possibility that the digital payment system bitcoin could be considered legal tender in Australia.Bitcoin has beendescribed as a type of “virtual currency”where users can pay for goods and services, and can even create their own bitcoins to generate more currency.But countries around the world have continued to grapple with whether bitcoin could be considered currency or some other form of personal property.How bitcoin – and other cryptocurrencies – are defined will have broad ramifications for how they are handled by consumers and governments, including how they are dealt with under national taxation systems.At an inquiry on Wednesday the Australian tax commissioner, Chris Jordan, conceded there was a push by some proponents to have bitcoin treated like money, but added it did not meet the current definition of legal tender. However he left open the possibility that this could be changed in the future.“There’s a definition in the Tax Act of money. It’s got to be the legal tender of a country. We can’t say it’s money. If this grows more and more maybe the definition needs to change,” he said.A change to the definition of legal tender would require amendments to the Tax Act by the federal parliament.The tax office issued guidanceearlier in August that said bitcoin was considered an “intangible asset” under the Australian taxation system, which would means it was subject to the GST.A tax office senior assistant commissioner, Michael Hardy, said: “The ATO has consulted extensively with bitcoin experts, businesses, industry bodies and other external stakeholders to develop this guidance and explain the obligations of bitcoin users.”“People involved in buying or selling bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies – whether individuals or businesses – are encouraged to read our guidance. If their circumstances are not covered by the guidance, they can seek a private ruling by contacting us.”
Apple has tightened its privacy rules relating to health apps ahead of next month's product launch, which is expected to see the unveiling of an updated iPhone and could include new wearable technology.Thetechnology firm has told developersthat their apps, which would use Apple's"HealthKit" platformon the forthcoming products, must not sell any personal data they gather to advertisers. The move could stave off concerns users might have around privacy as Apple seeks to move into the health data business.Apple announced in June this year that a new standard app called "Health" will collect data on blood pressure, heart rate, and stats on diet and exercise.Its new rules clarify that developers who build apps that tap into HealthKit, of which Nike is rumoured to be one, can collect the data it holds.But, they stated, the developers "must not sell an end-user's health information collected through the HealthKit APIs to advertising platforms, data brokers or information resellers". Although, the rules add that they could share their data with "third parties for medical research purposes" as long as they get users' consent.The rules state: "Your application must not access the HealthKit APIs unless it is primarily designed to provide health and/or fitness services, and this usage is clearly evident in your marketing text and user interface."You and your application may not use the HealthKit APIs, or any information obtained through the HealthKit APIs, for any purpose other than providing health and/or fitness services in connection with your application (eg not for serving advertising)."This week, Apple sent out invitations for an event on 9 September that is believed to be the launch of the latest iPhone and a range of wearable technology. In typical Apple fashion, the invitation included the date of the event and the line: "wish we could say more".It is anticipated that Apple will launch an iPhone with a larger screen, as well as a new operating system on which it will run.There are rumours that the company will launch a smartwatch to compete with similar products from Google, LG, and Samsung, among others. It is still unknown whether that launch will take place at the 9 September event.
Mamma mia! Mario and Luigi are on Instagram!Kind of.Charles Martinet, the veteran character actor who voices Mario, Luigi, Wario and Waluigi for Nintendo’s video games,joined Instagram two weeks ago. Armed with a smartphone, figurines of Mario and Luigi, and a mischievous sense of humor, Martinet has been posting short videos showing the world through the Brothers’ eyes.Wherever Martinet goes, Mario and Luigi go too. Recently, they’ve been traveling in Chile.Wario even makes the occasional cameo.This week, Martinet has also been posting mini-nature documentaries, as told by Mario and Luigi, about a colony of ants that’s been busy devouring a tree. It is adorable.Here’s to hoping Princess Peach stops by for a visit.
Apple will hold its highly anticipated iPhone 6 launch event on 9 September, the company has confirmed.The invite features a close-up image of the top of the Apple logo and the tag line “wish we could say more”.The event will be held in the Flint Centre in Cupertino, California, around 6pm UK time.Apple is expected to unveil a new larger iPhone at the event, with a 4.7in screen to compete with larger smartphones from rivals Samsung, LG, HTC and Sony, as well as Microsoft.A second new iPhone with a larger 5.5in screen has also been rumoured.Sapphire screensThe expectation is that the new iPhone will have a harder, more scratch-resistant sapphire screen, although recent indications from the supply chain suggest Apple maystruggle to meet demandfor the new screen.The event will also mark the launch of Apple’s new iPhone and iPad software, iOS 8, which includes many new features focused around flexibility and interaction with Apple’s desktop and laptop computers.Apple’s new Health application is set to capitalise on the increasing “quantified self”, collecting data from fitness trackers and medical devices into one application. The iPhone 6 may also include expanded fitness tracking and health monitoring capabilities.The iPhone 6 is expected to be thebiggest launch in Apple’s history, with demand for the new larger smartphone expected to be high as iPhone users upgrade to the larger form factor made popular by Android and Windows Phones.Apple is also expected to launch a smartwatch this year to compete with the new raft of Google smartwatches from LG, Samsung, Motorola and others, although it is unknown if it will make an appearance at the early September event.•iPhone 6 screen could be sapphire-glass blend, says expert
Attribute clash. If that two-word phrase means nothing to you, the rest of this article is probably going to be bewildering. But if some dim light bulb exploded in your head, dragging you back to the days of the early home computers, welcome old-timer. We are, of course, talking about the ZX Spectrum.In the early eighties, the 48k Spectrum – or Speccy as it was known to fans and detractors alike – was the rubber-keyed prince of the computing world. Designed by Clive Sinclair and his team at Sinclair Research, and launched in 1982 (originally with a paltry 16k of memory), this comparatively cheap, cheerful machine brought digital technology to the masses, heralding a glorious golden age of game development. This was the era of Chuckie Egg, Horace Goes Skiing and Jet Set Willy; the era of whizz kids and bedroom coders. The era of fun and weirdness.Sinclair stopped making Spectrums in 1992, but their legacy lives on. Misty-eyed game makers still hark back to those days of ridiculously restrictive hardware specifications and – yes – attribute clash: the technical term for the way that the Speccy made animated graphics melt into each other like water colours in rain.Last year,retro gaming bloggerDavid Hughes launchedSpeccyJam, a week-long competition in which programmers from all over the world were challenged to make new games based around the technical limitations of the Speccy hardware. Now it’s back, taking place from Friday until 5 September. “Developers can work alone or as part of a team, and can use any game engine or dev tools to create their game,” says Hughes. “It can be developed for any device or platform… it doesn’t matter as long as it looks, feels and plays like a Spectrum game.”So what does that mean in practice? “The rules are that you must use only the 15 Spectrum colours (eight colours with an alternative shade for each, except black which is the same shade for both), and the Spectrum resolution – 256 x 192. It’s not essential to use colour clash, but we had a few tackling it last year just to make their game look more authentic - and they really did! I recommend you to playHenry Hedgehog and the Haunted Housewhich was my personal favourite.”This year, Hughes has also assembled an impressive judging panel of Spectrum luminaries. Jas Austin coded the Speccy version of Sega classic Altered Beast; Colin Jones was responsible for the anarchic Rock Star Ate My Hamster; and Clive Townsend created ninja adventure Saboteur. These guys helped establish the genres we all now take for granted – they formed the language of game design; its double-jumps, loot drops and boss battles.Constraints and creativityThere’s more to this than nostalgia though. Game developers love a challenge; they love to test their creativity against technical restrictions, and modern programmers rarely come up against a system as restrictive and demanding as an 8bit computer. Game jams are all about raw, fast uncluttered design – you think fast and you code faster. Having to think in terms of fossilised architecture takes the whole thing up a notch.“It would be quite easy for an independent game developer to dream up a character, draw it in Photoshop so that it looked exactly the way they wanted, and then have it animate around the screen collecting magic stars, give it some nice sound effects and some techno music, and make it really fun,” says Hughes. “However, if I was to say, you must do all of that but you only have 48k for everything, you can only use these eight colours that can only be displayed in a certain way at any one time, your sounds consist of a few clicks and beeps, and you must cram all of that in a resolution the size of a postage stamp. Oh, and it must be incredibly fun and engaging. Now that’s a challenge.”Oh okay, who are we kidding, this is totally about nostalgia. It is about Miner Willy and Dizzy and whatever the hell Horace was. “For me, and millions of others, the ZX Spectrum was our gaming first love,” says Hughes. “I think the sights and the sounds of the Speccy are a direct portal to revisiting our childhood, a time of innocence, when people had less expectations and a lot more patience – they had to have patience just to load those cassettes”.Games on cassettes. How will we ever explain that to our children? How will we ever explain waiting five minutes for the game to load while the tape player made a sound like two startled pigs shagging during an experimental krautrock concert? How will we explain attribute clash? How will we explaint Horace? A sort of pixelated smear on jagged legs? WTF?We can’t explain it because the medium has moved on so far. The horizons have shifted. Indie games like Spelunky and Papers Please give us glimpses of the old ways, but like the coders themselves, our ability to work within restrictions has been eroded a little.“The unique thing with Spectrum games, and I believe one of the main reasons that people are still interested and keep returning, is that you had to use your imagination as a peripheral cartridge add-on,” says Hughes. “You used your imagination to fill in the blackness of a background, and replace it with a dense jungle scene on something like Sabre Wulf. You had toimaginehow the speech would sound as you listened to the clicks and the beeps of a teacher reprimanding you for jumping like a kangaroo on the classic Skool Daze. This was a part of the game experience. Now the scenes are there for you, on a plate.”So SpeccyJam is happening this weekend. Join in, or wait until the games are available to play online fromthe official site. Load one up, it won’t take five minutes, it will probably work first time. The colours might even melt together, creating blocky collages in front of the pitch black backgrounds.Choose life! Why video games could do with a 1980s touchZX Spectrum: the five best games
The 200th birthday of writer Sheridan Le Fanu has been celebrated in a Google Doodle.Irish writer Le Fanu was as a pioneer of gothic horror literature whose greatest successes came late in his career.He is perhaps best remembered for the works Uncle Silas, Carmilla, which was written a quarter of a century before Bram Stoker's Dracula, and In a Glass Darkly.As Times Higher Education reported, in Uncle Silas, he "devised ways of presenting society as a code involving both opposites and identity, with the female narrator's pious father morphing into her wicked uncle".Besides his own writing, Le Fanu had financial interests in newspapers, including the Statesman, the Dublin Evening Mail and the Dublin University Magazine.Marking his birthday, the Irish Times wrote: "Le Fanu greatly pushed out the boundaries of the Victorian ghost story. He was a meticulous craftsman who combined the contemporary Gothic literary conventions with his own realistic technique to produce stories with psychological insight and supernatural terror."He did not seek to produce a 'shock horror' effect but often left important details unexplained, which added to the mystery."More on Gothic horrorVampires: more to read and watchThe 10 best gothic filmsGothic fiction tells us the truth about our divided nature
Disney is exploring the use of drones in its theme parks which could be used for aerial light displays, holding projection screens and suspending and controlling large, animated 3D puppets.A series of patent applications filed in 2013, published recently by Disney, reveal that the company is working on ways of using drones to replace traditional firework displays and large balloons marionette-controlled from the ground by puppeteers.“In a manner similar to hands holding a control frame of a string puppet, the airborne vehicles are moved, through a flight plan to support and position the tether/connection points of the marionette to articulate or animate the character mimicked by the marionette,”explains the patent.The patent describes how multiple characters or puppets could be suspended in mid-air by the drones and moved through a carefully choreographed routine, interacting with one another or creating a super-sized display.Each drone could be controlled from the ground or built into a system where the drones are aware of each others’ presence, synchronising movements that could adjust for gusts of wind or other disturbances that could throw a drone out of position.Disney’s patent describes how the drones could be used as puppet masters. Photograph: USPTO“This is a significant improvement over prior flying characters, which typically were provided in the form of parade or other blimps/balloons filled with hot air or other gases and that had little and/or awkward articulation of any movable parts,” the patent says.Drones have become the centre of attention over privacy and safety concerns in both the US and the UK. In the UK, no drone can be flown commercially within 50m of a building although the House of Lords isholding an enquiryinto the civil use of drones.The US Federal Aviation Authority is currently looking to integrate drones into its commercial aircraft regulations, but new laws are not expected until the end of the year at the earliest. Current guidelines that restrict civilian hobbyists to flying under 400 feet and with drones that weigh no more than 55lbs, forbidding commercial use of drones without license.It is not known how soon Disney would look to introduce drones over its theme parks, but it would likely need special permission to fly them with civilian safety a primary factor.However, we could see a giant-sized flying Mickey, Donald or Nemo in the near future hovering above a theme park or two.•Parrot Minidrones Rolling Spider review: an indoor drone for big kids
The US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is investigating reports that JPMorgan and at least four other US banks have been targeted by hackers in an attempt to obtain sensitive customer data.The cyberattacks have been linked to Russian hackers,Bloomberg reported, who quoted sources claiming that hackers have been able to extract “gigabytes of sensitive data”.The attacks may be connected to recent hacking attempts against European banks, it is understood. Investigators are said to be exploring links to both the Russian government and to Russian criminal networks, although Eastern European criminals are also a potential source.Cybersecurity experts and US government officials have not yet confirmed this, nor have they been able to confirm these attacks are linked to the recent US imposed sanctions on Russia.In a statement, the FBI is said to be currently working with the Secret Service to determine the source of the attack.“We are working with the United States secret service to determine the scope of recently reported cyber attacks against several American financial institutions,” said FBI supervisory special agent Joshua Campbell.JPMorgan Chase declined to comment about the attacks. “Companies of our size unfortunately experience cyberattacks nearly every day. We have multiple, layers of defense to counteract any threats and constantly monitor fraud levels,” said a statement.Cybersecurity experts say that these sorts of crimes are usually linked to obtaining intellectual property, rather than causing damage to financial institutions.“There’s always been an assumption because of the global nature of financial systems, that attacking a financial system will cause mutual disruption and financial loss,” said Rory Innes, head of cybersecurity at Salamanca Group.“Russia, for example, has money in the US financial system as do all big nations, and it will affect every nation involved. If it is state sponsored espionage, which is what the FBI have proposed, it’s likely that it is about intellectual property theft to increase home competitive advantage or to make a political statement in retaliation for Western sanctions.”Costin G Raiu, senior security researcher at Kaspersky Lab, said that cybercriminals are constantly developing more sophisticated ways to target instiutions st scale.“JP Morgan is a gold mine for this sort of information. Previously cyber criminals have been going after individual people’s money, so in a sense we’re seeing an evolution of cyber attacks.“Instead of going after a few dollars these cyber criminals are using their resources to go straight to the banks.”Russian cybercriminals stole the credit card details of up to 110 million shoppers from the the US department store chainTargetin December 2013, and in the same month hacking in to a BBCfile transfer serverand trying to sell access to other hackers.In August 2014, Wisconsin-based Hold Security claimed that Russian cyber gang CyberVor stole data from more than 420,000 websites to amass 4.5bn records, including 500,000 email addresses and 1.2bn username and password combinations.Hold Security also uncovered theAdobe Systemsattack in October 2013 in which 2.9 million customer IDs and passwords were stolen, including customer names and encrypted debit or credit card numbers along with their expiration dates.Hackers makes $84,000 hacking Bitcoin mining pool
Daniel Tomlinson, app-builder, digital sage and resident boy wizard of the Observer Tech Monthly, is champing at the 128-bit bit to answer your fears and prayers. Betrayed by a loyal smartphone? Bedevilled by online pitfalls? Bewildered by rival gadgets? Daniel will steer a nimble passage through the choppy waters of technology, you need only ask his help. Emailtech.questions@observer.co.ukor ask a question in the comments below.
Good news for PC makers - or at least, less-bad news. Total PC shipments in 2014 will fall only by 3.7% compared to last year, rather than the 6% previously forecast, says the research company IDC.That means that IDC nowexpects total shipments will hit 303.5m in 2014, compared to 315.1m in 2013 - which was itself substantially down from the 352m in 2012, and 361.5m in 2011, when the market peaked.However IDC does not have good news in the long term, forecasting that by 2018 total PC shipments will fall to 291m, with falls in three of the four major categories - desktop sales in both “mature” and “emerging” markets, and portable sales in mature markets - and only a small rise in sales of portables in emerging markets.That will leave PC shipments essentially in a replacement market, and 25% below their peak.Loren Loverde, in charge of IDC’s worldwide PC tracking, noted that people and businesses are taking longer between PC updates, though the introduction of Windows 9 – expected in 2015 – could help matters. “It will be hard to gauge the actual impact until the advantages [of Windows 9] to consumers and commercial users in functionality and integration with specific devices is more apparent.”The key driver for PC sales at present is business spending in market markets, which has been stimulated by the end of support for Windows XP in April. But “Chromebooks”, the cloud-connected PCs using Google’s stripped-down ChromeOS, have also emerged as a popular choice in some education and business markets, helping to boost overall PC numbers.IDC forecasts continuing falls in PC sales over the next two years - and further outTablets and 2-in-1s (where the screen is detachable from the keyboard), which once vied strongly with PCs for consumer spending, now look less of a direct threat - though their extensive adoption still means consumers “increasingly see PCs as only one of several computing devices,” commented IDC’s senior research analyst Jay Chou.In May IDC cut itsforecast for tablet sales over 2014, down from 260.9m units to 245.4m, which would be a 12.1% growth rather than the previous year’s 51.8% growth of 2012-2013. Apple in particular has seen successive drops in iPad shipments, though chief executive Tim Cook says that they are “meeting expectations”. However IDC still forecasts that tablets will in time outsell PCs.Separate data suggests that tablets have achieved a comparatively high installed base, following a dramatic rise in sales after the introduction of the iPad in March 2010. In the US, the Pew Research Group found in January 2014 that42% of adults own a tabletjust four years after launch, compared to 58% who have a smartphone - a category that is roughly a decade old - and 32% who own an e-reader; the first Amazon Kindle was launched in November 2007.IDC’s forecast for the PC market implies increasing financial pressure on market participants, both small and large. The largest six PC makers by volume - Lenovo, HP, Dell, Asus, Acer and Apple - together account for a growing share of shipments, reaching an all-time high of 72% in the second quarter of 2014.The biggest PC makers - Lenovo, HP, Dell, Acer, Asus and Apple - are taking a growing share of shipments, reaching an all-time high of 72% in the most recent quarter. Data: IDC. Photograph: Guardian/IDCFor smaller makers, the combination of falling shipments and growing power by the larger makers is expected to push some out altogether.Sony exited the PC marketthis year, and there are expectations that LG could follow suit.But bigger players are not immune from the changes as consumers and businesses look to smartphones, “phablets”, tablets and 2-in-1 devices.Dell left the stock market after a $24.8bn private buyoutin autumn 2013 to remake itself and focus on corporate accounts, while Asus and Acer have both seen PC revenues fall over the past two years, according to data in their financial results.Apple rumoured to be launching larger version of iPad in 2015
A string of TV and film hits have made Ricky Gervais a familiar face in Hollywood, but a new study claims he is also the most influential Twitter user in London.Social media analytics company PeerIndexconducted the research, which measured the tweets of 1.1m Londoners and how influential they were on others in the city.The company’s calculations assigned Gervais the highest “London PeerIndex” (LPi) score of 97 out of 100, putting him narrowly ahead of writer Caitlin Moran; Made in Chelsea stars Lucy Watson and Jamie Laing; musician Ed Sheeran; footballers Mezut Özil and Jack Wilshere; and Stephen Fry, who all scored 96 on the scale.With London mayor Boris Johnson planning a return to parliament as an MP, he ma be disappointed to learn that he only ranked 27th with a score of 93 using PeerIndex’s formula – behind current Prime Minister David Cameron, who ranked 10th with a score of 95.As with previous charts published by the company –journalists in 2011andUK Twitter users in 2013– PeerIndex is digging into Twitter’s “firehose” of data on tweets, retweets and mentions.The latest study analysed data from more than 200m Twitter accounts, but excluded parody accounts – bad news for @samuelpepys there – as well as “content-only” Twitter accounts, for example from media companies.“We applied a special rule: only influence from other Londoners counted. Every area is a community, and London is a particularly strong, if diverse, community,” said founder Azeem Azhar. “Our top lists are the people who most influenced other people from the capital.”The chart sees politicians and journalists rubbing shoulders with footballers, reality-show stars, musicians and YouTubers. PeerIndex claims that the list reflects positively on Londoners’ online interests.“It’s a rich and diverse audience interested in sport, music, politics and, perhaps most of all, having a laugh. There are more comedians in this list than any of the other places we’ve looked at,” said Azhar.The Guardian’s editor-in-chief, Alan Rusbridger, ranked 70th in the chart with a score of 90. He was joined on the list by fellow Guardian journalists Owen Jones (9th) and Hadley Freeman (88th).Only 29 of the top 100 accounts as ranked by PeerIndex are women. “Great to see so many feminist tweeters in #London100 but only 4 women in top 30. Twitter reflects wider inequality,”suggested the @EverydaySexism account, after the list was published.PeerIndex haspublished the full chart online.•Twitter more than triples its UK revenues to £46m
Samsung has announced its first smartwatch to have its own 3G mobile phone connection, unlike most rival models which rely on a paired mobile phone for internet connectivity, phone calls and messaging.The curved Gear S has both Wi-Fi and a 3G modem for connecting directly to the internet, which means gives the device can offer more than just smartphone notifications - a feature that hasfailed to strike a chord with consumers.​“The Samsung Gear S redefines the idea of the smart wearable and the culture of mobile communication,” said JK Shin, chief executive and head of Samsung’s IT &amp; mobile communications. “It will let consumers live a truly connected life anywhere, anytime.”Gear S Photograph: SamsungThe Gear S has a 2in curved OLED screen that’s form-fitted to the wrist, following on from its original curved Gear Fit smartwatch. It is powered by a 1GHz processor and Samsung’s own Tizen operating system as used on thecompany’s Gear 2, rather than Android Wear used byits Gear Live smartwatch.The watch can connect to a smartphone via Bluetooth, synchronising content and forwarding calls. Or it can forgo the smartphone entirely, sending and receiving calls and messages using the onscreen keyboard or voice dictation, or pulling information and status updates from social networks over Wi-Fi or 3G.Samsung has partnered with Nokia’s Here maps for turn-by-turn walking directions shown directly on the wrist with built-in GPS and compass.Gear S Photograph: SamsungThe Gear S also continues the company’s fitness focus with a heart beat sensor, UV monitor, barometer and motion sensors for monitoring activity and connecting to Samsung’s S Health app. Other apps such as Nike+ Running will also connect to the watches’ sensors for monitoring runs and other functions without a smartphone.Not the first with a Dick Tracy watchSamsung is not the first to try and fit a full mobile phone into a smartwatch. LG showed off a prototype mobile phone watch in 2008 before releasing theGD910 Watch Phone in 2009. It lasted three days on a single charge, and allowed wearers to send messages and make calls directly from the wrist.It was only made in limited quantities with few sales, despite being sold through Orange in Europe.The Gear S marks the sixth smartwatch to be unveiled by Samsung in less than a year, as the Korean company strives to create a range of smart wearables to support is smartphones. Samsung’sother Tizen Gear smartwatcheswill only connect to Samsung smartphones and tablets, like theGalaxy S5andTab S, and the Gear S is likely to follow suit.A SIM card slot for the 3G modem and the heart rate sensor are on the back of the watch. Photograph: SamsungWhether consumers will want to set up a second mobile phone contract just for their smartwatch remains to be seen. The Gear S will be available from early October, though the price has yet to be announced.•Samsung Gear 2 and Gear Fit review: smartwatches on the up•LG’s new G Watch R: the smartwatch that actually looks like a watch•Google smartwatches review: LG G Watch, Samsung Gear Live and Android Wear
Music sites often boast of their libraries of millions of songs, fromGoogle’s 22 million song collectiontoLast.FM’s gargantuan databaseof 90m song records.So social radio site This Is My Jam stands out in how it promotes its redesign, which launched on Thursday. The site, which opened in 2012, lets users post a single song – their “jam” – to their page, sharing their taste with their friends, and then listen to all their friends’ jams with one click. In essence, users can crowdsource the perfect radio playlist, and co-founder Hannah Donovan describes it as “the simplicity of Top 40 radio, but personalised and reimagined for today”.The redesign lifts some of the restrictions the founders imposed on the site at launch: it introduces a history function, letting users see, and edit, their jams all the way back to when they joined; and it redesigns the song screens, which gel together the social and radio aspects of the site.But it’s in that feature that Jam’s unique selling point really stands out, since Donovan and her co-founder Matthew Ogle promote it with the heady promise of “half a million new song screens”.That number sounds remarkably low, but it stems from the site’s approach to music, and to data-driven recommendations in general. As every single song on the network was hand-picked by at least one user as their favourite song of the moment, it can lay a convincing claim to being the best half a million songs in the world.“The idea is, it’s a small catalogue, but we think it’s the most quality catalogue,” says Donovan.“And it’s funny,” Ogle adds, “it shows how quickly things have changed. We’re on a world where a catalogue of 500,000 songs is now considered small, compared to the tens of millions that many others offer, but it wasn’t so long ago that a 100 song radio playlist would be a large radio playlist.”The pair call their approach “notable data,” and argue that it offers a halfway-house between the curation typical of magazines and word-of-mouth recommendations, and the sort of automated “big data” approach of sites such as Last.FM.The new song screens are an obvious part of that, highlighting the interactions and correlations between various songs on the site. So, for example, the song screen forTaylor Swift’s Shake It Offshares the raw data of how many people have picked it as their Jam, as well as more qualitative info such as users comments; and then it uses the data collected to recommend other hand-picked hits from the library, such as Dolly Parton’s Jolene and Trampled By Turtles’ cover of the Pixies’ Where Is My Mind.“In a way,” says Ogle, “it’s making visible a lot of the stuff that the community’s doing and building over the last two years, that until now has been largely invisible, simply because we were keeping very closely to that ephemerality. Often people will say ‘oh, Jam’s amazing, I’ve found so much music’, and others will say “how?’ and ‘where?’ It was a bit of a secret club that you had to join.”This is my Jam began as a “skunkworks” project at music data service The Echo Nest, before being spun-off as an independent company in 2013. Since then, Ogle and Donovan have been bootstrapping the company, though Donovan says that they’re “looking at a bunch of options” for how to proceed in the future.
I’m an experienced user but I’ve never learned anything about back up strategy or implementation (other than from Schofield’s laws).What’s the objective of backing up? What would be a good backup strategy? How would you implement it?Also, why backup to compressed files? Why not make the backup an image of the source (same folder structure), which makes it much easier for the inexperienced user to retrieve a single file if needed?ChrisI tend to bang on about backups because of the horror stories that appear in my mailbox. The latest example: someone took a laptop in for repair – it had a Windows XP software problem – and got it back with a different hard drive: all his data had gone. HenceSchofield’s Second Law of Computing, which states that data doesn’t really exist unless you have at least two copies of it.The main problem is that most people don’t make backups reliably, if ever. For consumers, the problems of what, when and how to back stuff up are less urgent. They’re certainly important to businesses, but businesses can pay experts to tell them the answers, or they can buy pre-packaged “solutions” of various sorts.Unfortunately, there isn’t a single answer, because people have different amounts of different types of data, and different needs. At one extreme, some people need a fail-safe system where everything is backed up all the time, and they can restore their computer to its state at an earlier date and time. Others may not care if their PC works, they just want to be sure they have copies of irreplaceable family photos, or the PhD thesis they have almost but not quite finished.Different files obviously have different values. As a rough guide, work out the replacement cost of your files and how much you would pay to replace them. For example, the audio files you ripped from your CDs are not worth much: you could rip them again, or buy digital tracks on Amazon. Your unfinished PhD thesis, blockbuster novel or genealogy database would be worth a lot more because of the time and effort it would take to recreate it from scratch. Old family photos might be impossible to replace, and you would pay a recovery company £500-£1,000 or so to get them back.Backing up a PCA full backup would enable you to restore your PC to a previous state without losing anything, or not much. This is what backup software aims to do, and this includes the programs provided with Windows and other operating systems. To save time and disk space, these timed backups – often daily but sometimes hourly – are “incremental”, which means only changes are recorded. To save disk space, the files are compressed: you can’t see the originals on the drive, though you can extract them.It’s very easy to set up a full backup system, though ordinary users may run into problems when the program has filled all the available hard disk space. Some systems may quietly throw away old files to make room for new ones, which means you might not be able to rescue the file you deleted a month or a year ago. Windows 7 periodically creates new full backups, so you can use the “manage space” option in the Backup and Restore control panel to delete an old one.Another approach to backing up a PC is to take a “disk image”. Instead of worrying about the files, you just copy the whole drive sector by sector. Most backup programs allow this, including the programs provided with Windows. The advantage is that you can simply copy the whole thing back to your PC – or “re-image the drive” – and get back to where you were.When setting up a new PC, I grab an image that includes all the Windows updates, plus my standard programs and settings. This can save a lot of work if something goes wrong. It’s like the Windows recovery partition on your PC, but updated and decrapified. (SeeCloning a Windows hard drive.)However, disk images are not a very efficient use of storage space. How many copies of a terabyte drive are you going to keep? How out of date is the latest version?Backing up filesOne alternative is to sort your files into different directories and back them up in the most suitable way. Some data changes a lot and needs backing up regularly, particularly if you need to protect current work files. Some data doesn’t change very often, and not all of it is vital. This probably includes music and audio files, ebooks, movies etc. Of course, if you were a musician or a photographer, some of these might be vital work files.As you know, when files are backed up in directories, you can see what you’re got, and it’s easy to retrieve a file if you’ve deleted it by accident.Backup strategiesIt’s a good idea to schedule incremental backups to an external hard drive or a network-attached (NAS) server. You can use the software that comes with Windows or, with a NAS, that comes with the NAS. But it’s worth considering more powerful programs such asAcronis True Image 2014.You can also make separate backups of the less volatile data (music, movies, photos etc). These can be kept on a separate drive partition: many PCs have their hard drive divided into C and D for the operating system/programs and data respectively. If not, you can create a Data folder with subdirectories for your audio and video files etc.Note that copying files from C to another partition doesnotprovide a backup. If the hard drive fails or your PC is lost or stolen, you lose all the partitions on that drive. You must copy these files to an external hard drive or server, or to removable storage such as optical discs (CD-R, DVD or Blu-ray), USB thumbdrives, SD cards, or whatever.Also note that if you move a lot of big files to an external hard drive or NAS either to save space or to share them, then you don’t have a backup. You may need a second EHD to back up the primary EHD or NAS.You can use file synchronisation software to back up sets of files to an external hard drive. I useFreeFileSyncbut there arealternatives.You may also be able to find or write batch files to do the job. But there is a catch with mirroring drives: if you don’t notice that you have deleted a file or folder by accident, the sync program will delete it on the backup drive.Multiple PC worldsIf you have several PCs to back up, it’s better to buy a NAS or set up a home server (you can use an old desktop PC) to centralise the process. When buying a NAS, check that the built in software can back up multiple PCs and, preferably, your other devices. (See:Which NAS should I buy to store files?) If you have from five to 25 PCs and business data to back up, consider buying MicrosoftWindows Server 2012 R2 Essentialsfor about £300 on Amazon.co.uk. Like most NAS software, this now supports smartphones and tablets, including iPhones, iPads, and Android devices.In the longer term, it should be possible to back up PCs and other devices to the cloud. At the moment, most people don’t have fast enough internet connections, and online storage space is too expensive. It’s easy enough to store, synchronise and/or share files in online drives such as Dropbox and Microsoft OneDrive, but these consumer-oriented services are not suitable for backing up terabytes of data. For backups, you need a different kind of service – one that doesn’t sync – such as CrashPlan, Carbonite or Mozy.However, 3TB hard drives are cheap, reliable and (with USB 3) very fast, 4TB drives are improving and 8TB drives are on the way. The main question is whether you want each drive in its own external enclosure, or whether it’s better to have them in a 2-bay or 4-bay NAS.
The scene is exciting but implausible. It’s a shoot out on the Golden Gate bridge, taking place 45 years in the future. Soldiers wearing bionic exoskeletons leap over trucks, firing bizarre “directed energy” weapons that send out fatal force waves. Drones patrol above, identifying and shooting at targets, one combatant throws a smart grenade that momentarily hovers in the air before locking onto an enemy and scorching in.It is a sequence typical of the Call of Duty series, Activision’s billion-dollar shoot-’em-up cash cow. Since its arrival in 2003, the titles have relied on flashy hyper-violence, Michael Bay explosions and ludicrous plotlines. The Call of Duty: Modern Warfare titles reveled in post-9/11 paranoia, inventing eastern European ultra nationalist groups and super weapons of mega destruction. The series has shifted 140m units.Advanced Warfarelookslike more of the same. It’s 2060 and a terrorist organisation named KVA has pulled off a global atrocity, detonating a series of nuclear power plants, and plunging the world into chaos. With nation states unable to re-build their armed forces, private military contractors are managing the fight back. But they have their own agendas. The founder of the largest, Atlas, is Jonathan Irons, played with obvious relish by Kevin Spacey. He thinks he has a better plan for the future. He thinks of war as a marketplace and countries as corporations. He wants to launch a hostile takeover of the USA.Rocket boosted exoskeletons? Private military organisations with imperialist leanings? It’s all nonsense right? Not according to Michael Condrey, co-founder of Sledgehammer Games, the studio behind Advanced Warfare.The next threat to the USA“Three years ago, right after we finished Modern Warfare 3, we started thinking about how to change Call of Duty,” he says. “We brought in a lot of outside help – military advisers, futurologists - we got together with a scenario planner from the department of defense, who is active in the Pentagon. His job is to think about future threats and prepare ‘what if’ scenarios for the US government. So we asked him, what do you think will be the conflict of tomorrow?”Apparently, the source quickly ruled out China (“he said it’s too big, it’ll eventually collapse under its own economic weight”), a resurgence of the Cold War with Russia, and a consolidation of emergent Islamic extremist states. Instead, the adviser predicted that the next threat to the security of the United States would come from a private military company. It may be some billion-dollar contract gone bad or a sudden tipping point in the ratio between national military and contracted forces.“We thought that was fascinating and provocative,” says Condrey. “What happens when an organisation that’s built for profit has access to all the latest weapons and technology – an organisation that can operate outside of the Geneva Convention, that can be purchased by the highest bidder? What if that got out of control?“This was around the time that Greece was collapsing economically, there were riots – and there was an understanding that, the reason PMCs have had such an opportunity to grow, is that funding a standing army is very expensive for a modern nation state. Why not outsource war? It’s better for PR – you don’t have to explain to parents why their kids are dying in battles on foreign soil.”The team read up on modern PMCs. It researched the activities of well-known examples such as Blackwater, the controversial US company that won millions of dollars worth of contracts to provide security in post-war Iraq. Founder, Erik Prince, is surely a model for Jonathan Irons, especially after a series of congressional hearings over the company’s operations, and otherwrangles with the US government.Directed energy and other weapons of the “future”As for the weaponry, Sledgehammer has used military advisors to ensure its authenticity. These people aren’t difficult to find or employ – primarily because many of them play Call of Duty. “We’ve been fortunate that the series has a lot of fans across military organisations, and within the entertainment industry,” says Condrey. “This draws a lot of interest, and a great deal of desire to help Call of Duty.“Often, we are able to extend our network through existing relationships within the Call of Duty franchise. For example, we worked with Mark Bohl, writer of Hurt Locker, and were put in contact with his retired Navy Seal Team 6 adviser through shared contacts. Other times, we research experts in the field and reach out directly. Retired Delta Commander, Dalton Furty, is an example. We read his book, Kill Bin Laden, and made an inquiry on his interest and availability.”The result is that every gun, vehicle and aircraft in the game has a basis in current weapons research – whether that’s the Breacher pump action directed energy shotgun or the XS1 Vulcan, effectively an airborne laser blaster.“We wanted the game to be grounded and believable, but how do we do that if it’s set 50 years in the future?” says Condrey. “So we agreed with the designers, if you can’t point to R&amp;D or a prototype, it can’t go in the game. At one point we had this concept for a teleportation grenade – you throw it, and where it lands, you teleport there. But it’s not in the game because it’s science fiction.”However, pulsed energy, microwave, laser and sonic weapons have been in development for decades, and research is ongoing. Boeing, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman and other major manufacturers are all building systems. The North American market alone will be worth $10bn by 2020according to MicroMarket Monitor.Meanwhile, the exoskeletons worn by soldiers in the game, which players are able to upgrade with a range of performance-enhancing features, come from a more benign source. “We looked at how Daewoo, one of the biggest tech firms in Korea, has developed exoskeletons that areused in the ship yards– they allow dock workers to lift 500lbs. That blew my mind. OK, we don’t think that, in thenearfuture, soldiers will be doing 20ft boost jumps like our exo does, but we do feel that 50 years from now … we’ve probably been conservative.”The war on storyFor some, this is a difficult and troubling concept. Call of Duty is a big, bloody spectacle of a game series; a gung-ho celebration of military might. For all its millions of fans, it has detractors that see it as all that’s wrong with the mainstream games industry – the obsession with gunfire and power. Should developers be mining real-world expertise for narrative authenticity? Is it right to draw on real-life conflicts and experiences so that players can shoot each other online with realistic assault rifles?But then of course, Hollywood has been doing the same thing for years, employing military advisers like Dale Dye and Harry Humphries to add legitimacy, not just to worthy dramas, but to popcorn shootfests. The difference is that video games are still a young medium; they are viewed with suspicion. People worry about the effects they have, people worry about the suitability of an interactive medium to tell stories of war and tragedy.Can Advanced Warfare shake up the series in narrative terms? Many of the Sledgehammer team came from making the respected and atmospheric sci-fi horror title Dead Space – they know how to tell an interactive story. They say they want to tell a good one here.“We really looked at the narrative execution,” says Condrey. “Not just Kevin Spacey’s performance, but the whole story arc. I think there are moments that will be challenging.“Right now, we’re all talking about this third golden age of television in the US – that inspires us. Games have long way to go to deliver on the emotional narratives we see in, say, Game of Thrones. We have to learn lessons there, we have to learn about emotional attachment to characters, provocative situations, loss. We need to make those a big part of video games.”In the end, that would be a more impressive achievement than recreating any weapons system that military science has to offer.Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare multiplayer – the five most important new featuresCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare – a non-gamer’s guide
Apple’s iTunes Festival has become a staple of the British music festivals season, with the livestreams of its annual month-long residency at London’s Roundhouse venue bringing it a global profile too.That’s even more the case in 2014, withthe September gigsset to be streamed to more than 100 countries, where fans will be able to watch the likes of Deadmau5, Kasabian, Ed Sheeran, Pharrell Williams and Kylie Minogue perform via various devices.As ever, tickets to attend the gigs are being distributed via a mixture of an online sweepstake and competitions run by media partners, from newspapers and radio stations to Twitter and Shazam.“This is our eighth year, and from the first year on, for us it was about diversity,” Oliver Schusser, senior director, iTunes International at Apple told The Guardian, in an interview ahead of this year’s event.“It’s really a fully-curated month: we want to make sure we have some pop artists, some classical artists, jazz. Some well-established artists, and some up-and-coming artists that we really believe in. I’m really proud, because I think it’s as diverse as we can get.”The festival has become increasingly influential within the music industry, with a growing number of labels timing new releases and marketing campaigns around artists’ appearances at the event.In 2013, that includedLady Gaga giving a live debutto most of the songs from her ARTPOP album; Justin Timberlake releasing his The 20/20 Experience - 2 of 2 album just after his headline set ended; and similarly-synchronised album releases from Arctic Monkeys, Avicii and Jack Johnson.“It happened already two years ago: all of a sudden this became a key part of everyone’s plan. Lady Gaga opened last year on the first, and that was the kickoff for her new project, and the same for Katy Perry at the end,” says Schusser.“It feels like this has become really a great part of everyone’s promo activity, from a label and manager and artist perspective.”You don’t get to be a senior director at Apple without being able to dead-bat questions about future announcements. Schusser deflects a question about the remaining two unannounced dates for this year’s festival, as well as the prospect of anyBeyoncé-style surprise album releasesalongside its gigs.Apple has been quietly increasing the ways it works with musicians and labels around the releases of new albums, though: for example, making full-album streams available through iTunes the week before release.The latest Ed Sheeran album was promoted through the use of “instant grat” tracks: seven of its songs could be downloaded early, over the days leading up to its official release, by fans who had pre-ordered it through iTunes.Schusser points out that Sheeran is also an example of a musician who first played the iTunes Festival in a support slot, before graduating to headline status – and then returning this year.“It’s about building a relationship with us. Ed Sheeran in particular, I’m proud of the campaign we ran up to his new album this year, but we’ve worked together for many years,” he says.The status of the album is currently a talking point within the music industry, most recently fuelled bycomments from BBC Radio 1 and 1Xtra’s head of music George Ergatoudis, who suggested that “albums are edging closer to extinction... most people are not listening to albums. They are flicking through playlists.”Albums out, playlists in? It seems like a threat to iTunes, given the wider predictions of a move from downloads to streaming music, and the fact that Apple’s own streaming services – iTunes Radio and the recently-acquired Beats Music – are only available in a handful of countries.That said, Apple itself has often been accused of having helped get the album-destruction bandwagon rolling in the first place, by letting people buy individual album tracks digitally – as opposed to filesharing service Napster, which actually started that bandwagon, just without the “buy” part.Beyoncé’s last album was an iTunes exclusive, with videos for every track.Interestingly, while Apple waits to roll out its streaming services to battle Spotify, Deezer and other rivals, its iTunes strategy has seen it become almost one of the last bastions of the full-album format, sometimessuccessfully as with Beyoncéwho sold 829,000 copies of her last album in its first three days, and sometimes less so as with theiTunes LP format, which hasn’t really taken off.“We were incredibly proud of the Beyoncé promotion, but it all starts with a great product. It’s a very strong album, with very strong videos: a really attractive package that was actually priced relatively highly,” says Schusser, in response to a question about whether it proved there’s life in the album yet.“I actually agree: it has made people think again about the future of the album. Creatively, we really believe in albums, but that doesn’t say we don’t believe in giving customers the choice to buy songs as they want. But as a creative concept, I think albums have actually been quite strong over the past year.”Apple also sees the global scale of iTunes as a key weapon for labels trying to make a splash with big albums. “We’re in 119 markets now: we spent a lot of energy in the last three to four years to expand, going from what used to be 23 markets to 119,” says Schusser.“That allows you to release your album at the same time in 119 markets, and that’s a huge opportunity that has never existed before, even if it’s not 100% the norm yet: the album release dates don’t exactly line up around the world.”That may be changing, with the music industry currently mulling – and, characteristically, arguing about –a globally-unified weekly release day, that will potentially see new albums come out on Fridays, rather than Mondays (the UK) or Tuesdays (the US and Canada).What about that transition from sales to streams, though? A month-long music festival in September could be a great launchpad for Apple to launch iTunes Radio and Beats Music in the UK, at least, as well as other countries around the world.Will it? Schusser is politely unforthcoming. “Our focus is to make the festival better every year, and run a great event,” he says, in response to a question about whether the festival will host any marketing for Apple’s streaming services.A direct question on Beats Music and iTunes Radio launching in the UK is similarly dealt with: “There is nothing to talk about today. When we do have something to announce, we’ll be sure to give you a call.”Given the rumours of a 9th September unveiling of Apple’s next iPhone models, it’s possible that the company could use such an event to give more detail on its streaming music plans, then promote them at the concerts.For now, Apple’s emphasis is on streaming video of those gigs to iPhones, iPads, televisions and computers around the world: an impressive technical feat in itself, even at a time when other companies – Yahoo and Vevo for example – are following suit with their own livestreamed concerts.“We look at what people are doing out of interest, but it’s not like we’re comparing ourselves to any of the other activities. We are happy with the quality of the event, both for the people in the room as well as for the people at home,” says Schusser.“We do invest a lot in the technology: spending a lot of time, energy and R&amp;D in making sure we have the right cameras, the best angles, the synchronisation between the cameras and the stage. It’s really a one-year project every time.”For up-and-coming British artists taking support slots on this year’s bill – including Jungle, Luke Sital-Singh, Foxes, Jess Glynne, MNEK and Wolf Alice – it’s an early chance to reach a global audience.“The support we can give the music industry includes exporting some of the talent we have seen here. We do it internally when we spot someone we really like,” says Schusser.“We can really promote up-and-coming British bands and artists in the US and everywhere around the world. It’s a fantastic opportunity.”•Seven ways a streaming iTunes could compete with Spotify
The killing of an unarmed teenager in Ferguson, Missouri, led to an explosion of protest, both on- and offline. On the streets, campaigners were corralled by police into “first amendment areas”, while on the internet, a similar divide grew up in a more organic manner.Not long after the first protests, people following the #ferguson hashtag noticed a sharp divide in what was being broadcast on Twitter and what made it on to their Facebook feeds. The former was bustling with news, commentary and anger about the brutal response from the police, while the latter was strangely quiet. If any one story was dominant on Facebook, it was the Ice Bucket Challenge.To a certain extent, that difference is due to the various ways each site “friendship”. Facebook’s symmetrical model, where friendships only occur through mutual consent, means that social networks are invariably limited in scope, largely to people you’ve met in real life. In contrast, Twitter’s asymmetric model (you can follow the comments of people who don’t follow you) lets relationships sprawl across the world in just a few hops.But there’s another difference which is germane: Twitter displays everything tweeted by everyone you follow, while Facebook focuses on a “curated” NewsFeed, showing you the posts it thinks you’ll like most, and hiding the rest.Sometimes, this curation works flawlessly, hiding boring posts about a distant relative’s lunch plans while prominently showing the news that a close friend has got engaged. But when it reaches into the realm of politics,sociologist Zeynep Tufekci calls it“algorithmic censorship”.As Tufekci points out, Twitter has also had a similar problem in the past with the way its Trending Topics are decided. Famously, #OccupyWallStreet never once trended in the US, and #Ferguson only briefly hit the top ten nationally. But in the intervening two years, the response that “it’s not being deliberately censored, it’s just how the algorithms work” has stopped being acceptable.Now, when we face algorithmic censorship, we have started to ask why. What do the algorithms change? Why do the algorithms choose what they do? And how does that affect our culture?Of course, for many users, it’s still not clear that they even know to ask those questions. In July, Facebook revealed it had been experimenting on users, changing the content of their newsfeed to see if they could incite more positive or negative posts. The reaction to that revelation was rapid, and negative.But it’s becoming increasingly clear that for many users, their problem wasn’t that Facebook was “experimenting”, or that it was affecting their emotions, but that it was manipulating their newsfeed at all.What people working and familiar with technology treat as a fact of life – the algorithmic interference of the NewsFeed – other people don’t know at all.When the interference is made clear, people’s reactions are often vehemently negative. An MIT study lifted the veil on Facebook’s interaction, and two-thirds of the participants were surprised by what they saw.“We showed users how many posts they saw from each user – seeing which people appear commonly on their feed and whose posts are hidden. Often, people became very upset when they discovered posts from family members and loved ones were hidden.”Google alters your search results; Amazon changes the products it shows you; the UK online supermarket Ocado even alters the prices it charges you, lowering shipping charges if you’re a new customer.The myth is that these hyper-competent algorithms are improving life for all of us – that Amazon takes the hassle out of shopping, and Google puts what you’re looking for on the first page.But actually, they’re dumb. Buy a tarp on Amazon, andit advertises other tarps. Watch a Taylor Swift video on YouTube, andthe advert is for a Taylor Swift single.Even when they get it right, we have to remember that “right” might not mean what we want it to mean. For some of Facebook’s algorithmic tweaks, their goal is clear, articulated, and inoffensive: it has managed toincrease the number of organ donors; it’s managed toboost turnout at US, Indian and Brazilian elections; and, obviously, it’s managed to make a few billion dollars from advertising.But when it comes to its newsfeed algorithm, the goals are less clear. It wants, ultimately, to keep you on the site – not just in the short term, but in the long term too. So it wants the “best” content. But how it measures “best” has huge implications – does it want things which get clicked on? That get read? Or even that make the user come back feeling happier, which would explain that motivation.The lack of transparency around this isn’t just worrying for media types: it should be concerning for everyone. In May,a good study with a bad press releaseargued that Google could rig elections, if it so decided, by altering search results to be more or less favourable to particular candidates. Facebook could do the same, and it’s doubtful if anyone would even notice – a 1% increase in favourable articles to one party might have strong national effects, but be indistinguishable from normality on a standard users’ account.Of course, to do so would be unethical. Andwe all know what Silicon Valley feels about ethicists: they know what’s ethical and what’s not already, so why hire one “to wring his hands for $100,000 a year”, as OKCupid’s Christian Rudder put it. Just trust them. What could go wrong?OKCupid experiments are standard ‘scientific methods’, says founder
LGhas announceda new, round Android Wear smartwatch with a conventional men’s watch design.The LG G Watch R is a follow up to theoriginal square G Watch, one of the first Android Wear watches launched at Google’s I/O developer conference in June with the Samsung Gear Live.The Watch R has a steel frame, which resembles a more traditional men’s analogue sports watch with a 1.3in round plastic OLED screen and an interchangeable standard watch strap.LG Photograph: LGSales of smartwatches have been sluggish, data shows, partly because functionality is limited to notifications, which has notappealed to the mass market.But smartwatches have also suffered because of their techie appearance, failing to appeal to consumers who prefer watches as jewellery. Both LG’s latest design, and Motorola’s highly anticipated round Moto 360 next month, are attempting to counter that.Apple is also rumoured to be releasing a wearable in September to challenge the herd of Android-only Google smartwatches.LG Photograph: LGThe Watch R is waterproof to IP67 standards, or 1m of fresh water for up to 30 minutes, so designed to survive a rain shower. It is also powered by the same 1.2GHz processor as the original G Watch, connecting to an Android smartphone or tablet via Bluetooth, and has a similar sized battery, meaning that battery life should be at least one full day of usage.The Watch R will also have a heart rate monitor, like Samsung’s Gear Live, for fitness tracking connecting to LG’s Health app for Android.The Watch R will be shown off at the IFA electronics trade show in Berlin next week, and go one sale in the fourth quarter. Pricing was not announced.•Google smartwatches review: LG G Watch, Samsung Gear Live and Android Wear•Android Wear: the good, the bad and the fixable with apps
Friday 27 December 2013. The answer phone message was simple: “Get PhantomL0rd”. No one knew who it came from.The message was left on a phone operated by “DerpTrolling”, a clandestine hacker group, active since 2011. Like many similar groups, Derp, as its tens of thousands of Twitter followers know it, is a loose collective of coders and computer experts, who have a taste and a talent for internet chaos. They identify a target – usually a large corporation, often a video game company – and attempt to break its online infrastructure.But Derp has a unique approach. The group advertises a phone number on its Twitter page with the simple instruction: “call or text a request.” Dial the number and you can leave a message with the name of a website you would like to be taken offline. If they decide to act, the hackers then stage a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack against the target.A DDoS attack is not hacking, it does not require the perpetrator to gain illicit access to the system – instead it involves directing a colossal flood of network traffic at the site until its servers buckle under the load. During the past five years, many of the world’s largest and most powerful websites, including PayPal, Mastercard and even the US National Security Agency have been shut down by DDoS attacks instigated by amateur hacker groups like Derp.This time, however, the target was not a website but a person.Enter PhantomlordJason Varga is a popular internet TV presenter who earns his living playing and commentating on online video games. Varga, known to his channel’s subscribers as PhantomL0rd, is one of the most popular “casters” in the business: he earns an estimated $184,000 a year from YouTube advertising, which supplements his already sizeable income generated from subscribers who pay to watch to his channel on the popular Twitch service, recently bought by Amazon for $970m.Jason Varga AKA PhantomL0rd. Photograph: Jason VargaThe person who called Derp was perhaps a rival presenter or a bored viewer who wanted to cause some trouble during the school holidays. But their simple request was accepted.DDoS attacks have vastly increased in frequency during the past few years. While some of the attacks are financially motivated (groups have demanded a ransom to be paid before they call off the attack), many are motivated by anti-corporate sentiment. When Mastercard and PayPal blocked donations to Wikileaks in 2011, the best-known “hacktivist” group, Anonymous, launched a DDoS attack against both sites in a programme of chaos it called “Operation Payback”.Other hacker groups aren’t doing it for money or activistism, they’re doing it for fun, and to boast about their success on social media. It is the electronic equivalent of graffiti with a vaguely anti-establishment theme. This is where Derp operates.Three days after the answerphone message was left, perhaps drawn to the idea of one of their DDoS attacks being streamed live on air, Derp chose to act against Varga.At 4:07pm GMT on 30 December, the group tweeted: “Something special planned for League of Legends”, a reference to the hugely popular online PC game that Varga was playing while streaming footage to his hundreds of thousands of viewers. During the next few hours the group staged multiple DDoS attacks on the League of Legends servers. They successfully took the game, its accompanying website and forum offline around the world.Rather than report the incident, Varga entered into a dialogue with the hackers. Realising the spectator value of what was happening, he made a deal with them, concerning the next game he was planning to play on air – the popular arena battle title, Dota 2.“If my team wins, we’ll keep going,” he said, live on air. “[But] if my team starts to lose, Derp Bros, take this shit down.” The hackers agreed.When Varga’s team lost the match the hackers made good on their promise: at 21:12pm, DOTA2 disappeared from the internet.Throughout the evening the hackers continued to follow Varga online. They convinced him to play a game on the Disney-owned Club Penguin before they took the entire site down. They were enjoying the attention. They got more ambitious.During the next few hours they successfully brought down various game-related websites, including Origin, the online web store of giant video game publisher, Electronic Arts. Varga asked the group why they were doing this. “For the lulz,” they replied, before adding, perhaps to lend a sub-note of gravitas to their campaign, that they also wanted to target greedy game companies.But they weren’t finished with Varga.Jaosn Varga, AKA Phantoml0rd, responds to the police raid Jason Varga/YouTubeMischief nightIn an hour-long video released after the attacks, Varga explained that Derp had found his home address. He claimed that the group ordered pizzas to be delivered throughout the night, and says that, at one point, police officers arrived responding to an emergency call claiming there was a hostage situation at the address. On Twitter and Facebook, Varga wrote that he had an “automatic pointed at me” and that the “handcuffs hurt.” (The LAPDlater refuted this.)While some delighted in the anarchy of the night’s events, others weren’t so enamoured – or perhaps Derp’s high-profile escapades had triggered the antagonism of a rival group. The next day, personal details of Utah resident Austin Thompson were posted online alongside the claim that he was the leader of Derp and had orchestrated the nights’ attacks. Now Thompson was the target; within days his Facebook and Twitter profiles had disappeared and his parents’ home phone number was disconnected.“Thompson was arrested on 7 January, 2014 by the New York police department,” writes one of Derp’s members, communicating with the Guardian via the group’s official Facebook account. He claims that the authorities found Thompson’s identity through his personal account on the Electronic Arts digital gaming site, Origin. The US Attorney’s Office, however, told the Guardian that it has no record of any such arrest.So where was Thompson? “Whatever’s happened, he’s not in jail,” the Derp member claims. “But he can’t touch a computer for 29 years.”George Hotz Wikimedia CommonsThis may not be true. Skilled hackers are sometimes employed by the authorities who catch them. In a key example, George Hotz, the hacker who first broke into Apple’s iPhone and, later, Sony’s PlayStation 3 firmware, was eventually hired by Facebook. A spokesperson for the FBI initially agreed to look into the case for the Guardian, but ceased communications when asked to confirm or deny the arrest.Origins of an internet trollAccording to the anonymous Derp source, the group was formed in 2011 after someone at school told him about DDoS attacks. “I started with the LOIC (Low Orbit Ion Cannon) program,” he says.Ian Reynolds is an IT security consultant for MTI Technology, testing government and business networks for security flaws.“The Low Orbit Ion Cannon is the weapon of choice for most DDoS participants,” he explains. “Users install the application on their computer and connect it to the hacker group’s chat server or Twitter RSS feed. When the hackers decide to take action against an organisation, all connected participant computers begin to send network traffic toward the target server. It doesn’t take many DDoS participants before a crippling torrent of network traffic is aimed towards the victim.”Thompson wrote Derp’s current DDoS software, which uses a botnet – a collection of connected computer programs. “Another method of getting more participants in a DDoS attack is through the use of malware infection,” explains Reynolds.“These allow a remote attacker to take control of an infected computer and use it as part of a DDoS attack. Large-scale malware infections of this type often form part of a botnet, which allows the owner to control potentially hundreds of thousands of infected machines to target a DDoS attack.” Botnets can even be rented from their owners. Reynolds estimates the going rate to be around £150 for 1,000 infected machines a day.While Thompson appears to have been the technical wunderkind of the Derp operation, the group is still active. When the Guardian last spoke to the Derp hacker in May, he claimed there were now only three members. “One of us is from Sweden, one from the US and I’m from the UK,” he said. Since Thompson’s apparent disappearance, they have redoubled their security. “We’re more secure than before,” he writes. “We use proxies that change once a minute.”Online companies are also involved in the technological race against DDoS attackers. “These attacks are incredibly difficult to prevent,” says Reynolds. “It is almost impossible to differentiate between a request being sent from a malicious computer and one from a valid customer.”In the past couple of years, a number of companies who specialise in protecting large organisations from DDoS attacks have emerged. “These companies act as a proxy between the organisation’s web servers and the general Internet,” says Reynolds. “They utilise a vast artillery of defenses against DDoS attacks ranging from custom-written detection systems that can differentiate between valid network traffic and malicious traffic to tremendous bandwidth.”Anarchy or apathy?Nevertheless, owing to the ease with which amateurs can cause gross disruption, Reynolds believes that the scale and frequency of DDoS attacks will continue to increase in coming years. While some are criminally motivated, many derive from boredom.“A large number are launched by individuals simply because they can. Many of the botnets in circulation have been spawned from the bedrooms of teenage hackers who may just want to aim a DDoS attack at an organisation for the hell of it.”For the Derp hacker, this certainly appears to be the case. “We like to target games companies because game players have a strong reaction,” he says. “But mostly, we do it because it’s fun.” This type of crime is low cost and, due to the distributed nature of the attack, low risk.Moreover, for the young and disillusioned, it’s an effective way to lash out at the system, be it video game companies employing unpopular business models, or governments that teenagers feel powerless to address in any other way.But there are darker motives emerging. On 24 August, ahigh profile DDoS attackon Sony’s PlayStation Network brought the system down for several hours. Two groups have claimed responsibility: a hacker named Fame, and an emerging group named Lizard Squad.The latter appears to be motivated, not by boredom, but by extremist dogma – its Twitter stream is filled with references to Isis and Islamist slogans. The group even appears to have tweeted a bomb threat to American Airlines, concerning a passenger flight with a Sony executive on board. The plane was diverted and landed safely.The links to Jihadist groups may well be just the latest attention-grabbing joke, but causing the diversion of an aircraft is a whole new paradigm.For his part, the Derp hacker shows no remorse, and the disappearance of the group’s leader hasn’t diluted his ambitions. “We don’t regret anything – I hope to take down NSA someday,” he says, before signing off, with faint irritation, “we don’t have the time to be on Facebook 24/7.”PlayStation Network attacked by hacker network - and Xbox may be next target
The Gruffalo may have terrible claws, teeth and poisonous warts, but the enduringly popular children’s character’s new mobile app is distinctly un-terrible.Gruffalo: Gamesis the work of Magic Light Pictures, which produced the animated films The Gruffalo and The Gruffalo’s Child, based on the books of author Julia Donaldson and illustrator Axel Scheffler.As its title makes clear, the £2.99 app is not a digital book. Instead, it’s a collection of six mini-games based on characters from the Gruffalo stories, including snap, three-in-a-row, matching and jigsaws.Its release follows Magic Light’s launch of Room On The Broom Games in 2013, based on another Donaldson/Scheffler book.“We wanted to deliver something that we hope can be as good as the films, and that we dream of being as good in its own little way as the amazing books,” Magic Light’s Martin Pope tells The Guardian.“What we’re doing is games from the world of The Gruffalo, which can encourage imagination. We had a phonics expert advise on the alphabet sequencing aspects, but it’s clearly not a book.”That’s not a huge surprise, given that Donaldson spoke out in 2011 abouther decision to rule out a book-app version of The Gruffalo:“The publishers showed me an ebook of Alice in Wonderland. They said, ‘Look, you can press buttons and do this and that’, and they showed me the page where Alice’s neck gets longer.“There’s a button the child can press to make the neck stretch, and I thought, well, if the child’s doing that, they are not going to be listening or reading, ‘I wish my cat Dinah was here’ or whatever it says in the text – they’re just going to be fiddling with this wretched button.”Gruffalo: Games is less a case of Donaldson changing her mind, and more about a trusted partner finding an alternative way to bring The Gruffalo to touchscreens. Pope hopes it will inspire children to re-read the books, not just play the games.“Julia is passionately in favour of reading, and particularly children and parents reading together: the joy of turning one of Axel’s beautifully-designed pages and discovering something new on the next page with your child,” he says.“What we’re doing is something completely different: it’s in the world of The Gruffalo, and if you want to be using something digital, you can have fun and explore that world a bit. And we hope that children and parents will play it together.”The Gruffalo is better than you’d think at playing Snap.Magic Light worked with developer Stormcloud Games on both Room On The Broom Games and Gruffalo: Games, benefitting from the company’s skills honed in its own children’s mobile games:Mr Shingu’s Paper ZooandPaper Ocean.Pope says that six years spent making the two Gruffalo films – which have become staples of the Christmas television schedule in the UK – ensured that Magic Light took its time ensuring Gruffalo: Games was true to Donaldson and Scheffler’s world and characters.“There is something wonderful about what they have created, and the challenge is to make sure that anything we do around it is amazing and can last for a long time. I believe The Gruffalo will be around for years and years to come, so we’ve got to make sure we’re thinking in the long term,” he says.“There are certainly children’s illustrated books that have gone out, had a much bigger fanfare, and then a couple of years’ later they’ve disappeared. That wouldn’t be a good way of stewarding the bits of The Gruffalo that we’re lucky to be involved with.”The new app is part of a wider (but still careful) digital expansion for The Gruffalo, including the two films’recent appearance within British children’s app Hopster, which offers a mix of Netflix-style streaming TV shows and educational games.“We think Hopster is a really interesting and delightful app: the people behind it are really good, and well-intentioned, and doing something that will reach out,” said Pope.“We see them as a partner in the same way that the Eden Project was a partner when we had screenings there, or the Barbican when we had a live orchestra providing the soundtrack. It’s about people accessing the films in a new and interesting, but very nicely-curated way.”With Gruffalo: Games now live, Magic Light is turning its attention to more digital projects: another Room On The Broom app, and a second Gruffalo app that will “try to encourage children to engage with the real world, as well as The Gruffalo”.More mini-games for the current app are also a possibility, although Pope suggested that children will find plenty of challenge in the meantime pitting their reactions against the character’s notably un-terrible card skills.“I quite like the fact that The Gruffalo is pretty good at Snap. He’s no fool!” said Pope. “Not all games would work with The Gruffalo playing against you though. I’m not sure he could play Battleships...”•YouTube, apps and Minecraft: digital kids and children’s media
Hey there, it's Thursday!
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBounden is out on Android! (full technical story inside) &gt;&gt; Game OvenThe app studio which hadstruggled to build an Android releaseof its gyroscope-dependent app Bounden explains the problem it had:Google has specific requirements to the output of the sensors if a hardware manufacturer wants to create an Android device, so that every developer has a consistent interface (the Android API) to receive sensor data. This sensor data is processed by algorithms created by the hardware manufacturer, and during this process, not only does it process the raw data from each sensor, it also mixes and combines different sensors to improve their results.This sensor mixing is called 'sensor fusion'. Sensor fusion for a gyroscope is required because of the way gyroscopes work. A gyroscope detects rotations around any axis. Those rotations are integrated (accumulated and processed) over time, giving us an orientation if it's combined with gravity data from the accelerometer. Miniscule rotational errors accumulate in this process, causing the orientation to 'drift' away from a perfect gravity orientation. If drift is detected, data from the accelerometer can help to reconstruct the gyroscope orientation on two axes; the compass can help on the final axis by indicating where the magnetic north is.Detecting this drift is very difficult, especially if the phone is constantly rotating and moving. It can take years of research and iterations to build an algorithm that does this well and precisely. The problem we faced with Bounden lies exactly in here. Google has no requirements for the quality of the algorithms to process the sensory data, so hardware manufacturers implement algorithms differently or use completely different algorithms altogether. This means that the precision of the Android API gyroscope data ranges from device to device as the responsibility of the algorithm lies with each individual manufacturer.You could call it "sensor fragmentation". This would explain why Instagram's Hyperlapse isn't available yet on Android.A month with the iPhone 5s: impressions from an Android user &gt;&gt; AnandTechJoshua Ho:this may be the real difference that matters when comparing iOS and Android. While Android and iOS are largely similar in features, there is a fundamental divide in the way the two OSes are designed. At its core, iOS is designed with average users in mind. As a result, there's a strong emphasis on making things "just work" and hiding information that would simply confuse and frustrate people that don't care about the underlying hardware and software. Android at its core is targeted at those that want to have the full PC experience on their phone, and as a result there's much more information and low level functionality for those that want it. However, this can easily be frustrating and confusing for the end user.An excellent characterisation (though it's ironic that it should be the expensive phones that cater to "average users").However, the differences remain, and understanding this is as simple as looking at how equivalent features are implemented. For example, location services in iOS are binary in nature, and can only be turned on and off globally or for each application. In Android there's noticeably more nuance. Location can be done only by on-device GPS, or by using WiFi/cell tower location, or by using both. In addition, it's possible to view GPS data such as per-satellite SNR [signal to noise ratio] and number of satellites used and in view.This seems to overlook that location services arecompletelybinary in Android: either on or off, with no way to revoke it if an app demands it. And it's hard to think the number of people who need per-satellite SNR would fill a bus.Meanwhile, many of the iOS omissions Ho raises - lack of intents-style app interaction, no detail on background app usage, lack of detailed camera controls - are introduced in iOS 8. Perhaps if he had waited for a month... (Thanks @GambaKufu for the link.)Introducing a more powerful Dropbox Pro &gt;&gt; Dropbox blogNew sharing controls, new safeguards if you lose your device, and:We don't want you to worry about choosing the right plan or having enough space. So today, we're simplifying Dropbox Pro to a single plan that stays at $9.99/month, but now comes with 1 TB (1,000 GB) of space.UK: £7.99/month or £79/year.What happened to Motorola &gt;&gt; Chicago magazineTed Fishman:[Motorola Mobility chief operating officer Rick] Osterloh gives a short speech. He feels good about the future of Motorola Mobility and of Chicago, he says. The company's growth rate, he claims, would be the envy of any startup: "Motorola Mobility shipped 6.5 million devices in the first quarter of the year, up 61 percent over the [same quarter] last year."What Osterloh doesn't mention is that those devices represent a paltry 2 percent of the global market for smartphones. Or that Motorola Mobility lost $198 million in the first quarter of 2014. Or that its losses just since Google took over have totaled more than $1 billion, even as the company has cut some 17,000 workers.Osterloh then cedes the podium to a dapper Mayor Rahm Emanuel, who had helped convince Google brass to move the business downtown from suburban Libertyville. "Motorola Mobility will act as a major economic engine," Emanuel declares, "bringing 2,000 jobs to the city."No one, least of all the mayor, acknowledges the elephant in the room.Excellent corporate history - which also explains Motorola's key role in Android's success.Connecting the world &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansOn the growth of mobile, which now covers 85% of the world (more than mains electricity at 80%):For the first time, then, the consumer technology industry is selling to everyone that it is possible to sell to. There are still people who are unable to participate in the economy, but everyone else - everyone able to buy things - will probably be a customer.This changes lots of other things. Most obviously, as I'vewritten before, it makes the internet opportunity not just two or three times bigger but closer to ten times bigger.It also challenges conceptions of market size or ecosystem. Since Apple only sells phones at $400 and up (for now) most of this growth in users will go to Android, which now starts at $50 or less. So the Android ecosystem will encompass everything from Instacart customers in San Francisco to ROM hackers in Kiev to rice farmers in rural Myanmar. This makes the conception of what a 'customer' on the internet means look much more like, say Unilever's: there are people buying soap by the gallon and people buying it insachets.Hewlett-Packard recalls notebook computer AC power cords due to fire and burn hazards &gt;&gt; CPSC.govThis recall involves Hewlett-Packard's LS-15 AC power cord. The power cords were distributed with HP and Compaq notebook and mini notebook computers and with AC adapter-powered accessories such as docking stations. The power cords are black in color and have an "LS-15" molded mark on the AC adapter end of the power cord.Incidents/InjuriesHP has received 29 reports of power cords overheating and melting or charring resulting in two claims of minor burns and 13 claims of minor property damage.Sold worldwide between September 2010 and June 2012. This is a US and Canada recall, but if you have one it would be wise to contact HP: there were about 6m made of which 5.6m went to the US, leaving plenty more outside it.Mozilla makes Asia debut with $33 smartphone in India &gt;&gt; BloombergMozilla began offering its first low-cost smartphone in India for 1,999 rupees ($33), in a bid to build market share for its open source software in the world's fastest growing market for such devices.The Cloud FX phone will run Mozilla's Firefox operating system and offer games and other content through its applications store, Jane Hsu, the company's Taipei-based director of product marketing said at a New Delhi briefing yesterday. The device has 128 megabytes of RAM memory, a two-megapixel camera, and a one gigahertz processor, she said.Mozilla's inexpensive smartphone push might be its best bet for gaining users in India, where more people access the Internet through smartphones than computers. Indian consumers will buy about 225m smartphones this year, according to Brad Rees, chief executive officer of Mediacells Ltd., a London-based marketing company.It's been a long time coming, and Android phones are in a far better position to clean up that market.This is Uber's playbook for sabotaging Lyft | The VergeThe ground troops in Uber's sabotage campaign are the company's ambassadors, some of whom it hires through TargetCW, a San Diego-based employment agency. For the most part, ambassadors work at events or on college campuses, promoting Uber as a cheap and easy way of getting around town. The primary goal is to recruit riders, not drivers, and Uber calls the activity "slanging." But since at least mid-summer, some brand ambassadors in New York have been turning their talents against Lyft. Using Uber-provided iPhones and credit cards, the contractors hail rides, strike up conversations with their drivers, and attempt to sign them up before they arrive at their destination. (In other cities recruiters travel with "driver kits" that include iPhones and everything else a driver needs to get started on Uber; ambassadors were told New York State does not allow this.) Compensation varies, but contractors can earn a $750 commission for successfully recruiting a single new driver to Uber, according to a contractor.Jan Dawsoncomments: "when your whole philosophy is beating the competition at all costs rather than building the best possible product, you create a culture in which employees will always be tempted to cross the line between aggressive and immoral, and between immoral and illegal." Uber already skirts the line with many regulators. This won't endear it to anyone.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Losing your photos is worth $10bn - at least when it’s done by Snapchat, the hugely popular photo-sharing service. The Silicon Valley startup has is closing a $20m funding round from venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers.The messaging company, whichturned down a $3bn offer from Facebook in November 2013, has more than 100 million users every month, of whom two-thirds use it every day - a key metric that indicates high engagement with the service, which lets users send pictures and short video that is automatically deleted within seconds of being viewed.On that basis, each user is worth about $100 - a figure that compares well withMicrosoft’s investment in Facebook in September 2007, when the software company bought a 5% stake in the social networking company - then three years old - valuing each of its 42 million users at the time at $238, and the whole company at $10bn.Like Facebook then, Snapchat is hugely popular with teenagers and young adults in the US and Europe, a key demographic who advertisers are keen to reach - and which Snapchat is willing to oblige, with plans to start introducing ads later this year in the free app. Presently it has no revenue.According to the Wall St Journal, whichfirst reported the investmenton Tuesday night, another investor is also expected to provide capital to help fund the company’s explosive growth as it tries to expand to new territories. Established players such as WhatsApp,purchased by Facebook for $19bnin February, and Asian messaging services such as WeChat from China and Line from Japan will be seeking to head off attempts to tempt users away as the smartphone boom expands.In all Snapchat has received total funding of over $160m from a number of different venture capital and seed funding companies, including China’s Tencent Holdings. Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce company, reportedly considered an investment at the same valuation level.If the deal with KPCB is completed, it would put Snapchat into the growing number of startups valued at over $10bn, including car-ride company Uber and room-finding service AirBnB.Like those companies, Snapchat has been the subject of regulatory investigation, with the US Federal Trade Commission censuring it for incorrect claims about the destruction of data inDo high valuations for Uber, Snapchat and AirBnB herald another tech bubble?
LG’s latest smartphone is a 5.5in powerhouse with a quad-HD screen and seems to be a hit with customers.From its release at the end of May, the G3 outpaced its Korean rival theSamsung Galaxy S5three-to-one inits home market, and contributed to LG’s 14.5m smartphone sales in the second quarter – ending three consecutive loss-making quarters for that division. Analysts arepredictingsales of more than 10m. It might not sound much compared with Samsung’s 40m-plus sales for its latest Galaxy S flagships, but is a significant boost over last year’s LG’s G2, which sold around 3m to 4m.Samsung is due to release the new Galaxy Note 4 phablet next week at the IFA electronics tradeshow in Berlin, but has the G3 given Samsung something to worry about?Verdict - big, powerful and almost manageableLG’s G3 is the best big-screened phone to date: the very small bezels around the screen and curved plastic back make its 5.5in screen eminently useable. The even weight distribution made me confident about using it in one hand, although it may still be too big for some people.The quad HD screen sounds great in a specification list - 534 pixels per inch! - but doesn’t actually look noticeably different from smaller full HD screens such as the Galaxy S5’s 5.1in screen. The pixels aren’t visible in suitably-written apps; what is there beyond invisibility?The camera is slightly disappointing: in low light settings, the shots are fuzzy, but its laser autofocus works quickly to acquire subjects, and shots in daylight are detailed, with accurate colour.The G3 is still a little bit too big for my taste, but LG’s done a very good job of making a phablet useable with one hand in a way that rivals like the Samsung Galaxy Note series have not.Deceptively plasticDespite the shiny, brushed appearance the back is entirely plastic Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe shiny, brushed effect makes the G3’s plastic design looks deceptively like metal. It feels solid in the hand and the build quality is great – there’s minimal give or flex in the body. It weighs 149g, which is lighter than the160g HTC One M8, but heavier than the145g Galaxy S5and the significantlysmaller 112g iPhone 5S.The G3’s claim to fame is its 5.5in quad HD display, which at 2560x1440 resolution has a pixel density of 534 pixels per inch, far exceeding the 432ppi of the Galaxy S5 and similar rivals. The screen is vibrant and crisp with wide viewing angles, but the extra pixel density is not noticeable in general use compared to, say, a Galaxy S5.SpecsScreen:5.5in quad HD LCDProcessor:2.5 GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 801RAM:2GB of RAMStorage:16GBOperating system:Android 4.4 “Kitkat”Camera:13MP rear camera with laser autofocus, 2.1MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth 4.0 with BLE, wireless charging and GPSDimensions:146.3 x 74.6 x 8.9mmWeight:149gSolid day’s use despite the screenThe UK version of the LG G3 has much the same hardware as rivals. The quad-core Snapdragon 801 processor is powerful enough to handle any current app, game or function, with no perceptible lag.A microSD card slot adds to the 16GB of storage available for movies, music and photos, but a 32GB version is also available in some countries outside of the UK.I managed one and a half days of intense usage before the battery ran out, with push email running all day, music streaming over Bluetooth for three hours, two hours of web browsing and 30 minutes of 3D gaming, which the G3 powered through without issue.A battery saver mode is also available extending standby time by turning off functions like Wi-Fi, push notifications and haptic feedback (where the phone vibrates).Tap to unlockLG’s software makes small tweaks to the standard Android experience, which will be familiar to anyone who has used an Android smartphone in the past. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianLG’s smartphone software has been poor in the past, but the G3’s customised Android is much improved.It closely resembles standard Android, which is a good thing, with a few small useful additions and a pastel colour scheme. The small battery meter that appears in the status bar when connecting Bluetooth headphones or speakers, showing the amount of charge left in the connected device, is particularly useful.There’s a one-handed operation feature that moves the keyboard and other elements to one side, effectively reducing the screen size; I found it wasn’t needed because the phone is almost the same size as the screen.There’s also a multi-window mode for putting more than one app on screen at a time. It’s fiddly to implement and I didn’t find it useful - as with Samsung’s implementation of the same idea. Even a phablet screen is too small to make this feature useful. Simply switching between apps is easy and quick, and allows use of the full screen, instead of struggling with two in restricted space.One notable, and useful, added feature is the “Knock Code”. When the screen is locked, four to eight taps in sequence in four quadrants of the screen will unlock it, instead of a passcode. The taps can wake up the phone and instantly unlock it, without the screen being on, saving time.Even if a knock code isn’t set, two quick taps will wake the screen. That relegates the power button (located, unusually, on the centre back of the phone, under the camera) essential only for powering on and off. The volume buttons bracket the power button, where an index finger normally rests when making a call.LG’s Knock Code is actually useful, and needed due to the lack of fingerprint scanner. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianApp incompatibility is a small downside for the G3. The quad HD screen isn’t (yet) officially supported by every app, making them unavailable from Google Play. Apps that won’t download from Play such as Jawbone’s Up do work when sideloaded from a PC, so it may be a case of developers needing to ready their apps for extra-high screen resolutions. This will probably get sorted out once more devices with the higher resolution screen get released such asthe OnePlus One.Camera: robot vacuum lasers for your pleasureThe camera is flanked by the laser autofocus on the left and flash on the right, with the power and volume buttons directly beneath the camera. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe selling point for the G3’s camera is its laser autofocus – reportedly pinched from the robot vacuum cleaners that LG also makes; they use it to scan ahead for obstacles.The laser autofocus focuses quickly and accurately, but only in the main camera app. Some other apps such as Evernote have their own camera handler, which means they can’t access the laser focus. That means slow, out-of-focus shots via the standard flash and sharpness detection that most other cameras use.Focused shots taken in solid lighting conditions look great, but are disappointingly noisy in low-light conditions – indoors at a wedding, for instance, where the optical image stabilisation could remove blurring due to image shake, but couldn’t gather more light.PriceThe LG G3 costs under £450 in either gold or black without a mobile phone contract – similar to the Galaxy S5 and other Android rivals.Glass entirely covers the front of the phone giving the illusion of no bezel. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianPros:large 5.5in quad HD screen; shaped back makes it easier to hold; powerful processor; quick autofocus in camera app; clever knock code to unlock.Cons:some apps not available; device may be too big for some; laser autofocus not available to all apps; poor camera in low light.Other reviews•HTC One M8 review: a lightning-quick, five star phone•Samsung Galaxy S5 review: bigger, faster - but still plastic•Sony Xperia Z2 review: powerful, waterproof, but just a tad too big•OnePlus One review: hitting the sweet spot•Moto G review: the best smartphone you can buy for £135•Google Nexus 5 review: a flagship smartphone that costs the same as a mid-range device•iPhone 5S review: Apple’s best is all about fingerprints and software•Nokia Lumia 930 review: the best Windows Phone yet
Internet service went down for millions of Americans on Wednesday morning after cable company Time Warner Cable suffered a major outage.The company, which has almost 12m broadband subscribers nationwide, said it was investigating the cause of the outage, which apparently began around 4.30am ET. By 6am, it said “services were largely restored”, but an hour later, saidit was still“working to restore services to all areas”. By 10am, the company wastelling customersthe outage had been resolved, but some social media users said access was still spotty.ATime Warner outagemap as of 10:20am ET Photograph: /http:/downdetector.com/status/time-warner-cable/mapAffected users besieged the helplines and social media accounts of the firm, which declared an operating income of $1.1bn in the 2nd quarter of 2014.On Tuesday,Reuters reported thatTime Warner Cable paid $1.1m to resolve an investigation from the Federal Communications Commission that found the provider did not properly report multiple network outages.“TWC (Time Warner Cable) failed to file a substantial number of reports with respect to a series of reportable wireline and Voice Over Internet Protocol network outages,” the FCC’s report read. “TWC admits that its failure to timely file the required network outage reports violated the commission’s rules.”The FCC is currently reviewing a deal for company to be purchased by Comcast – a cable and internet giant.The deal comes after Time Warner received a$60bn offer from smaller rival Charter Communications, butaccepted Comcast’s offer of $45.2bnafter Charter threatened to unseat the company’s board of directors.Consumer groupshave repeatedly warned that combining the two companies would be a disaster for consumers, and would further reduce competition in an already monopolized market. Several studies confirmed that services competing against Comcast, such asNetflix, have been throttled by the company, the delivery speed of media significantly slowed by the ISP.Time Warner and other cable companies are facing increased competition from companies such as Google. The Silicon Valley giant installed fiber optic cables in several cities around America. It claims the internet speeds are up to 100 times faster than typical broadband.
Taxi-hiring startup Uber’s UK arm has denied claims made on Tuesday that it poaches drivers from rival services with the heavily criticised method allegedly used by its US arm.Codenamed “Operation Slog”, the previously secret programme is said to involve the use of disposable phone numbers and credit cards to recruit drivers away from Lyft, a key US competitor in the taxi services business.In apost on its corporate blog, apparently published to pre-empt an expose bytech news site The Verge, the company says that Operation Slog – which it says stands for “Supplying Long-term Operations Growth” – involves a number of measures, including driver incentive programmes, vehicle financing, and “brand ambassadors” who recruit both drivers and riders.It also denies a common criticism of the firm, saying that “we never use marketing tactics that prevent a driver from making their living – and that includes never intentionally cancelling rides”.But the picture painted by the Verge’sCasey Newtonis darker. Citing internal documents obtained from the company, he describes a wide-ranging programme active in at least 10 US cities where Uber operates, aimed at disrupting the practices of Lyft.The leaked documents are said to show that independent contractors, known internally as Sloggers, are armed by Uber with disposable phone numbers and credit cards and told to hire Lyft rides. While in the car, they then attempt to encourage the driver to sign up with Uber, or even switch over entirely.Despite Uber’s claims that it doesn’t “intentionally” cancel rides in the course of their efforts,Lyft claims to have identifiedmore than 5,560 individual rides ordered and cancelled by Uber employees in that past 10 months by looking at the ride history of Uber employees and contractors that they have caught on the service. Lyft singles out one specific user as creating 14 different accounts and cancelling a total of 680 rides.Travis Kalanick, Uber’s chief executive and co-founder, hotly denied the existence of any program to call and cancel Lyft rides, or of executive approval to do so, or of it being carried out by a “rogue” employee. “ABSOLUTELY NOT … NEVER,” hetweetedin response to the question.Uber has already been forced toapologisefor spamming another car service, Gett, with fake rides, afterdocuments revealedthat its New York office was deliberately ordering and cancelling black cars. “Members of our New York team made requests to generate leads of independent contractors but then immediately cancelled seconds later,” it said. “The sales tactics were too aggressive and we apologise for our outreach approach to these drivers.”The Verge alleged that Uber’s advice to its Slog treat team recommends that they “wait a period of time before you request so you do not have to cancel on the same driver if you get them again”, but does not call for ordering fake rides in the way the New York team was discovered doing.Following the publication of the Verge story, Uber’s executive team took to social media to try to defend their practices. Kalanickarguedthat Operation Slog was no different from recruiting an engineer by calling their office phone, andaskedwhether it would be as controversial “if we got in taxis and recruited taxi drivers and paid for the ride?”But one interlocutor, Basecamp’s chief technology officer David Heinemeier Hansson, argued that whether or not it was ethical, it looked “sleazy” for the company to use these tactics. “I wanted to be @uber’s biggest fan, but you’re making it impossible to even like the company with these tactics,”he told Kalanick. “It’s just dirty.”“Who boasts ‘bottom line is that partnering with Uber is a bet you’ll always win’ in an explanation about how they’re not sleazy?”he added.An Uber spokesperson told the Guardian that the tactics outlined in the company’s Operation Slog blogpost were not put into practice in the UK.“In the UK Uber does not follow this driver acquisition strategy,” they said in a statement. “However, we have recently launched UberTaxi, as such our staff may well discuss the benefits of working with us to anyone who will listen! Uber does not request and cancel cars simply as part of driver acquisition in any territory.”The Uber UK spokesperson also reiterated that the company doesn’t cancel bookings on rival services “to simply prevent competition”, adding “in fact Uber believes competition is a good thing, as it forces better service levels, which in turn is better for customers.”•Boris Johnson says Uber ban in London would be ‘difficult’
How do you attract undecided female voters? Not with Better Together’s latest ad campaign, it appears.The anti-Scottish independence campaign Better Together inadvertently created amemeon Tuesday evening after airing an advert aimed at women, which was derided as being “sexist” and “patronising”.In an advert titled “The woman who made up her mind”, an actor plays an initially undecided Scottish woman weighing up the pros and cons of independence from her kitchen, with a cup of tea in hand. After complaining about her husband talking about the referendum in the morning and claiming “there’s only so many hours in the day” for her to make a decision, she eventually decides to vote no.The ad played out on STV and BBC on Tuesday evening.Unfortunately for Better Together, the campaign hasn’t quite hit its mark. Instead, it has spawned an internet meme: namely,#PatronisingBTlady. On Tuesday evening and for some of Wednesday morning, the hashtag was trending as numerous people, mostly those supporting Scottish independence, mocked the broadcast via social media channels.There was the inevitable overlay of bolded white text:Comedy gold from@UK_Together&#39;s#patronisingBTlady!pic.twitter.com/6Lwc653uKA&mdash; Declan B (@YesWithDex)August 26, 20144th#PatronisingBTLadycontributionpic.twitter.com/upNYbi3Mko&mdash; Kris (@neurosceptic)August 27, 2014Unless I get evidence to the contrary I&#39;m assuming that#PatronisingBTLadyis a weird@noelfielding11character &#10;pic.twitter.com/rJS4PrgZJ9&mdash; Will Black (@WillBlackWriter)August 27, 2014Cartoons for the next broadcast:.@UK_Togetheri&#39;ve storyboarded your next ad, free of charge. you&#39;re welcome :)#PatronisingBTLady#indyrefpic.twitter.com/GhPKGPSaHp&mdash; Andy Pandy (@_Pandy)August 26, 2014As well as comparisons to parodies of sexist adverts:Hey@UK_Together, this sketch was just a joke, you weren&#39;t meant to make a whole advert from it!https://t.co/4eYI8TEcRt#PatronisingBTLady&mdash; Kezia Hope Kinder (@KeziaKinder)August 26, 2014Some compared theOverly Attached Girlfriendmeme:#PatronisingBTLadyWe&#39;re Better Together... forever and everpic.twitter.com/Tx8L0u8fXK&mdash; Laurie Kitson (@ljkitson92)August 26, 2014And when one meme isn’t enough, you may as well useanother:I had to…#PatronisingBTLadypic.twitter.com/oCOEimOgHU&mdash; CakeQuestEdin (@CakeQuestEdin)August 26, 2014
Phil is telling what he thinks is an amusing story, but Dianne and Jack aren’t really listening; slumped on the sofa together, they’re too busy trading flirty remarks, while ostensibly watching the evening news. Increasingly agitated, Phil finally storms off and spends the next 10 minutes battering his punchbag. He won’t be be speaking to Jack and Dianne again for a while.Simmering with unspoken angst, it seems this scene is going to be a typical one for players of The Sims 4, the latest in EA’s multimillion selling series of open-ended life simulations. These fascinating games have always been about creating a little group of characters (known as “sims”), building a house for them, and then subtly controlling their lives. But now those lives are a heck of a lot more interesting. The sims don’t just have basic happy or sad states anymore, they have a range of emotions. And with emotion comes drama.“The Sims is a social experiment,” says Rachel Franklin, executive vice-president of Maxis, the development studio behind the series. “People are fascinated with human life, we all want to watch each other. You see it with reality TV - whatisthat person doing? Why are we fascinated with fisherman working off the coast of Alaska? It’s because it’s a life we’re not familiar with - we want to know and understand it.”Building a personThrough the intuitive and amusing “create a sim” menu, players are able to mould, not just the exact physical appearance of each new character but also a selection of traits and aspirations. Sims may love food, family or mischief; they may be hotheaded bookworms, gloomy loners or goofball romantics; they could be driven by dreamy creativity or pure financial greed.When you’re ready, you build a house for them, using the hugely improved architectural tools (or selecting one of the ready-made buildings), and watch what happens, interacting as often as you like, to guide your sim into certain actions or relationships. They can chat to other sims, cook, work out, create art, but whatever they do is informed by their underlying traits and emotions. If they’re feeling depressed, they may paint an amazing picture, which then affects all the other sims who see it. If they’re happy, they’ll spread cheer; if they’re angry, directing them to the gym means they’ll exercise more efficiently, boosting their health score. Every state of mind has a value – the player just needs to know to exploit them.“It’s all about opportunities,” says Franklin. “You’re creating this personality and providing it with long-term goals that will give it impetus throughout its life. Then you’ve got them interacting with their environment, with their need states – what if they’re hungry how does that affect things? Then you have them interacting with other sims, and there’s this exponential explosion of personality possibilities – that’s really exciting.”Another vital element of the game is that sims can multitask now. In past versions, the player had to cue up activities; characters couldn’t do two things at once, so actions were rigid and unswerveable. Now, they can cook while watching TV, or flirt while dancing.This has, says Franklin, led to a wider variety of behaviours. “With the multitasking element, we were surprised out how much more the sims were socialising. In previous games, there was a lot more balance and order – now you can have a sim playing a game on a tablet while sitting on the couch, in a conversation with another sim. And because talking with other sims is compatible with many other actions, they’re much more social creatures. A new style of play has emerged from that.“And also, the neighbourhood sims, the non-controllable sims that inhabit the world with you, are fully functioning AI characters too. Sometimes, you’ll see someone stomping angrily by, perhaps with a little kid jumping happily behind them, and you’ll wonder, what’s the story there? There’s this immediate connection with the sims that I don’t think we ever had before.”Playing with livesWhat Franklin hopes to create is a place where players can experiment with life choices, in the same way they may mess about with architecture in Minecraft, or urban planning in SimCity. Maybe we’ll get characters into weird relationships, into bizarre career paths, into houses filled with sexual tension, just to see what goes off. “Some people recreate their families and try to play out familiar life experiences,” says Franklin. “Other people may think, ‘I have never been in a same-sex relationship - what would that be like? What happens when a woman sim flirts with another woman sim? Let me play that out’. It’s experimenting with life.”So is there a responsibility here? In the past, sims were sort of like virtual pets; dumb things to feed, take to the toilet and, yes, sometimes abuse. People would place them in rooms with no doors, or drown them in swimming pools. But will that dynamic change, now that they have walking and facial animations that reflect the way they feel? In Sims 4, there is emotional feedback. There is, in some senses, reciprocity.“Oh we intended all that,” says Franklin. “The litter quiver animation on the lip of a depressed sim - that is added to get you to feel empathy. You want to care for them. But frankly, building The Sims is hard, it takes a lot of conviction – that what we’re doing is the right thing to do. We’re on a tightrope - you don’t want to be too realistic but you want to be relatable and believable. You want to explore the darker things in life – death is a part of life, sadness is a part of life - but we don’t ever want to be morose.”Later on, Phil comes back downstairs. His housemates Jack and Dianne have had a disagreement over dinner, but somehow, they cheer each other up. Sims speak their own language – simlish – so you don’t know what they’re “saying” but images pop up of the conversational themes. Music is being discussed. The stereo goes on and they start to dance.It’s fascinating watching and directing these little interactions; hovering the mouse over a house guest to get your sim to talk to them; clicking on the options – selecting to ask about the other character’s day or tell them a rude joke. But you can also build characters with darker traits and let them loose.According to Franklin, the toughest elements of the Sims development process are at the edges of these new behaviour possibilities.“I’ll give you an example,” she says. “We have an interaction named ‘yell at’, and it is accompanied by an animation where the sim who’s yelling points their finger at the other sim. In the first iteration, the sim on the receiving end shrank back a little bit, they cowered. It wasn’t much, it was a tiny movement, but it was too far. All of a sudden it became uncomfortable, because it took it from a fun gesture to ‘I am an abuser’. That’s not acceptable.“The team is so tuned into those moments, we have a kind of spider sense for it. We just know when something doesn’t feel right. So we talk about it. We talk about the responsibility of exploring the darker side of life. They are wonderful conversations.”The Sims 4: how composer Ilan Eshkeri brings emotion to the screenSims 4 announced as single-player offline title
The online backup service Livedrive is facing legal action from discontented customers after it shut down hundreds of UK users’ accounts, the Guardian has learned.Paul Parkinson, from London, says his account was deleted despite a warning to Livedrive from his lawyers warning against such a move. He is now considering legal action against the US-owned company, which also provides online backups for PC World under the Knowhow brand.Another former user, Amar Patel, who runs Reminisce Photography, started his trial on 19 January 2014 and signed up for a two-year service by the end of the month. Patel is also considering legal action after his account was terminated and family pictures of his young child deleted.Livedrive’s UK chief operating officer, John Eikenberry, told the Guardian that fewer than 400 people have had their accounts cut off for “excessive bandwidth/storage” use in the past year.Eikenberry declined to specify precisely what constituted “excessive” use. “This is information we would not make public,” he said.Livedrive says it provides online backup “for all of your computers, from just £3 per month”, and that itsPro Suiteoffers as much as 5TB of cloud storage including “unlimited backup for five PCs”. Itsterms of usesay that it can terminate accounts for those who “use the Services in a manner that results in excessive bandwidth usage, as determined by us”.Livedrive is a UK company owned byJ2 Global, an American company which provides a number of virtual services such as faxing, e-receptionists and hosted email services.In the second quarter of 2014 J2Globalreportedpre-tax profits of $63.7m on total revenues of $144.7m, setting a new revenue record. Its online backup business, which includes Livedrive, is now approaching $60m in annual revenue, according to the company’s financial statements.The latest financial statements say each Livedrive customer generates roughly $100 per year in revenues.Insufficient explanationLivedrive’s angry customers say they were cut off without sufficient explanation or any option to rectify the problem.“If they had simply said ‘you’re a big user of our service, here’s a business or high volume package for larger customers’, we’d have paid up and been happy,” said Parkinson told the Guardian.Customers also complained that the Livedrive support phone line was extremely busy and gave no further explanation. “Telephone support? Is there any?” asked Andy Sharp, who saw his Livedrive account cancelled for an unspecified breach of terms and conditions. “I’ve not spoken to anyone, nor been able to reach a human.”He said that he asked for clarification in reply to the initial email from Livedrive notifying him of the breach, and received an answer assuring him “nothing was going to take place with my data or account before receiving any further communication”.There was no further communication - and then he found his login blocked and account closed.“It could be that Livedrive has looked at their forecast and have thought that it’s time to make a cull,” suggested Sharp. “Big storage, high speed, low ROI [return on investment], get rid of them. No refund, any complaints read the terms of service. I doubt that I have the patience to see if there is any legal course to take, put it down to a bad experience and move on.”Eikenberry admitted that Livedrive has not handled account closures well. “I’m not 100% satisfied with how the communication unfolded following the identification of the accounts [deemed to be in breach],” he said, adding that the services gets “thousands” of signups every day and that “we only needed to close a very small percentage of users due to misuse”.A number of customers who have got in touch with the Guardian have complained that Livedrive had cut them off even though they have not changed their use of the service.One email giving 30 days’ notice of account termination said: “Unfortunately as the breach relates to actions that occurred during the tenure of your account ownership rather than an individual event or action, it is not possible for you to continue your account with us.”Asked why Livedrive had not previously contacted customers who it claimed were “disrupting” the service over an extended period of time, Eikenberry responded: “I agree that we should have acted sooner on these issues, though the correlations to bandwidth were drawn only recently as part of a more detailed reporting requirement.”Patel is angry at what he sees as Livedrive’s cavalier approach, in which the impending deletion of his stored data was communicated by email in which he was told he had breached the terms of use - even though he had specifically checked that his use would be compatible.“Before I signed up for the Livedrive service I spoke to Livedrive sales about what I’ll be using the service for, how much data I would backup to Livedrive and if there was any limitation that I needed to understand or be aware of,” Patel told the Guardian. “I was told none. I also explained that I have a fast fibre internet connection which means that I’ll be uploading data at a fast rate. I was advised that the £3 backup service was sufficient and that the Livedrive IT Infrastructure is sufficient to be able to handle the upload speeds and the data that I would be uploading to their servers - I was told: ‘that’s exactly what Livedrive was designed for and hence Livedrive offer unlimited storage as well’.”‘Excessive bandwidth’However Livedrive subsequently said that Patel had used “excessive bandwidth” and told him it would delete his account.The same reason of “excessive bandwidth” use was given to Duncan McClymont, of Wiltshire, who also had his account deleted, despite having signed up for the “Unlimited” service.McClymont, who says he has stored a total of 5 terabytes (5,000 gigabytes) of data on the service since signing up more than three years ago - which would equate to nearly 3.5GB of data per day - said he was surprised about the abruptness of the company’s move.“On an unlimited service?” he said, questioning the reason for the deletion. Despite repeated requests, McClymont says he has not been given any detailed explanation of how he had exceeded Livedrive’s bandwidth restrictions - which, he says, he did not know existed.Of the threat of legal action, Eikenberry told the Guardian “We are satisfied that the actions which we were obliged to take in this instance were carried out in accordance with the terms of our agreement with these customers.”Sharp, who signed up in December 2012 and was thrown off the service in June 2014, told the Guardian: “Obviously, I’m not very pleased with the level of service from Livedrive. It all comes across as a rather expensive waste of time.”
Instagram’s newHyperlapse appfor taking timelapse videos on the iPhone and iPad has rocketed up the charts as Instagram’s second dedicated app and Facebook’s eighth app for the iPhone.Hyperlapse is a standalone app that shoots videos at a lower frame-rate than normal, but then plays the videos at a normal frame rate of at least 14 frames per second.The effect accelerates motions that take a while to happen, such as the unfolding of a flower or views from travelling across a vast distance, making things appear to happen in just a few seconds rather than over a period of minutes or hours.Instagram’s Hyperlapse app.It uses a similar principle to time-lapse photography, which is often made into a video where each photo becomes a single frame, speeding up the movement of the clouds across the sky, for example.Apple’s update to the iPhone’s software, iOS 8, due for release in September includes a time-lapse photography feature.‘Surprised at how smooth the stabiliser works’The difference with video is that a hyperlapse can suffer badly from camera shake as the video is sped up. Instagram’s Hyperlapse app deals with camera shake by using the iPhone’s gyroscope and accelerometer to digitally stabilise the video, creating a smooth short film from hand-shot video.Users simply tap to shoot video, and tap again to stop – no account is required. Playback speed can be varied between 1x and 12x before exporting to the iPhone’s camera roll for sharing or saving. Videos can also be shared directly to Facebook or Instagram.Hyperlapse byskylark64The app ranks 11th in the UK App Store, released at 6pm on Tuesday, but third in the US and first in the photo and video category, displacing Facebook’s other apps including Instagram.Hyperlapse byr.schmidtEarly reviews seem largely positive, with over 653 ratings placing it at over 4.5 stars. Some users complained about the square video format used by Instagram, while others complained about photo bleaching and the failure of the app to adjust exposure levels as the camera moves from dark to light areas.“As a photographer, I’m actually surprised at how smooth the hyperlapse app works,” said one reviewer on the US App Store. “The stabiliser does a great job of smoothing out the footage for a nice lapse.”Video stabilisation.Similar technology from othersMicrosoft demonstrated very similar motion-stabilisation technology for hyperlapsesin early August, which promised to smooth out first-person video shot from body-mounted cameras using advanced image-processing. The technology from Microsoft Research was promised as a Windows app, but has yet to be released.Google also offers something similar for its YouTube video stabilisation, which often produces video that looks artificially smooth.Instagram’s Hyperlapse app is currently only available for the iPhone and iPad, but the company said it hopes to bring it to Android in the near future. Despite Instagram being available for Windows Phone, Hyperlapse is unlikely to be available on Microsoft’s smartphone platform in the near future.•An iPhone trick to avoid being forced to install Facebook Messenger to keep chatting•Facebook Messenger downloaded more than 500m times on Android joining an exclusive club•Facebook timing its users to crack down on ‘click-baiting’ headlines
Depending on your view, the stuff you own is either a boon to business or a tremendous loss of opportunity.For example, your collection of spice bottles in your pantry means that I could possibly sell you a spice rack. On the other hand, it also means that I can’t design a special spice rack that only admits spice bottles of my own patent-protected design, which would thereby ensure that if you wanted to buy spices in the future you’d either have to buy them from me or throw away that very nice spice rack I sold you.In the tech world, this question is often framed in terms of “ecosystems” (as in the “Google/Chrome/Android ecosystem”) or platforms (as in the “Facebook platform”) but whatever you call it, the discussion turns on a crucial different concept: sunk cost.That’s the money, time, mental energy and social friction you’ve already sunk into the stuff you own. Your spice rack’s sunk cost includes the money you spend on the rack, the time you spent buying fixings for it and the time you spent afixing it, the emotional toil of getting your family to agree on a spice rack, and the incredible feeling of dread that arises when you contemplate going through the whole operation again.If you’ve already got a lot of sunk costs, the canny product strategy is to convince you that you can buy something that will help you organise your spices, rip all your CDs and put them on a mobile device, or keep your clothes organised.But what a vendor really wants is to get you to sink cost into his platform, ecosystem, or what have you. To convince you to buy his wares, in order to increase the likelihood that you’ll go on doing so – because they match the decor, because you already have the adapters, and so on.Switching costsThe vendor wants to impose a switching cost on you, to penalise you for disloyalty should you defect to another ecosystem/platform. The higher your switching costs, the worse the vendor can afford to treat you - rather than supplying the best goods at the best price, he can provide the best goods at the best price,plus the switching costyou’d have to pay if you went somewhere else. Or he can offer the best price, but offer goods whose manufacture - and quality - is cheaper by a sum of about the cost you’d have to pay for switching.Without competition, this would all go very badly indeed. When an entrenched vendor grows too predatory, another vendor is likely to enter the same market, offering a better deal – a whole kitchen replacement that comes with a spice-rack to fit all brands of spice (but may require some expensive inserts to fit the fiddly drawers).The thing to pay attention to is the gap between the extra bit of price/quality squeezing that the vendor can exert upon you before a competitor emerges. The bigger that gap is, the more pain you have to endure before a rival steps in with something better. The size of the gap is determined by both law and technology.Firstly, technology. Companies often add technical countermeasures to their products to lock their customers in. Your gadget might take a nonstandard battery, or need a strange screwdriver to open the case.Secondly, law. Governments often intervene to protect walled gardens. For example, the proprietary connector on your power adapter might be patented, meaning that even if a competitor can figure out how to make a cheaper and/or better version, doing so would expose them to horrific legal jeopardy. Patents last 20 years, so it’s likely your gizmo will be long gone before someone can release third-party spares.It’s not just patents. Global copyright laws establish special protection for any technology that can make a claim - however silly - to preventing copyrighted material from being accessed without permission. These laws, like the US DMCA and the EUCD, criminalise any such breach - they even ban revealing information that would facilitate such a breach, such as bulletins about significant flaws in your devices that could expose you to personal and financial risks.Importantly, the stricture against unlocking these devices is not limited to copyright matters. Copyright has nothing to say about which legitimaely acquired software you are allowed to run on your phone. But if you have an iPhone and you want to run non-Apple software, you have to remove its locks – notionally an anti-piracy measure – to do so. And that’s against the law, so you can’t.When Apple introduced iTunes, it was with the slogan “Rip, mix, burn” – take your music collection and use Apple’s product to manage it all.But if you wanted to do the same – install non-Apple apps on your iPhone for example, you’d be out of luck.Adversarial compatibilityWhether you’re talking about iTunes’ Rip/Mix/Burn for your CDs, or a jailbreaking tool that lets you install third-party software on your iPhone, the same principal is at play: “adversarial compatibility.”That’s when company B figures out how to work with company A’s products in spite of company A’s objections, overcoming any technical countermeasures introduced by company A.Adversarial compatibility is one of the secret pivots on which technology turns. Every successful company starts out by being adversarially compatible with what’s already in the market, and every company that attains success tries to stop other companies from doing the same thing to it. In other words, every pirate secretly dreams of becoming an admiral.Without adversarial compatibility, your property could only be improved in ways that the manufacturer believed wouldn’t interfere with its business. You’d never be able to fit a third-party phone case, or plug a phone charger into the lighter of your car.There’s more at stake than consumer rights, though. There are lots of modifications that the original supplier would never make possible because they just don’t see any profit in it. If you want to mix paint in a Magimix, that’s fine, but don’t expect the company to provide paint-mixing attachments to help you with your weird bodge.There are two groups of people who especially rely on this kind of thing: poor people – especially the global poor – and people with disabilities.These groups of people have all sorts of needs that are unique to their situation that leads them to adapt technology for their own needs – whether that’sMohammed Osman Ali, a Somali refugee in a Ugandan refugee camp who repurposes Playstation consoles to serve as merchandise in a makeshift arcade, ruggedising the controllers to survive continuous hard use; or carers of people with dementia who cover up or glue shut unneeded and confusing buttons on TV remotes; or Brazilian hackers who localise free and open-source software so that it can be more readily used by the kids who visit the “telecentros” in the favelas of RioIt’s unlikely that the vendors who produced these goods would not agree to these uses, but if their products are designed with technical countermeasures that can’t be defeated without falling afoul of the law, no one will be able to advertise a service or even post DIY instructions online without facing legal jeopardy.Both states and industries have long recognised the value of standardisation, whether that’s mains-plugs or wall-studs. No engineering firm would ever be allowed to use secretive, proprietary systems to calculate the load-stresses on your home and prohibit you from knocking out a wall without using their special RSJs.But when it comes to commercial firms, there is an unresolvable tension between openness and closedness.Unfortunately, lawmakers and regulators are often swayed by companies who convince them into making rules that sabotage adversarial compatibility. There’s no excuse for it, really. Without the right to change your stuff in ways that the company that made it doesn’t like, you are forever a prisoner to that company’s whims and priorities.Or, as the Maker Manifesto has it: “If you can’t open it, you don’t own it.”
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAnalogue heroes, digital age &gt;&gt; SOCIAL CINEMAFrom 16 August, aiming to predict the box-office opening weekend for Expendables 3 - which had seen a leak ahead of its release.Here are the key facts and figures behind the leaked copy of the film:- On July 24th, three weeks out from release, a high quality version of the film leaks online.- A lawsuit from Lionsgate, filed on July 31st, seeks to compel six prominent websites to take down links to the pirated copies of the film.- Lionsgate estimate that, as of August 1st, the film has been downloaded 2.2 million times.In a soon-to-be-published study researchers at Carnegie Mellon University reckon on pre-release piracy reducing a movie's domestic box office by an average of 19%. If we apply that to our $26.9m projection it drops to $21.8m, which would amount to a disappointing opening haul.Is it really that simple? Of course not.Expendables 3 had apoor opening weekend, collecting $16.2m.L.A. Unified halts contract for iPads &gt;&gt; LA TimesLA schools Supt. John Deasy suspended future use of a contract with Apple on Monday that was to provide iPads to all students in the nation's second-largest school system amid mounting scrutiny of the $1-billion-plus effort.The suspension comes days after disclosures that the superintendent and his top deputy had especially close ties to executives of Apple, maker of the iPad, and Pearson, the company that is providing the curriculum on the devices. And an internal report that examined the technology effort showed major problems with the process and the implementation."Moving forward, we will no longer utilize our current contract with Apple Inc.," Deasy wrote in a memo sent to the Board of Education on Monday."Not only will this decision enable us to take advantage of an ever-changing marketplace and technology advances, it will also give us time to take into account concerns raised surrounding the [project]," Deasy wrote.(Thanks @pxr4t2 for the link.)Hyperlapse, Instagram's new app, is like a $15,000 video setup in your hand &gt;&gt; WIREDToday at 10am PST, Instagram is lifting the veil on Hyperlapse, one of the company's first apps outside of Instagram itself. Using clever algorithm processing, the app makes it easy to use your phone to create tracking shots and fast, time-lapse videos that look as if they're shot by Scorsese or Michael Mann. What was once only possible with a Steadicam or a $15,000 tracking rig is now possible on your iPhone, for free. (Instagram hopes to develop an Android version soon, but that will require changes to the camera and gyroscope APIs on Android phones.)Can anyone developer explain what would be needed to change on Android?…If Hyperlapse is so cool, it makes you wonder why it's built as a standalone app, rather than a new feature of Instagram. That had to do with the realities of building something really cool, but also fairly hard to explain. The honchos at Instagram figured some users would grok the possibilities immediately and become obsessed with it. But most would ignore it. To built it into Instagram, you'd have to hide it, to keep the core app simple for its millions of users. This would be a double bind for Hyperlapse: Power users would find it annoying to use, if they found it at all, and everyday users would simply never look for it. So they split it off into its own product.Sounds like a much smarter version of thetime lapse function that iOS 8 will include.  Apparently quite separate fromMicrosoft's research productalso called Hyperlapse.All-in-one PC shipments to decline in 2014 &gt;&gt; Digitimes ResearchDesktop shipments are expected to enjoy growth in 2014 with Microsoft ending its support for Windows XP, but the all-in-one PC market, which focuses mainly on the consumer market and did not start enjoying demand until recent years, may not be able to benefit from the growth.Digitimes Research expects all-in-one PC shipments to drop 2.4% on year in 2014 because enterprise and consumer buyers have both used their budgets to purchase conventional desktops. Sony quitting from the PC market is another driver that is causing all-in-one PC shipments to drop in 2014.Apple and Lenovo are the top-2 vendors in the all-in-one PC market and the two's combined market share has been rising each year and is expected to surpass 60% in 2014.More indication that it's business buyers rather than consumers which are driving PC sales.The new Lightning cable and the new power adapter for iPhone 6 &gt;&gt; Moca.coWe are informed by the Official Appointed Manufacturer of Apple that the new Reversible USB Cable will not be released together with upcoming iPhone 6 and Apple has not placed any order with them yet. Apple fans will not be able to get the MFi version of this revolutionary cable from Apple this year but that is not the end of the story.We have already spoken with the manufacturer and we are Officially Licensed with the Patent of the reversible USB design. We are now ready to start production anytime and we are now accepting Pre-Orders on the new MFi Certified Reversible USB Lightning Cable.("MFi" is Apple's "Made For iPhone" certification program.) So do you choose to believe the people who could make money from the rumour not being true, or...?Ministry of Justice fined over prison data loss &gt;&gt; BBCThe Ministry of Justice has been fined £180,000 for "serious failings" in the handling of confidential data.The Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) said the penalty was related to the loss of a hard drive containing the details of almost 3,000 prisoners at Erlestoke prison in Wiltshire.The disk was not encrypted.The records, lost in 2013, included material on organised crime, prisoners' health and drug misuse, and information about inmates' victims and visitors.Comcast data breach leaks thousands of unlisted phone numbers, threatening customers' privacy &gt;&gt; Electronic Frontier FoundationFour years ago, users of Comcast's phone service who had paid for their personal information to be unlisted noticed that something was amiss. Complaints started appearing from these individuals who found their names, addresses, and telephone numbers in phone directories both online and off.Later, it was revealed that this breach of confidential information affected more than 74,000 individuals and households in California—over half of Comcast's users in California with unlisted numbers. While the breach hit California the hardest, it also occurred with Comcast customers in other states.No word of a fine.Why Amazon wants Twitch &gt;&gt; Beyond DevicesJan Dawson:It's a cliché, but Twitch appeals to a certain demographic which Amazon likely doesn't reach very well today, and Twitch could help it reach that demographic more effectively and therefore cross-sell other Amazon products and services. I think this may be a bit of a stretch, in that there's little inherent connection between the two and forcing one may break the experience on both sides, but there are at least obvious opportunities to sell games through Amazon to Twitch users, and the opportunity likely goes further too.Of course, there's a whole other side to this too, which is that Amazon benefits Twitch as much as Twitch benefits Amazon. Twitch will get to leverage Amazon's infrastructure (if it isn't already) and scale, along with its deep pockets.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
The best plan for a national broadband network is to extend it to households through a variety of technologies instead of fibre-to-the-premises because it is cheaper now and can be more easily upgraded later, a major cost-benefit analysis has found.The report by the Department of Communications’ panel of experts examined the economic and social value of alternative options for increased broadband speeds across Australia, using detailed information provided by NBN Co.It compared four main scenarios: leaving things as they are with no further progress; an unsubsidised rollout of hybrid-fibre coaxial (HFC) and fibre to the node (FTTN); a full fibre to the premises (FTTP) rollout with wireless and satellite in high-cost areas, and a multi-technology mix (MTM) scenario using a combination of FTTN, FTTP, HFC, fixed wireless and satellite.Compared with doing nothing, an unsubsidised – commercial – rollout to 93% of premises had a net benefit of $24bn. MTM added the cost of a $4.2bn investment into wireless and satellite services, extending the reach to the other mostly rural and regional 7% and drew a net benefit of $17.9bn. Factoring in a net cost of $16.1bn to extend a full FTTP rollout dropped the net benefit of that option to $1.8bn.NBN, economics and your internet speed: whiteboard explainer with Malcolm Turnbull - videoThe analysis found the highest broadband speeds were offered by the FTTP scenario, although it was at the highest cost, slowest delivery, and exceeded the “willingness to pay” by users. The MTM option was cheaper, and more easy and cheap to upgrade as needed later on.“The MTM scenario outperforms the FTTP scenario very significantly, both in terms of net economic benefits and in particular the robustness with respect to dealing with uncertainty or managing risk going forward,” said Mike Vertigan, the chair of the expert panel which conducted the analysis.How much demand for high-speed broadband would grow in the future was a “key uncertainty” the analysis said, adding that the MTM scenario was dominant in most analysed growth rates, primarily because of easier upgrading.The willingness to pay had to grow 250% over 10 years before the FTTP became the preferred option over an MTM without upgrades.A graph from the NBN report comparing the multi-technology mix option with full fibre to the premises.The communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull, told Guardian Australia increasing bandwidth was “only valuable insofar as it enables someone to do something”, and that eventually willingness to pay would flatten out.“You’re paying a huge amount of extra money to get additional bandwidth that people won’t value,” said Turnbull.“The critical thing in designing a broadband network is getting the balance between willingness to pay… and the cost of deploying it.”The chief executive of the Grattan Institute, John Daley, said the report made extremely good points in regards to “futureproofing”.“The technology in this area has been changing very fast over the last 15 years, and chances are it will continue to change for the next 15 years,” he told Guardian Australia.He said sinking huge costs into the ground closed off options that should be kept open for successful futureproofing, and the report made a clear argument against FTTP as the primary option.“It’s really expensive and you can do it cheaper later, and the benefits are small,” he said.“That’s the core point. If you rely on variety of technologies ... you can always put FTTP in the ground later on.”All benefits available from FTTP were available with the MTM scenario, said a panel expert, Henry Ergas, when asked by media about the public benefits of premises-connected high-speed broadband in sectors such as education and health.“The real question is whether there are applications that have very high social value that you can only get at 120 megabits per second that you can not get at 60 or 70 or 80,” said Ergas.“At the moment those applications are very few and far between and could not justify the very large cost differential between MTM and FTTP.“Of course it may be that in 10-15 years’ time those applications may develop, then you can upgrade from MTM to FTTP … in areas and the types of premises where those applications have the greatest value, and you can do it in a cost-effective way that ensures society captures the full benefits of those applications.”The four-person panel was revealed by Turnbull in December last year, and includedErgas, a strident critic of Labor and its NBN plan.Opposition communications spokesman Jason Clare said the report was flawed and not the independent cost analysis from Infrastructure Australia which Turnbull promised, and said the panel was handpicked by the minister to give him the answers he wanted. “The cost to taxpayers of Labor’s NBN and the Coalition’s second-rate NBN is very similar,” said Clare in a media release.“However the difference in benefits is significant. Last year’s budget showed that Labor would allocate $30.4bn in government equity to build the NBN. This year’s budget showed that the Liberal party will allocate $29.5bn. In other words there is less than a billion dollars’ difference in taxpayer investment between Labor’s NBN and the Coalition’s second-rate NBN.”He said while both models would return taxpayers’ investment, “under Labor they would have the real NBN, fibre-to-the-premises, a game-changing project that would change the way we live and change the way we work. Under this government, only 24% of Australia will get fibre-to-the-premises. The rest of Australia will miss out. They will get a second-rate NBN from a third-rate government.”“NBN Co has not yet gained access to the copper or HFC networks and the cost of operating, maintaining and enhancing this network has not been revealed,” added Clare.The panel would not disclose the costs of upgrading FTTP compared with other options, which were redacted from the report, citing “commercial confidentiality associated with NBN Co’s proprietary data”.
Tom Cassell may have spent an unexceptional nine hours on Sunday before he finished killing zombies in the Call of Duty video game. But the fact that 120,000 people were watching him unleash pixelated mayhem is why the internet retail giant Amazon thought it was worth paying almost $1bn (£603m) for the website that hosted the broadcast.The British 21-year-old happens to be the most watched player on Twitch, a YouTube-like website where more than a million people turn on to watch him every month, particularly for his videos of the Lego-style building game Minecraft. But rather than fall into the hands of YouTube's owner, Google, Twitch has ended up in the hands of what is becoming one of its competitors.Twitch allows gamers worldwide to film themselves playing video games and stream the resulting shows live to the site's total user base of 50 million people monthly. The site has become a key part of the competitive gaming circuit, letting audiences watch professional gamers go head to head.It is also the adopted home of speedrunners, who aim to break world records for the time taken to finish a game; and it has attracted more oddball broadcasts, such as when 15,000 people gathered online to watch an actual fish called Grayson use a specially designed interface as it swam to control a character in a Pokemon game.Jeff Bezos, Amazon founder and chief executive – who recently bought the Washington Post with his personal wealth – justified his company's move with a reference to Twitch's audience. "Broadcasting and watching gameplay is a global phenomenon and Twitch has built a platform that brings together tens of millions of people who watch billions of minutes of games each month," he said, before adding:  "And, amazingly, Twitch is only three years old."Twitch began life as a spinoff of the so-called lifecasting site Justin.tv, founded by the entrepreneur Justin Kan in 2007 to broadcast his entire life online, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Interest in Kan's existence was limited but the tools he and co-founders Emmett Shear, Michael Seibel and Kyle Vogt had built were eventually used to establish Twitch, in 2011.Today more than half of Twitch's users spend at least 20 hours a week on the site, and in 2013 they watched a total of 200m hours of content every month. Twitch is now the fourth-biggest user of internet capacity in the US, behind Netflix, Apple and Google.As Twitch has grown, the company has begun to take itself more seriously. For instance, it has started to clamp down on copyright infringements, muting videos for up to half an hour if it detects copyright music being played.The inevitable corporate evolution, though, has left some Twitch users concerned that the transition from bedroom to television will have unhappy consequences.Mat Jones, one Twitch broadcaster, said: "As somebody who likes to play music in the background, that's going to prevent that from now on. I'm not going to be able to stream and tell people what I'm listening to right now. But I'm also concerned that Twitch itself isn't going to be able to tell whether something they find in the game is actually breaking copyright rules.""If a copyrighted song is played in-game, am I going to lose 30 minutes of audio because of that?"This happened to people who were playing Pokemon, who then, because it had music from Pokemon in it, were hit with the copyright notice."As for Amazon, it has begun to compete more aggressively with Google. It is going head to head with the search-engine giant with an online advertising product. Traffic heavy Twitch would be another place where the mooted keyword advertising system could be deployed. Monopoly concerns are thought to have been behind Google's decision not to bid for Twitch.Amazon, originally an online bookstore, has been investing in a range of media industries. Itbought the film distribution website LoveFilmand has founded its own computer game division, making titles for its Fire tablets. Since the beginning of 2014, the company has ramped up investment in the division, going on a hiring spree to bulk out the office – including hiring former Bioshock designer Ian Vogel to head the studio.Brian Blau, of the industry analysts Gartner, said he believed Amazon was just getting started: "Empire building takes time and resources and it appears that, with the Twitch acquisition, Amazon is ready for that challenge."
Americans have been self-censoring their discussions about state surveillance in the wake of Edward Snowden’s revelations in 2013, researchers have found.Approximately 86% of adults were “very” or “somewhat” willing to discuss the findings in person with family, friends or work colleagues or at public meetings, yet only 43% said they would discuss the issues on Facebook.The Pew Research Centre surveyed 1,801 US adults in August and September 2013, and also found that only 41% of people would be willing to discuss surveillance on Twitter which is a more visible, public medium than Facebook.Pew’s report, which was published on Tuesday, warns of a “spiral of silence” capable of spreading from the online to the offline world, especially for people who think most of their social networking contacts disagree with their views on a particular topic:“The typical Facebook user – someone who logs onto the site a few times per day – is half as likely to be willing to have a discussion about the Snowden-NSA issues at a physical public meeting as a non-Facebook user.Similarly, the typical Twitter user – someone who uses the site a few times per day – is 0.24 times less likely to be willing to share their opinions in the workplace as an internet user who does not use Twitter.”The report also notes that of the 14% of Americans who were unwilling to discuss the Snowden revelations offline, just 0.3% said they would be willing to join conversations on the topic on social networks instead.“It has been well documented since before the internet that a “spiral of silence” descends when people think their opinions are in the minority when compared to those around them – they don’t want to speak out if they think they hold unpopular views,” said Prof Keith Hampton, one of the report’s co-authors.“This kind of self-censoring can mean that important information is never shared. Some had hoped that social media might provide new outlets that encourage more discussion and the exchange of a wider range of opinions. But we see the opposite – a spiral of silence exists online, too.”The Pew Research Center’s survey of Americans on the Snowden revelations.It is no surprise that both online and offline, Americans were more willing to share their views on Snowden and online surveillance if they thought that their audience agreed with them.However, the report suggests that Facebook and Twitter users were less likely to join offline conversations if they felt that their views were out of step with their online friends and followers.“This suggests a spiral of silence might spill over from online contexts to in-person contexts, though our data cannot definitively demonstrate this causation,” warns the report.Pew’s survey did not ask people why they did not feel comfortable discussing Snowden, so getting to the bottom of the spiral of silence in this particular case is difficult. Its report does offer some suggestions:“The traditional view of the spiral of silence is that people choose not to speak out for fear of isolation. Other Pew Internet research has found that it is common for social media users to be mistaken about their friends’ beliefs and to be surprised once they discover their friends’ actual views via social media.Thus, it might be the case that people do not want to disclose their minority views for fear of disappointing their friends, getting into fruitless arguments, or losing them entirely. Some people may prefer not to share their views on social media because their posts persist and can be found later—perhaps by prospective employers or others with high status.”Reports that numerous large internet companies’ security had been compromised by the NSA might seem to be the obvious explanation for Facebook and Twitter users’ reluctance to discuss the leaks on those social networks.Pew’s report warns that at the time its survey was conducted – between 7 August and 16 September 2013 – the Snowden revelations had focused on the NSA’s collection of metadata relating to people’s phone and internet usage, but had not yet extended to subsequent details of surveillance of online discussions.“In reaction to these additional revelations, people may have adjusted their use of social media and their willingness to discuss a range of topics, including public issues such as government surveillance,” suggests the report.“However, given the limited extent of the information leaked by Snowden at the time the survey was fielded, it seems unlikely that the average American had extensively altered their willingness to discuss political issues.”The Guardian first reported the existence of the NSA’s Prism programon 6 June 2013, including internal documents claiming that the agency had “direct access” to data held by Facebook, Google and Apple, although Twitter was not mentioned.Pew’s report also provides an insight into how Americans got their information on the Snowden story, with 58% saying they got at least some details from TV and radio programmes.Pew found that 34% cited online sources other than social media; 31% said friends and family; 19% said print newspaper; 15% cited Facebook and just 3% said Twitter.Meanwhile, 26% of people surveyed were very interested in the NSA surveillance story at the time of the survey, while 34% were somewhat interested, 19% “not too interested” and 20% not interested at all.When asked whether they favoured or opposed “a government program to collect nearly all communications in the US as part of anti-terrorism efforts”, 13% said they were strongly in favour, 24% somewhat in favour, 22% somewhat opposed and 30% strongly opposed.•NSA Files Decoded: what the revelations mean for you
Reactions to Amazon’spurchase of live gaming site Twitchhave been more positive - certainly more positive than when Google was rumoured to be buying the site. But with the mainstream moving in on live-streamed games, is it time to look for alternatives ?Twitch has built a solid community around free and easy game streaming, but it’s not perfect. The site rolled out some unpopular changes in recent months, including the removal of archive broadcast recordings after 14 days and the muting of sections of videos that contain copyrighted music.But Twitch isn’t the only streaming video service targeted at gamers, meaning there are other options for the Amazon averse:YouTubeIt seems fairly obvious, but YouTube has its own live streaming platform integrated directly into the main site. Google has failed to fully capitalise on live streaming gaming crowd, but Let’s Play videos on YouTube have been a big success.Google was reportedly negotiating a deal with Twitch before Amazon entered the fray, but backed off because of anti-competitive concerns. Yet there’s no reason Google couldn’t bolster its live streaming capabilities on its own. YouTube upload support is due to be built into Sony’s PlayStation 4 in an upcoming update, while Microsoft’s Xbox One has had the ability since April.Hitbox.tvThe most direct challenger to Twitch is Hitbox.tv, which claims to better the service on several pain-points for Twitch users - including the fact that it won’t delete archived videos.Hitbox.tv boasts a delay of only two seconds on the streaming video between the person playing the game and their audience compared to a typical lag of 20 to 30 seconds for Twitch users - which means comments reacting to the video are actually talking about things that happened at least half a minute ago.Hitbox.tv offers revenue sharing from adverts, like YouTube, and is open to all streaming using common PC tools like Open Broadcasting Software or XSplit.UstreamUstream allows anyone with a smartphone to livestream video direct from an app. Though not solely dedicated to game streaming, Ustream will also support live streaming directly from the PS4, like Twitch, and has a revenue share model for publishers, although it is an invite-only affair which likely means it will only be viable for streamers with large audiences.For casual free streaming it should work just fine, as long as the occasional advert thrown into the stream isn’t an issue.GamingLive.tvA new streaming service dedicated to gaming, GamingLive.tv is still in development. But it allows streaming from PC tools like Twitch and Hitbox without breaking the mould. A partner program for big audience broadcasters is in the works, although the site is not as developed as its competitors.PivotshareGamers looking to make money from their streams and videos might like Pivotshare’s revenue model. Placing videos behind a pay wall, viewers pay a fee for access. Publishers fully control how much the fee is and aren’t relient on adverts to make money.The problem with paywalls is that it’s difficult to get people to pay to watch video and getting exposure from behind a closed-off area to entice people to pay and watch is also hard.Will users ditch Twitch?User reaction to Amazon’s purchase of Twitch has been much more favourable than those around the rumoured Google acquisition of the streaming site back in May.Most Twitch users on Twitter reacted to the news by expressing relief that Amazon bought it, not Google, giving YouTube some competition.I can sleep better knowing Amazon bought Twitch. This will open doors to a worthy YouTube alternative.&mdash; Emu (@HouseAlligator)August 26, 2014Amazon owning Twitch is not nearly as bad as the other alternative - in fact I&#39;d say it&#39;s good news&mdash; Petey (@thatPetey)August 25, 2014If twitch was going to be bought, I&#39;m pretty happy that it&#39;s Amazon. Far and away a better alternative to Google&mdash; Gamerob (@Gamerob57)August 25, 2014Although others aren’t nearly as convinced.okay i think for google buying twitch instead of Amazon would have been much better alternative.&mdash; As-i-Sed (@S3Dub)August 25, 2014Whether Twitch will see a mass exodus of users will depend on what Amazon decides to do with the service, whether it integrates it into its existing video on-demand services and what it does with its revenue share model for top publishers.Emmet Shear, Twitch’s CEO said that the company would be staying largely the same, with Amazon’s added support in resources and presumably massive server farm.“We’re keeping most everything the same: our office, our employees, our brand, and most importantly our independence,” Shear stated in a blog post.Twitch: Why Amazon’s $1bn purchase is all about the adsAmazon acquires comic service Comixology and calms nerves over comic collection loss
Amazon is to purchase video-game streaming site Twitch for almost $1bn, the firms announced on Monday.The acquisition sees Amazon gazumping Google, which had previously all-but-confirmed its own acquisition of the company before balking at the last minute, reportedly due to antitrust concerns.Twitch allows gamers worldwide to film themselves playing video games and stream the resulting shows live to the site’s total user base of 50 million people monthly.It has become a key part of the competitive gaming circuit, letting audiences of up to 30 million people watch professional gamers go head-to-head in massively popular video games such as League of Legends and Dota 2. The purchase will see Amazon acquiring all outstanding shares in Twitch for $970m in cash.“Broadcasting and watching gameplay is a global phenomenon and Twitch has built a platform that brings together tens of millions of people who watch billions of minutes of games each month – from The International, to breaking the world record for Mario, to gaming conferences like E3. And, amazingly, Twitch is only three years old,”said Amazon’s founder and CEO Jeff Bezos.Twitch ‘chose’ AmazonTwitch’s CEO, Emmett Shear,saidthat the company “chose” Amazon “because they believe in our community, they share our values and long-term vision, and they want to help us get there faster.“We’re keeping most everything the same: our office, our employees, our brand, and most importantly our independence. But with Amazon’s support we’ll have the resources to bring you an even better Twitch.”Amazon’s acquisition of Twitch was confirmed on the same day that details leaked about a new product, Amazon Sponsored Links, designed to hit Google where it hurts: advertising. The firm could eventually compete head-on with Google over keyword advertising, currently dominated by the search provider’s AdWords service, but for now the plans only extend as far as replacing Google’s ads on Amazon with its own in-house creation,reports the Wall Street Journal.Amazon Sponsored Links combined with Twitch would offer Amazon an easy way to begin raising serious amounts of revenue from its live-streaming business. But the company has other investments that Twitch could pair well with. Amazon Game Studios was founded in 2012 to make video games for the company’s Fire line of tablets and set-top boxes.For the first few years, it ran fairly quietly, but since the beginning of 2014, the company has ramped up investment in the division, going on a hiring spree to bulk out the office – including hiring former Bioshock designer Ian Vogel to head the studio.Google already owns gamer networks on YouTubeAlthough Amazon has now sealed the deal, as early as May this year there were rumours that Twitch was for sale, to a different suitor. Google was rumoured to be interested in the firm, with a $1bn offer said to be on the table, beating Amazon by $30m. But then the firm backed off, and the reason seems to be anti-trust fears.Google’s ownership of video site YouTube already gives it control of the only other major destination for gamers wanting to watch their favourite hobby, andForbes’ Ryan Macsays that the company was concerned that could lead to it being accused of monopolistic actions.Although some users are inevitably announcing their intent to abandon Twitch for independent alternative Hitbox, many are expressing their happiness at the news – and particularly at the fact that Google lost out. “This will open the doors to a worthy YouTube alternative,”says one, whileanotherconcedes that “this seems like the better alternative. No Google fucking up everything.”What is Twitch - and why does Google want it?Can Twitch really survive inside Google?Life beyond Amazon: live-streaming Twitch alternatives
The microphone manufacturer Blue has made its first foray into the headphone market, revealing a powerful, premium set of headphones that aim to compete with Beats and Bose.Blue’s Mo-Fi includes a built-in “audiophile” amplifier, which boosts the power of the often weak audio from mobile devices. That allows Blue to pack larger, more power hungry speakers with better sound into the earcups. The power and quality of a hi-fi system in a headphone; at least that’s the premise.Blue said it went back to the drawing board on the design of the Mo-Fi headphones. They certainly don’t look like other headphones, with a main rectangular block that sits on the head supporting two articulating arms that hold the ear cups in place.The ear cups are held completely parallel on the side of the head, with even pressure around the whole ear no matter what size the head. Most headphone bands either pinch at the top or bottom of the ear.The tension adjuster personalises the fit to just right and avoids head squashing, which some users suffer badly from with other headphones. Photograph: Alex Hern/The GuardianThe pressure on the ear and the angle of the ear cup can be adjusted, which makes for a comfortable fit, but the whole headphone is quite heavy. Out and about you really feel the weight no matter how comfortable they are, and the ostentatious design won’t be to everyone’s taste. Either way you look at it, they’re definitely a statement.Analogue styleA switch on the side rotates around the removable headphone cable, switching the amplifier off, on – or on with an analogue-style bass boost, which makes the music sound authentically warmer in the low end.Blue Photograph: BlueCharging via microUSB gives approximately 15 hours of play time, helped by a feature that automatically switches off the headphones when they’re taken off the head. They will also play music without the amp on, so if they run out of juice the music doesn’t have to stop.Super loudBlue claims its amplifier-powered setup means the headphones can handle greater ranges and maintain punch in both the high and low end.The first thing you notice is just how loud they are. Do not plug in your headphones while powered on or the loud electrical pop will give you quick a shock. Likewise some mobile devices, particularly smartphones, power on and off their audio circuits between tracks and sounds, which produces an annoying electrical click. Some smartphones are worse than others at this.Blue Mo-Fi review Photograph: BlueOverall they’re a very good-sounding pair of headphones, though, with plenty of bass that isn’t overwhelming, and decent accuracy in the highs. Calling them “audiophile” grade might be a bit of a stretch; they’re definitely loaded towards the lower end, but still sound great when lots of treble is pushed through them.Something like Led Zeppelin’s Whole Lotta Love sounds particularly good, with a real intensity in the riff (which was just voted thebest guitar riffof all time). But the headphones sound equally good blasting out Blue Sky Black Death or Pavarotti, making them decent all-rounders.PriceBlue intendeds to take on Apple’s Beats and the Mo-Fi headphones are priced accordingly. They cost £275, but come with two cables – one with a remote for controlling playback on a smartphone and another longer one for connecting to a hi-fi.VerdictBlue Mo-Fi review Photograph: BlueBlue should be commended for trying something a bit different. If you can get used to the weight, the Mo-Fi headphones are ideal for listening to music privately at home or at a desk.They insulate listeners from the outside well and don’t leak sound to the outside too much, considering how loud they can go on the inside.Their large size and weight means there are better options while on the commute. But they certainly add punch to mobile listening that’s lacking from most other headphones, especially if you like driving music.One of people who like their music loud, and with lots of range.Other reviews•Beats Studio Wireless review: expensive headphones with lacklustre sound•Philips Fidelio M1BT review: great-sounding Bluetooth headphones
Amazon’s Fire Phone was launched in July, after many teaser videos and an expansive unveiling by chief executive Jeff Bezos, who showed off features like its 3D-effect maps and multiple front-facing cameras.But since then, how many Amazon Fire Phones have actually been sold? How many are in use?There were many interesting anomalies in the launch of the Fire Phone. The$200 price tag for a 32GB versionon an AT&amp;T contract – the same price range as the iPhone 5S or Samsung GS5 – was a surprise to those who thought that the Kindle and Kindle Fire tablets showed Amazon as a low-end disruptor, selling hardware at cost and profiting on the content.Amazon gave the Fire Phone pride of place on its US web site, and also had a deal to sell through AT&amp;T, the biggest US carrier - though reviews werelukewarm.Amazon famously never gives sales figures for any of the devices it sells, preferring to let its financial results do the talking. Analysts can make estimates of how many devices have been sold, based on their information from sales channels and any guidance the company might give. But it’s not as definitive as, say, the smartphone sales that Apple or BlackBerry include in their financial figures. (They are now the only two companies which give specific values for device sales in their financial results; Apple goes farther by giving the revenue from those sales too.)But we can have a stab at estimating how many Fire Phones are in use, based on data from Chitika, which runs an ad network.According to a release from Chitika, looking at activity on its ad network in the 20 days after the Fire Phone’s release,the Fire Phone accounted for 0.02% of activity- although amore precise figure, in another graph, shows it as around 0.015%.Chitika’s graph showing ad impressions in North America for the Amazon Fire Phone (compared with the Motorola Droid Ultra) in the days following its release. The Fire Phone has about 0.015% of impressions. Photograph: ChitikaOK - but how many phones might that be?Using data from ComScore, which provides monthly data on US smartphone users, we can get close to a figure.Themost recent data from ComScorecovers the three months to the end of June 2014: at that time, there were 173m smartphones in use in the US, it said.That figure is rising by between 1m and 2m a month - so two months later, by mid-August, when the Chitika data was collected, we could estimate that there are between 175m and 177m smartphones in use in the US.We also have to assume that Amazon’s Fire Phone will show up on Chitika’s network as often as any other phone - so that their web use is comparable (ie one iPhone in use will show up on Chitika’s network as much as one Samsung or LG or HTC or Amazon Fire phone). We’ll look harder at that later.Based on the ComScore data:• 0.015% of 175m = 26,250 Fire phones in use• 0.015% of 177m = 26,550 Fire phones in useSplit the difference, and it’s reasonable take 26,400 as a median value.Indexing: the over and the underBut what if Fire Phones “under-index” on Chitika’s system - that is, they don’t show up on its ad networks as much as other devices, because their users are (for example) all spending time on Amazon buying things, rather than browsing the parts of the web that Chitika supplies ads for?To explain “under-indexing”, imagine there are 100 owners of device A, and 100 owners of device B, and 100 of device C. If owners of A and C use their devices online an equal amount of time, but device B owners spend only half their time online, a system that measures web impressions will report that there are half as many owners of device B. One would say that device B “under-indexes”. Alternatively, if you have equal numbers of A, B and C, but device A owners spend twice as much time online as B or C, then device A “over-indexes”.A Chitika release in August seems to suggest, for example, that theiPhone over-indexes: it had 52.3% of Chitika web traffic, though iPhones are about 40% of smartphones in use in the US.Android devices (including Fire Phone, which uses a forked version of Android) do under-index - though not much.The same Chitika survey that shows the iPhone over-indexing gives Samsung a 22.8% web use share, and HTC a 3.1% share.Correction:Chitika’s US datain August shows Samsung with 26.4% of web usage, and HTC with 3.0% of web usage.That compares to ComScore’s data, which shows that Samsung smartphones are 28.6% of the installed base, and HTC are 4.8%. (BlackBerry devicesunder-index on Chitika, making up 0.5% of browsing, but having 2.4% of the installed base.)On that basis, you could argue that if the Amazon Fire Phone under-indexes, it probably isn’t by much; you could multiply the number by 25%, based on the average of the Samsung and HTC figures. That takes you up to about 33,000 devices.Therefore even allowing for margins of error, it seems unlikely - based on Chitika’s data and the ComScore data - that there were more than about 35,000 Fire Phones in use after those 20 days.Amazon had not responded to a request for comment on the calculation by the time of publication.Lots of caveats apply: this is a calculation based on two non-congruent sets of samples, though both are large enough to be robust.So is 35,000 phones good or bad? Bezossaidthat Amazon was in it for the long run and that it intends to be patient. Chitika comments that “While Amazon certainly is looking to make the Fire Phone a hit, current conditions show this being more realistic as a long-term goal rather than a short term one.”Observers felt that Amazon had to get into e-commerce through phones because it risked being disrupted itself as more shopping - even the physical sort - moved to apps.So far, though, the Fire Phone looks more like a curiosity than a barnstormer.Correction: the calculation for under/over-indexing originally used the UK dataset from Chitika but compared it with the US installed base.Jeff Bezos: the man who wants you to buy everything from his company
“Share with friends, anonymously,” runs the tagline for smartphone app Secret. But what to do if that anonymity starts to break down, or if the secrets being shared are distinctly unfriendly?The popular but controversial social Android and iOS app is facing new scrutiny of its security and ethics policies this week, with its crackdown on cyberbullying undermined by claims that hackers can uncover people’s posts in the app using nothing more than their email addresses.The latter claims come from “white-hat” hacking company Rhino Security Labs, which searches for loopholes in companies’ online security, but then alert them to the risks rather than taking advantage.The company discovered that it was possible to uncover a specific friend’s Secret posts by creating at least seven fake accounts on the app, and knowing the email address of the friend.Wired journalist Kevin Poulsenexplained how Rhino Security Labs’ Ben Caudill exploited the loophole:“Next, he deleted everything from his iPhone’s contact list, and added the seven fake e-mail addresses as contacts. When he was done, he added one more contact: the e-mail address of the person whose secrets he wanted to unmask—me.Then he signed up for another new Secret account and synced his contacts. He now had a new, blank Secret feed that followed eight accounts: seven bot accounts created and controlled by him, and mine. Anything that appeared as posted by a ‘friend’ logically belonged to me.”Caudill’s company submitted its findings to Secret as part of the company’s “bug bounty” program, which encourages hackers to attempt to crack its security. Wired claims that 42 such loopholes have been fixed since February.“As near as we can tell this hasn’t been exploited in any meaningful way,” the company’s chief executive David Byttow said about the latest bug. “But we have to take action to determine that.”The thought of an anonymous sharing app being not so anonymous after all should bring a shiver to the spine of users who’ve been using Secret to blast employers and colleagues, or share sensitive information about their own personal lives.They might also ask themselves why they were so confident in the security of a brand new app from a new startup in the first place, though.Secret’s attempts to show it is taking a responsible approach by rewarding white-hat hackers for helping it improve its security sits alongside its new stance on cyberbullying – albeit a stance taken after criticism of the company’s policy.Technology industry site PandoDaily reported that a campaigner for awareness of teenage suicide hadfailed to engage Secret in discussions with mental health groupsabout its app – complete with the accusation that the company was “too busy raising money to care”.Secret has sincepublished details about an update to its appdesigned to make cyberbullying more difficult:“We’ve always analysed posts up-front to detect names. Now, our system is more sophisticated and also detects keywords, sentiment, and photos of people. If we detect a potential violation of guidelines, we offer the author an opportunity to ‘re-think’ their decision before they post. If the author proceeds with posting, our systems and teams will review it against our guidelines.We’ve learned that the vast majority of great secrets don’t have names in them, and the few that do usually aren’t productive and can even be harmful. We’ve changed our position on the use of real names and, in addition to discouraging their use, we’re actively blocking posts containing names of private individuals whenever possible. We will invest heavily here to make sure the system improves over time.”Secret is far from the first app to be scrutinised over cyberbullying – Q&amp;A app Ask.fm has been linked with several teenagers’ suicides in recent years, with its new owner Ask.compromising this month that the app will be “shut down”if its cyberbullying problems cannot be fixed.In January, child-protection charity Childline reported that its counselling for online bullying – including through mobile apps –rose by 87% in 2013, with 84% of all its contacts in this category from 12-18 year-olds.Secret is currently the subject of apreliminary injunction in Brazilcalling for Apple and Google to remove it from their app stores and from the smartphones of people that have installed it. However, this is about Brazilian legislation around anonymous freedom of expression, rather than specific cyberbullying fears.•Would you really trust a ‘secret’ app to protect your secrecy?
A British games developer’s letting agency called the police after mistaking diagrams of his new game for a planned thermonuclear attack on Washington.Henry Smith is a software engineer from Bristol working on a game called “Global Thermonuclear War”, which uses Google Maps to simulate an atomic conflict between nations. Smith was planning out the game using whiteboards in his home when his letting agent made a pre-arranged visit.A few days later, the agent rang, Smith says, and told him that “the person who did the inspection did have some concerns about one thing. There were some … whiteboards? And some … drawings on them?”Although Smith believed he assuaged the agents’ fears by explaining that the sketches were plans for a game, he received a follow-up email the next week informing him that the matter had been referred to the local police.“At first I was ridiculously frightened by the whole thing,” he told the Guardian. “When they said they’d told the police I absolutely bricked it. I ran home to check if the police had raided the house or something. It was definitely very frightening to think that the police had a report in their system alleging that I was up to something suspicious involving nuclear warheads. Knowing how the police here deal with suspected terrorists, I was worried they’d do a dawn raid or worse. It was genuinely scary for a while.”The whiteboards in question show a grand circle trajectory between a “launch site” somewhere in the former USSR and a “target” on the US east coast. The “explosion” and “blast radius” are also marked on to the map, which was accompanied by two further whiteboards diagramming how various aspects of the game would work.The police have not yet followed up the letting agent’s tip-off, and Smith now thinks they’re unlikely to, especially if they have seen photos of the diagrams. He says he doesn’t hold a grudge against the letting agency, who “just wanted to act responsibly”.That is understandable, he says, “but their judgment has let them down for sure. Nobody is planning an intercontinental ballistic missile attack by Russia on Washington from a rented house in a Bristol suburb. And definitely not by drawing their missile trajectory freehand on a whiteboard.“And even if they were, they wouldn’t have left those whiteboards out on the pre-agreed day of a visual inspection.”A very early prototype of Smith’s game, which is little more than an animation of an ICBM trajectory, is now online atglobal.thermonuclearwar.org, but he confesses he’s not sure how the game progresses from here.“The diagrams that got me in ‘trouble’ were an initial design for a sort of massively multiplayer ‘everybody just nuke each other’ sort of game. I thought it’d be pretty cool if there were a lot of people logged in and you could see which countries each player chose to nuke and how that changed with the ebb and flow of world news and international relations.”Should gamers be accountable for in-game war crimes?
China is planning its own desktop and mobile software to oust imported rivals from Microsoft, Apple and Google.The unnamed desktop version is due for release in October with its own app store, independent of western companies, with a version for smartphones and tablets due in three to five years.Chinese authorities hope to displace Google’s Android software, and the many modified open-source versions of Android, China’s Ministry of Industry and Information Technology reported via thestate-run People’s Post.Computer technology became an area of mutual suspicion between China and the US after the NSA revelations and a number of cyber security rows, including allegations of state-sponsored hacking and the creation of espionage backdoors in both hardware and software.Chinabanned Microsoft’s Windows 8 from government computersin May with the majority of computers still running Windows XP, according to the Chinese newspaper, which is no longer supported by Microsoft.Microsoft also faces a monopoly investigation in China related to Windows and Office.Levelling upNi Guangnan from the Chinese Academy of Engineering, who has been developing the software since March, said that effort was designed to bring China’s software up to par with the country’s technology hardware from companies like Huawei, which powers a significant number of mobile networks through its infrastructure business.“Creating an environment that allows us to contend with Google, Apple and Microsoft – that is the key to success,” Guangnan said.The new Chinese software will see an alliance of over 13 software companies with 80 research units bound together through standardisation to create the new desktop and mobile ecosystem complete with local app stores.Guangnan aims to displace Windows XP in one to two years from China’s desktop computers and Android from mobile devices in three to five years.“At present, China’s mobile operating system developers include more than a dozen companies, but they can not be said to be based on independent intellectual property rights, using Android customisation,” Ni Guangnan said. “You must change the past approach, instead of copying the previous model integrate the resources accumulated in the past with a state-run unified operating system.”Previous effortsThis is not the first time China has tried to create its own operating system (OS) software. The Chinese Academy of Sciences released a Linux-based OS in 2000 called Red Flag, with desktop, server and productivity software in use in schools and government.The Linux-based China Operating System was later released in January by the Academy targeting mobile devices.The National University of Defense Technology also developed “Kylin OS”, which was designed as high-security software for government. A consumer version based on Canonical’s Ubuntu Linux was released in April 2013.It is unclear whether the new software from Chinese Academy of Engineering will be based on previous efforts, but will likely involve Linux.•PlayStation Network attacked by hacker group•Hackers exploiting Internet Explorer to expose security flaws on a huge scale
The Yogscast has become the latest popular YouTube channel to launch an official mobile app, as an alternative way for fans to watch its videos.The app wasreleased for iPhoneover the weekend by Maker Studios, the multi-channel network (MCN) to which the Yogscast team is signed.It follows the same company’s launch earlier in August ofan official app for PewDiePie, its biggest star, as it aims to capitalise on the young, mobile-savvy audience watching its gaming channels.Themain Yogscast channel, promising “Minecraft and multiplayer comedy gaming with a drunken dwarf and a handsome spaceman”, has 7.1m subscribers on YouTube, and 2.7bn lifetime video views. It was the84th most popular channelon Google’s online video service in June.Yogscast has also spawned its own mini-network of Yogscast-branded channels –Sjin,Duncan,Hannah,Martyn,Rythian,Nilesy,KimandStrippin– accumulating more than 20m collective subscribers.The channel was launched in 2008 by British gamers Simon Lane and Lewis Brindley, initially focusing on World of Warcraft, before diversifying into Minecraft, then other games and entertainment.The Yogscast app.Yogscast, PewDiePie and Maker Studios stablemateStampyare part of a wider trend that has seen games become one of the most popular video categories on YouTube – with British channels leading the charge.PewDiePie – aka Felix Kjellberg – hails from Sweden, but is now based in Brighton. Stampy creator Joseph Garrett is British, while gaming channels The Diamond Minecart, iBallisticSquid and Wroetoshaw are also UK-based.Globally, the 100 most popular YouTube gaming channelsgenerated nearly 3.5bn collective video views in May 2014, according to research by industry site Tubefilter and analytics firm OpenSlate.The Yogscast app, like that of PewDiePie, streams videos from the Yogscast team, with fans able to personalise their feed and share videos on Facebook and Twitter.For now, it is iPhone-only, leaving Android-owning Yogscast fans to use YouTube’s own app, or one of a number of unofficial apps available on the Google Play store.•The secret to a successful YouTube video - by YouTube stars
Frustrated with a Facebook feed full of links to news stories that don’t live up to their headlines? Believe it or not, so is Facebook.The social network may be the main funnel of traffic towards sites that overuse “You’ll NEVER believe...” and similar headline formats to elicit clicks, but now the company says it is cracking down on “click-baiting”.Facebook announced the latest change to its news feed algorithmin a blog post, suggesting that a survey of its users found 80% saying they prefer headlines that help them decide whether an article is worth reading.“Over time, stories with ‘click-bait’ headlines can drown out content from friends and Pages that people really care about,” wrote research scientist Khalid El-Arini and product specialist Joyce Tang.Facebook’s crackdown will involve lowering the ranking of click-bait links in the algorithm that decides what to show in users’ news feeds, with the company already having revealed thatit prioritises 300 out of 1,500 possible stories a dayfor the average user.El-Arini and Tang explained that Facebook is measuring how long people spend reading stories after clicking through to them from the news feed, as well as whether they post comments and share the links with friends.“If they click through to a link and then come straight back to Facebook, it suggests that they didn’t find something that they wanted,” they wrote.“If a lot of people click on the link, but relatively few people click Like, or comment on the story when they return to Facebook, this also suggests that people didn’t click through to something that was valuable to them.”Facebook has warned sites using click-bait headlines that they can expect to see traffic from the social network fall over the coming months.This is not about websites like BuzzFeed and Upworthy, even though they are often accused of being click-bait by their critics. Neither is likely to fall foul of the latest algorithm change, because many people a.) spend time on their stories and b.) go on to comment and share them.It’s more about the rapidly-proliferating morass of sites below them, trying to game as much traffic from Facebook as possible with tempting-sounding headlines and little more.Less click-bait in the news feed is a positive development, although Facebook is playing a game of whack-a-mole with some of these publishers: as it closes one loophole in its algorithm, they look for another to game.Facebook’s news feed curation remains a sensitive topic for the social network, though: most recently when it emerged thatthe company had conducted a study involving 689,000 users, in which friends’ posts were shown or hidden in an effort to prove whether this could affect their mood.A number of companies running Facebook pages have also complained that their posts only reach a fraction of the people that have Liked them, suggesting that Facebook’s commercial motivations – wanting them to pay to advertise on the social network – overly influence its news feed algorithm.That raises an intriguing question given Facebook’s latest announcement: will websites with click-bait headlines be able to continue drowning out stories that people really care about by paying for distribution?The answer will be in your feed soon. Well, at least it will, once it’s not full of videos of friends and family members pouring ice buckets over their heads...•How does Facebook decide what to show in my news feed?
