If you've never touched a video game controller in your life, but do have avid players in your household, you may be in for a bewildering month. That's because we're on the verge of what the gaming industry excitedly calls 'a new console generation'. In short, the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3, once the most powerful games machines on the planet are being replaced – the former by the Xbox One, the latter by the PlayStation 4. No, I don't know why they called it the Xbox One either, but as a lot of people still refer to the original Xbox (launched waaaay back in 2001) as Xbox one, it's going to lead to some hilarious Christmas list misunderstandings.Anyway, both of the new consoles are arriving in November, and members of your family may already be nagging you for one. So what are these things and what makes them different from each other, and from the consoles that you can still buy in the shops for a third of the price?Here's a quick guide designed especially for uninterested parents and partners, hopefully avoiding all the usual jargon and assumed knowledge. Good luck out there …The technologyOkay, all you really need to know here is that both the PS4 and the Xbox One represent a significant leap over their predecessors. Some people in the industry are suggesting that the Xbox One and PlayStation 4 are around eight times more powerful than the current Xbox 360 and PS3 machines. Does this mean that games will look eight times better? Probably not – tech specs don't work like that. But game visuals will look noticeably more detailed, and you'll see lots of lovely lighting effects and intricate character animations, which add to the "realism" of game worlds. I've put realism in quote marks there because we're still a long way from "photo-realism". However, I think the big blockbuster Xbox One and PS4 games will havemomentswhere you'll think you're watching TV, or at least a pretty good animated movie.What about the technical differences between the consoles? Well, they're pretty negligible to the naked eye. Both are using very similar multi-core central processors and high-end graphics technologies, both have Blu-ray players and 500GB hard drives, and both have 8GB of system memory.There are small differences in the way memory works and how graphics are handled which,on paper, suggest the PS4 is more powerful and will be capable of better visuals. However, developers are very clever and usually work out how to get comparable results from all the available hardware. Even if right now PS4 games look better, that might not be the case a few months down the line when game studios work out how to squeeze extra performance from the Xbox One.Finally, both offer advanced online functionality. The use of cloud computing, which connects your console to remote servers on the internet, may mean we see a new era of games which have huge online worlds that players can explore together, and that seamlessly grow and evolve over time. We may see game processing tasks like physics and artificial intelligence being 'outsourced' to the cloud, meaning we see much more advanced simulations and life-like computer-controlled enemies. It's a truly exciting time.In a nutshell:Right now, it looks like PS4 is the most powerful console, but developers may well learn to exploit the Xbox One in new ways. It's unlikely you'll be making your buying decision on hardware specifications alone.The PlayStation 4 controllerMotion controlsMicrosoft is making a big deal about its updated Kinect motion controller, which uses a camera to watch player movements allowing you to control the onscreen action with arm waves, head nods and other gestures. Kinect was available for the Xbox 360, but it wasn't very accurate and required a lot of light and space to work. The new Kinect is more sensitive and more powerful – it'll be able to watch several players at once in quite a small room, it can recognise individual players, and it can even monitor your heart rate. Which isn't at all creepy. It also has a microphone, so you can actually shout instructions at your console and it'll obey. Again, Xbox 360 did this, but not very well. Oh, and Microsoft has assured everyone that the Kinect won't be watching you 24 hours a day and then beaming live footage to the NSA. Itsprivacy statementassures users that all footage is kept locally on the machine.So this is all very exciting, but then, the PS4 also has a new version of its own PlayStation Eye peripheral which does a lot of the same stuff. According to Sony, it can recognise your face and voice, and it can track body movements, although it uses a different technology andthere are doubtsthat it'll do this as accurately as Kinect.Perhaps the key difference, however, is that while the Xbox One ships with Kinect, PS4 owners will have to buy a PlayStation Eye camera separately. This will probably mean that developers are more likely to support the Kinect as they know everyone will have one. So if controlling games by wafting your arms around and/or talking is attractive, that's a tick in the Xbox One column.In a nutshell:both machines have interesting motion controllers that can reportedly recognise your face, your voice and your friends, though Microsoft seems to be taking Kinect more seriously than Sony is taking PlayStation Eye, and its motion technology is more advanced.Entertainment beyond gamesXbox One and PS4 are promising lots of entertainment options that will let you watch movies and listen to music on your console, as well as playing games. We'll see deals with video-on-demand providers like LoveFilm and Netflix, and there will be "free" TV services like YouTube, iPlayer and 4oD.Right now, Microsoft seems more ambitious in this area. It has been showing off how you'll be able to connect your cable or satellite set-top box to Xbox One, letting you control your live TV viewing pleasure through your console and also adding new social and interactive features to the experience. However, right now, a lot of those options are only available in the US – and if you don't really fancy, say, playing fantasy football while watching a real football match, it won't excite you that much anyway.Other than that, Microsoft is also making a big deal about how Xbox One can instantaneously switch between TV, movies and gaming without a lot of fiddling about. It can also play your CDs and MP3 files and will soon be able to stream media content from your PC – PS4 can't do any of those (although a later firmware update could well add MP3 playback and streaming capabilities).In a nutshell:both consoles will offer tons of on-demand movie and TV options, but Xbox One seems to have a wider array of options, including the potential compatibility with your Sky or Virgin Media box. You need to think of these machines, not just as games consoles, but as all-round entertainment devices. You need to especially remember that when you're handing over your £400.Second screensThere's a theory that the future of interactive entertainment is going to be about playing things on the your big living-room TV, while simultaneously interacting with a smaller screen on your lap. Basically, the games industry has been studying how everyone watches television these days, and, apparently, that involves sort of semi-viewing stuff like X Factor and Made in Chelsea while tweeting friends or, I don't know, looking up Phoebe-Lettice Thompson on the web. This is the second-screen theory.The PS4 and the Xbox One are going to support this to some degree. If you buy an Xbox One, for example, you'll be able to download a new version of theSmartGlass appto your phone or tablet and then use your portable device to control certain elements of the console game.For example, in the zombie adventure Dead Rising 3, if you have SmartGlass on your phone, you can actually use it to receive in-game mission objectives. Yes, the game will "ring you up" and a character will tell you what to do. It's also likely a lot of games will support a second screen to show players personal stuff, like what items their character is carrying or where they are in the game world. All very useful.Microsoft has also shown how you'll be able to use your tablet or smartphone as a remote control and programme guide, as well as comparing your gaming stats with friends, and organising multiplayer sessions.PS4 has a smartphone app that does similar things to SmartGlass, such as acting as a limited remote control and showing game information. But Sony's console also offers extra compatibility with the lovely PlayStation Vita handheld console. For example, you'll be able to remote play PS4 games on your Vita, as long as both are wirelessly connected to your home network.Why would you want to do that? Well, say you're having a lovely time playing a PS4 game on the big TV in your living room, but then someone else wants to watch Downton Abbey – well, now you can pick up your Vita, select Remote Play and the PS4 game will appear on its little screen. You can now continue playing, while your housemate revels in a sedentary and unconvincing portrait of early 20th-century aristocratic life. Not all games will be compatible with Remote Play, but it's still pretty neat. Oh, and Vita will also be used as a second screen for lots of new titles.In a nutshell:Xbox One has a more powerful smartphone and tablet application in the form of SmartGlass and developers are already using it in very interesting ways. But PS4 has strong connectivity potential with the PlayStation Vita console.Backwards compatibilityIn the past, new games consoles would often let you play the old games released for proceeding machines. That's not the case with the PS4 or Xbox One – you'll have to keep hold of your rickety old PS3s and Xbox 360s to play those classic titles. However, from next year, the PS4 will be able stream a limited selection of PS3 games from "the cloud" (i.e. a remote server network) to your PS4, so you'll have access to "retro" titles. It's likely Xbox One will eventually offer this sort of thing as well.As for peripherals, you won't be able to use your old Xbox 360 or PS3 controllers with your new machines – both consoles have shiny new joypads with lots of new features. For example, the PS4's Dualshock 4 controller has a touchpad, which provides a new form of tactile input, while the Xbox One controller has cool rumble packs in the triggers to … well … make the triggers vibrate. Don't ask.In a nutshell:Neither PS4 nor Xbox One are compatible with old games or controllers.The gamesAt last, the real meat of the debate. Well, both machines will have extensive lineups from launch, so a lot of it's going to be down to personal choice – what do you, your kids or your partner want to play? What do they like? You can find complete lists of the launch lists (as they stand right now)hereandhere. Have a quick look.Both consoles boast a selection of exclusive titles and these are the key bargaining chips at this stage. Xbox One has super sexy driving simulator Forza Motorsport 5, gruesome zombie game Dead Rising 3 and historical hack-and-slash romp Ryse: Son of Rome.PS4, meanwhile, is the only place you'll be able to play family-friendly adventure Knack, sci-fi blaster Killzone: Shadow Fall and hectic shoot-em-up, Resogun. PS4's ambitious open-world racing game, Drive Club, has been delayed until next year.The Xbox One and PS4 will also offer all the major multi-platform blockbusters released this autumn, such as Battlefield 4, Call of Duty: Ghosts, Assassin's Creed 4, Lego Marvel Superheroes and Fifa 2014. Which machine has the best versions? Well, that's going to vary quite a lot – and we don't yet know the answers for several big titles. However, there's been some controversy over the fact that Call of Duty: Ghosts runs in full native 1080p high-definition on PS4 but only 720p on Xbox One.Don't know what that means? It's OK, a lot of people won't notice the difference – indeed a lot of cheaper LCD television sets don't actually support full 1080p HD. Furthermore, other developersarepromising to get full HD performance out of Xbox One. Let's just say this: if graphics are the main reason you're buying a new machine, this is an issue to be aware of – especially if you've been presented with a Christmas list that says: "Dear Santa, please bring me a games console that absolutely definitely outputs in full 1080p HD at 60 frames-per-second or I'll scream until I vomit".Fifa 14As for the future of games, well, both consoles have their individual strengths. Sony has an amazing collection of development studios that will work exclusively on PS4 and Vita titles. Naughty Dog, creator of the much-loved Uncharted series, and Media Molecule, the clever Guildford team behind the loveable LittleBigPlanet titles, are both working on major projects that will certainly show what next-gen consoles are capable of. We can also look forward to steampunk action adventure, The Order: 1886 by Californian studio Ready At Dawn, whose staff did lots of work on the hugely successful God of War series.But Microsoft also has its own cabal of talented studios. Warwickshire-based veteran Rare is producing the hugely amusing Kinect Sports Rivals, and 343 Industries is now hard at work on epic space sequel Halo 5. Xbox One also has some extremely promising console exclusives on the way including Titanfall, the new sci-fi shooter from the people who brought us Call of Duty, and Quantum Break, an apocalyptic thriller set to tie-in with a live-action TV series.Oh, as a sub-plot, it seems Sony has launched a major charm offensive on smaller indie developers. Consequently, there are quite a few idiosyncratic little treasures that will be exclusive to PS4 – at least in the short term. Microsoft is also trying to court these teeny studios too – everyone wants to find the next big crossover hit, like Minecraft. Right now, though, PS4 is definitely the console to come to for offbeat titles like Supergiant's sci-fi adventure Transistor and hilarious action puzzler Octodad: Dadliest Catch.In a nutshell:Xbox One possibly has the stronger launch lineup in terms of big triple-A hits, although graphically it may be lagging behind its rival. PS4, meanwhile, is very strong on offbeat indie games.Social interactionIt's all about social gaming these days, so both machines will offer video chat for up to eight people, and both will provide loads of social integration features, making it easier to find and play against friends. On the PS4, for example, as soon as you switch the console on, you'll get a news screen showing what all your friends are playing – you'll even be able to leap straight into their games.One big new feature of the next-gen consoles will be seamless content sharing. On both, you can record yourself playing games and then post that footage to the web. This may sound daft to you, but there's already a huge online community of gamers who share videos of themselves playing games, and many of them have hundreds of thousands of YouTube subscribers. This is what kids do nowadays instead of watching television.All of this will be jammed with parental locks so you shouldn't have to worry about how much personal information your children are broadcasting across the gaming universe.In a nutshell:the Xbox One and PS4 are both loaded with social features such as video chatting and video sharing, allowing users to communicate and share content with friends and the wider web. Xbox has traditionally been the best platform for online multiplayer gaming, but PlayStation is really pushing it this time round.Launch details and pricesThe PS4 is launching in North America on 15 November and in Europe and Australia on 29 November. The machine will cost $399 in the US, €399 in Europe, £349 in the UK and $549 in Australia – that price will get you the machine, a controller, a mono headset and an HDMI cable.The Xbox One is launching in major global territories on 22 November. It will cost $499 in the US, €499 in Europe, £429 in the UK and $599 in Australia. The basic package has a controller, all the essential leads, plus the Kinect motion device.There are various other bundles available which will add extra controllers or games – it's best to check with retailers like Amazon, Game or Argos, or any of the supermarkets, to see who has the best deals. If you're buying the console as a present, check what games the lucky recipient wants – you may find a bundle deal that includes that very title, and it'll be cheaper than purchasing the game separately.Games will cost between £45-60 each – you'll be able to buy second-hand copies, but it's likely that many will require you to pay again in order to unlock online multiplayer modes and other extras (originally, the Xbox One was designed to prevent or at least control the sale of used games, but a public outcry led to a change in policy).Both consoles will also be offering a range of free' titles, that will cost nothing to download, but will doubtless include 'microtransactions' so that players can purchase in-game items. The Xbox One has beat-em-'up Killer Instinct and game creation package Project Spark, while PS4 has third-person shooter Warframe and flight combat sim, War Thunder. Free-to-play is already a common model in smartphone games, and is likely to be a big deal on these new consoles too.'Hidden' costsIf you buy an Xbox One, you'll need to pay an annual Gold subscription to be able to play games against other users online, as well as to use Skype and most TV services. This will cost £39.99 a year. On PS4 you'll need an annual subscription to PlayStation Plus to play online games (currently it's £5.49 a month, or £39.99 for a year) – however, video chat and TV streaming options like iPlayer and 4oD will be free, and you also get a range of other subscription services like access to pre-release games and free online titles. On both machines, video-on-demand services like Netflix and Lovefilm will almost certainly require separate subscriptions.Purchasing a next-gen consoleFor a while at least, this probably isn't going to be as straightforward as you'd expect. Initial supplies will be limited, so it's unlikely you'll just be able to wander into your local HMV on the launch day and grab one off the shelves. Even if you go out tomorrow and pre-order a machine, most retailers are saying that you won't get it for launch – the likes of Game and Amazonare, however, promising you'll get it before Christmas – but you ought to be quick."Finding a console at all for launch is going to be a stretch now," agrees Lewie Procter of video game retail news site,SavvyGamer. "GameStop are taking PS4 orders at £329.97, which is about £20 cheaper than pretty much everywhere else. They won't get it to you for launch, but I think it's most likely you'll get it before Christmas."Everywhere is charging full price for an Xbox One, and I'd say Amazon or Game (depending on whether you want the bundled copy of FIFA) would be your best bet to get one soon after launch. Also, most high-street retailers will have a small amount of stock on the shelves available on launch day. If you are eager to get it on launch day, and don't mind taking a chance, it's worth turning up first thing in the morning. Although it's a bit of a long shot."Alternatively …If you're not sure, don't rush in. Give things a few weeks to settle down, see if you can get hands-on time at your local game store or chat to any early adopters you know. And of course, we'll be reviewing both of the machines closer to their launch dates, so you can always come back here.And there are alternatives. The PS3 and Xbox 360 are great machines with vast libraries of excellent games – if you're buying your first family console, you could do a lot worse than purchasing one of these and then jumping into the next-gen era in a year or so. There's also the Nintendo Wii U, the follow-up to the hugely successful Wii. It hasn't caught on as well as its predecessor, but with its innovative GamePad controller (which comes with its own display, like a tablet computer), it offers some really fun gaming experiences, such as Nintendoland, Pikmin 3 and New Super Mario Bros U – and there arre new versions of Mario Kart and Wii Fit on the way.If you love smartphone games, there are also a couple of smaller consoles based on the Android operating system. The Ouya and the GameStick are priced at less than £100 and are extremely portable – their games are more like those you'd find on your mobile, but for a lot of people that's fine. Meanwhile, we're seeing an increasing number of 'living rooms PCs' – computers designed for entertainment rather than work. Next year, the brilliant game developer Valve is releasing a series of Steam Machine PCs that will handle gaming brilliantly, as well as offering all the other advantages of a computer.In a nutshell:Don't feel you have to jump into the next generation just yet. Make sure you research the alternatives.Gamescom: a gamer tries out Kinect on the Xbox One Photograph: Oliver Berg/DPA/CorbisPlayStation 4 conclusionPros• Powerful, cleverly designed hardware with high-end graphics technology• Excellent 'in-house' developers• Really interesting new controller, with touchpad interface• Plenty of 'on-demand' entertainment options, many of which won't require a subscription, and PlayStation Plus subscription includes free access to digital games• Strong roster of offbeat 'indie' games• Clever 'live' user-interface that displays what your friends are playing and lets you join them instantlyCons• PlayStation Eye motion controller is sold separately, which means it won't be as well supported by developers• Launch lineup relies heavily on 'third-party' multi-platform gamesXbox One conclusionPros• Advanced all-round entertainment options, allowing users to plug in their satellite or cable box (content deals permitting) and control the TV experience• Seamless transition between movies, TV and games• The new Kinect is extremely powerful and may well lead to some truly innovative gaming experiences• The launch lineup is very strong with key brands like Forza and Killer Instinct• Xbox Live is a very strong online multiplayer service which has been fully overhauled for the new generationCons• Question marks over the console's ability to display full 1080p visuals when games are running at the optimal rate of 60 frames-per-second (but this may be temporary)• The inclusion of Kinect means it's more expensiveFinally (phew!)If you're choosing one for your family, have a good think about what you'll use it for. It may also be worth checking what consoles all your childrens' peers are getting. If your family is likely to be gaming online, you'll want the same machine as your friends so you can battle it out together.If not, it's really difficult to separate the two, but right now, if you want an all-round entertainment beast that will handle all your TV and movie needs as well as playing a very decent selection of games, go for Xbox One. If it's all about graphical performance and sheer variety of gaming experiences, PlayStation 4 may be the one for you.They're both super advanced machines with tons to offer, so in the end, it's down to personal choice. The good news is, although this is billed as a console war, neither is likely to 'lose'. Buy a next-gen console and, unless there's some sort of financial catastrophe, you're investing in at least eight years of entertainment.
Streaming music service Deezer says it has more than doubled its number of paying subscribers to five million in the last year, just 1m less than rival Spotify.The milestone was announced at an event in London, where Deezer also revealed that it has 12 million monthly active users, a catalogue of 30m tracks available to stream, and partnerships with 25 mobile operators and ISPs around the world.&quot;We multiplied our subscriber base by 2.5 in one year. Nobody else can do this, and we did it outside the US, so it&apos;s a very strong footprint,&quot; said Deezer chief executive Axel Dauchez, referring to the fact that while Deezer is available in more than 180 countries, the US is not one of them.Deezer&apos;s growth is being fuelled by those telco deals, particularly where the cost of subscribing to its service is bundled into people&apos;s monthly mobile contracts. However, that also means it is unclear how many of the 5 million subscribers are actively using Deezer, as opposed to simply having it available as part of their tariff.Dauchez unveiled two new features for Deezer at the event: one called Hear This that aims to provide more relevant music recommendations for users, and a desktop application for Mac computers that integrates people&apos;s iTunes music collections with the streaming service.Hear This will recommend albums, artists and playlists based on a mixture of algorithms and humans – analysis of people&apos;s listening habits and picks from Deezer&apos;s 50-strong team of editorial staff, respectively. It&apos;s Deezer&apos;s equivalent of Spotify&apos;s Discover tab, which launched in May this year.&quot;Discovery is a critical factor which makes the link between the music creation and the listeners. And, more than that, discovery is critical for the people themselves. If you always listen to the same tracks, it maybe gives you short-term satisfaction, but it does not build your musical identity,&quot; said Dauchez.&quot;Currently, the [streaming] category is pretty poor about that. When you look at what is in the market today, of course there is recommendations and so on, but ... Sometimes there is a reason to try, very rarely is there a reason to love. We need to build a step-change in our abilities to push the people to try and to discover new things.&quot;Deezer's new Hear This recommendations feed.Hear This will be available in Deezer&apos;s iOS and Android apps as well as on its website, with Dauchez announcing that 75% of Deezer streams are delivered to mobile devices.The new Mac desktop app, meanwhile, synchronises people&apos;s iTunes collections with Deezer&apos;s wider catalogue, making files available across different devices, including tablets and smartphones. &quot;This is becoming the Dropbox of music,&quot; said Dauchez, while warning that the application is currently a restricted beta while Deezer fixes some remaining bugs.Deezer is hoping that the new discovery feature and desktop app will persuade more music fans to switch from downloads to streaming, while also helping Deezer grow amid strong competition from Spotify, Rdio and new services from Google, Apple and headphones maker Beats.Spotify has 24 million active users and 6 million paying subscribers, although the company hasn&apos;t provided an update on those figures since March. Meanwhile, Apple&apos;s iTunes Radio – which is a personalised radio service rather than a full on-demand streaming service – attracted 20 million users in its first month.&quot;We need to speed up, because the CD business is not so strong, even the download business is not so strong, so we need to speed up to make the global music market grow,&quot; said Dauchez. &quot;We made the decision to lead the charge for innovation, not for the sake of innovation, but for music lovers.&quot;He also predicted that streaming will continue to grow at the expense of music download sales. &quot;I think that the ownership of a file pretending to be the same as the ownership of a CD was the wrong statement. It meant something to own vinyl, to own a CD. It doesn’t mean anything to own a file,&quot; he said.&quot;For me the download is a transition technology. The transition for where a while, you took the physical world and replicated it in a digital product. But nobody feels that the ownership of a file means something. For me, the download will decrease... We are moving towards a streaming world.&quot;Dauchez also suggested that better discovery features may help to win over musicians who are concerned about streaming&apos;s impact on artists, following recent criticism of Spotify – and by extension streaming business models – byThom YorkeandDavid Byrne.&quot;Discovery is definitely the most important thing for artists, again if you always listen to what you knew before, you won’t discover artists,&quot; said Dauchez. &quot;Discovery is a key asset to convince the artists to move to streaming.&quot;
The FBI hasadded five new hackersto itscyber most wanted listbringing those urgently sought for cybercrimes to 10 in total.The men are wanted in connection with hacking and fraud crimes both within the US as well as internationally, involving hundreds of thousands of victims and tens of millions of dollars in losses.“The cyber fugitives we seek have caused significant losses to individuals and to our economy,” said Richard McFeely, the FBI’s executive assistant director of criminal, cyber, response and services.“Cyber crime continues to pose a significant threat to our national security,” he added.Infamous fiveThe five new members of the FBI’s10-strong cyber most wanted listinclude two Pakistani nationals, Farnhan Arshad and Noor Aziz Uddin, who are sought for their alleged involvement in a $50m international telecommunications hacking scheme that ran between 2008 and 2012.Carlos Perez-Melara, of El Salvador, is wanted in connection with a variety of cybercrimes, the most high-profile being a website that offered to “catch a cheating lover”, but instead installed malware that allowed scammers to steal personal information leading to identity theft.Syrian national Andrey Nabilevich Taame allegedly played a role in “Operation Ghost Click” a malware scheme that ran between 2007 and 2011 and infected more than four million computers in over 100 countries.Alexsey Belan, a Russian national, is wanted for alleged hacking of three US-based companies between 2012 and 2013.“Because cybercrime knows no boundaries, cybercriminals think they can hide overseas. But we are using our international partnerships and the publicity generated by our Cyber’s Most Wanted to ferret them out,” McFeedly said.The cyber era is just like the gangster era before itRewards of up to $100,000 for information leading to the arrest of those recently added to the FBI’s cyber most wanted list have also been made available.“Throughout its history, the FBI has depended on the public’s help and support to bring criminals to justice. That was true in the gangster era, and it’s just as true in the cyber era. We need the public’s help to catch these individuals who have made it their mission to spy on and steal from our nation and our citizens,” said McFeely.•Most technology breaches are far from complex, andcome from simple failures, according to the head of security strategy at NTT Com Security in October
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Sony confirms PS4 launch event live stream details | CVG UKIt's starting! Sony has revealed details of its big PS4 launch event taking place in New York on 15 November:The event - which promises to bring "premieres and announcements" - will be broadcast live via Spike TV, the PlayStation Blog and Ustream, Sony confirmed today.The so-titled 'PS4 All Access: Greatness Awaits special event' kicks off on on November 14 at 11:00pm local time (8pm Pacific, 4am GMT on Nov. 15). As well as the global debut of the PS4, the event promises to include "exclusive world premieres and announcements about the PS4 games that will define 2014 and beyond".US games journalism superstar Geoff Keighley will be hosting the event – reportedlynotfrom a bubbling vat of Mountain Dew.Avalanche boss predicts "end of an era" with CoD: Ghosts and Battlefield 4 | GameSpotThe revolution has started:Just Cause developer Avalanche Studios founder Christofer Sundberg has spoken out to say he believes the recent release of Call of Duty: Ghosts and Battlefield 4 will mark the "end of an era" for the industry-leading shooter franchises."I predict the end of an era with #CoDGhosts and #BF4. I don't believe in the future for [Call of Duty] and I believe that [Battlefield] will live on as an [multiplayer] game," Sundberg said on Twitter today.Asked by Eurogamer if he believes the Call of Duty franchise could continue if singleplayer and multiplayer were offered in two distinct packages, Sundberg said this could only work if the singleplayer and multiplayer experiences varied substantially."I don't think there is room for both unless they are DRASTICALLY different and publishers find new ways to monetize the players," Sundberg said.Let's see how Ghosts does first, eh?Ubisoft Montreal: Convincing a AAA studio to try "indie" games | GamesIndustry InternationalWhen Ubisoft veteran Patrick Plourde finished work on Far Cry 3 he was given the chance to pitch a project to the board. Instead of another epic big-budget action adventure, he put forward the idea for a very personal project, Child of Light, a turn-based combat game inspired by Japanese RPGs. To his delight, it was greenlit:But a small project doesn't mean "low-profile." Plourde collaborated with well-known musicians in the local Montreal scene. That not only made the game better, but gave the project more credibility within the studio. Plourde wanted people to think of Child of Light as more "prestige" than simply small, and the approach seemed to be working. He described a sense of momentum behind the game, even in a studio as big as Ubisoft Montreal."It got a lot of traction, especially with people with a lot of experience, because there's a time where if you worked on like, four Assassin's Creeds and five Rainbow Sixes, or stuff like that, you go, 'You know what, I'd like to experiment with something else,'" Plourde said.I like the idea of 'prestige' projects – sort of like limited editions or haute couture clothing; exclusive products that serve to advertise the creative ambitions of a company. It shows how deeply the 'indie' philosophy has permeated the industry.Gerard Butler Circling Video Game Adaptation 'Kane &amp; Lynch' for Millennium | Hollywood ReporterActors Gerard Butler and Vin Diesel have chanced upon a novel way to end their careers – by considering parts in a forthcoming Kane &amp; Lynch movie:The Nu Image/Millennium Films project, which has come and gone several times, has Gerard Butler, who starred in Millennium's hit Olympus Has Fallen, in talks to star as Kane, with F. Gary Gray on board to direct. The move could very well reteam the duo, who last worked together on the surprise 2009 action hit Law Abiding Citizen.Millennium has an offer out to Vin Diesel to play Lynch, but it's too early to say how that will go.I don't understand Hollywood. Why is serious consideration being given to the movie adaptation of a briefly notorious but now defunct game series? If they reallywantto make a movie about two charmless psychopaths butchering their way out of prison, couldn't they just start from scratch? Or maybe they could just pick another video game? Or, you know, just not bother?The Positive Effects Games Have on Your Brain | IGNWorried about how much time you're going to spend on the next-gen consoles? It's all okay – they're good for you! Researchers at the Max Planck Institute for Human Development and Charité University Medicine St. Hedwig-Krankenhaus have discovered that games are beneficial for, "spatial orientation, memory formation and strategic planning as well as fine motor skills.":Berlin scientists tasked adult subjects to play Super Mario 64 "over a period of two months for 30 minutes a day." An MRI showed brain volume quantified in players who didn't typically play games, while folks who played games "showed increases of grey matter, in which the cell bodies of the nerve cells of the brain are situated."Additionally, the report notes, the more someone actually wanted to play games, the more positive the effects actually had on someone. Simone Kühn, senior scientist on the study, asserts that video games can be used therapeutically for patients suffering from schizophrenia, post-traumatic stress disorder or neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's dementia.Of course, a lot of this has already been researched elsewhere, and the benefits of games are reasonably well-known. But every report of this nature helps to jettison those old fears that games are fundamentally evil – or at least they would if the wider media picked up on them more.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamReport on government information requests &gt;&gt; AppleA country-by-country breakdown of government requests. Demands in the US are tenfold higher than the next country - the UK.Amid the preamble, this:Perhaps most important, our business does not depend on collecting personal data. We have no interest in amassing personal information about our customers. We protect personal conversations by providing end-to-end encryption over iMessage and FaceTime. We do not store location data, Maps searches, or Siri requests in any identifiable form.Acer chairman and CEO steps down - FT.comMr JT Wang's resignation comes as the company reported a third-quarter net loss of $442.2m and revenue of $3.1bn, down 11.8% year on year. Its market share in the shrinking PC market had also slipped, to 8.3% globally last quarter from 11.4% the year prior, according to Gartner.Part of the turnround strategy for any successor, said Mr Wong, would entail learning to move "from thinking to doing a much faster way."Stan Shih and George Huang, Acer's co-founders, will lead a committee to "propose changes in the company vision, strategy and execution plans."Everpix, adieu &gt;&gt; EverpixThe photo service is shutting down:We are grateful to our investors for giving us the opportunity to grow this project. But more importantly, we are so very thankful to the folks who supported us with subscriptions and feedback. You guys are the best.It's frustrating (to say the least) that we cannot continue to work on Everpix. We were unable to secure sufficient funding in order to properly scale the business, and our endeavors to find a new home for Everpix did not come to pass. At this point, we have no other options but to discontinue the service.In read-only mode until 15 December. Every subscriber will get a refund. Read thefull details.Google Now updated for iOS, brings notifications, reminders, new cards and hands-free voice controls &gt;&gt; EngadgetGoogle Now's been bringing all kinds of handy new features to Android in recent months, and now its time for iDevice users to get a slew of new functions too. With today's update to the Google Search app, the iOS version has gained notifications, reminders and several new types of cards. Plus, iPhone users can now simply say "OK, Google" to their handsets to start a Now-powered search. Among the new cards are those showing your event tickets, flight updates, car rental reservations and public transit info.South Korea is stuck with Internet Explorer for online shopping because of security law &gt;&gt; The Washington PostSouth Korea is renowned for its digital innovation, with coast-to-coast broadband and a 4G LTE network that reaches into Seoul's subway system. But this tech-savvy country is stuck in a time warp in one way: its slavish dependence on Internet Explorer.For South Koreans who use other browsers such as Chrome or Safari, online shopping often begins with a pop-up notice warning that they might not be able to buy what they came for."Purchases can only be made through Internet Explorer," says one such message on the Web site of Asiana Airlines, one of South Korea's two major carriers.ActiveX is your friend. And, after a decade or two, worst enemy.Nexus 5 is nice, but the HTC One is still my favorite smartphone ever &gt;&gt; ZDNetMatthew Miller:Using the Nexus 5 with Android 4.4 KitKat makes it apparent that Android manufacturers are doing things right and actually offer a better experience for most consumers. The Nexus 5 is good for Android purists, but I think consumers may be a bit disappointed.As a person who is blessed to try out the latest and greatest mobile gear, I usually get a device and then can't hold back my excitement as I discover everything about it. While there are afew things I like about the Nexus 5, I am experiencing more frustration and disappointment with it than I have with a new device in a long time.The HTC One is shaping up to be the best Android smartphone of 2013.There is a new experimental flag in the last Chromium Build… &gt;&gt; Google+François Beaufort is a "happiness engineer" at Google:There is a new experimental flag in the last Chromium Build for Mac that you might be interested in.Once you've enabled the chrome://flags/#enable-password-manager-reauthentication flag, user who's trying to reveal a plain text password in chrome://settings/passwords will be prompted to reauthenticate with the User Mac OS password.&lt;p.When you are authenticated, you won't need to reauthenticate anymore for one minute.Oh, so Google has decided that having a master password in Chromeisa good idea after all.Nexus 5 review &gt;&gt; The VergeJoshua Topolsky mostly likes it. Apart from the battery life (screen seems to drain it) and the camera. He really dislikes the camera.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Far from being complex attacks, most technology breaches come from simple failures, according to the head of security strategy at NTT Com Security, a global cybersecurity firm.Garry Sidaway, the company’s global director of security strategy, argued that too many businesses file “security” away in a separate department, and so fail to spot basic errors which could lead to breaches down the line.Even when such companies do decide to look specifically for security flaws, they tend to be purely reactive, patching holes where similar breaches occur.“If you look at any of the breach reports, most of them still come through the simple things. Doing the simple things well, and proving that you’ve done them, is still the biggest challenge for organisations,” Sidaway said in an exclusive interview with the Guardian.“If you change the way that you embed information security and risk management into your business, then you know that those things are in place. So you know that your password is protected properly, you know that your data is protected and stored properly, you know the steps that you’re going to take, from the board all the way through to operations, to protect that business stream.”Sidaway’s comments come aftera security breach at Adobewhich left 150m email addresses and passwords exposed. The number of affected accounts was initially disclosed as just 3m, but has since risen significantly.Cracking the codeAdobe stored passwords in a manner which renders them difficult to read initially, but relatively easy to crack given a bit of time. Known as “hashing”, this turns each password into a string of characterswith an algorithm which can’t be reversed. But methods to break hashed passwordshave got better in recent years, meaning that good security requiresa practice known as “salting”. This step appears to have been missed by Adobe.Users can check if their log-in was one affected witha tool built by developer @hilare_belloc.“Doing the simple things is easy to say,” said Sidaway, “but invariably, a lot of organisations miss it. Or they’ve done it at the start, and then don’t go back and check it over time. So as the business changes, they still assume that it’s embedded, and it’s not.”A new report prepared by NTT finds that fears around cybersecurity are frequently seen as showstoppers in the workplace.Concerns have stopped ideas progressing in nearly half of the hundred IT professionals the company surveyed. Comfortingly, the financial sector shows higher than average concern, with 56% of professionals reporting ideas had been halted due to concerns.But the report backs up Sidaway’s conclusions that businesses don’t plan ahead. Only one in five organisations base their spending on assessed risk, and the figure is even lower for businesses in financial services.“While the majority see a benefit to having a proactive approach when assessing the risk of information assets, the fact that still only a fifth base their spending on assessed risk shows there is plenty of room for improvement and that there is still a lot of work to be done,” said NTT’s Neal Lillywhite.•How a new open email standard aims to keep the Government out of your emails.
It's Wednesday.
Apple has published its first report revealing the number and type of requests for information about users and devices from governments around the world, showing the US dominating the requests.The report(pdf), published on the company&apos;s website on Tuesday, complained about US restrictions on what it could reveal and promised customers that Apple did its best to protect personal data.&quot;We have no interest in amassing personal information about our customers,&quot; the company said. &quot;We protect personal conversations by providing end-to-end encryption over iMessage and FaceTime. We do not store location data, Maps searches, or Siri requests in any identifiable form.&quot;Of 31 countries listed, the US outweighed all other governments combined in seeking information about more than 2,000 accounts, followed by Britain with 141, Spain with 104 and Germany with 93. Canada, China and Norway each made six requests.Apple complained that US restrictions prevented it from disclosing the precise number of national security orders and number of accounts affected by such orders. Figures for the US were given within ranges of 1,000. It said: &quot;We strongly oppose this gag order, and Apple has made the case for relief from these restrictions in meetings and discussions with the White House, the US attorney general, congressional leaders and the courts.”The Cupertino-based technology giant said it would continue pushing for the right to disclose information which satisfied customers&apos; right to know how often and under what circumstances the company supplied data to law enforcement agencies.TheElectronic Frontier Foundation, a San Francisco-based transparency advocacy group, welcomed the report as evidence technology giants were responding to calls for greater accountability. “It&apos;s a good sign that transparency reports are becoming the industry standard,” said Nate Cardozo, the group&apos;s staff attorney. The fact it came from Apple, famous for Kremlin-style opaqueness, made it even more welcome, he said. “It&apos;s an excellent first step towards Apple becoming more transparent to their customers.”Apple recently joined Facebook, Google and other tech companies indemanding substantial reformsto US government surveillance programmes following NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden&apos;s revelation that the National Security Administration was tapping their communication links.Tuesday&apos;s report made a thinly veiled reference to its rivals, noting Apple&apos;s business model &quot;does not depend on collecting personal data”.Cardozo said the report set an important precedent in explicitly stating it had never received an order under section 215 of the USA Patriot Act, a wide-ranging, controversial provision which usually compels silence from companies about being probed for information.If subsequent reports made no mention of section 215 requests, it could be assumed such requests had in fact been made, acting as a silent alarm “canary”, said Cardozo. “This is extremely important. No other company has done this.”Apple vowed to challenge such an order if one was served.The EFF attorney also commended Apple for not automatically complying with government information requests. According to the report, Apple supplied data in response to 37% of British government account requests. It supplied data to 22% of Spanish requests, and just 6% of German requests. The lack of precise numbers for US requests meant no percentage could be given.In addition to dominating requests for account information the US also led the field in device information requests, which often come from law enforcers investigating theft. The US registered 3,542 requests, ahead of Germany, with 2,156 and Singapore, with 1,498.• This story was amended on 8 November to correct the name of the Electronic Frontier Foundation.
A man walks into a bar. A screen says: “You’d like a pint of beer.” It’s right. Welcome to 21st Century retail, Minority Report-style.Tesco’s announcement this week that it’ll beinstalling face-scanning advertising screens in all its 450 petrol stationshas detectably raised eyebrows and hackles among many of us who don’t necessarily mind watching a screen, but really don’t want to be watched by one.The screens are part of an ad network managed by Amscreen, part of Alan Sugar’s business empire run by his son Simon. They use technology from Quividi, a Paris-based company specialising in identifying people’s gender and age from video images.Amscreen uses real time data about who’s watching the screens supposedly to target ads at the most receptive audiences, presumably touting golf clubs and power tools to the chaps, and perfumes and soft furnishings to the ladies. Adjust by age segment to plug alcopops, life insurance, Miley Cyrus and SAGA holidays. Everyone’s a winner in the world of stereotypical marketing demographics.The age of libertySo will Sugar’s screens steal our souls as we bask in the glow of exquisitely well-targeted ads while we queue to pay for our Tesco unleaded? Quividi flatly denies that its system identifies anything more than the gender and approximate age of each viewer, alongside time and location data.The companytold the Guardian: “It can detect if it’s seeing a face, but it never records the image or biomorphological information or traits.” If true, this lumps every individual into one of just eight categories (two genders multiplied by four age bands). This isn’t enough information to track specific people returning to the same location or visiting other shops.But we’ve only got the company’s word for it. Neither Tesco, Amscreen nor Quividi appears to have done a privacy impact assessmentas recommended by the Information Commissioner’s Officefor systems where “new and intrusive technology is being used, or where private or sensitive information which was originally collected for a limited purpose is going to be reused in a new and unexpected way”.An independent privacy and security audit of this novel and potentially intrusive system that confirmed its relative innocuousness would be even more reassuring.From spam to surveillanceFrom their own perspective, Amscreen and Quividi depend on accurately classifying each person so that ads can be better targeted. So the temptation to retain the video footage and the encoded templates of each person’s facial features must have been hard for Amscreen resist - if indeed it has been.Keeping this data would provide the opportunity to refine every step of the classification process using big data techniques that would be useless on smaller sample training data sets. One of the reasons that cloud-based email services such as Gmail are so good at filtering out spam is that they get to chew continuously on huge, real-world datasets. With Amscreen’s systemclaiming an accuracy as low as 50% in some situations(women wearing baseball caps), there’s clearly much more work they’d like to do here. Retaining more data from the screens’ projected audience of five million UK adults would make that task much easier.Now, if all these screens do is put us all into one of eight anonymous boxes, then it seems that we don’t have much to worry about. But the impact of a surveillance system needs to be considered in context, not in isolation.A Tesco forecourt: your numberplate is the first thing that gets scanned. Is your face next? Photograph: Peter Macdiarmid/Getty ImagesSupermarket societyThe typical British supermarket is already a near microcosm of a total surveillance society. CCTV catches your face from before you enter the building to the moment you leave, and that video is retained. If you pay with plastic rather than cash then that gets logged by the retailer, your bank and the card processing network. Tesco pioneered the store loyalty card, and if you use one of those you’re asking to be data-mined for everything from your household composition, health and dietary preferences to identifying and even predicting life events like holidays, new children, marriage, separation and ultimately, death (at which point you rather selfishly stop being a customer). Various systemstrack customers in storeusing their mobile phone signals.If you’re buying petrol on the supermarket’s forecourt you can expect to have your vehicle registrationloggedby automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) cameras. What you might not expect is that some commercial ANPR data gets shared in real time with the police, although we’re not allowed to know exactly where this happens.Dropping face-scanning cameras into this kind of environment is adding another heavy-grade weapon to the retail surveillance arsenal, even if it’s currently used to fire blanks rather than lethal ammo. Once we get used to seeing them, or rather, once we get used to not seeing them, that huge untapped potential for further intrusion is just a software upgrade away. Given the supermarkets’ apparently insatiable desire to know everything about our lives, who’s to say that the intention isn’t there? The capability certainly is.We tolerate the sheer quantity of advertising in shops, on public transport and in the street because much of it, being only loosely targeted, really isn’t that good. As static posters give way to moving video and interactive screens that can be much better targeted and therefore much more capable to compel our attention, we need to reassess just how much of it we can tolerate as individuals and as a society.While Edward Snowden’s revelations have made many of us think more seriously about surveillance (though not enough about the inextricable link between government and corporate snooping), we give little thought to the ways in which corporations have commandeered our thoughts.Freedom to think of nothingWhere are the moral limits of marketing and advertising? If we visit Tesco, does the store own our brain for the duration of our visit? Or should we expect to be left alone with our thoughts while we queue at the checkout? Which influence techniques should be considered unethical, whether due to their nature or their scale, when applied to a captive audience in a queue, on a bus or on a train - or indeed in a school, a prison, a hospital or a public toilet?Our interstitial freedom - the ability to be unobserved and to think for ourselves in the gaps between surveillance and influence systems - is shrinking daily. No matter how little that freedom is further eroded by Amscreen’s cameras and screens in Tesco today, the travel is all in one direction. It needs to be resisted and rolled back. Meanwhile, we must resort to customer tradecraft: Don’t leave home without a cap and a good book.Adrian Shortis a software developer and data analyst• Q+A:What Quividi&apos;s face-scanning system does and doesn&apos;t do: talking to its chief operating officer
UK-based smartphones firmKazamhas unveiled its first seven Android handsets, and will begin selling them before Christmas to compete with Apple, Samsung and other manufacturers.The smartphones are split between two ranges, Trooper and Thunder. The former focuses on five affordable low-to-mid range devices, while the latter includes two higher-end handsets.Kazam was founded by two former HTC UK executives, Michael Coombes and James Atkins, announcing its formation in June 2013 as a new European smartphone brand without any details of its devices.&quot;Six months ago Kazam was founded and to be announcing our first phones today is incredible,&quot; said chief executive Coombes today. &quot;We are small and experienced, ensuring we are quick to adapt and react to the changing needs of our local markets. There is much more to come from our exciting brand.&quot;Both the Trooper and Thunder ranges have dual-SIM trays, removable batteries and SD memory card slots, although neither supports LTE 4G networks. The phones will all run Google&apos;s default Android software, rather than using a customised &quot;skin&quot; on top of it as other manufacturers have.Kazam is making customer service a key selling point, with a year&apos;s cracked-screen replacement policy for every buyer, and a feature called Kazam Rescue that will enable its technical support teams to remotely access the devices to solve problems.The Thunder Q4.5 includes a quad-core MT6582M processor, a Mali 400MP2 graphics processor, 1GB of RAM, a 4.5-inch 854x480-pixel touchscreen display, an eight-megapixel rear camera and two-megapixel front camera. Details of the second Thunder device, the Q5.0, are still under wraps.The five Trooper models are named after their screen sizes: the X3.5, X4.0, X4.5, X5.0 and X5.5. The basic X3.5 model has a dual-core MT6572M processor and 512MB of RAM, a 3.5-inch 320x480 -resolution touchscreen, a two-megapixel rear camera and a 0.3-megapixel front camera.The X4.0 has a four-inch 480x800-resolution screen while beefing up the rear camera to five megapixels, while the X4.5, X5.0 and X5.5 all include 854x480-resolution screens and five-megapixel rear cameras, but with screen sizes of 4.5, five and 5.5 inches respectively.Kazam has not said which company is manufacturing its smartphones, nor has it given any details on distribution deals with operators or retailers.&quot;Today’s announcement proves that Kazam is not about gimmicks or corporate bullshit, but delivering real value, by taking a fresh approach to mobile,&quot; said chief marketing officer James Atkins.
BitTorrent Sync, thesecure file syncing servicefrom the famous peer-to-peer sharing service now has anAPIfor integrating into existing apps, just like Dropbox and others.The API will allow developers to build support for Sync into all manner of apps, including media players, office applications and anything that needs to sync files securely between computers or mobile devices without the need for a cloud server.“We want to enable developers to build an alternative way for the Internet to work - one that does not rely on centralised servers,” said a BitTorrent spokesperson.Syncing files without the cloudNow boasting one million monthly active users, Sync allows users to keep files up-to-date over multiple computers using a distributed network, rather than the traditional route of syncing back and forth to a cloud server - a building block to enable users to build a private cloud.Files to be shared are broken into small chunks, encrypted, and sent to many pre-selected devices. From there, they can be re-downloaded by other computers, even before the full file exists on a machine other than the source.Using what BitTorrent calls “encryption secret”, the files can be encrypted before being distributed between computers, allowing files to be securely stored on computers or remote servers that may not themselves be secure.A decentralised version of the internetDevelopers will now have access to a BitTorrent Sync API, which will be open to all and will allow both integration with Sync and development of new applications on top of the Sync platform.“We hope to spark developer creativity and empower them to build applications that help expand a decentralised version of the internet free from heavy reliance on servers,” a BitTorrent spokesperson said.• In October, BitTorrent teased asecure chat programthat works in a similar way to BitTorrent Sync in the wake of the NSA revelations
Nearly a decade after the closure of its last US factory, Apple is to create 2,000 manufacturing, engineering and construction jobs at a new plant in Arizona.The California technology titan is beginning to shift production back to its home market, with the creation of its second US plant in under a year. It is understood the renewable energy powered facility in Mesa, Arizona, will produce laboratory grown sapphire crystals of the kind used in the iPhone 5S fingerprint scanner.The initiative is a joint venture with crystal growth equipment specialist GT Advanced Technologies, which said Monday it had signed a multi-year agreement with Apple to provide furnaces to make sapphire. The material, which has been used in watch faces, is more scratch-resistant than glass and may eventually be used to make Apple's screens."Apple will have an incredibly positive economic impact for Arizona," said governor Janice Brewer. "Their investment in renewable energy will also be greening our power grid, and creating significant new solar and geothermal power sources for the state."Run with solar and geothermal energy, which uses heat from deep underground, the plant has been designed in collaboration with local utility Salt River Project.The building will be owned by Apple, while the furnaces will be supplied by GT Advanced, with a $578 down payment from Apple which will be reimbursed over five years starting in 2015 and is understood to come with certain exclusivity rights.Demand for industrially produced sapphire has rocketed since Apple began using the material to protect camera lenses in 2012, according to research firm IHS Suppli. The deal will help Apple secure control over a scarce resource.Next month, the first Macintosh computer made in America since 2004 will go on sale. The Mac Pro, whose internal parts are contained in an unusual cylindrical shell, has been produced from a purpose-built plant in Austin, Texas, in a joint venture with contract manufacturer Flextronics which has created 1,700 jobs.Apple closed its last American computer assembly plant in Elk Grove, California, in June 2004, having by then shifted much of its production to contract manufacturers in Asia. By then, the company had given up making its own products and outsourced the work to sub-contractors such as Foxconn.But bad publicity surrounding the treatment of workers at the plants owned by Foxconn and other companies operating in China have led Apple to take more control over production.Other companies have followed suit. Google, which now owns the Motorola smartphone group, has opened a site in Texas, where its latest smartphones are being assembled. Caterpillar, the construction and mining equipment maker, and General Electric, have been opening factories at home in recent years. Samsung has also opened a semi-conductor fabrication plant in Texas, whereit makes chips for Apple."We are proud to expand our domestic manufacturing initiative with a new facility in Arizona, creating more than 2,000 jobs in engineering, manufacturing and construction," Apple said in a statement. "This new plant will make components for Apple products and it will run on 100% renewable energy from day one."
Until this year, the internet privacy tool Tor was scarcely heard of outside the tech community. Since revelations about the surveillance strategies of US and UK spies, Tor has become a focus of criticism, accused of facilitating a dangerous &quot;dark web&quot; of paedophiles, drug dealers and arms traders.But while the NSA has tried to crack its security, Tor&apos;s principal source of funding has been other parts of the US government. While a criminal contingent may use the site to disguise identities, its creators point to a wider group of legitimate users including journalists, activists, law enforcement professionals, whistleblowers and businesses.In a year Tor has grown from 500,000 daily users worldwide to more than 4 million users, provoking an increasingly public debate along the way.What is Tor?The Tor project is a non-profit organisation that conducts research and development into online privacy and anonymity. It is designed to stop people – including government agencies and corporations – learning your location or tracking your browsing habits.Based on that research, it offers a technology that bounces internet users&apos; and websites&apos; traffic through &quot;relays&quot; run by thousands of volunteers around the world, making it extremely hard for anyone to identify the source of the information or the location of the user.Its software package – the Tor browser bundle – can be downloaded and used to take advantage of that technology, with a separate version available for Android smartphones.There are some trade-offs to make: for example, browsing using Tor is slower due to those relays, and it blocks some browser plugins like Flash and QuickTime. YouTube videos don&apos;t play by default either, although you can use the&quot;opt-in trial&quot; of YouTube&apos;s HTML5 siteto bring them back.Who created Tor?The original technology behind Tor was developed by the US navy and has received about 60% of its funding from the State Department and Department of Defense, although its other backers have included digital rights lobbyist the Electronic Frontier Foundation, journalism and community body Knight Foundation and the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency.When it launched in 2002, the Tor project&apos;s emphasis was on protecting internet users&apos; privacy from corporations rather than governments.&quot;We were increasingly concerned about all these websites - in the 2000/01 dotcom bubble, everyone was offering free services, and by free they meant &apos;we take all your information and sell it as many times as possible&apos;,&quot; executive directorAndrew Lewman told the Guardianin April 2012.&quot;We wanted a way to: one, put some of our research into practice and see how it would work; and two, we wanted to give the control over your information to you, the user, not to have all these companies take it by default. And let you take decisions about do you trust Google, do you trust Amazon, do you trust the BBC, whatever.&quot;Use of Tor has increased since the revelations about NSA surveillance. Photograph: Alex Milan Tracy/NurPhoto/CorbisWho uses Tor?The Tor project team say its users fall into four main groups: normal people who want to keep their internet activities private from websites and advertisers; those concerned about cyberspying; and users evading censorship in certain parts of the world.Tor notes that its technology is also used by military professionals – the US navy is still a key user – as well as activists and journalists in countries with strict censorship of media and the internet. Campaigning body Reporters Without Borders advises journalists to use Tor, for example.Tor also cites bloggers, business executives, IT professionals and law enforcement officers as key users, with the latter including police needing to mask their IP addresses when working undercover online, or investigating &quot;questionable web sites and services&quot;.For more mainstream users, it could mean running Tor so that your children&apos;s location can&apos;t be identified when they are online, or could mean a political activist in China, Russia or Syria could protect their identity.After the NSA surveillance revelations in 2013, a new wave of users joined the service. Between 19 August and 27 August alone the number of people using Tor more than doubled to 2.25 million, according to Tor&apos;s own figures, before peaking at nearly 6 million in mid-September. It has since slipped back to just over 4 million.The dark side of TorThe cloak of anonymity provided by Tor makes it an attractive and powerful for criminals. Another NSA document described it thus: &quot;Very naughty people use Tor&quot;.Tor can mask users&apos; identities, but also host their websites via its &quot;hidden services&quot; capabilities, which mean sites can only be accessed by people on the Tor network. This is the so-called &quot;dark web&quot; element, and it&apos;s not unusual to see Tor pop up in stories about a range of criminal sites.In August,a service provider called Freedom Hosting went offlineafter the FBI sought the extradition of a 28-year-old Irish man for charges relating to distributing and promoting child abuse material online.Underground illegal-drugs marketplaceSilk Road, which was shut down in early October, was another hidden site only accessible through Tor, as was another store called Black Market Reloaded which has beenaccused of facilitating illegal arms dealingas well as drug purchases.Sites such as these are whyTor was recently described by British MP Julian Smithas &quot;the black internet where child pornography, drug trafficking and arms trading take place&quot; during a parliamentary debate on the intelligence and security services.Smith went on to criticise the Guardian for reporting in detail on the claims that the NSA had been trying to crack Tor&apos;s security, suggesting that &quot;many people in the police world feel will cause major issues in terms of picking up people engaged in organised crime&quot;.David Cameron: said the UK authorities planned to 'shine a light on this hidden internet'. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianLaw enforcement co-operationIn the past, the team behind Tor has responded to exactly this question, denying that the anonymity tool is an obstacle to police investigating criminal activities.&quot;We work with law enforcement a lot,&quot; Lewman told the Guardian. &quot;They are fully aware of bad guys on Tor. However, the criminals already have all the privacy they could ever need, because they&apos;re willing to break the laws: they&apos;re willing to steal identities, they&apos;re willing to hack into machines, they&apos;re willing to run botnets.&quot;&quot;People sort of hear &apos;Tor&apos; and think &apos;forget it, I&apos;ll never solve this case&apos;, but really there&apos;s a human at the other end, and that&apos;s what the law enforcement targets most of the time. Humans make mistakes, they do silly things, trust the wrong things, and that&apos;s how they&apos;ve caught nearly everyone who uses Tor as part of their illegal schemes.&quot;In the UK, law enforcement agencies had been investigating hidden services on Tor for some time before the Guardian&apos;s reports. On 22 July,David Cameron delivered a speech to the NSPCCtalking about plans to integrate the UK&apos;s Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre (CEOP) into the national crime agency.&quot;Once CEOP becomes a part of the national crime agency, that will further increase their ability to investigate behind the paywalls, to shine a light on this hidden internet and to drive prosecutions and convictions of those who are found to use it,&quot; said Cameron. &quot;So we should be clear to any offender who might think otherwise, there is no such thing as a safe place on the internet to access child abuse material.&quot;In a recent blogpost responding to the Freedom Hosting news, Tor also pointed out that hidden services aren&apos;t just used by criminals, pointing to organisations using the technology to &quot;protect dissidents, activists, and protect the anonymity of users trying to find help for suicide prevention, domestic violence, and abuse-recovery.&quot;Does Tor still work?Questions about Tor&apos;s use by good and/or bad guys are one thing, but as more people become aware of it, another sensible question is whether it works, particularly in the light of the NSA repeatedly developing attacks against Tor. That appears to have been a frustrating task.&quot;We will never be able to de-anonymise all Tor users all the time,&quot; said&quot;Tor Stinks&quot;, an NSA presentation from June 2012. &quot;With manual analysis we can de-anonymise a very small fraction of Tor users, however, no success de-anonymising a user ... on demand.&quot;For its part,Roger Dingledine, the president of the Tor project, said following the Guardian&apos;s publication of that presentationthat &quot;there&apos;s no indication they can break the Tor protocol or do traffic analysis on the Tor network&quot;, while reminding users that humans remain the weak links in online communications.&quot;Infecting the laptop, phone, or desktop is still the easiest way to learn about the human behind the keyboard. Tor still helps here: you can target individuals with browser exploits, but if you attack too many users, somebody&apos;s going to notice. So even if the NSA aims to surveil everyone, everywhere, they have to be a lot more selective about which Tor users they spy on.&quot;The NSA&apos;s attacks against Tor included targeting security holes in the Firefox web browser. Tor encourages users of its Tor Browser Bundle toupgrade to the latest version regularly, to ensure they have the latest security fixes for the software.What next?Security expert Bruce Schneierrecently made anonymisation tools such as Tor the first step in his advice on &quot;how to remain secure against the NSA&quot;. But this kind of technology will not stand still in the coming months and years, as the attempts to crack it get smarter and more persistent.Though Tor is likely to appeal to more sophisticated internet users, public concern over government and corporate surveillance and tracking is likely to mean it becomes more widely used by mainstream internet users.&quot;Browser exploits, large-scale surveillance, and general user security are all challenging topics for the average internet user,&quot; Dingledine said.&quot;These attacks make it clear that we, the broader internet community, need to keep working on better security for browsers and other internet-facing applications.&quot;•Tor &apos;deep web&apos; servers go offline as Irish man held over child abuse images
Thebitcoindigital currency could be hijacked by “selfish miners” causing honest users to lose time, effort and money.Due to the way the anonymous, decentralised,peer-to-peer digital currencyis produced through complex computational processes, a rogue group of “selfish miners” could hijack the currency and overwrite the shared record of transactions. That would wipe out the bitcoins belonging to honest users and possibly cause a collapse in the currency, say two researchers from Cornell University.The conditions for that to happen already exist. Ittay Eyal and Emin Gun Sirer, of the computing science department at Cornell University, New York, have worked out that the selfish mining group would need more than a 33% share of the computational power currently being used for generating bitcoins.Certain groups regularly break 25% of the global collective bitcoin mining power, and some already exceed the 33% share, the duo say.“The bitcoin ecosystem is open to manipulation, and potential takeover, by miners seeking to maximise their rewards,” Eyal and Gun Sirer say in arecently published paperon the Arxiv site. “The protocol will never be safe against attacks by a selfish mining pool that commands more than 33% of the total mining power of the network.”Mining: time-consuming and expensiveWhile most users buy bitcoins from currency exchanges such as Mt Gox, some users produce new ones by “mining”, a process that requires computers to perform the calculations needed to make the digital currency work.Mining is time-consuming and expensive due to the way the currency is designed. Each bitcoin is more cryptographically complex than the previous one, requiring more computational time to &quot;mine&quot; it, and thus investment in electricity and use of computer hardware.Once the cryptographic calculation is complete for each bitcoin, a record of that bitcoin is written to a collectively shared ledger called the “blockchain”, which confirms that each bitcoin actually has value and has been correctly mined.Due to the peer-to-peer nature, only the latest or longest blockchain is recognised as valid - and it is this which poses a security risk, according to the researchers.Force honest miners into performing wasted computationsMost mining takes place in the open, with each newly produced bitcoin logged immediately in the public record. However, a “selfish” mining group operates by pooling computing resources, writing its newly calculated bitcoins to a private blockchain. Once that private blockchain is released, if it is longer than the publicly available blockchains currently in circulation it will overwrite them, destroying the value of the work done by others in preference to their own mined bitcoins.“The key insight behind the selfish mining strategy is to force the honest miners into performing wasted computations on the stale public branch. Specifically, selfish mining forces the honest miners to spend their cycles on blocks that are destined to not be part of the blockchain,” wrote the researchers.In effect, the rogue selfish mining group could claim more bitcoins for themselves, hijacking the currency.To do that, “higher revenues can lead new rational miners to join selfish miner pools, leading to a collapse of the decentralised currency,” warned the researchers, whoproposed a solutionthat involves mining to random blockchains to eliminate the risk of selfish build up.• In October, a Norwegian man discovered that his forgotten 2009 $27 investment in bitcoin hadincreased in value to around $886,000
The much anticipatedCall of Duty: Ghostsis now available in stores nationwide, and the reviews are flying in with the general consensus that Ghosts fails to reinvent the wheel, not that that’s necessarily a bad thing.As with Battlefield 4, our review will be a little late, as the final game code has only just been sent to us. We have a policy of requiring reviewers to play games on their own console set-ups at home, and where necessary we ask that they test online multiplayer modes on public servers rather than on pre-release developer networks. We think this leads to a more accurate review.In the meantime, here’s what other critics have to say about the latest Call of Duty instalment.Nick Cowen for CVG wrote:There is an overwhelming sense of familiarity one gets from playing Call Of Duty: Ghosts and that&apos;s probably because an iteration of this series drops every year without truly reinventing the wheel. Its formula is a world-record-breaking recipe for success. It&apos;s fun, sure, but it&apos;s not ground-breaking. But then, for the purposes of its audience, does it need to be?Score: 7/10Russ Frushtick for Polygon said more of the same:Call of Duty: Ghosts demonstrates an unwillingness to change much and presents a real shortage of new ideas. Ghosts is a step backwards from 2012&apos;s Black Ops 2 — and the weakest game in the series since 2009&apos;s Modern Warfare 2.Score: 6.5/10Dan Whitehead for Eurogamer:There are many things wrong with the scenario, not least of which is that it&apos;s yet another shooter that paints the US as a victimised underdog, caught unawares by evil Third World forces, rather than an 800lb gorilla with a nuclear payload. Unlike Black Ops 2, which at least used its drone warfare storyline to question the wisdom of such weaponry in its own comic-book fashion, Ghosts never once suggests that giant city-crushing space spears are a bad idea - at least until those dastardly Hispanic hordes get their hands on them.Score: 7/10Scott Lowe for IGN said:Like previous CoDs, the story of Ghosts struggles to remain in focus amidst the fray of explosive cinematic moments and relentless firefights. Narrated loading sequences with stylized story animations push the campaign forward, but only last for one or two minutes before launching back into the action. It’s there, on the front lines, that much of the plot progression is presented and oftentimes lost.Score: 8.8/10Xav de Matos for Joystiqexplained current generation versus next generation certainly isn’t plain sailing:A key pillar of the Call of Duty experience has always been rock-solid 60 frames per seconds gameplay. On Xbox 360, Ghosts maintains this mandate. The PlayStation 4 version, however, has noticeable technical issues, sometimes slowing to a crawl, particularly during set-piece moments with multiple effects. One specific moment I was able to replicate multiple times on PS4 was a campaign scene that ran smoothly on Xbox 360 and PS3, while the game chugged On PlayStation 4. These frame rate hitches happen throughout the campaign on PS4 and, in a series known for its Hollywood-inspired bombast, it detracted from the experience.Score: 3.5/5Aoife Wilson for Official Xbox Magazine adds:Prior to the game&apos;s launch, Infinity Ward made much of Ghosts&apos; new dynamic maps, COD&apos;s answer to Battlefield 4&apos;s impressive &quot;Levolution&quot; features. Truthfully, the system here doesn&apos;t add much to the experience, except for in maps like Tremor when it becomes little more than an irritation as a poorly-timed quake causes you to miss that crucial shot. There&apos;s simply too much else going on, too many other things requiring your immediate attention to really spare a thought for what are essentially miniature scripted sequences, and there&apos;s not much glory to be gained from waiting around to trap an opponent, rather than just shooting him. This could change as experienced players learn location layouts and how to use them to their advantage, but at this stage it&apos;s hard to picture the dynamic elements catching on, particularly within the professional circuit.Score: 8/10The general feeling of all those who have spent time with the game so far seems to be that Call of Duty: Ghosts is for the most part competent, but that it is overly familiar and at some points rather formulaic. However, fans of the franchise will undoubtedly love shooting their way through hordes of opponents.The question remains, where does the Call of Duty juggernaut go next if Infinity Ward, the studio behind the groundbreaking and wildly popular Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, struggles to push the franchise forward?
There is growing awareness among internet users that our surfing habits can be tracked and used to define what adverts we see online. But what if the same thing was possible with television?It is. Technology firm Gracenote is holding trials of a technology called &quot;full ad replacement&quot;, which helps broadcasters deliver different ads to households with internet-connected TVs based on their demographic data and viewing habits.&quot;There&apos;s an opportunity to go out and look to see if there&apos;s a more appropriate advertisement for you than the one being broadcast, using the information we have about you – most of which is gathered when you set up the TV and register it,&quot; Gracenote president Stephen White told The Guardian.&quot;If we tie that information in with what the ad-decisioning platforms know about you – which are very rich sets of content pulled from public databases, typically 100-200 different items – the technology can decide that there&apos;s a better ad for you than the one that&apos;s about to be shown and overlay it over the broadcast.&quot;White suggested that some brands might want to show different ads to different viewers – Toyota might show a mini-van to a family and a sports car to a young single male – or decide not to show their ad to some demographic groups, leaving that commercial break open to being &quot;skimmed&quot; by other brands.Gracenote pitches technology to broadcastersGracenote is pitching the technology to broadcasters as &quot;an uplift to their current sell&quot; due to the ability to zero in on specific groups of TV viewers: &quot;Target the world, it&apos;ll cost you X. If you want to target a specific demographic, it&apos;ll be X plus Y,&quot; said White.&quot;Almost 100% of the US broadcasters are working with us on this. There&apos;s universal excitement and acceptance of the idea that they can target, and that broadcasters can control that targeting,&quot; he continued.&quot;It&apos;s about to go into live trials in the US, and we&apos;re planning to hold trials in Europe next year, in the late spring or early summer time. We&apos;re hoping to have this in the market with OEMs [TV manufacturers] next spring.&quot;Profiling via video fingerprinting technologyFull ad replacement partly relies on Gracenote&apos;s video fingerprinting technology, developed after itbought a startup called Bulldog Unitedin June 2012. It can be used to monitor the shows watched by individual households in order to flesh out their profile in Gracenote&apos;s database.&quot;We can understand what the user is doing and start to profile them: if cartoons are on at 10am, it&apos;s probably a young child. If it&apos;s soap operas in the afternoon, a stay-at-home mom. And if it&apos;s sports all day, it&apos;s more likely to be a twentysomething guy,&quot; said White.&quot;Then we can start to do interactive overlays of content on top of the broadcast stream, from polling for news or political shows through to extensions of advertisements, or putting up recipes for cooking shows. Anything a broadcaster wants to do with that space, including full ad replacement.&quot;The obvious question is: surely a large chunk of those TV viewers will be freaked out by the idea of their TV watching them as much as they watch it, and that data being shared with advertisers even on an aggregated basis?&quot;A lot of people might not care, but some people might. We&apos;re being very mindful of what the consumer wants: it&apos;s got to be an opt-in model, and we have to give more value to the consumer,&quot; said White.&quot;For example, users have to be able to manage their profiles: &apos;Hey, stop profiling me when my wife goes to sleep!&apos;. We&apos;ve done extensive legal work around this.&quot;A demo showing different TV advertisements being shown to different households Photograph: /GracenoteExpect more debate over the coming months as the technology gets closer to launching. A survey published in May by research firm Analysys Mason suggested thatless than half of smart TV buyers have actually connected their sets to the internet.That means tracking technology from companies like Gracenote won&apos;t work, of course, but it also suggests that if these people do eventually connect up those TVs, they may be surprised at the devices&apos; ability to track their viewing and serve personalised ads.Gracenote&apos;s pitch to the TV and consumer electronics industries portrays full ad replacement as a win-win-win: brands can better target their TV ads, broadcasters can charge more for this targeting, and TV manufacturers can share in the revenues. But explaining this to viewers may be a tougher, longer conversation.In the meantime, Gracenote is continuing to work on other forms of TV technology, such as second-screen apps designed to interact with shows. The company recently worked with US network NBC on a show called Million Second Quiz, where the audience at home could play along with the contestants on-screen.&quot;It was treating people at home just like participants in the show, and the highest scoring folks are flown in and put on the show the next day,&quot; said White. &quot;It&apos;s one of the first big primetime second-screen pushes in the US, and we had over 1m people using the app even before the show aired.&quot;Gracenote is competing increasingly fiercely with rival Shazam to convince broadcasters to work with it on such second-screen apps, with both companies touting their audio fingerprinting technologies.Gracenote has previously used watermarking technology embedded in broadcasts to help apps synchronise with TV shows, but White said the momentum has moved towards fingerprinting technology over the past year or two.&quot;Fingerprinting has won over watermarking at this point, which is good for us because we&apos;re one of the only companies that does it on a global scale, and on a business-to-business basis,&quot; said White.&quot;Shazam has taken the branded approach where they put their logo on top of your logo, and force people to use their app. We&apos;re pushing this stuff out embedded into the apps of the broadcasters and shows.&quot;Meanwhile, Gracenote is also hoping to persuade more developers to make innovative apps and services based on television, and recently held a hack day for developers to explore new technologies to interact with television, inspired by similar events in the digital music world.&quot;We had voice control, motion control, our stuff... It was a fantastic hack event, with really cool stuff coming out of it,&quot; said White.&quot;We&apos;re trying to foster the developer innovation in the TV space, just as you&apos;ve seen on the music side. We&apos;ve been very aggressive in opening up our APIs, and we&apos;re starting to see a few folks follow on.&quot;
A new biography of Amazon and its founder Jeff Bezos claims to be &quot;the definitive story&quot; of the company, but one Amazon reviewer is distinctly unimpressed: Bezos&apos; wife MacKenzie.&quot;Everywhere I can fact check from personal knowledge, I find way too many inaccuracies, and unfortunately that casts doubt over every episode in the book,&quot; she wrote in alengthy one-star critiqueof The Everything Store: Jeff Bezos and the Age of Amazon by author Brad Stone.&quot;The book is also full of techniques which stretch the boundaries of non-fiction, and the result is a lopsided and misleading portrait of the people and culture at Amazon.&quot;Novelist Bezos suggests that Stone&apos;s book uses &quot;weak rhetorical devices&quot; and &quot;unbalanced reporting&quot; on the working culture within Amazon, and claims its descriptions of the company&apos;s founder &quot;passes off speculation about his thoughts and intentions as fact&quot;.&quot;Readers should remember that Jeff was never interviewed for this book, and should also take note of how seldom these guesses about his feelings and motives are marked with a footnote indicating there is any other source to substantiate them.&quot;Amazon questions fact-checkingFor its part, Amazon has also criticised the book,issuing a statement to Business Insider, the technology site in which Jeff Bezos is an investor. It revealed that, while Bezos himself wasn&apos;t interviewed for Stone&apos;s book, the company did co-operate with its author.&quot;Over the course of the author’s reporting, Amazon facilitated meetings for him with more than half a dozen seniorAmazonexecutives, during which he had every opportunity to inquire about or fact-check claims made by former employees. He chose not to,&quot; claimed Amazon&apos;s spokesperson Craig Berman.&quot;I met in person with him on at least three occasions and exchanged dozens of emails where he only checked a few specific quotes. He had every opportunity to thoroughly fact-check and bring a more balanced viewpoint to his narrative, but he was very secretive about the book and simply chose not to.&quot;Author denies biasStone has defended his book,telling Business Insiderthat he interviewed 300 people for the biography, including current and past executives, promising to correct any mistakes for future editions, and defending his claims to know what Bezos was thinking at various points in Amazon&apos;s history.&quot;Narrative non-fiction demands that authors get as close to their characters as possible. I didn&apos;t invent those rules,&quot; said Stone.&quot;She&apos;s accusing me of bias or a hidden perspective. I tried to endeavor to have a balanced view. I didn&apos;t have any hidden bias, but I&apos;m certainly less biased than Jeff&apos;s wife when it comes to an account of the company&apos;s history.&quot;
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Microsoft not ready to respond to Xbox One 720p complaintsYesterday, Call of Duty: Ghosts developer Infinity Wardexplained to Eurogamerwhy the new title runs in 1080p HD on PS4 but only 720p on Xbox One. The issue has caused a 'gripping' resolution war among enlightened video game commentators online, all of them in full possession of the technical specs, development kits, extensive programming experience and knowledge of modern industry production techniques needed to make simultaneously informed and enraged proclamations.Anyway... Microsoft is not yet ready to talk about what's happened:Microsoft has said that it is not yet ready to respond to criticism leveled at Xbox One over the revelation that two of its major launch titles will only output natively at 720p.Responding to a NeoGaf user asking about the chances Albert Penello, Xbox director of product planning, "will presence us with an apology or concession," Penello responded: "Pretty good, I'd say.""I'll be back," he added moments later. "You're right, I should talk about it. But right now, still lots of info to come out. Once the dust settles, and all the information is out there, I'll address my comments."This won't go down well with the online graphics war intelligentsia – because it involves waiting a bit and considering the evidence.Gran Turismo 6 to feature over 1200 cars and 100 track layouts | CVG UKThat's pretty much the story in the title – Polyphony Digital is putting seemingly every car on the planet into its next real driving simulator. However, here's an intriguing new feature:A post-launch update will introduce a new GPS Logger feature. This will use the player's phone or tablet GPS functionality in order to recreate tracks based on daily commutes in the game's Course Maker.In the words of Sony's press release:"Drivers will be able to record real GPS data from their own car and then recreate the route as a track in the game. The 'GPS Visualizer' also utilises GPS coordinate data from a real car on the real-life versions of the GT6 circuits. The data can then be imported into GT6 to create a 'virtual' replay image of your laps in the game."That's the sound of a thousand Top Gear fans loosening their shirt collars in flustered excitement.Steam Machine prototype unveiled | MCVOoh, what will the working version of the  new Valve console look like?Valve has revealed the prototype design of its upcoming Steam Machine hardware.In anarticle by the Seattle Timesshowing off images of the official prototype, Valve designer Greg Coomer reiterated the company's intent to take over the living room with its new hardware -- adding that the PC space's transition to the television set should have taken place years ago."We think the PC space ought to have been doing this for quite some time," Coomer said.Hey look, it's a big black box!Too ​Many Choices Of The Past Gaming Era Weren't Choices At All | KotakuHere's a though-provoking piece from Kotaku's Kirk Hamilton, who argues that most of the current-gen games that appeared to offer moral choices were in fact always manipulating us toward certain outcomes, or not providing us with the tools and systems of a functioning moral universe. He cites Mass Effect:Imagine: At the end of Return of the Jedi, Darth Vader decides to surprise us all. He stands up behind the Emperor, ready to kill him and save his son Luke Skywalker. Oh, but nope, sorry! He actually can't do that. After a lifetime of evil, Mr. Vader doesn't have the paragon points necessary to do such a thing. He's been evil so long that he can only let his son die, then do whiskey shots with Palpatine while kicking the smoldering corpse.That's how the ending of Jedi would've played out in the Mass Effect universe.I wonder if this will all change in the next generation or if are there inherent game design conventions that limit true moral agency?To Hell And Back In Spelunky | Tom FrancisTo Satre, hell was other people, to Spelunky players, hell is a near-mythical location at the base of this fiendish procedurally generated cavern complex. And games-journalist-turned-developer Tom Francis has found it:Last night I accomplished probably the hardest thing I've ever managed in a video game: going to hell and back in Spelunky. It only took 41 minutes, but it took me hundreds of hours of play – and about 3,000 deaths – to learn how to do those 41 minutes.This is a great little blogpost (and video) about a wonderfully rich game and the obsession it has inspired in devotees.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Google's latest doodle celebrates the birthday of Raymond Loewy, the late industrial designer of the Coca-Cola bottle who was also involved in creating the Shell, Exxon, TWA and former BP logos.Loewy's slenderised design for an S1 steam locomotive that saw service in the eastern US forms the basis of the doodle.Described by admirers as the "father of industrial design", Loewy, who died in 1986 at the age of 92, was responsible for other notable symbols including the Lucky Strike cigarette packet.Born in France, he emigrated to the US in 1919 after completing his engineering studies at the Université de Paris and École de Laneau.After working in New York as a shop window decorator for Saks Fith Avenue and Macy's, he drew for Vogue, Harper's Bazaar and Vanity Fair before moving into industrial design towards the end of the 1920s.Along with designing locomotives for the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, he was responsible for vehicles such as the Hupmobile (1934) for the Hupp Motor Company and the streamlined Greyhound buses.One of his longest and most fruitful relationships was with the car maker Studebaker, and he was involved in the 1960s in designing the Avanti, a luxury coupe.He retired at the age of 87 in 1980 and returned to France, where he died at his Monte Carlo residence in 1986.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNew policy for Google Voice means an end to MetroTalk for Windows Phone &gt;&gt; Windows Phone CentralNikhyl Singhal, who is product manager in the Google+ team,commentedon the future status of the service:"Finally, we want to make Google Voice as secure as possible. There are a few third-party applications that provide calling and SMS services by making unauthorized use of Google Voice. These apps violate our Terms of Service and pose a threat to your security, so we're notifying these app developers that they must stop making unauthorized use of Google Voice to run their services and transition users by May 15, 2014."If the third-party apps pose a security threat, why are they being given six months to make a transition? This just looks like Google building walls against Windows Phone - as it has previously done with YouTube and Gmail.Lenovo Yoga Tablet 10 - a cruel joke &gt;&gt; BetanewsBrian Fagioli:The Lenovo Yoga 10 tablet looked great... until I turned it on. You see, when I did the unboxing, the build quality felt solid. Holding it my hands, I had high hopes; the integrated kickstand was intriguing. The tablet itself resembles an Apple Magic Trackpad.While most tablets are just rectangular slabs, the integrated kickstand allows the Yoga to stand up on its own. I was particularly blown-away by just how well-made the kickstand is; it's crafted from thick aluminum. This enables the tablet to be used as a display for watching video services like Hulu Plus or Netflix. However, the overall package is a cruel joke - beautiful on the outside but horrible on the inside.Back to work, Mr Kutcher.Android 4.4 gives apps vastly better Web technology &gt;&gt; CNET NewsChrome for Android has been available for more than a year, but the improvements it offered over the operating system's more basic browser weren't available to developers who wanted to draw upon the browser's abilities for their own native apps.Until now.With the KitKat release of Android, Google updated a programming interface called WebView so it now employs Chrome instead of the earlier WebKit-based browser. That enables apps with many modern browser features such as WebRTC for real time audio and video chat, WebGL for accelerated 2D and 3D graphics, and a full-screen option...The Chrome-based WebView interface in Android, though, will only be updated with Android releases.That will mean a longer wait before developers can take advantage of the latest shiny new web standard in their Android apps.How an epic blunder by Adobe could strengthen hand of password crackers &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaAbsent a major mistake on the part of Adobe, I'd wager outsiders probably won't be able to decrypt the file, given the difficulty of brute-forcing a Triple DES key. That would be good news. Gosney, a password security expert with Stricture Consulting Group, told Ars that of the 130m encrypted passwords, 56m of them are unique. A crack that, in one stroke, unleashed that many plaintext passcodes into the wild would be unprecedented, because a large percentage of people reuse the same or only slightly modified passcode over and over. The biggest single leak to date came in 2009 with the compromise of gaming website RockYou. It forever changed the password-cracking landscape by seeding it with a corpus of 32m passcodes, 14m of which were unique.Might part of the aim of this attack actually have been to get at this giant corpus of passwords? It seems increasingly likely.Samsung extends the patent license agreement between Nokia and Samsung for five years; companies will enter into binding arbitration to settle the amount of additional compensation &gt;&gt; Nokia PressNokia announced that Samsung has extended a patent license agreement between Nokia and Samsung for five years. The agreement would have expired at the end of 2013. According to the agreement, Samsung will pay additional compensation to Nokia for the period commencing from January 1, 2014 onwards, and the amount of such compensation shall be finally settled in a binding arbitration which is expected to be concluded during 2015."This extension and agreement to arbitrate represent a hallmark of constructive resolution of licensing disputes, and are expected to save significant transaction costs for both parties", said Paul Melin, Chief Intellectual Property Officer of Nokia.The "binding arbitration" phrase makes it pretty clear that these are standards-essential patents (SEPs) which Nokia is licensing. If they weren't, they'd be fighting it out in court. Though of course Samsung now knows how much Apple is paying Nokia for its SEPs, and non-essential patents through the leaking of documents from a court case against Apple.Plan on profiting off of Windows XP holdouts? There's no gold left in them thar hills &gt;&gt; getwired.comWes Miller of analysis company Directions On Microsoft:I kid you not, there are a lot of small businesses with a lot of applications that honestly have no path forward. They cannot stay on XP – they cannot be secure. They cannot move off, as they either cannot find a replacement of one or more of their key applications, cannot move that key existing application, or in some cases, simply cannot afford to move to a replacement (in case you haven't noticed, we're still not in a great economic climate). They are stuck between a rock and a hard place. Move off of XP and throw away working systems your employees already know for new systems with unknown features or functionality. To boot, any of these new solutions are primarily still targeting Windows 7.US special ops seeks designs for Iron Man-type suit — flight not necessary &gt;&gt; BusinessweekWhile some may view the Mark series of suits in the Iron Man comics and movies as science fiction, the Pentagon sees a real-world goal.A program to incorporate several technologies in a futuristic suit for US special operations forces has started soliciting technical designs to help deploy the first one as soon as next year.Basically a giant recruiting drive for those aged 14-28. Form an orderly queue.Microsoft's plan to sell Windows this holiday season &gt;&gt; SuperSite for WindowsPaul Thurrott has got hold of an internal Microsoft document:For this holiday season, Microsoft plans to right the Windows ship and to do so by selling it and the devices on which it runs in a new way. The goals are simple but specific: Sell 16 million Windows tablets over the holiday sales season while making touch mainstream on PCs and improving the Windows retail experience.That's an ambitious target. He also notes that only 20% of PCs that ship during the Christmas period will have Windows 8.1 preinstalled - so retailers will have to update them.The iPad 2 and education &gt;&gt; Elia InsiderElia Freedman explains why Apple kept the iPad 2, and why it sells so well:I spent years talking to schools and teachers in the Palm OS days and only because of that experience do I feel even remotely qualified to talk about this topic. The educational system here in the US works under a very different set of guidelines than what the business world does.Time to compress our thinking about the NBN &gt;&gt; The AgeThe NBN is Australia's National Broadband Network, and it has a big budget. Too big, thinks Derek Rielly:According to the projections of the NBN Co we'll be getting a gigabyte per second once it comes into our lives. Problem solved.And what an investment. For the kids! For our future! We'll be so futuristic we'll make the Koreans and Japanese with their fancy wireless cities and perpetually connected citizens look like regional hicks.I ain't convinced.Thinking laterally, wouldn't it make more sense to just invest 20 billion dollars into developing the world's finest compression software?We employ the world's best programmers sourced here and overseas to work in our newly created research centre.Something like America's Manhattan Project in World War II that created a way to annihilate the world in just six years.But instead of incinerating human beings, we want something that can squash a terabyte file into, say, 100 megabytes or a movie into a one megabyte file without any loss of resolution.A timeline of compression might help work out if this is feasible.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The Misfit Shine is a small, attractive all-metal fitness tracker that is easy to live with and effortlessly does what it needs to do.The first product from a company that counts John Sculley, former Apple CEO, as a co-founder, the Shine was successfully funded on crowdfunding platform Indiegogo, before going on general sale in November in the UK.The name, Misfit Wearables, was chosen because the company happened to be founded on the day of Steve Jobs&apos; death, with “misfit” being a tribute to one of Apple’s signature adverts, “Here’s to the crazy ones”.Misfit Shine fitness tracker review - wearable on the wrist using the sportbandDesigned like jewelleryThe Misfit Shine is arguably the best looking fitness tracker out there. It looks more like a tiny UFO than a fitness tracker, and that’s a good thing for something you are going to wear day in and day out.The outside of the Shine is made of aircraft-grade aluminium, with no buttons or visible display. The top of the device has a ring of embedded LEDs that light up when activated by a double or triple tap on the touch-sensitive metal casing.The lights indicate your progress towards your daily activity challenge, but can also be used to tell the time, lighting up in the hour and minute positions.The Shine is currently available in a dark grey, almost black colour or silver, but will also be available in &quot;champagne&quot; and a light blue topaz colour in the next few months.Misfit Shine fitness tracker review - sealed back shell makes it waterproof to 50m.Worn almost anywhere on the bodyUsing the Shine couldn’t be easier. It is one of the most robust fitness trackers out there despite weighing just 9.4g, waterproof to 50m and can be worn almost anywhere on the body.Included in the box is a rubberised plastic bracelet so the Shine can be worn comfortably on the wrist. There&apos;s also a magnetic clasp so you can clip it to pretty much any piece of clothing.If you&apos;re performing a specific activity, such as running, playing tennis or sleeping, for instance, a triple tap sets the Shine into activity mode for more accurate recording of your motions and exertions.The Shine then syncs with an iPhone or iPad via Bluetooth – place the Shine directly onto the glass of the screen of your phone or tablet, on the spot indicated by the sync circle, and tap down to initiate a sync. TheiOS appallows you to configure your bespoke activity, update the tracker and review your activity from the past days and weeks, as well as your sleep patterns if you use the Shine to track your sleep at night.Three screens from the Misfit Shine iPhone app. Photograph: /PR/MisfitAn Android app is currently in the works, and is due to be released before the year is out, but the Shine is currently iPhone-only.During a normal day, the Shine charts different levels of activity, including low, medium and energetic motions like walking during your commute, as well as light and deep sleep, allowing you to see your varying activity throughout the day.One of the best features of the Shine is its ultra low-power requirement. It has a battery life of between four and six months – which far outdoes the average 10-14 battery life of most other trackers – and uses traditional circular watch batteries. That does mean that you have to keep a few of them handy, but two are included in the box and they cost as little as 70p each – a small price to pay for never having to remember to charge your tracker.Misfit Shine fitness tracker review - can be worn with its magnetic clasp on almost any piece of clothing.PriceThe Misfits Shine costs £100 in the UK. It comes in black or silver, with topaz and Champagne colour variants available in early 2014. For comparison, other fitness trackers like the Fitbit Flex and One cost £80 each, while the Withings Pulse costs £90 and the Jawbone Up £100. Nike’s new Fuelband SE is currently available for pre-order at £129.Misfit Shine fitness tracker review - solid metal construction makes it incredibly durable.Verdict: one of the easiest trackers to live withThe Misfit Shine is one of the easiest fitness trackers to live with. It is light, small and discrete, doesn’t require charging and is both waterproof and hardy. You can easily clip it onto almost any piece of clothing and forget about it, while the wristband is both comfortable and easily fits under a shirt cuff.There&apos;s no vibrate function, or screen, but the built-in LED light display and simple double and triple tap interface is an attractive, intuitive compromise.Short of tracking stair climbs, the Shine does what a fitness tracker needs to do with the minimum of fuss, although Android users need not apply; it can only sync with an iPhone or iPad for now. An Android app is in the works - and if it is as well-designed and easy to use as the iPhone app, Android users will be in for a treat.Overall, the Shine isn’t the cheapest fitness tracker out there, nor the most feature-packed, but it is one of the best-designed, most attractive and discrete, which is pretty important for something meant to be worn every day.Star rating: 5/5Pros:Attractive, slim and compact design, solid all-metal build quality, waterproof, four to six month battery life, magnetic claspsCons:Disposable batteries, iPhone-only (for now), no altitude measurement, no vibrating alert
Google is launching a service that lets consumers pay for live video chats with experts who can provide everything from step-by-step turkey cooking instructions to marriage counselling.The Google Helpouts service, introduced on Monday, features roughly 1,000 partners in fashion, fitness, computers and other topics, available for live, one-on-one video consultations. The video sessions can be as short as a few minutes or can last several hours, depending on the topic, with pricing set by each individual provider.The video consultations represent an expansion of Google&apos;s traditional web search service, which for years has answered consumers&apos; questions by pointing people to the most appropriate web page after they enter a search query.However while Google remains the world&apos;s biggest internet search engine in the west, consumers are increasingly turning to social networks such as Facebook to get advice and recommendations from their friends about movies, restaurants and other topics.&quot;Most of the world&apos;s useful information still resides in people&apos;s heads,&quot; Udi Manber, vice president of engineering at Google said at a small briefing with reporters in San Francisco on Monday. Helpouts &quot;opens the door to that information as well.&quot;Manber said that Google will initially provide tight oversight of the Helpouts website, deciding which types of services can be offered on Helpouts - possibly as a measure to prevent it being used for pornography.For providers of medical consultations, Google will conduct background checks to ensure that the provider has valid credentials.In addition to individual experts, large US brands such as cosmetics brand Sephora, dieting company Weight Watchers and translation tuition service Rosetta Stone will also be offering video sessions on the Helpouts service.Google will take 20% of the fee that the providers collect from consumers for the video chats, though Google is initially waiving the transaction fee for providers in the &quot;Health&quot; category.Consumers can leave reviews of the different video chat experts and Google will refund consumers who are not satisfied with their video consultation, the company said.
It's Tuesday.
Eric Schmidt, the executive chairman of Google, has attacked the US government for apparently breaking into the connections that link the company's data centres around the world as "outrageous" and described other surveillance practices as "possibly illegal".Speaking at an event in Hong Kong, Schmidt stepped up the company's response to revelations in the Washington Post that the National Security Agency, working with its British counterpart, GCHQ, had broken into fibre optic cables that carry the transfer of data around the world for Google and Yahoo."It's really outrageous that the National Security Agency was looking between the Google data centers, if that's true," Schmidttold the Wall Street Journal."The steps that the organization was willing to do without good judgment to pursue its mission and potentially violate people's privacy, it's not OK."The comments reflected Silicon Valley's hardening criticism of government snooping amid continued revelations based on documents leaked by the former NSA contractor Edward Snowden.Just two months ago,Schmidt declinedto "pass judgment" on the surveillance programmes.But last week it was reported that theNSA intercepted communicationslinks used by Google and Yahoo to move vast amounts of data between overseas data centres.On Monday, the Washington Postpublished further Snowden documentsand additional context for its story. Among the details published in the latest report is the claim the interception took place on "British territory".It also claimed that none of the statements issued by the NSA since the story was published contained substantive denials. It said the source documents showed the NSA, rather than break directly into Google or Yahoo data centres, intercepted communication between them that ran on private fibre optic cable circuits. The former is known as "data at rest", the latter as "data on the fly".It was clear spies broke into both companies' private "clouds", or internal networks, said the report, because some of the extracted data existed nowhere else.It remained unclear how the NSA did this, and whether it had help from inside the technology giants.Asked if it had launched an internal security review, Google on Monday reissued a statement given last week from chief legal officer David Drummond, saying the company did not give access to its systems to any government and that it was expanding encryption across more Google services and links.In his interview, Schmidt said Google had lodged complaints with the NSA, the White House and members of Congress. He also attacked the separate NSA program that sweeps up the telephone metadata relating millions of Americans. "The NSA allegedly collected the phone records of 320 million people in order to identify roughly 300 people who might be a risk. It's just bad public policy … and perhaps illegal," he said.Google itself has faced repeatedaccusations of privacy violations, including illicitly tracking web browsing.Schmidt has made no secret that the company tests boundaries of what is acceptable. "Google policy is to get right up to the creepy line and not cross it," he said in 2010.Outcries in Europeand growing momentum in Washington to rein in surveillance has put the NSA on the defensive.Asked to respond to Schmidt's criticism, an NSA spokesperson said the agency was "focused on valid foreign intelligence targets" and referred to a previous statement that press articles had misstated facts and mischaracterised NSA activities."NSA conducts all of its activities in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and policies – and assertions to the contrary do a grave disservice to the nation, its allies and partners, and the men and women who make up the National Security Agency."Last week the agency's director, General Keith Alexander, said the agency had not used a presidential order to circumvent domestic legal restrictions: "I can tell you factually we do not have access to Google servers, Yahoo servers. We go through a court order."
Struggling smartphone maker BlackBerry has fired its chief executive and abandoned a $4.7bn (£3bn) rescue bid from its largest shareholder as it turned to a $1bn fundraising plan in a battle to stay afloat.Thorsten Heins, brought in to run the company in January 2012, will leave with a $22m payoff, and be replaced by John Chen, a seasoned technology industry executive. The surprise move by BlackBerry indicates that it has failed to find a buyer for the company after a six week process in which it has discussed deals with industry powerhouses including Google, Cisco and Facebook.The company said it will raise $1bn in convertible bonds instead of pursuing a deal with Fairfax Financial, its 10% shareholder. Fairfax, whose ability to raise the financing for its $4.7bn bid was widely questioned, has pledged to buy $250m worth of the bonds.The company, which has endured a rapid fall from grace, did not say why it was trying to raise the extra money amid predictions that it will burn through its $2bn cash pile within 18 months. Its last quarterly results showed revenues and handset sales plunging and it is trying to cut costs by firing almost a quarter of its staff. BlackBerry controlled close to 50% of the handset market in the US in 2009 but its share now stands at less than 3% after it buckled under competition from Apple and Samsung.BlackBerry handset sales: units shipped per year"This does look like panic stations," said Neil Mawston, executive director at the research company Strategy Analytics. "The trouble is that when a company's in that downward spiral, nobody wants to catch a falling knife – so operators don't want to work with them, and retailers don't want the stock."BlackBerry's chairwoman, Barbara Stymiest, thanked Heins for his "significant accomplishments" at the company he joined in 2007. His interim replacement Chen is an adviser to Silver Lake, the private equity group that played a leading role in the recent buyout of Dell. In an interview with Reuters, Chen said he had no plans to shut down the company's handset business, thought to be a significant loss maker."I know we have enough ingredients to build a long-term sustainable business. I have done this before and seen the same movie before," he said. "BlackBerry is an iconic brand with enormous potential – but it's going to take time, discipline and tough decisions to reclaim our success."BlackBerry shares plunged by 13% to $6.79, from $7.70 before the market opened, far below the $9 per share that Fairfax was attempting to offer ahead of Monday's bid deadline.There are growing expectations that the handset business will be severely cut back after market failure of the new BB10 handsets. "BlackBerry needs to use the new cash infusion to change its market approach [to one] where saving the devices business is not the main priority," said Carolina Milanesi of the research group Gartner, which recently advised business clients using BlackBerry to examine alternatives. The new unsecured funding will be in the form of debentures, convertible into BlackBerry shares priced at $10, a premium of 28.7% to Friday's closing price, within seven years.But analysts remained sceptical about the future of the firm formerly known as Research in Motion. "If you wouldn't lend money to buy BlackBerry, why would you lend money to BlackBerry?" queried Benedict Evans, of Enders Analysis.BlackBerry was believed to have held talks with a number of companies while Fairfax said it was working on its bid. The bid was announced on 23 September, just after the company had announced disastrous results with a second quarter loss of $965m – largely due to a $934m writeoff on unsold Z10 handsets – on revenues of just $1.6bn.Among the companies which BlackBerry is understood to have spoken to about a buyout are Google, Cisco, SAP and China's Lenovo. But no bids materialised to challenge the putative one from Fairfax – that itself failed to materialise."Looks like nobody was interested in buying BlackBerry outright," commented Avi Greengart, research director at Current Analytics. "The announcement does not even hint at what BlackBerry does next."Having concluded a strategic review with Monday's short statement, BlackBerry must now rely on the $1bn fundraising and its own finances, having seen former arch-rival Nokia capitulate this year with the sale of its handset business to Microsoft. BlackBerry says it has taken measures to cut costs – but equally could see increasing pressure on margins if its business continues to decline.The company's cash position could also be hit if suppliers begin demanding payments on shorter terms, which would mean paying cash for components before they can be sold as finished items. One major supplier, Jabil, warned in September that it might stop building parts for the company, which could completely kill off the handset business.
Twitter, after canvassing professional investors for a week on how much they would be willing to pay for its shares, raised the asking price of its stock by 25% on Monday.The company said it would value its IPO at between $23 and $25 a share, up from the $17 to $20 range, indicating that it was a popular potential investment. Traditionally, however, the banks advising companies on their public debuts start out with a modest asking price, in the hopes that investors will prove willing to pay more.Twitter also stopped selling its shares a day early, according to a news report by Reuters. It&apos;s common for companies to keep order books open for investors until the day before the IPO, but Twitter plans to close the books on Tuesday at noon, Reuters said. In the traditional signals of Wall Street, that move could be interpreted in two ways: it could indicate either high demand for the shares or that investors are tapped out.Twitter, which plans to list its shares for the first time on the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday, can now claim a market value of $13.6bn before its shares have even started trading. The company could raise as much as $1.4bn in the offering.MKM Partners, a research firm for professional investors, said Twitter will be in the competitive &quot;elite&quot; of tech companies by its market value.&quot;We look at a [comparison] group including Facebook, LinkedIn, TripAdvisor, Yelp and Zillow,&quot; MKM analyst Rob Sanderson wrote in a client note late last week. &quot;These companies are regarded as &apos;category killers&apos;, each with very strong operating momentum, disruptive characteristics and open-ended opportunities.&quot;That doesn&apos;t necessarily mean smooth sailing ahead, however. Twitter is facing business challenges from rivals as well as skepticism from investors burned by the Facebook IPO.Twitter is not seen as a good investment by nearly half of active investors, according toa new CNBC-AP poll out Monday.&quot;That sentiment is stronger from higher-income respondents; some 56% of those with incomes of $75,000 a year have doubts about its investment prospects,&quot;CNBC wrote.In addition, as Twitter&apos;s profile rises, rivals are taking aim at its business prospects. &quot;We presently are involved in a number of intellectual property lawsuits, and as we face increasing competition and gain an increasingly high profile, we expect the number of patent and other intellectual property claims against us to grow,&quot; the company said.Twitter revealed on Monday, for instance, thattech giant IBM has claimed that Twitter has violated three of its patents. The patents involve the presentation of advertising and the process of searching for user contacts.By striking at Twitter&apos;s advertising plans, IBM is striking at the company&apos;s heart. Twitter gained 85% of its revenue from advertising in 2012, and an even higher percentage – 89% – in the first nine months of this year. &quot;We generate substantially all of our advertising revenue through the sale of our three promoted products: promoted Tweets, promoted accounts and promoted trends.&quot;Twitter said IBM was not suing, however, and only inviting a negotiation. In its public filing, Twitter said &quot;we believe we have meritorious defenses,&quot; although it also said &quot;there can be no assurance that we will be successful&quot; in resolving the dispute.
Q:Where and why is my face being scanned, and who is doing it?A:Tesco hasannouncedthat it will begin using a face-scanning technology in all of its 450 petrol stations in the UK that can determine your gender and approximate age (child, young adult, adult, senior adult) while you wait in a line to pay. That information will be used to show relevant adverts in a screen visible from the line.Q: Who&apos;s behind this technology?A:Amscreen - run by Simon Sugar, son of Lord Sir Alan Sugar, of Am-company fame - has licensed the technology from a French company called Quividi, which developed the face detection software.Q: So it&apos;s not a British innovation?A:The advertising part is: Amscreen says its &quot;real-time digital network&quot; will &quot;deliver engaging and dynamic content to a weekly audience of over five million adults.&quot; (The demonstration picture shows a middle-aged man being confronted with an advert for Sky.) It&apos;s part of Amscreen&apos;s &quot;Optimeyes&quot; system which uses 6,000 screens around petrol forecourts, health clubs, shops and airports: &quot;the rollout of this technology represents the largest of its kind anywhere in the world.&quot;The face detection, though, comes from Quividi, based in Paris. It set up in 2006, and has clients including Coca-Cola and Plan, which used its technique earlier this year in the UK for bus adverts which showed differentQ: Doesn&apos;t this invade my privacy? I don&apos;t want to be recorded when I visit a petrol stationA:&quot;We don&apos;t do facial recognition, we do face detection,&quot; Ke Quang, chief operating officer of Quividi, told the Guardian on Monday. &quot;It&apos;s software which works from the video feed coming off the camera. It can detect if it&apos;s seeing a face, but it never records the image or biomorphological information or traits. It picks up if it&apos;s seeing a man or a woman, the amount of time they pay attention to the screen, and their presence in front of the screen. The key thing though is that it never records or remembers any information. If you go from one camera in one location to another, it can&apos;t tell.&quot;Q: What&apos;s the point of it?A:To show you more adverts when you might otherwise not be looking at adverts.Q: How accurate is the face detection system?A:Pretty good when it comes to telling men from women - unless you wear a baseball cap. Quividihas a study on its sitecarried out by an independent company in the US: from a sample of 856 people, of whom 72% were men, it was 95% accurate in spotting men, and 87% for women. The score with women was lower because nearly a fifth of them were wearing baseball caps. If you exclude them, it hit 92% accuracy in spotting women. There&apos;s no way that&apos;s chance.Q: How exactly does the facial detection work?A:Quang wouldn&apos;t explain - &quot;that&apos;s our secret sauce&quot; - but it&apos;s long been known that there are key differences between male and female faces, relating to width of forehead, ratio of facial height to width, and so on. Quividi apparently recognises faces and then carries out this calculation very rapidly, adding in details about age.Q: Is this the first time this has been used in the UK?A:No - in February 2012 the charity Planused it for adverts on bus shelters: if the person looking at the screen was male, they saw details of Plan&apos;s website; if they were female, they saw a video campaign in which three girls talked about their lives.Q: Where else is this used?A:In quite a few locations around the world, judging by Quividi&apos;s site: it shows customers in North America, Latin America, Europe, Asia and New Zealand. It claims to be used in 2,500 locations in 35 countries.Q: How do I beat it?A:Wear a baseball cap or other hat that covers your eyes and forehead; don&apos;t look at the screen showing the ads; and try using the &quot;Pay at Pump&quot; option so you don&apos;t have to go inside the petrol station shop.
AKickstarter projectto build 9in high-definition monitors for just £65 to connect to the Raspberry Pi was fully funded in just over three days.The HDMIPi, which aims to be an affordable small and portable HDMI-equipped monitor for connecting to the Raspberry Pi computer, smashed its funding target of £55,000 and is currently £31,000 over its goal with 26 days to go.&quot;Small HDMI screens are expensive. Native HD ones are astronomical. We want to drive the price down &quot;Raspberry Pi&quot; style,&quot; said Alex Eames, co-founder of the HDMIPi and Raspberry Pi blogger.Featuring a 9in 1280 x 800 HD display in the same barebones format as the Raspberry Pi complete with the needed HDMI controller board and traditional display ribbon cable like those found within most laptop and tablet computers, will need assembly on receipt.The HDMIPi is a small, affordable HDMI-equipped high-definition display for the Raspberry Pi.Similar to displays found on the Tesco HudlThe display is slightly larger, but of similar resolution to those found on the Tesco Hudl and 2012 Google Nexus 7 tablet computers, and could be used with other computers and devices - anything with an HDMI output including phones, computers and games consoles.The team, consisting of a Raspberry Pi blogger and accessory manufacturer Cyntech, is looking to reduce the cost of the display through a 1,000 unit production run, allowing the creation of a custom-made low cost HDMI controller without unnecessary alternative connectors.Most currently available smaller displays cost in-excess of £100, aimed at professional photographers and videographers. In contrast, the HDMIPi can currently be purchased for a £75 pledgesupporting the Kickstarter project.The Raspberry Pi can be purchased from around £30 and is capable of running Linux as well as other software, and can be used for anything from learning to programme to turning your TV into a smart TV with media playing software like Plex or XBMC.• In November, Kickstarter UK celebrated itsone year anniversarygenerating more than £22.5m in funding for successful projects
Mobile game franchises like Angry Birds, Puzzle &amp; Dragons and Clash of Clans aren't just a threat to the traditional games industry individually: their creators willingness to team up is also challenging the mindsets of bigger publishers.Witness a new partnership between Angry Birds developer Rovio Entertainment and Puzzle &amp; Dragons developer GungHo Online, which was announced today, hot on the heels of a recent collaboration between GungHo and Clash of Clans creator Supercell.Between 18 November and 1 December, Puzzle &amp; Dragons will host an Angry Birds-themed dungeon, featuring some of the most popular characters from Rovio's feathery franchise."Angry Birds is one of the most recognisable entertainment franchises in the world, and we are thrilled to be working alongside Rovio to give our fans a look at what it would be like if Angry Birds characters invaded the world of Puzzle &amp; Dragons," said the latter game's creator Daisuke Yamamoto in a statement.For its part, Rovio will be holding a contest for Angry Birds fans to send in their illustrations of how the two games might come together.It's a meeting of monster mobile franchises. Angry Birds ended 2012 with 263m monthly active players according to itslast annual financial results, with the games and related products earning the company €152.2m (£129m) in revenues for that year.That pales in comparison to Puzzle &amp; Dragons, though, which with just 20m downloads in Japanhelped GungHo make $446m of revenues in the second quarter of 2013, and was estimated to be the fourth top grossing iOS app and the top grossing Android app on the Google Play store globally in September.GungHo has run two promotions within Puzzle &amp; Dragons for Supercell's Clash of Clans, the most recent being a week-long event in October following Puzzle &amp; Dragons' release in the UK with another themed dungeon.GungHo also invested $300m in Supercellas part of the latter company's recent $1.5bn strategic investment round, alongside Japanese telco SoftBank.
The man whose name is on a patent for visual voicemail, and ran Apple&apos;s development teams for the iPhone and iPad operating system, has retired after 23 years there.Henri Lamiraux, Apple’s vice president of engineering for iOS, was responsible for the implementation of features and Apple’s apps within its mobile software, as well as management of the team fixing bugs and issues and delivering those bug fixes to customers.As one of the few engineers involved with the iPhone since its inception, Lamiraux retired following the release of iOS 7,according to a statementsent to Apple news site 9to5Mac, as well as hisLinkedInandFacebookpages.Head of iOS under Craig FederighiAfter a rejig of Apple’s corporate structure put Craig Federighi in charge of both the iOS and OS X desktop operating software, Lamiraux was left as the head of iOS under Federighi.Before Federighi took over, Lamiraux worked for Scott Forstall, who was responsible for the ill-fated skeuomorphic direction of iOS 5 and 6, with computer interfaces that resembled real-life objects replete with leather stitching around calendars and address books. Forstall&apos;s divisive style and apparent refusal to take responsibility for the Apple Maps fiasco was seen as key to his beingforced out in October 2012.According to the Wall Street Journal, Lamiraux was known for his software bug reports, a “well-liked Frenchman” who shied away from confrontation.The father of Visual VoicemailHe started his at Apple in 1990, initially as a Mac software engineer, moving to management and then on to director of software engineering for iOS.Lamiraux joined the iOS engineering team in 2005, which made him one of the few engineers to be involved with the iPhone from its inception. His name appears on a couple of crucial Apple patents,including Visual Voicemail- Apple’s reimagining of voicemail that allows the recipient to view messages in a list and play them out of sequence.It is unknown who will replace Lamiraux as the vice president of iOS engineering at Apple. The company declined to comment on his departure.• In October, Apple revealed that all of its iWork and iLife productivity and entertainment software suiteswould be available for freewith the purchase of a new Apple device
BlackBerry, the Canadian smartphone company, could be the target of a bidding war and breakup if Fairfax Financial Holdings cannot fund a $4.7bn buyout by 5pm EST (10pm GMT) on Monday.Update: BlackBerrysays it is abandoning the planned bid,and that Thorsten Heins will be stepping down as chief executive. The company will try to raise $1bn in convertible debt, of which Fairfax has pledged to buy $250m.Unconfirmed reports say that several major banks have declined to take part in funding the bid, worrying that it will not be possible to put the business on a path to recovery as both business users and consumers abandon it for other platforms.Other bidders including co-founder Mike Lazaridis, allied with chipmaker Qualcomm and Cerberus Capital, the Chinese computer and smartphone maker Lenovo, and Facebook have been rumoured as potential bidders if Fairfax, which owns 10% of BlackBerry's shares, cannot pull together the funding by the close of business.They could be interested in the company's patents, which have been valued at around $2bn, and also in its business customers and large-scale network business, including its BlackBerry Messenger business, recently launched for the iPhone and Android phones. The handset business, though, is reckoned to be a huge lossmaker for the company, and analysts reckon it would cost about $1bn to shut it down, leaving just a small contract manufacturing business to serve remaining customers.Google, Cisco, Samsung, LG and SAP are also understood to have spoken to BlackBerry managers about the possibility of a bid or deal. SAP later said that BlackBerry did not fit its strategy. Other companies haven't commented on their position.The deadline for the buyout bid was set on 23 September, whenBlackBerry's board said that it would consider a $9-per-share bid from Fairfaxahead of others, subject to financial penalties if it considered other offers first.But in the six weeks since, there have been growing rumours that Prem Watsa, who stood down from BlackBerry's board in order to lead Fairfax's buyout bid, has been unable to interest enough financial backers in making the bid to spread the risk.Fairfax is reported to be working with BMO Capital Markets and Bank of America Merrill Lynch to raise the financing.A clause signed by BlackBerry's board means that if it accepts another bid before Fairfax's, it has to pay Fairfax $157m; it a higher rival bid arrives after the Fairfax bid - which the BlackBerry board would be obliged to accept, to maximise a shareholder payout - then the penalty rises to $262m.Thorsten Heins, BlackBerry's chief executive, stands to benefit by $35m if he loses his job as a result of a takeover at a $9-per-share price, as part of a revied contract he signed in May and which was agreed by Watsa, BlackBerry chair Barbara Stymiest and board director John Wetmore. The change tripled his compensation if there were a change of control.But analysts and markets have been sceptical that the money can be raised - or that BlackBerry merits the $9 per share price that Watsa's tentative proposal suggested.BlackBerry's business has collapsed as consumers have shifted to rival smartphones from Apple, Samsung and others, while mobile carriers have declined to pay it the "data premium" that they used to when it would carry messages between BlackBerry phones around the world on its own network. As data costs have fallen, carriers have squeezed BlackBerry on the price they will pay for its users.Meanwhile business customers have been reluctant to pay for the heavy encryption required in its BlackBerry Enterprise Server (BES) system, and the introduction in January of the BB10 software - which is incompatible with older versions of BES - would require them to upgrade all their server software and handsets at once. That has been unpalatable to many large businesses, which have instead concentrated on ensuring their supplies of old handsets running the earlier BB7 software.BlackBerry's shares were trading at $7.70 ahead of the market opening on Monday, though they were up slightly to $7.98 in pre-trading. They had collapsed from $10.50 to $8.73 on 19 September ahead of the company's quarterly results on fears about sales - and have never recovered above $8.50 since Fairfax's tentative bid was announced.Richard Windsor, a former Nomura analyst who runs the Radio Free Mobile consultancy,suggeststhat "Fairfax has no rabbit to pull out of the hat" because the valuation put on the company "looks way too high to anyone except a BlackBerry shareholder." He values the company at $6.32 - substantially below the current share price - and points to the company's warning on 23 September that it would miss revenue forecasts by a colossal 47%, and that sales of its BB10 devices had tanked. Calling that "the worst profit warning in its history", he says "there has been a systemic loss of confidence in BlackBerry as a going concern. This basically means that most enterprise [large business] customers are now looking for alternative solutions."He thinks that "Fairfax is going to have to admit that its bid has been all talk and no substance. This will leave BlackBerry once again in the lurch and prey to the circling vultures looking to pick off the plum assets."He predicts that if the bid doesn't appear that BlackBerry shares could dive by 20% in after-hours trading. "For anyone unlucky enough to be still holding stock, there is only one rational action before the close of trading today," he says.Without a bid, or a breakup, BlackBerry would have to rely on its own finances. One analyst warned that at the rate seen in its previous quarter, it would burn through its $2bn cash pile in 18 months. The company says it has taken measures to cut costs - but equally could see increasing pressure on margins if its business continues to decline, while the costs of reducing the size of its handset business could require payouts.The company's cash position could also be hit if suppliers begin demanding payments on shorter terms, which would mean paying cash for components before they can be sold as finished items. One major supplier, Jabil, warned in September that it might stop building parts for the company, which could kill off the handset business.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 2 November 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag (18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (39)12 (–)Battlefield 4 (18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (27)PC (13)13 (3)Fifa 14 (3+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (35)Wii (2)64 (2)Grand Theft Auto V (18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (43)75 (1)Batman: Arkham Origins (16+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (41)VITA (3)26 (–)Football Manager 2014 (3+)PC (100)17 (–)WWE 2K14 (16+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (46)18 (7)Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition (7+)Xbox 360 (100)199 (4)Skylanders Swap Force (7+)Xbox 360 (39)Wii (35)PS3 (20)Wii U (3)310 (6)Pokemon Y (7+)3DS (100)411 (5)Pokemon X (7+)3DS (100)412 (10)Just Dance 2014 (3+)Wii (86)Xbox 360 (9)Wii U (4)PS3 (1)513 (11)Disney Infinity (7+)Xbox 360 (36)Wii (32)PS3 (22)Wii U (6)1114 (14)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes (7+)Xbox 360 (38)PS3 (19)Wii (14)3DS (14)6915 (12)F1 2013 (3+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (42)PC (3)516 (8)Lego The Lord Of The Rings (7+)DS (41)Xbox 360 (27)PS3 (14)Wii (11)3617 (–)Tomb Raider (18+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (32)PC (1)3218 (17)Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Blacklist (18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (36)1019 (–)Saints Row IV (18+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (35)1020 (9)Moshi Monsters: Katsuma Unleashed (3+)DS (82)3DS (18)2UKIE Games Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Rockstar is finally preparing to gift $500,000 of virtual cash to every player of its GTA Online mode – a promise the company made on 14 October, but has so far been unable to deliver.An online update issued on Fridayinformed gamers that another update to the online multiplayer servicer, which is free to owners of Grand Theft Auto 5, will be made available for download early this week. The money will then be dropped into the accounts of players, in two equal payments of $250,000, a few days later.There's a condition, however: the package will only be provided to veterans who played GTA Online during its shaky debut month. Launched on 2 October, the ambitious online option, which allows players to compete for cash and experience points on the streets of Los Santos, has been beset by server breakdowns as well as data loss problems. Thousands complained of losing characters and money as Rockstar engineers fought to cope with the demand of several million players hitting its online infrastructure simultaneously. Several downloadable updates have followed, some to solve technical issues, other to prevent wily players from exploiting glitches in the game to make easy money.The continuing problems with data loss, as well as ongoing attempts to balance the in-game economy, are almost certainly behind the delay in issuing the $500,000 payout. Players have seen several major changes to the financial system over the past few weeks including a large reduction in the cost of being killed in the game's open-world "free" mode, but also a reduction in the amount that can be made from repeatedly beating the same money-making missions.Away from money woes, the publisher is promising a range of new content for the GTA Online game mode in order to maintain interest. The free "Beach Bum" downloadable content pack, due in "early November", adds new beach-themed vehicles and clothes as well as extra races and Gang Attack, Survival and Last Team Standing jobs. A content creator mode is also due, allowing players to create their own customised races and death matches, with the best featured on the Rockstar site. The company has also announced a series of Grand Theft Auto Online Social Club Event weekends, with special bonuses, rewards and limited edition crate drops into the online city.More intriguingly, Rockstar assures us this will be the week we find out about the new Heists, which are set to bring more in-depth cooperative missions to the online offering. A Capture The Flag mode is also imminent. The publisher's mailout ends with yet another seductive promise: "We will also have initial details on more additional content coming for both Story Mode and GTA Online in the next few weeks."For now, though, many GTA Online players have just one demand for Rockstar: show me the money.
Katy Perry has become the most popular Twitter user in the world, deposing Justin Bieber as the top account on the social network.Perry now has just over 46.5 million followerson Twitter toBieber&apos;s 46.49 million, ending his nine-month reign as the most-followed user on the service. The buzz around her new album Prism is the main reason for Perry&apos;s current social surge.Musician remain some of the most popular users on Twitter, accounting for four of the five most-followed accounts.Lady Gaga&apos;s 40.4 million followersputs her third, having spent three years as the biggest Twitter star before being overtaken by Bieber in January this year.Taylor Swift&apos;s 36.25 million followersputs her fifth on the chart, with only US president Barack Obama breaking up the top fivewith his 39.27 million followers.It&apos;s a far cry from the days in 2009 when Britney Spears, actor Ashton Kutcher and CNN were battling to becomethe first Twitter account with more than 1 million followers– a race won by Kutcher.Perry recently talked about her social media strategy,telling USA Todaythat &quot;I&apos;ve learned how to ride social media ... I feel like I&apos;ve learned how to tame that social media dragon&quot; before giving fellow stars advice on how to follow suit.&quot;When you decide to have a glass of wine, put the phone down. Don&apos;t drink and tweet. Don&apos;t be self-indulgent. Don&apos;t use it just to promote yourself. That&apos;s boring.&quot;Perry&apos;s Twitter success is matched on Facebook, but she&apos;s not the most popular star on that social network, despite her official pagehaving accumulated 59.25 million likes– ahead ofBieber&apos;s 57.27 million, but behindGaga&apos;s 60.35m.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.More PS4 games will be announced the night before the console launches | VG247This one speaks for itself:GameTrailersTV will be doing a"#PS4ALLACCESS"thing on November 14 (PS4 Eve) at 11pm EST with Geoff Keighley pimping some "world premieres and announcements" that will "definitely" involved games that have not been announced for the console. (Perhaps including Journey.) You can stream it, so if you're waiting in line for your this could help you amp yourself up to dangerous levels.For heaven's sake Sony, Keighley gets all of these things. Did you not see Cara and Keith's Powerlunch? We could have done this one for you!Project Gotham Racing 'might have a future on Xbox' | CVG UKIGN has been talking to Xbox exec Phil Spencer about lots of stuff – including the possibility of a new Project Gotham title!Asked if the franchise has a future on Xbox, Spencer told IGN: "Maybe. I think the Kudos system that we had in PGR was the real secret sauce. I thought that was the thing that people really loved. It had a great feel, it was there at launch, which I think was important."Okay, so hedidgo on to say that the slate is rather full of racing titles at the moment, but let's just dream while we can.Bungie talks Destiny competitive multiplayer | GameSpotBungie community manager Eric Osborne has been chatting about how important competitive multiplayer is for the studio and forthcoming opus, Destiny:"Competitive multiplayer is a huge focus for the team. We love it. We play it at lunch weekly. We fight about it. We constantly go back and forth. The perspectives vary wildly inside the studio," Osborne said."But it's already got to the point where it's really fun and it's really about tweaking and iterating and playing it every day and finding that spot we think is unique but also feels familiar for those who are into competitive multiplayer that's skill-based, 'I'm better than you not necessarily because of the gear I have but because I'm better than you.'"No more word, though, on exactly how PvsP gameplay will be fed into the pervasive Destiny universe.PS4 pre-orders "much, much, much higher" than past consoles | GamesIndustry InternationalJust in case you were concerned that Sony hadn't received enough interest in its new machine:Sony's games business may have lost $8 million in its recent quarter, but the good news is that early indicators for the PlayStation 4 are very positive. In the company's earnings call (as transcribed by Seeking Alpha), CFO Masaru Kato enthused, "Compared to past platforms, the pre-orders that we have received for this new platform is much, much, much higher."Sony is expecting to sell 5 million units by the end of its fiscal year on March 31, 2014, and the company is bullish on its projections given the pre-orders it's seen so far. An exact number hasn't been provided, but in August Sony Computer Entertainment boss Andrew House did note that over 1 million units had already been pre-ordered. After the launch of the PS3, the console went on to sell about 3.5 million units by the following March, so if Sony can hit 5 million in that same period with PS4 it would be a significant improvement.Yes it would, especially as consoles were supposed to be an anachronism in smartphone era...2DS enjoys half-term sales spike | MCVSome good news for Nintendo's hardware division, at last:2DS was launched three weeks ago alongside Pokémon X and Y. The machine was on sale for around £110, but last week major retailers including Argos, Amazon and Tesco cut the machine to under £100 to coincide with the school half-termIt proved to be the magic price point, as sales of 2DS has shot up 64 per cent week-on-week. 2DS was comfortably the UK's best selling console last week, and that's without combining the sales of 3DS and 3DS XL.Now, if they could just start shifting Wii Us – company president Satoru Iwata hasjust admittedthe machine has been a failure so far.Chess 2: The Sequel - How a street fightin' man fixed the world's most famous game | Eurogamer.netThis is another really fascinating feature from Eurogamer, looking at how chess has often evolved in the past to meet the demands of different ages – and how it may need to evolve again, according to one Zachary Burns:"The reason for that?" asks Burns. "Yes, we've explored the game very deeply, but even beyond that, it's just kind of a draw-y game. Even if one player has clearly demonstrated superior play - let's say one player only has a king remaining at the end and the other player has a king and two knights - even though they're at a significant material advantage, that game might still be a draw because draws are built so heavily into the game mechanics." Even worse, games often end in resignation when an actual victory starts to loom on the distant horizon. Chess really is in an odd place, then. In fact, modern chess is at risk of being a game that only amateurs and intermediates can have much fun with.From here we meet David Sirlin – chess fan and Super Street Fighter 2 Turbo HD Remix re-balancer – and the concept of Chess 2.In short, Eurogamer senior writer Christian Donlan does it again.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe five reasons a drone will not be delivering your pizza - QuartzBloombergreportsthat venture capitalist Tim Draper, backer of startups like Skype and Baidu, recently backed software startup DroneDeploy, a land mapping software technology firm for unmanned commercial drones. In just the first nine months of 2013, investors poured $40.9m into startups working on commercial drone applications.Draper told reporters in an email that, "Everything from pizza delivery to personal shopping can be handled by drones."However...A gestural interface for smart watches &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewIf just thinking about using a tiny touch screen on a smart watch has your fingers cramping up, researchers at the University of California at Berkeley and Davis may soon offer some relief: they're developing a tiny chip that uses ultrasound waves to detect a slew of gestures in three dimensions. The chip could be implanted in wearable gadgets.The technology, called Chirp, is slated to be spun out into its own company, Chirp Microsystems, to produce the chips and sell them to hardware manufacturers. They hope that Chirp will eventually be used in everything from helmet cams to smart watches — basically any electronic device you want to control but don't have a convenient way to do so.As with the Leap Motion, the problem with this sort of interface is not activating it by mistake.Why Google+ doesn't need ads &gt;&gt; jessica lessinAmir Efrati:according to people who have worked at Google, the reality is less impressive. The Google+ stream is broadly defined. In the past, statistics about active users in the stream included anytime a person clicked on the red Google+ notifications in the top right corner of their screen while they were using Web search, Gmail, or other Google web services. The person didn't actually have to visit plus.google.com to be counted as "active."Comparing Google+ to Facebook purely as a social destination site is difficult, but one previously undisclosed statistic might help. In the middle of last year, fewer than 10 million people visited the Google+ stream at plus.google.com every day, according to a person who had direct access to that information at the time. During that same time period, Facebook had more than 500 million daily active users, according to Facebook. (The Facebook figure is somewhat inflated because it includes people who took an action to share content or activity with their Facebook friends via third-party websites, not just people who visited their main Facebook newsfeed, which is equivalent to the Google+ stream.).Good to have some solid data. Will Vic Gundotra start providing more useful numbers soon instead of the inflated ones?How social media killed iGoogle &gt;&gt; Washington Post blogDiehard personalized-homepage fans could still fall back on My Yahoo or My MSN, but it seems more likely they will join the the unwashed masses in using social media to fill most of their personalized news needs. Twitter is currently a standard for most journalists needing updates on breaking news. And of the two-thirds of Americans who use Facebook, half of them consume news through it - even if that consumption is mostly incidental.Customized portals like iGoogle really represented a sort of first step toward the highly personalized experience most us have online now due to the influence of social media. It seems almost quaint to rely on self-selection when you can use the hive-mind of your network to help deliver content to your stream.About &gt;&gt; UrtheCastWhen the UrtheCast platform goes live, you'll be able to view the Earth in all its beauty, in a whole new way. UrtheCast's cameras will begin to stream videos and imagery from the ISS while the platform showcases parts of the globe and helps you tour around your favourite locales.Ooo.Apple testing Mail update for OS X Mavericks to fix Gmail, stability, and smart mailbox issues &gt;&gt; 9to5MacMany of the issues have mainly affected users of Google's Gmail email service, and some of the issues have to do with receiving messages, sorting messages into folders, and deleting messages.Apple is aware of the issue and is testing a fix for the problem…An updated Mail application has been seeded to both Apple employees internally and testers within Apple's customer AppleSeed program.Receiving, sorting and deleting messages do sound like things you would expect an email client to do without trouble - especially as every previous version of Mac OS X since 2004 or so has handled Gmail without this farrago.Top 100 Adobe passwords, with count &gt;&gt; Pastebin.comWe do not (yet) have the keys Adobe used to encrypt the passwords of 130,324,429 users affected by their most recent breach. However, thanks to Adobe's selection of ECB mode and using the same key for every password, combined with a number of known plaintexts and the generosity of users who flat-out gave us their password in their password hint, this is not preventing us from presenting you with this list of the top 100 passwords selected by Adobe users.22,719 people chose "jessica"?Surface 2 review: it needs apps, better software &gt;&gt; Business InsiderJay Yarow:Just make a tablet, add some games, let the users show up. Seems pretty basic for a tech company.After using the Surface 2 though, it's clear that [Microsoft PR chief Frank X.] Shaw's comment is way off the mark. The Surface makes it evident that there's nothing "easy" about making a tablet that's good for entertainment.The Surface isn't good for gaming. It isn't good for entertainment. Maybe it's good for doing work, but personally, I don't need to do work on a tablet, and I'm not convinced the majority of people need to do work on a tablet.The Surface doesn't even have Candy Crush, which is the most popular game on the planet right now. It doesn't have Scrabble. Those are the two games I play most on an iPad. They're also the games my Mom and wife play. They're popular with a lot of people.Seems like a killer argument.Google, Android makers sued by Apple "Rockstar" consortium over search, AdWords &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandGoogle's failure to win the Nortel auction led directly to its acquisition of Motorola Mobility for more than $12bn. Most of the patents in that portfolio have arguably been neutered througha consent decree with the US FTCas part of its antitrust settlement with the US. However Google may be able to use some of them defensively in this action.The complaint, filed in the patent plaintiff-friendly US District Court, Eastern District of Texas, is embedded below. It's difficult to tell much from reading the complaint other than Google and others are allegedly infringing the identified patents. This and related lawsuits include members of Android collective: Samsung, LG, HTC, Huawei, ZTE and ASSUTeK.Presumably Rockstar sought to negotiate licenses from Google, et al and those negotiations failed. There's no information about any licensing negotiations that I was able to find.Other members of Rockstar are Microsoft, Ericsson, BlackBerry and Sony.The case against Gmail &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott used Gmail as his primary account from 2004 to 2008, but then began shifting towards outlook.com because he finds its interface cluttered - and Google seems to be making compatibility with standard IMAP or Exchange difficult:Why the misery? Google wants you to interact with Gmail in a browser window—preferably Chrome—or in one of its iOS or Android apps. The reason, of course, is so that you'll sign in to your Google account and remain checked in continuously as you use a PC or mobile device. That allows Google to collect the maximum amount of data about you as you roam around the Internet and, in theory, to serve you the most relevant targeted ads.But that's not possible from a third-party app, which is why Google appears to be working overtime to make those third-party options as unattractive as possible.How Google is planning to make Gingerbread toast &gt;&gt; ReadWriteGingerbread still runs on 28.5% of the Android devices that touch Google's servers as of October 2013. Many Android manufacturers ship low-end smartphones that have Gingerbread as a default because the later versions of the operating system (Ice Cream Sandwich, Jelly Bean) are too big and inefficient to run on devices with limited memory capabilities.To fix that, Google has shrunk Android in a variety of ways while also keeping a high-end user experience and feature set. Android KitKat 4.4 will allow manufacturers and cellular operators to update consumers' devices from Gingerbread if they so choose. If those manufacturers don't choose to upgrade their users smartphones, at least Google is not the one to blame.Noted.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Monday! Are there any Norwich fans reading this? Sorry guys!
It has funded everything from a film byBelle and Sebastian's Stuart Murdochtoan easy way to learn Chineseand could yet bring aboutthe return of Morph.One year after launching in the UK the crowdfunding websiteKickstarterwill  announce on Monday that more than £22.5m has so far been pledged to UK-based projects.Kickstarter began in the US in 2009 with a simple aim. Anyone with a creative project idea can pitch their idea to the world offering rewards to thank backers for their support. The pitcher sets a funding goal and people pledge money. If the goal is not met, they get nothing.In total 1,550 UK Kickstarter projects have been successfully funded and there have been 323,282 backers. Photograph: KickstarterYancey Strickler, one of the three founders of Kickstarter, said: "This is about everyone in the world having a chance to speak their mind about what culture they want to see exist and everyone having an opportunity to take their ideas directly to the public."Kickstarter opened to UK projects on 31 October 2012. On Monday it will say that of the £22.5m pledged, £17.1m has gone to successful projects. In total 1,550 projects have been successfully funded and there have been 323,282 backers. Kickstarter keeps 5% of the funds raised for successful projects.Strickler said: "Kickstarter is just this thing that continues to grow. What we've seen in the UK is £22m pledged and we are really happy with that. We didn't have any firm expectations, we just simply hoped that it would work – and so far, so good."Kickstarter allows anyone to be a philanthropist, music to the ears of the government, which has made encouraging greater philanthropy one of its central arts policies.The closest analogy, said Strickler, would be Medici-like patronage or the subscription models of the 17th and 18th centuries, "but then you had to be rich or the pope to participate and now everyone can, which is pretty radical".By far the most popular category for pledgers is film and video, accounting for 25%. That is followed by publishing (13%), games (13%), music (11%), art (9%), design (7%), down to dance at 1%.The UK's most prolific backer of projects – a stunning 276, pledging everything from £1 to £200 – isDavid Wardrop, a 28-year-old parks worker from Glasgow. He said: "It's the diversity of all the projects that is something special and it is good to be part of something. A lot of it is different from the mainstream."Among successful Kickstarter projects in the UK are one to publish an anthology oforiginal writing by the residents of Waverton, a small Cheshire village; Sixteen,a film about a former African child soldier living in the UK, which premiered at the London film festival; andNana, a community comfort food cafe staffed by retired women with time on their hands.This month Kickstarter will open to Australian projects and will develop further, said Strickler."We always believed very strongly in this, but it is amazing to see how far it has gone and we do feel that this is just the beginning – this is just scratching the surface. We're still figuring out what it means for works to be funded in this way and for the means of production to shift so dramatically."
You can't blame Jamie Oliver for being worried. As the father of Poppy, 11, Daisy, 10, Petal, four, and Buddy, three, he really needs some long-term tech ground rules in his house. So he announced last week that he hasbanned his eldest daughters from using a mobile phoneor any kind of social media. "I found out my two eldest girls had set up Instagram accounts in secret, which I wasn't happy about and soon put a stop to," he said. "Poppy is the only girl in her class without a mobile. It may sound harsh, but I do worry about the bullying that can go on with these sites."Oliver's fears are certainly exacerbated by his celebrity status. But they are shared by many parents who, faced with mixed messages about the dangers and benefits of technology, choose simply to ban whatever they can for as long as they can. It doesn't help that there is often a hypocritical element to all this for modern parents. Oliver announced the birth of both of his younger children to his 3.6 million Twitter followers. If we spend hours on Facebook and Pinterest – in full view of our children – how can we expect them not to go on Moshi Monsters, Club Penguin, Friv or Minecraft as soon as they can wield a mouse?Sara Bran is from north London and writes on creativity and parenting. She has two daughters, Mia, seven, and Lily, 17. "I don't think 'the internet' is taught well in school," she said. "It is only mentioned to children in the context of safety and danger. It needs to be broken down into a) health issues – eyesight, sitting still for long periods of time, brain plasticity and creativity; b) intellectual issues about where information comes from and the ability to think independently; and c) social media and ideas about empathy, friendship, bullying, communication and relationships."She says that Lily worries a lot for her little sister and feels there has been a huge change in internet use and access in the last few years: "When Lily was seven, there was one central computer in our house that we all used. Now smartphones mean that all of us are in our own private worlds, having private relationships with the internet and social media. At 17, she doesn't consider herself a digital native, but her younger sister at seven is completely immersed."Stay-at-home dad Mark Bryce, who blogs atsonnyandluca.co.uk, is from Manchester. His two boys are three and four, so their internet use is rare and supervised but he already worries: "We tend to stick with CBeebies but when we've occasionally used other sites, particularly YouTube, it's frightening how quickly they can stumble across other material just by clicking on links. Once I took a phone call and within a few minutes they were watching something quite violent – and that was only a couple of clicks away from the cartoon I'd left them viewing."The arguments against are well-rehearsed. Arecent reportfor Public Health England concluded that "children who spend more time on computers, watching TV and playing video games tend to experience higher levels of emotional distress, anxiety and depression".Then there's the sedentary effect: more than 70% of young people do not undertake the recommended one hour of physical activity a day. Earlier this year the Public Health Sciences Unit in Glasgow found a correlation between viewing television for longer than three hours a day (from age five) and "conduct disorder".The safety issue is an equal concern. Last month Peter Davies, chief executive of theChild Exploitation and Online Protection Centre(Ceops), said that "half of all child sexual exploitation takes place on social networks. Facebook is a major one, but not the only one". Last year theWall Street Journalreported that Facebook was developing technology to link children's accounts to those of their parents. At the moment, no under 13s are allowed on the site. The most recent report on Facebook use [Consumer Reports 2011] found that "of the 20 million minors who use Facebook, 7.5 million were younger than 13 and more than five million were younger than 10".But as long as you manage and intervene sensibly, technology has so much to offer, argues Heather Ticheli, a London-based home educator and campaigner for Mothers At Home Matter. She has two boys aged four and eight and sees technology as a life-saver: "I wouldn't want to home educate without screens. Particularly because tech opens up the world to my dyslexic son in a way that books just can't."This generation of parents also realises that it's likely that the ability to programme, use code, vlog and blog is as essential to the current cohort of children as a degree was in times gone by.The excitement about Raspberry Pi, the £30 credit-card-size mini PC that plugs into a TV and keyboard – "unlocking a new generation of programmers" – is built on this feeling."There are so many amazing apps, from phonics and maths to video blogging and stop-motion animation," Ticheli adds. "We watch documentaries and videos on YouTube. We can use my smartphone to find the answers to the barrage of random questions my children think of while we are stuck in traffic on the bus."Parents are fighting back by personally policing their children's use – the only way you can really know what's going on. With older children, you need to be up close and personal with their online use, says Tanya Barrow, who writes the award-winning blogMummy Barrow. She lives in Fleet, Hampshire, with two girls aged 14 and 19 and an 18-year-old son."There should be supervision until you know that your children are safe and know what they are doing,' she said. "Is their profile locked down? Who can see their pictures? What are they sharing? Once you know that your child understands they should not be posting home addresses and so on, then maybe the supervision can be lessened. It is all about talking and understanding. I follow them all on Twitter and am friends with them on Facebook. Yes, I know my comments get deleted. And I am not allowed to 'like' statuses on Facebook. But at  least they know I know what they are up to."Her children all had phones from the age of 10, but "for use in emergencies – not smartphones". She adds: "I am not too scared about my children being bullied online, we have that conversation a lot and are very open about it and they would talk to me if this happened."But we heard of an incident where a friend had added a young lad on Facebook and had been chatting to him for a few months. Just chatting, nothing sinister. But it transpired he was not a young lad and had been biding time and gaining her trust, looking through her photos on Facebook and those of her friends. They were contacted by another worried parent who had called Ceop [the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre] and this person was duly blocked."That sort of thing terrifies me. Children are trusting and I don't want to change that and make them suspicious of everybody, but it is a very fine line."Jennifer Howze, co-founder of online communityBritMumsand mother of a nine-year-old daughter and 14-year-old stepson, says this is perhaps the hottest topic for parents: "Many parents take a stepped approach. Kids first get a phone with very few credits that they can only use to call home in emergencies, then they get one with more credits that they can use to call a close circle of family and friends, then they're allowed to use their own allowance or earnings to add credit to use it with more people. A big concern is that the phone makes them a target for mugging by other kids."She adds: "I'm most concerned about appropriate use of social media. It's so easy when you're just learning how to use social media to overshare, say something that you shouldn't, even take a picture and send it to a boyfriend and girlfriend that gets shared with others."They don't comprehend the repercussions or foresee the issues that might develop. I think every parent also worries that their child might be the one bullying or not being nice to others online. Any way you can have those conversations are good. The earlier, the better."Perhaps the worst thing for this generation of busy and over-worked parents, often tech overusers themselves, is that this is one more thing to drive us all apart."I worry that screen time will become the norm rather than one of a variety of activities, and also the lack of exercise that will result from it," Bryce said. "Most of all though I worry that it will become something that comes between them and me as they grow older. I know it's only natural for kids to seek independence and time away from their parents but I can't help but feel this inevitable eventuality will only be hastened by the advent of so much time in front of a screen."On a positive note, I have utilised their obsession in order to get vegetables into their diet. I now suggest they do something without a screen and then flick carrots into their gaping, unbelieving open mouths."
'We've only just scratched the surface of everything that Twitter can become," chief executive Dick Costolo tells viewers in the roadshow video made to woo investors before the company's stock-market debut this week.There are around 2.4 billion people online worldwide, and 10% of them are active on Twitter. Impressive, but a long way behind Facebook, which claims its monthly users amount to half the online population – 1.2 billion. Costolo's challenge is to coax the many millions who are too daunted or confused by Twitter into joining the conversation.The extent to which investors believe he can do this will help set the float price, which is due to be confirmed on Wednesday. And that price will determine whether Twitter surges during its first day of trading on Thursday, or goes the way of online coupon site Groupon, whose shares have lost half their original value since it floated in 2011.When Groupon came to market it was the first major internet stock to go public since Google in 2004. Although pre-IPO investors complained at the time that Google had underestimated its own value, helping the shares soar on the first day, Facebook last year illustrated the dangers of allowing a privileged few early backers to cash in too handsomely at the IPO. Despite the early controversy, the search giant's successful career as a public company remains the ideal.In its roadshow, which started last Monday, Twitter is marketing 70m shares at between $17 and $20 apiece, valuing it at $10.9bn (£6.8bn). But Wall Street believes either the price or the number of shares sold are likely to be increased; Facebook notoriously increased both just before its first day of trading."It's conservative and likely going to be raised as they start the roadshow at least once if not twice," Sam Hamadeh of PrivCo, a research firm that specialises in private companies, said of Twitter's pricing. "The size of the offering is also a bit small. But they may only choose to raise the price once they gauge investor demand. Raising both the price and the size was Facebook's fatal mistake."Pivotal Research Group has set a $29 price target, painting a picture of Twitter in five years' time as a company whose revenues have grown from the $650m forecast for this year to $4bn. The profit margin, it said, will be in the 30% range;  Twitter is loss-making today. As a new business with losses to carry forward, Twitter will pay little tax in cash. Any levies due will be reduced by the granting of tax deductible stock options to employees. But Twitter will remain much smaller than Facebook – about a fifth of its size. "Twitter is a niche business that will not likely be used by everybody, versus Facebook, which essentially is," said Pivotal analyst Brian Wieser.Rick Sumner at research group Morningstar said Twitter was "undervalued" at $20 and has put a $26 fair value estimate on the shares. He is more bullish about its prospects than Wieser. His "base case" scenario – pitched between the most negative and positive outcomes –  envisages that, in 10 years, Twitter will have 1&nbsp;billion users, reaching about half Facebook's eventual size. It will also earn about $10 per user – giving annual sales approaching $10bn."Although the company has not yet penetrated the mass market, we believe it will succeed in simplifying its applications, improving accessibility for users, and delivering a more pervasive Twitter experience," Sumner said.Although Barack Obama, Pope Francis and a long list of celebrities, politicians, business leaders and journalists have made Twitter famous, by new media standards it is still not considered mass-market. The company's own IPO filings explain succinctly why this is. The prospectus states: "New users may initially find our product confusing."The signup process is partly to blame. When a user joins Facebook, the software can immediately delve into their contacts list and finds other friends  on the platform. Twitter has not yet found a way to do this: new arrivals have to build their own lists of people to follow, which means deciding what they have come to the platform to learn about.While Facebook is the internet equivalent of a telephone directory, where just a home page is enough of a presence, Twitter is a platform for those who actively have something to say and are not afraid of the backlash expressing an opinion can often generate. But not everyone wants to be a  public opinion-former, or engage in pithy 140-character exchanges with academics and analysts.Twitter is doing everything to make itself easier to use. Costolo promises in his video that it will "bridge the gap" between wide awareness and the actual number of people signing up. Potential investors will have to decide whether taking Twitter to the mass market could justify some of the more bullish Wall Street predictions, or merely dilute the platform's power to influence.
Browser gaming remains a vital proving ground for rising games design talent, where all that's needed to play is the occasional free plug-in. A recent highlight from this furiously productive scene isOlav &amp; the Lute, which takes its cues from the point-and-click classicLoom, tasking players with overcoming puzzles in a rather sombre netherworld. It's brief and basic, but that's its charm, and in a lunch break it can whisk you away to a ravaged world that is utterly engrossing.For something more upbeatWreckis an irreverent 2D platformer focused on Miley Cyrus, who is out to assassinate her alter ego, Hannah Montana, with a giant laser cannon-cum-jetpack. Behind the daftness lurks a distinctive distraction that balances absurdity and style adeptly.Equally slick isExperimental Shooter 2, a bare-bones 2D action game centred on controlling a unicycle cannon in one-screen levels. A hybrid of traditional shoot-'em-up and platformer, it proves that there is plenty of room for deft game design in a strikingly simple world.Star ratings (out of 5):Olav &amp; the Lute ★★★★Wreck ★★★★Experimental Shooter 2 ★★★★
"Prequel" is rarely a word that makes the heart soar nowadays, whether it attends three hours of tedious furry-toed adventuring or a trio of bloated George Lucas money-makers – but there had been some anticipation thatBatman: Arkham Originswould be different. The past two Dark Knight outings have been rapturously received and garlanded with honours; the only hitch here is that development duties were hived out from Rocksteady to unproved developers WB: Montreal. And so, inevitably,Originsproves something of a disappointment.The plot follows Batman in the early days of his crime-fighting career, meeting for the first time many of his friends and foes across Gotham City on a snowy Christmas Eve as he's hunted by a gaggle of assassins. It's entertaining stuff and handles the introduction of everyone's favourite clown prince of crime, The Joker, particularly well.However, there's something missing. The game mechanics – fighting, countering, gadgets, stealth – are all much the same, with a couple of new gizmos and bad guys thrown in for good measure, but it lacks the spectacle of the previous entries in the series. WhereArkham Cityhad a bravura opening with Bruce Wayne besieged and unmasked,Originshas a lacklustre prison break – and swiftly follows this with an agonisingly frustrating boss battle. It's hard to pinpoint exactly why this fails to match what has gone before, but some of the magic has gone and what is Batman without that? Just another man wearing a rubber suit.
Six seconds doesn't seem like a long time butVine, the white-hot video app, has made it an eternity. Created just last year, Vine now has 40 million-plus registered users uploading short videos featuring everything from waves crashing and comedy sketches to Harry Styles brushing his teeth that all loop back on themselves, again and again and again – six seconds stretched to infinity.The infinity loop, and ease of use, has punted Vine out ahead of a competitive pack. Its instant appeal led to Twitter snapping it up, for an undisclosed sum, before it had even officially launched. Now Facebook has paid it the ultimate compliment, adding a similar service to itsInstagrampicture service. Andy Warhol – whose famous Factory was a short walk from Vine's Union Square Manhattan office – predicted that everyone would be famous for 15 minutes. It seems he was optimistic. In the future everyone will be famous for six seconds.Dom Hofmann, one of Vine's co-founders, knew he was on to something but the video-obsessed 26-year-old tech entrepreneur wasn't sure how big it would be. A lot of people were talking about mobile video, not a lot of people were doing it. "We knew that people all had these smartphones with great video cameras on them but they weren't using them at all," he says, when I meet him at his Manhattan offices.The reasons were many. Videos are hard to upload, they take a long time to make, often you have to pull it off the phone to edit it easily. "We needed to have a technique that was really easy to do, otherwise people wouldn't be able to tell their story," he says.Reading this on mobile? Click here to watch videoHofmann and his partners Rus Yusupov, 28, and Colin Kroll, 29, came up with a simple display, touch the screen to start and stop, film upright in the square, that's it. No bells, no whistles (well not yet) and six seconds so it uploads fast even without Wi-Fi.At first the Vine crew experimented with a range of time limits from no limit at all to 30 seconds. "We went down to one second for a day, which was interesting. Six felt like everything you needed and not any more," he says. But the abrupt ending felt wrong. "It's strange to shoot something and think about an ending." When he thought of the loop, Hofmann knew immediately that they were on to something. It took a long time to make that loop seamless but when they had done it, the videos suddenly had a new depth: "It made sense immediately," he says.Like Twitter and its 140 characters, Vine's limitations have been its making, says Hofmann. "If you give somebody constraints, it's easier to be creative," he says. "There's a quote by Orson Welles, he was a film-maker [he adds helpfully], he said: 'The enemy of art is the absence of limitation.'"Initially Vine was conceived as a video tool, not as a social media app. But from the start the team noticed how much their small group of test users wanted to share. They saved the&nbsp;videos to their phones and sent them as text. "That's a lot of work," says Hofmann. "There was just this feeling that there was something more&nbsp;here," he said.The team had other projects on the go. They had met atJetsetter, the New York-based luxury vacation company, and were considering some travel-related technology among other projects. "But we realised pretty quickly that this was it."The service launched in January and was an immediate sensation. "We were blown away by how quickly it resonated with people and by how quickly people pushed the boundaries of creativity," he says.Sites likeVpeekerpost the latest "vines" as they come up. A sneezing puppy is followed by a man in a wheelchair shouting: "Death to all tyrants." A girl squeezing what looks like saline solution up her nose is followed by people bowling, a woman licking a pizza, a man dressed as a panda pushing over a trolley in a supermarket, someone waving a big red flag under a waterfall. Vine offers a mesmerisingly odd global snapshot, a planet at play six seconds at a time.Reading this on mobile? Click here to watch videoThe content is getting increasingly professional, says Hofmann. When it launched, Vine was used by many people as a broadcasting tool to show what they were doing at that moment. Blowing out birthday candles, jumping in the pool. "Now we have another class of people looking at the world, coming up with ideas and then framing them within the limits of Vine," he says.Comedy sketches are big. It's also provided a renaissance forstop-motion animators,some of whom are making astonishingly complex pieces using the simplest of tools.The app has attracted the film world's attention.Matt Spangler, who oversees marketing and content atTribeca film festival, helped co-ordinate a vine competition for this year's festival. "We were blown away by the quality of the submissions&nbsp;we received. And now you see all these actors and comedians collaborating on one another's stuff, turning up in one another's vines. It's like they are creating a TV network. It's really interesting."Even the festival's co-founder Robert De Niro is a fan. Ahead of this year's festival he told theWall Street Journal: "Six seconds of beginning, middle and end. I was just trying to time on my iPhone six seconds just to get a sense of what that is. It can actually be a long time. One one-thousand, two one-thousand, three one-thousand, four one-thousand, five one-thousand, six one-thousand – you can tell a whole story in six seconds."Adam Goldberghas built one of Vine's biggest followings with aseries of sketchesthat resemble a messed-up mix of David Lynch, Roman Polanski'sThe Tenantand Lena Dunham'sGirls.The actor and musician, whose credits includeEntourageandSaving Private Ryan, plays himself and a blond wig-wearing, cross-dressing maniac who often appears in the same scene. His girlfriend, Roxanne, worries about what Vine is doing to him; he seems more concerned about whether he can make it through the day without the&nbsp;wig.Goldberg says when he first saw Vine he thought of it as a "horror app". The jittery quality has some of the filmic qualities of horror classics such asThe Cabinet of Dr CaligariorNosferatu. He said the second post he made, a jumpy but formally composed piece featuring his girlfriend and a chair, reminded him of Ingmar Bergman's modernist horror classicPersona. "I was making a joke, it's like Insta-pretension," Goldberg&nbsp;laughs.At first he says he found Vine's limits "extremely frustrating". "Then I started thinking of it in terms of a haiku," he says. Whatever he did, it worked. The series took off, earning Goldberg the title King of Vine. He says it has affected some of his other work. The video for his band the Goldberg Sisters' latest record,Stranger's Morning, is made with the same jarring jump cuts that pepper his vines.But uneasy lies the head that wears the crown. The King of Vine is ambivalent about what the app may represent. He is currently directing a comedy,No Way Jose, about a struggling indie rocker. One of the scenes is 18 minutes long, another is 11 minutes, and he worries that a new generation of attention-deficient media consumers may find that just too much. "Attention is a big issue for people growing up in this environment," he says. "It's odd to be a kind of spokesman for an app that in many ways represents everything that disgusts me."He isn't posting as much to Vine these days, partly because he is busy onJosebut also because of the inevitable online backlash. "I'd get so many comments, with people saying: 'sick of this' or 'come on, move on'. Really? It's six seconds and it's free."For less established stars Vine still offers a way to get noticed. ComedianBrittany Furlanhas built up a following of more than 2.8 million people with her anarchic sketches in which she kisses strangers, stands way too close to them, steals their shopping carts and commits other random acts of comedy. Furlan's videos rack up tens of thousands of likes and shares – known as "revines" – within hours of her posting them and have attracted the attention of stars includingJimmy KimmelandChelsea Handler,who have featured Furlan's skits on their programmes, a big break for any aspiring comedian.Advertisers are also piling in. Fox recently promoted its latestWolverinemovies withsix-second vines. Dunkin' Donuts, Trident chewing gum,Urban Outfitters— all have produced mini ads. Burberry used it during New York fashion week to promote its shows.Making a vine that goes viral is more art than science, but when it happens it's all down to numbers. "If I choose to share something with you, it has a better than zero chance of going viral. If you choose to share that with someone else, it has an even better chance. Each time that continues, the chances increase. At some point the coefficent goes over one," says Hofmann, but the fundamental question is: "Is this worth sharing?"Reading this on mobile? Click here to watch videoThe big question for Vine, as with any other service, is also is it worth sharing? The explosion of social media services is inevitably creating more casualties than winners.&nbsp;Remember Color? Probably not. But the investors who poured $41m into the now defunct photo-sharing app once touted as the Next Big Thing surely do.The biggest winner in the latest wave of social media startups is probably Instagram, the photo-sharing service that also looks set to be Vine's main competition. Twitter co-founderJack Dorsey toldVanity Fairhe was "heartbroken" when Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg snapped up Instagram, the social media photo-sharing app, in 2012. He had been a fan from day one. "From the start, Instagram was a simple application and a joy to use," Dorsey said. "I was blown away by how much detail they put into the experience."The close ties between Dorsey and Instagram proved no match for Zuckerberg's $1bn offer for the company. When Vine popped up on Twitter's horizon, the company moved fast to make sure it didn't lose out again.Last year Twitter was on the point of launching Cards – a service that offers a snapshot of other content such as a newspaper article, a photo or a video alongside the tweet. Vine's founders reached out to the company as they considered places to syndicate their service. The two sides realised they had a lot in common. "We are both focused on being public, on real time, on constraints, on free speech," says Hofmann. Very quickly talks about syndication turned into an acquisition.Dorsey has gone on to be something of a Vine sensation himself.Posting a series of spooky selfies, standing stock-still and wearing shades in passing crowds or poised on top of a bridge, his face as expressionless as Ryan Gosling at his impassive best.In June Dorsey's old pals at Instagram launched a 15-second video-sharing service to rival Vine. It has a couple of advantages. First, it has a more established base – 150 million active users. Second, it has Facebook's backing. Facebook has 1.15 billion users compared with Twitter's 200 million.Hofmann doesn't seem worried: "There are quite a few mobile video products and people are&nbsp;hungry for it," he says. "Our goal is to build the best service. I think that if the world of mobile video is growing larger, that's a good thing for us."For all the hype, says Brian Wieser, senior research analyst at Pivotal Research, when it comes to making money, Vine and its rivals are a long way from being the new TV. Television is experiencing the same seismic ructions that have shaken music, books and newspapers but there are few signs that – financially – social media is taking its place. "Vine has a lot of promise as a marketing product and you are seeing a lot of experimentation. But the scale is to be determined, not unlike Twitter itself orPinterestor Instagram," he says.The advertising dollars now going into Vine are largely coming from other, more established internet companies such as AOL and Yahoo, says Weiser. In this tech-dog-eats-tech-dog world, TV&nbsp;is holding its own. "TV advertising is not cheap but from an advertiser's point of view it's ridiculously effective. If you cut your TV spending when your rivals don't, you lose. It doesn't matter how cool your vine is."So where does Vine go from here? Hofmann says the initial idea was to get the service out and make it as easy as possible to use. Now the company is looking at ways to better promote its content. A website or partnership deals are under discussion. Channels are being added so people can filter the content they want to see. Last monthtwo new editing toolswere added; other features in the pipeline include a way to change the focus and a grid for stop-motion movie‑makers."When we first went out, we were art. Now we're comedy and art," says Hofmann. But he says news services are also increasingly looking at Vine. A&nbsp;vine of the Boston marathon bombing, taken from TV, attracted 35,000 people in less than a minute when it was posted back in April. Celebrities such as Harry Styles, whose vines dominate the top of the chart, are also using the service to broadcast to their fans.Will Vine stand the test of time? Goldberg is on the fence. "I was auditioning for teenagers to be in my movie and this girl really stood out, ad-libbing about Vine. It was hilarious." He wonders whether he should use it in the movie. "A year from now, will it be seen as an archaic reference? I don't really know." But if Vine can do this much in six seconds – who knows what&nbsp;it can do in a year.
One of the most dispiriting spectacles of the last month has been thebotched launch of HealthCare.gov, the website created to implement President Obama's landmark healthcare reforms. Obamacare had a desperately turbulent passage through Congress and survived various wrecking attempts by theTea Partyand their accomplices. Then the glorious day dawned and millions of US citizens hit the URL, hoping that, finally, they would be able to find a health insurance plan that they could afford.Guess what happened.According to theNew York Times, of the 20 million people who tried to access the site over its first three weeks only 500,000 managed to complete applications for health cover and an even smaller percentage of them actually succeeded in obtaining insurance. In an unprecedented move, the president had to make a public apology for the shambles.At this point, British readers will mutter: "Well, at least he had the grace to apologise." Ministers in successive British governments of all stripes have, over the years, presided over some IT cock-ups that put the Obamacare one in the shade. My guess is that upwards of £10bn has been blown over the years in massive government IT projects that turned out to be death marches to cancellation. But usually the bad news was quietly buried and we heard about it only when the National Audit Office lifted the stone to see what lay beneath.The Obamacare website fiasco has a quaintly antique ring to it. This is the kind of stuff that used to happen in the first internet boom, when any clown with an MBA and an idea for a dotcom could attract investors. In those days, new websites were often overwhelmed on launch. The founders hadn't bought enough servers to handle the surge. But this is 2013 and those kinds of capacity problems don't exist any more. You can rent as many servers as you need from Amazon's cloud, add another hundred in an instant and pay for them on your credit card.So why was the Obamacare site launch such a disaster?Writing in theNew York Times, two politically experienced geeks argue that it's mostly down to the way the government purchases IT services. "Much of the problem," they write, "has to do with the way the government buys things. The government has to follow a code called the Federal Acquisition Regulation, which is more than 1,800 pages of legalese that all but ensure that the companies that win government contracts, like the ones put out to build HealthCare.gov, are those that can navigate the regulations best, but not necessarily do the best job."That strikes a chord over here. British civil servants have traditionally been technologically illiterate, so when ministers demand a new IT system to fix some failing that is annoying theDaily Mail, Sir Humphrey breaks into a cold sweat. He knows nothing about this stuff, except that it costs a bomb and that it usually bombs. The spectre of the National Audit Office looms over him. He does not want another IT disaster attached to his personnel file. So what does he do?Simple: he calls up the big consultancy firms asking for tenders. These in turn call up their chums in brain-dead firms called "system integrators" who know only how to do one thing, namely to build massive integrated IT systems the way they were built in the 1960s. And thus begins another death march to oblivion; another project that is billions over budget and years behind schedule. But Sir Humphrey sleeps easy in his bed. After all, the shambles was approved and designed by the boffins who understand this stuff.The truly amazing thing about this soap opera is that it was allowed to go on for so long. But eventually the penny dropped: HMG simply had to smarten up. And smarten up it has. The Cabinet Office now has some geeks who can spot consultancy bullshit at 50 paces. The unit they belong to is called theGovernment Digital Service. Its brief is to build the right technology, using modern methods and approaches, or to employ agile computing firms that regard £100,000 as a lot of money and that are accustomed to delivering on time.There are not many good news stories in British government at the moment, but GDS seems to be one. I first began to think that when I heard an anecdote from a friend who moves in these exalted circles. He reported an overheard conversation between a senior GDS officer and a system integrator who had feasted for years on government contracts. The GDS guy outlined the new thinking. "But," expostulated the contractor, "this is a completely different way of doing things." "You know," said the civil servant, "I do believe you're beginning to get it." Hallelujah!
WhileForceddoes have a plot – nameless gladiator is cast into a monster-filled arena to battle for freedom – it's very much a background element to this absorbing co-op game. Up to four players adventure together, tackling trials in order to progress. Pleasingly, there's more than merely hacking at everything in sight – there's a cerebral element, with puzzles to solve and hordes of enemies&nbsp;requiring specific tactics to be defeated.Combat itself isn't terribly inspiring – there's a fairly typical range of weapon strengths and attack speeds, frequently with elemental effects – but this is compensated for by a cavalcade of diverse skills to unlock. There's remarkable fluidity too, each party member able to completely customise their armaments and abilities&nbsp;before each trial. A further twist to the dungeon crawling is the Spirit Guide, an orb to which the whole team can issue commands, helping overcome environmental puzzles in inventive ways. Although using a gamepad proves superior to the PC's native mouse and keyboard controls,Forced's charming fantasy visuals and creative teamwork make for an unexpected hit.
Infiniti is Nissan's posher, classier sibling. Like Lexus is to Toyota or Kylie is to Dannii. This one is a hybrid: it combines a petrol engine with an electric motor.But it's not a hybrid like aToyota Priusor aHonda Insight. This is not a car for someone who really gives a damn about the environment, or wants to pay nothing for their tax disc and get into central London for free. The petrol engine is a 3.5-litre V6 and a powerful beast; this is a luxury performance car to compete with a BMW 5 series or an Audi A6. The electric motor just means it does so slightly more efficiently, less thirstily and flatulently (and with less space for luggage because of the battery) than the purely petrol version.It works well. We point the long, curved bonnet north, and the car pretty much drives itself, keeping the right distance from the vehicle in front, beeping if we leave our lane unintentionally, cutting out the petrol engine where possible (at up to 60mph). It's a relaxing motorway cruise, with not much to do apart from look out of the double-glazed windows at the scenery improving and the house prices falling the farther north we go. I'm enjoying the generous leather seats, while gulping in Forest Air, Infiniti's trademarked climate-control system with Breeze Mode and Grape Polyphenol Filter.No, I don't know what that means either, except that it's very nice to be in. There's a lovely audio system, too, though no digital radio, so noBBC 6 Music, which is a massive shame on a long drive. If I'm paying 45 grand for a car, I want 6 Music.Off the motorway, flicked into sport mode, the car comes alive. It's&nbsp;heavy, not the most agile of rides, but it has power and stamina and arrogantly sucks in the road ahead. We arrive inTeesdalein County Durham feeling fresh and relaxed.I'm interested in what the friend we're visiting makes of it (no, we didn't come all this way just for a line in a car review). A furniture-maker and into all things design, he points out a few things inside, such as the way the white ash strip continues  in a pleasing curve round from the dashboard to the doors. Outside, he's less impressed, thinks it's awkward and ungainly. I agree: it's a saloon trying to look like a coupe, pretending it's something it's not. Like a middle-aged man with a belly squeezed into a pair of skinny jeans.My friend's dog has no such reservations. A scruffy little thing with alopecia and a serious personal hygiene problem, Precious sinks blissfully into the luxurious leather. If four hours of Forest Air on&nbsp;full hurricane blast fails to get rid&nbsp;of the&nbsp;evidence, I apologise to the nice&nbsp;people at Infiniti. It's not really a car for dogs.Infiniti M35H GT PremiumPrice£45,990Top speed155mphAcceleration0-60mph in 5.5 secondsCombined fuel consumption40.9mpgCO2emissions159g/kmEco rating6/10Cool rating6/10
Assassin's Creed IV: Black FlagAssassin's Creed IV: Black Flag.After the lumbering, po-faced Assassin's Creed III, this episode starts as it means to go on, with Welsh pirate Edward Kenway mugging an assassin, stealing his outfit and inadvertently joining the evil Templars, whom he then pickpockets. Dividing your time between plundering Spanish galleons on the high seas and land-based skulduggery, you'll find an almost impossible array of distractions: assassinations, petty thievery, looting plantations. And that's before you've got on with the main mission or left the historical stuff behind to hack computers in the offices of Abstergo Entertainment, the company that lets you travel back through ancestral memories to experience all that piracy in the first place. Massive, deep and utterly compelling, it also has a vast, subterfuge-filled set of multiplayer modes that are like a separate game of their own. Brilliant, exhilarating piratical entertainment.Ubisoft, £38.95Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney – Dual DestiniesPhoenix Wright: Ace Attorney.Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney (catchphrase: Objection!) is a terrible lawyer. He mugs his way through cases, riddled with catastrophic levels of self-doubt, with sweat pouring from his brow as he grimaces at yet another unforeseen twist tossed in by the prosecution. You're there to see Wright and his equally incompetent colleagues through cases they would otherwise flub so appallingly, it's hard to believe any of them managed to pass the bar. Not that this is a game that takes itself too seriously. Even murder trials seem to create comedy potential, the exaggerated expressions of witnesses and lawmen alike would be more at home in a pantomime than a tense, packed courtroom. Requiring no dexterity whatsoever, you interview bystanders, investigate crime scenes and listen carefully as evidence is presented and witnesses cross-examined, looking for inconsistencies you can use to expose their lies.Capcom, £19.99 (download)
