Heard of a band, but don&apos;t know if they&apos;re worth your time? A new feature from This Is My Jam, the music-focused social network, aims to highlight the one song to listen to to make up your mind.CalledThat One Song, the feature uses data from This Is My Jam&apos;s two-and-a-bit years of people sharing their favourite songs to figure out the most loved tracks by each artist on the network.While there is some overlap between the site and similar rankings like Spotify&apos;s popular listing – Royals is the selected song for Lorde on both services, for instance – That One Song&apos;s cachet comes from the nature of its parent service.This Is My Jam is a network built around one specific question: &quot;What&apos;s your song right now?&quot; That means that songs only enter the network (and so only count towards That One Song&apos;s rankings) if people actually like them.&quot;Since every song on Jam is someone&apos;s favourite, the quality of data is incredibly high&quot; says Matt Ogle, who co-founded the site in 2011 with Hannah Donovan as a spin-off from music data site the Echo Nest. Both Donovan and Ogle had previously worked together at Last.fm. &quot;The most popular song – often the crowd pleaser – isn’t always the best song. &apos;That One Song&apos; will often suggest something different to the top tracks on other services.&quot;For evidence of that, take a look at a band like Radiohead: Creep is the band&apos;s most popular song on Spotify, with over twice as many plays as the next most played, while on That One Song, No Surprises takes the top slot. And if the One Song is too obvious, the site presents a B-side – an alternative recommendation for those who want something a little more obscure (Team and Packt Like Sardines In A Crushd Tin Box for Lorde and Radiohead respectively).The feature came from a music hack day held in France over the first weekend of February, and builds on functionality soon to be launched on the site itself. It &quot;was born out of a love for old 45s, with their A side / B side simplicity”, explains Donovan. &quot;We were both frustrated by coming home from a night out with our phones’ Notes apps full of artists to check out, then having to search through various music services just to get a sense of the artist&apos;s music. I&apos;m busy! There&apos;s a lot of music out there! I&apos;d rather have an expert tell me the perfect song to start with.&quot;•Last.fm plots streaming music comeback
A state agency in California has ordered Google to move its “mystery” barge from the San Francisco Bay because the company has not filed the proper paperwork, the state said on Monday.San Francisco Bay conservation and development commission executive director, Larry Goldzband, said the agency did not authorize the construction and that it had received numerous complaints about it.&quot;It needs to move,&quot;Goldzband told the AP.There are at least two Google barges –one in Portland, Maineand the other is docked at Treasure Island in the San Francisco Bay. Goldzband said the Treasure Island development authority could face fines for allowing the project. He also said the issue could be resolved if Google moves its structure to permitted construction facilities in the bay.&quot;We just received the letter from the San Francisco Bay Conservation and Development Commission and we are reviewing it,” Google said in an emailed statement.Details about the construction of the bargesis shrouded in secrecy. San Francisco city officials said they didn’t know what was being built in the bay and US Coast Guard inspectors had to sign non-disclosure agreements.Once their existence became public knowledge it sparkedspeculation and conspiracy theories. Weeks later, the company said it was exploring using the barges “as interactive learning centers”.This is not the first time Google has encountered legal trouble with a non-digital transportation vessel.A report from Nasa saidGoogle executives’ fleet of private planes, including a “light attack jet”, the company purchased to fulfill a lease agreement, was being supplied with fuel from the government agency at cheap prices because of a “misunderstanding”.
Eerke Boiten has been on Facebook for six years, but studiously avoids using it on his mobile phone. The 47-year-old director of the University of Kent&apos;s cybersecurity centre only uses it on his desktop where possible; if he does access it on his mobile, it&apos;s through the browser of his Android phone. He won&apos;t use the app because he dislikes its demands to access his contacts and, more recently, his text messages: &quot;my friends haven&apos;t given me permission to share their phone numbers, etc, with Facebook,&quot; he says. And on the desktop version he can run adblocking software.Jason Huntley thinks similarly: the 46-year-old developer, based near Hull, is wary of Facebook on mobile because &quot;I&apos;ve heard horror stories about it corrupting your contacts, merging them with the phone&apos;s, etc. Also, I don&apos;t want Facebook to have my phone number.&quot; He has no plans to ever use the Facebook app on either his Android or iPhone, but he uses Facebook a lot because his family and friends are on it.For Bernadette Vydra, living in Melbourne, Australia, it&apos;s quite a different story. The 36-year-old mother of two used to use Facebook on her PC; now, though, she only ever uses it on her iPhone (and occasionally iPad). &quot;With an infant and a toddler, it&apos;s the quickest way and smallest device (to keep away from little baby fingers),&quot; she explains. The other reason for using Facebook on mobile, she says, is that &quot;when I am working, corporate networks tend to block sites like Facebook.&quot;What&apos;s a sponsored story?Danny Denhard, 31, based in London, also only uses Facebook on mobile now, despite having been a user since it opened up beyond academia. &quot;The desktop is too busy and even noisy,&quot; he says. &quot;Customising my experience on mobile is far easier and better than on desktop.&quot; As a digital marketing professional, he says he&apos;s noticed that family and friends find the desktop experience &quot;increasingly difficult and misleading&quot; - what&apos;s an ad, what&apos;s a sponsored story?Facebook&apos;s own figures show that the trend is in the direction of people like Vydra and Denhard - whose busier lives mean that Facebook use has to be squeezed into smaller segments. According to the company&apos;s most recent financial results, it had a total of 1,230 million users during the month of December 2013; of those, 296 million accessed the site only through their mobile, and 285 million only via the desktop. That of course leaves the majority, 649 million, accessing it through a mixture - sometimes on desktop, sometimes on mobile.Facebook's changing mix of users: from desktop-only, to desktop-and-mobile, to mobile-only. Figures are millions, per month. Data: Facebook filings. Photograph: GuardianBut it&apos;s the trend that&apos;s most telling. Facebook&apos;s numbers show desktop-only users (whose number can be calculated by taking the total monthly users, and subtracting the &quot;mobile&quot; users - which includes both mobile-only and mobile-and-desktop users) are a dwindling band.At the end of 2012, they were 376 million of the 1,056 million total (or 35%); now they are 285 million of 1,230 million (23%). The shift has been coming for a long time: at the end of 2012, Facebook said that in December 2012 &quot;mobile daily active users exceeded web daily active users for the first time&quot;. But it&apos;s taken a while for that to become embedded enough for mobile-only to overcome desktop-only.Why? While it&apos;s far from scientific, when I sought (via Twitter) people who exclusively use Facebook on the desktop (or laptop), or exclusively on mobile, it was the latter who were more plentiful. Besides Vydra, another new parent told me that while he previously used the site on desktop, he now didn&apos;t have the time; mobile-only was the solution.Better security on mobiles and tabletsAnother, Sean Cansdale, explained that he has used the desktop version perhaps a couple of times in a year: &quot;a good thing about keeping it exclusive to mobile/tablet is security, as it is far easier for me to secure my device than my home/work computer.&quot;What&apos;s important is that Facebook has managed to keep up with that trend. For many companies which started their lives in the &quot;desktop era&quot; - arguably up to about 2009, when the last of the &quot;big desktop&quot; apps appeared (Spotify and Dropbox) - the key problem has been how to shift to the rapidly-growing mobile space, which is where the biggest new opportunity lies.That&apos;s no surprise, says Denhard: &quot;Facebook mobile has become one of the main destinations for second-screen experiences [when people watch TV and talk about it on social media] and [I] expect that to continue with public hashtag statuses,&quot; he remarks.Perhaps it&apos;s telling that both the desktop-only users, Boiten and Huntley, are security-minded; it was Huntley whodiscoveredthat LG&apos;s Smart TV was sending back data about what you watched to LG servers. Boiten says he would consider using it on his Android phone if he could control the permissions for what data Facebook can access; at the moment it&apos;s all or nothing. For Facebook, though, more data is always helpful in targeting ads - and mobiles do tend to give away more information, including location, and contact and email data.Mobile growth was powered by smartphonesFacebook started on the desktop 10 years ago; mobile use only began to take off once capable smartphones were around. It launched an iPhone website in August 2007 to grab those very early adopters, and then in July 2008launched its iPhone app. Its Android app had to wait a long time - until 2010 - but the rise of Android phones has meant more priority being given to it.The shift to mobile has posed problems for Facebook though. As a site born in the days of desktop-only, it had to adjust quickly to a world where people were accessing the web just as much, or more, online - and where, as those parents&apos; experience shows, they were going through life stages which completely altered their relationship with computing.The first big step was Zuckerberg&apos;s decision todrop HTML5in August 2012, and instead write &quot;native&quot; apps for each platform, specifically to be able to benefit from greater processing speed, despite the extra coding involved.Some of those attempts have flopped - look at Facebook Home, which aimed to be a &quot;launcher&quot; that would in effect take over Android phones, and put your Facebook friends front and centre. Launched in April 2013, it was built into the HTC First - a phone that sold embarrassingly poorly, and quickly discontinued in the US due to customer indifference (and never launched in Europe).Facebook Home seemed to be a step too far; people didn&apos;t want their phone to be inside Facebook, they wanted Facebook in their phone. Despite an update in December, Home is stillpoorly rated on Google Play, and has been downloaded fewer than 5m times, despite a potential install base many times larger.Zuckerberg and his team reacted to that failure by splitting Facebook&apos;s mobile shape into different pieces: a Poke app, a Chat app, effectively splintering Facebook into separate &quot;app pieces&quot; on mobile so that it could be sure of being used at some point. That worked for Vydra, who often uses text messages to communicate with other mothers: &quot;I have found that chat on FB to be quite handy for communicating with other mums too The group conversation is good for keeping up with people.&quot;Facebook's growing mobile revenue. Source: Facebook filings. Photograph: GuardianThe key to mobile success though has been in making money from adverts on mobile - a trick that even Google (with its roots far deeper on the desktop) seems to struggle with.In its most recent financial results, Facebook said that 53% of its $2.34bn advertising revenue came from mobile users - compared to just 23% a year ago. It&apos;s that transformation which really suggests that Facebook has successfully mastered the shift to mobile.In actual numbers, desktop revenue is essentially flat; it&apos;s mobile advertising that has taken off. Facebook, after a years-long runup, has finally begun flying free of the desktop.With mobile set to grow and grow, that means that its future as a money-maker - and as the social network people use - is assured. In ten years&apos; time, desktop-only users might be only a tiny part of its total users - and its revenue generation.•Where are the first Facebook users now?
The NHS’s Health and Social Care Information Centre (HSCIC) rushed out a fix on Monday for an issue that saw pages from the NHS Choices website redirect visitors to a third-party website serving advertising and malware.The error saw over 800 links on the nhs.uk website send visitors to websites serving advertising and malware unrelated with the NHS.“We can confirm that this problem has arisen due to an internal coding error and that NHS Choices has not been maliciously attacked,” said a HSCIC spokeswoman on behalf of NHS Choices.836 links compromised by the bugThe redirect was first uncovered by Muzzers, a user on the social news site Reddit, while searching for medical information on the NHS website. He then posted a list of the 836 links compromised by the bug.“While attempting to access flu shot information I stumbled upon a page which redirected me to an advertisement. Digging a bit deeper I found hundreds more pages which redirect to either an advertisement or malware-infested page,” said Muzzersposting on Reddit.The bug, which redirected visitors to a non-NHS controlled website in error, was spotted on Monday morning.&quot;Last year, a developer accidentally put &quot;translate.googleaspis.com&quot; rather than &quot;translate.googleapis.com&quot; as the source for the JavaScript file,&quot; an NHS Choices spokesperson told the Guardian.&apos;Someone in the Czech Republic took ownership&apos;The “internal coding error” sent users to the mistyped URL, of which a third-party appears to have taken advantage, registering the mistyped domain name to serve adverts and malware to unknowingly redirected visitors from the NHS Choices website since Sunday evening.&quot;Last night someone in the Czech Republic took ownership of the incorrectly spelt domain it was referring to; the correctly spelled one is actually owned by Google. Although the typo existed in NHS Choices code, until the point the domain name was purchased, this was not causing any issues,&quot; the NHS Choices spokesperson explained.Routine security checks conducted by the NHS Choices team found the error on Monday morning, leading the development team to identify and correct the coding error. The correction is expected to be fully resolved by Monday afternoon, preventing future redirect issues.As of the time of writing, the majority of affected links have now been corrected. It is unknown what impact the bug had on users, or whether any visitors to the NHS Choices site were affected by the malware being served by the third-party site.“NHS Choices is treating this issue with urgency and once resolved we plan to undertake a thorough and detailed analysis to ensure that a full code review is undertaken and steps put in place to ensure no recurrence,” said the HSCIC spokeswoman.• In November 2013, Obamacare website developers were forced to rush out a bug fix for a flawthat suggested ways to hack the website
A recent piece of research by VideoInk and video analytics firm Tubular Labs claimed thatmusic videos account for 38.4% of all views on YouTube, reinforcing the Google subsidiary’s position as the world’s biggest streaming music service.“We’ve paid out to the music industry over the last several years over a billion dollars,” said vice president of YouTube content Tom Pickett during a panel session at the Midem music industry show in Cannes this week, during which he also stressed that “we are all-in on music”.Not everyone is convinced. A key theme of this year’s Midem has been continued resentment towards YouTube and its parent company from musicians, independent labels and industry bodies alike. Pickett was heckled during his panel session, and the conference also saw regular anti-Google outbursts from speakers.“Google are not music people, and that scares me,” said Colin Daniels of Australian independent music firm Inertia, which helped solo artist Passenger break big last year.“I am concerned with YouTube entering the market because for YouTube everything is about dominance, and dominance is connected to destruction,” said Horst Weidenmueller of well-respected indie firm !K7. “I would rather prefer perhaps Google not being in music.”Friction between Google/YouTube and the music industry is not a new trend, and there are many ways the two sides are working together, from YouTube helping labels to identify user-generated videos using their tracks and make money from them, through to the Google Play music subscription service.Even British industry body the BPI, which has been a regular critic of Google over the high rankings for piracy sites on its search engine, has launched its own YouTube channel called Transmitter to promote British artists’ music – illustrating the perception of Google as both copyright foe and distribution friend for music companies.Still, the foe camp have been increasingly prominent at the Midem conference this week, questioning Google and YouTube’s commitment to music, and wondering why the money it pays out to labels and publishers (who then pass it on to artists) isn’t even higher.BPI chief executive Geoff Taylor drew attention to this while on-stage with YouTube’s Pickett, comparing YouTube unflatteringly to streaming music services like Spotify and Deezer, which mix advertising-funded free streaming with premium subscription tiers.“I think YouTube has lacked that, and that has been a problem for the industry,” said Taylor. “When I looked at the billions of streams there were in music videos, and the pounds and pence coming in to the industry from that, it was a very small number.”The streaming rivals are fuelling this debate. Deezer’s chief executive Axel Dauchez called YouTube “the most important legal pirate” during another Midem panel session, while Spotify recentlycontrasted its own average payout of $6,000 - $8,400 per million streamsto the $3,000 per million streams paid out on average by a “video streaming service”. While unnamed, the reference to YouTube was clear.YouTube has its defenders in the music industry too, some of whom spoke out at Midem. “It’s a top-five revenue source now at most of the labels, and it’s going up. It’s not perfect, but they’re moving in the right direction,” said Tom Silverman from independent label Tommy Boy.Meanwhile, some of the multi-channel networks (MCNs) helping musicians make more money from YouTube suggested that increasing payouts requires making cleverer use of Google’s service, rather than simply demanding higher per-stream rates.“It’s no longer an album cycle, it’s a 12-month content cycle. For every piece of content you release, there should be 6-8 other pieces of content to support that,” said Brandon Martinez, chief executive of music MCN INDMusic, which helped indie label Mad Decent capitalise on last year’s viral YouTube success of Baauer’s Harlem Shake track.Jordan Berliant, of The Collective Music Group, was more blunt in his appraisal of why some labels complain about YouTube. “It’s not a place to make money right now, but it’s not primarily because of YouTube or Google in my mind, it’s because the people representing the content primarily don’t understand the marketplace.”Some of those people&apos;s concerns about YouTube tie in to their wider arguments with Google over its copyright policies, though. During Pickett&apos;s panel session, one audience member demanded to know what YouTube is doing about &apos;stream-ripping&apos; services that enable people to convert videos into MP3 downloads. He was backed up by BPI boss Taylor.&quot;We’ve been asking YouTube to deal with these stream-ripping applications for many years. YouTube is supposed to be an ad-funded streaming service, not a free download service,&quot; said Taylor, comparing these talks with the BPI&apos;s separate efforts to persuade Google to downgrade piracy sites in its search engine. &quot;We can’t understand why it’s taken so long for Google and YouTube to do something about this.&quot;
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGmail for iOS users told to check their trash and spam before 14 February &gt;&gt; Graham CluleyIf you use the Gmail app on your iPhone or iPad, it might be sensible to check your Trash and Spam folders before Valentine's Day.That's not because there might be an ecard waiting for you from a secret admirer, but due to Google accidentally deleting or marking as spam some users' messages.See a later link for how to do this effectively.Intel will shut down AppUp PC app store on 11 March; apps will stop working by 15 May 2015 &gt;&gt; TechCrunchSo much for Intel's bid to get hip with our app-filled times: the company is shutting down its consumer-facing AppUp, its app store for Windows-based PC apps. "The world's largest app store that nobody's ever heard of," in the words of AppUp boss Peter Biddle, a description that in hindsight may have been tempting fate.Launched in January 2010. You remember, when.. um, anyway, Biddle wascertainin July 2011 that Apple and Google had app stores "exactly backwards". And the thing about the apps stopping working? Delightful.Finding messages explicitly marked as spam in Gmail &gt;&gt; persistent.infotl;dr: Search Gmail for "is:spam -label:^os" to find messages that you manually marked as spam (as opposed to ones that Gmail automatically marked for you).But do read the lot, because it is clever.Inside G Flex: LG's long and winding road to setting the curve &gt;&gt; CNET NewsLong piece on how the LG Flex got its curved screen:"I think LG has great potential," [Lois] Fagen [Sprint's director of wireless devices] said. "This helps LG garner some additional attention."We constantly yearn for the unique and new, but often recoil with skepticism and caution when something genuinely different arrives at our front door.Which is a central dilemma facing the G Flex: Will consumers take a chance on something new, or stick to their comfortable - and reliable - iPhones and Galaxy S smartphones?Fagen acknowledged that the $650 off-contract price and $300 contract price were on the high end, but noted that there's always an initial investment into new technology, and prices for these kinds of devices will fall over time. While the focus has been on the designs, critics note the screen resolution and camera are less competitive, and LG's software touches aren't much of an improvement over stock Android.Does having a curved screen really add that much more to the usefulness of the phone?The sky is not falling: teens still active on Facebook &gt;&gt; SocialbakersThe 18–24 year-old age group is still the largest, and the absolute reach increased by 39.33% across the same period. Again, a great result for Facebook as this emerging, affluent segment is staying loyal to the network, despite the market fragmentation from new platforms that are competing for our attention everyday.Our data shows the growth of audience and interactions on Facebook, and while teens are undoubtedly using multiple platforms (as we all are), they are also sticking with Facebook.Apple executives met with F.D.A. to discuss mobile medical applications &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comA group of senior Apple executives met with directors at the United States Food and Drug Administration in December to discuss mobile medical applications, according to the F.D.A.'s public calendars that list participants of meetings.Among the participants from Apple were Jeff Williams, senior vice president of operations; Bud Tribble, vice president of software technology at Apple; Michael O'Reilly, who joined Apple last year; and an employee from Apple's government affairs department.On the F.D.A. side of the table were Jeff Shuren, the director of the agency's Center for Devices and Radiological Health, and Bakul Patel, who drafted the F.D.A.'s mobile medical app guidance and is a staunch advocate for patient safety when it comes to apps and medical gadgets.Lenovo CEO on Apple, Samsung: 'Our mission is to surpass them' &gt;&gt; Fortune TechHow did Lenovo first get interested in Motorola?Right after Google bought Motorola [in 2012 ], I invited [Google executive chairman] Eric Schmidt to have a dinner at my house. I told him, "If you think you want run the hardware business, you can keep the business; but if you are not interested in the hardware business, we definitely can handle that, take over that."He remembered that, and two months ago, he sent me an email. I called him back, and he asked me, "Are you still interested in Motorola?" I said, "Definitely." We started to discuss it. I went to Silicon Valley many times. [Google CEO] Larry Page invited me to his house to have a dinner. Very quickly - in just two months - we closed the deal.At the time, Google was negotiating to buy Nest.Vringo announces US district court order of post-judgment royalty rate of 6.5% against Google for continued and wilful patent infringement&gt;&gt; MarketWatchVringo has a patent that seems to be infringed by AdWords:In the Order, the Court held that the appropriate ongoing royalty rate for defendants' continued infringement of the patents-in-suit that "would reasonably compensate [I/P Engine] for giving up [its] right to exclude yet allow an ongoing willful infringer to make a reasonable profit" is a rate of 6.5% of the 20.9% royalty base previously set by the District Court.So is that 1.35% (6.5% of 20.9%) of AdWords revenue? The release is unclear.Windows Phone device stats: January 2014 &gt;&gt; SuperSite for WindowsPaul Thurrott reckons there are about 50m Windows Phones in use in total worldwide, and explains the fall in quarterly sequential sales for Lumias (from 8.8m to 8.2m):Like most hardware makers, Nokia registers a sale when it one of its handsets is purchased ... by the channel. (Since, you know, that's when it gets paid.) So a big part of the record 8.8m Lumias sold in Q3 was devices that were sitting in retailers and distributors, waiting to be sold to actual consumers. Those consumers purchased the phones in Q4 and in many cases delivered them to others as Christmas presents.This theory was bolstered when Windows Phone's Joe Belfiore attempted to detune concerns about a supposed Windows Phone fall-off in Q4 in what is unfortunately a typically cryptic and incomplete way: He tweeted that "folks who think [that] holiday sales of [Windows Phone] declined are incorrect ... Activations more than doubled last holiday [quarter] and increased [over] each holiday month."Notable in the stats is that the top-end 1020 modeland 920 modelsdon't have above 3% of install base; the biggest-selling is the low-end 520. (The 920 model is the second-biggest at 7.9% - thanks @tylosin.)East Africa PC market rallies as introduction of Kenya's VAT bill begins to Bite &gt;&gt; IDCPC shipments to East Africa increased 3.0% year on year in the final quarter of 2013 to total 140,251 units, according to the latest insights from global market research and advisory firm International Data Corporation (IDC). Strong gains in the markets of Uganda, Tanzania, and Ethiopia helped offset the poor performance seen in Kenya, where the introduction of new VAT legislation resulted in a significant downturn in PC shipments.Portable PC shipments were 91,599 units (love the accuracy) - so 65% of the total. Expect that to rise.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Okay, it's Monday, we can get through this together.
A leading City fund manager considered pulling an investment in Amazon from its ethical funds because of the online seller's tax avoidance measures and its employment conditions for its staff around the world.Royal London Asset Management (RLAM), which bought Co-operative Asset Management last year, revealed it had written to the online retailer demanding clarity on its tax levels and where its tax was paid around the world.The fund manager, which takes an ethical approach to investment, also warned Amazon that its refusal to allow collective bargaining for its staff could hinder its ability to recruit.RLAM said it was disquieting that collective bargaining, through union membership for example, was not encouraged.After a meeting with Amazon in the autumn, RLAM detected some signs of progress (the retailer is advertising for an environment manager) and decided to keep holding the investment in its sustainable fund where it is categorised as a bookseller.Amazon was not immediately available for comment.The asset management company has separately highlighted the issues raised by the EU bonus cap, which restricts top bankers' bonuses to 100% of salary, or 200% if shareholders give approval; it is sympathetic to the cap because of bonus schemes that have "incentivised risky behaviour without due consideration of potential downside losses or robust clawback provisions in place".But RLAM has also conceded that it is not against performance-related pay.The fund manager has revealed how it voted at some of last year's annual meetings, voting against the remuneration report of TUI Travel, for instance, and also at Lloyds Banking Group because of the signing-on fee for the new finance director.RLAM also highlighted the long-running campaign of its predecessor company, the Co-op, to reduce pesticides to protect the bee population.Then part of the Co-op Group, which is the largest farmer in the UK, the fund manager had written to the environment secretary, Owen Paterson, to urge him to support an EU ban on the use of certain products.That ban on "neonics" on flowering crops came into force in December 2013 and lasts for two years.
Text messages are dying a funny kind of death. Most people still do something that feels like SMS, it's just that sending a "short message" no longer feels like a "service". Not when you can also send pictures, videos, audio, music or almost anything else, and you can do it (more or less) for free. Even in Africa, still mostly unconquered by smartphones, Mxit has managed to gather a huge following among users of conventional "feature phones", and has now begun the march into India. Soon the app you message with will say as much about you as the message you send. Here's a guide to the global players and their users:Mxit, South AfricaMxitUSP:Can also be used with an old-fashioned phone and an old-fashioned signal.You are:Usually African, probably South African, but soon some of you may be Indian too. Mxit comes with its own social network that is hugely popular with young people.WhatsApp, USWhatsAppUSP:Got there first (and consequently massive).You are:European or North American. You downloaded this years ago when it was new, and now you're annoyed that lots of new apps have come along to complicate things.WeChat, ChinaWeChatUSP:It's massive, plus you can see if anyone nearby is using it.You are:Not necessarily Chinese. According to its owners' figures, one in three of the app's roughly 300 million users are based abroad, and huge amounts of money are being spent to attract more.You're also not too bothered by the various privacy and security scares that pop up from time to time. You use it constantly.Snapchat, USSnapchatUSP:Photo messages you can draw on, which self-delete after they've been seen.You are:Not necessarily swapping nude pictures. There could be hundreds of reasons why you would want the photograph you've sent to vanish for ever. You might be sending your friends pictures of your other friends with moustaches drawn on them, for instance, or breasts or a penis. Hundreds of reasons.KakaoTalk, South KoreaKakaoTalkUSP:Fun things such as voice filters, animated emoticons and a&nbsp;walkie-talkie setting.You are:South Korean, probably does mean you are crazy about the internet and you use it a lot.Facebook Messenger, USFacebook MessengerUSP:You know, Facebook!You are:Someone who wants a quick and easy way of having fairly basic mobile text and voice chats through your Facebook account rather than using a competitor service.Skype, USSkypeUSP:The free video calls, people!You are:Somebody who heard about making free audio and video calls over the internet.noyed because, as an app on your phone, it's the app is a bit unreliable.Viber, Israel/CyprusViberUSP:A zany combination of WhatsApp and Skype.You are:Probably younger than the people who use either of the above, and as such you have more time for mucking about with stickers, doodles, emoticons and the like.body who boycotts anything with an Israeli background.LINE, JapanLineUSP:Chat, calls, voice messages, video messages, photos, location sharing, games, virtual stickers, music sharing … everything!You are:Probably east Asian, but perhaps Spanish or South American. You like the Japanese way of doing media: massive overstimulation. You like it so much that you are willing to spend a fortune sending brightly coloured cartoons to your friends. You have a headache.
From the Cure to Snap via Take That, the role of theKorg M1 synthesiserin its genre-crossing influence has been all-encompassing. The renowned audio hardware made its debut in 1988 and quickly found favour with pioneering dance music producers. And now, curiously, it has been recreated as software and released for that stalwart of mainstream gaming, the 3DS, although the result, an elaborate homage to the M1, makes no concessions to accessibility.Korg M01Dis neither a game nor a comprehensive contemporary music creation package, but a meticulous virtual reconstruction of a celebrated synth that does an impressive job, considering the limitations of the 3DS, even introducing sounds from theKorg 01/W. Still, it can be used to create complete tracks and from the Kaos Pad to the keyboard it delivers much that fans of Korg could want. But its primary role is probably as a plaything; an executive toy for a generation that grew up to the beats of Rhythm is a Dancer and dreaming of a big gig as a producer.
Last year'sTomb Raiderrebootwas not only a truly great game but it was a wonderful return to form for the franchise, with a gripping story that told the origins of Lara Croft. Set on a mysterious island that our heroine must escape from, the title mixed platforming with excellent gun (and bow) combat. It was a grittier, at times unsettling, adventure starring a more believable Lara. A year later and developer Crystal Dynamics has updated the title for PS4 and Xbox One. It's certainly prettier, with particular attention played to Lara's character model, while the epic set pieces look resplendent on the new machines.Yet apart from a visual facelift, there's little else to get excited about. All the downloadable content is incorporated, but this mostly includes extra maps and character skins for the lacklustre multiplayer, while the solitary extra tomb is easily finished in 15 minutes. Voice control has also been added to bring up menus, but the novelty soon wears off and the controller is simply more intuitive. This is certainly the best version ofTomb Raider, so it's an essential purchase for new fans. But if you're wondering if it's worth buying again, it isn't.
Thirty years ago (on 24 January 1984, to be precise), a quirky little computer company launched a new product and in the process changed lives and maybe the world. The company was called Apple and the product was named after a particular type of Californian apple – the Macintosh.With astonishing chutzpah, the company announced the product to the world via a singleadvertisementscreened during the Super Bowl on 22 January. The film was directed by Ridley Scott and showed a dimly lit auditorium in which ranks of drably clad zombies are being harangued by a despotic figure shown on a huge screen. Into this auditorium comes a beautiful female athlete who runs towards the screen carrying a large hammer, pursued by goons attired in riot police gear. Just as the despot's rant reaches a climax, the athlete stops, whirls the hammer four times and then launches it at the screen. When it strikes, the screen explodes and the camera pans to the zombies, whose mouths gape in bewilderment. "On January 24th," intones a voice over the closing scene, "Apple Computer will introduce Macintosh. And you'll see why 1984 won't be likeNineteen Eighty-Four."Most people who saw the ad were probably baffled by it. But for some of us, the symbology was clear. We had seen the chaotic exuberance of the early personal computer movement tamed by the arrival of IBM, then the Darth Vader of IT. In 1981, IBM had launcheditspersonal computer, at which point the corporate world began to take the technology seriously. The idea took hold that personal computers were not playthings for home-brew hackers, but serious business tools for running spreadsheets. And as that happened, a powerful network effect kicked in: the IBM PC – and its Microsoft software – became the de facto standard and so software developers wrote programs that would run only on it and a gigantic, slate-grey, business-driven ecosystem evolved around the PC.The Macintosh was a truly radical challenge to this orthodoxy. Where PCs were rectangular metal boxes with green or grey, text-only displays, the Macintosh was slightly curvy and beige and had an integral bitmapped screen on which one could draw pictures and – even more amazingly – edit them. It implied that this might be a device not so much for work as for play.It was the screen that hooked most of us early adopters. I vividly remember the moment I first saw it. It was at a university workshop organised by Apple. Here's what my notes on the event say. "After an initial spiel by company representatives, we were let loose on the machines. They had been set up displaying a drawing of a fish. It was, in fact, aMacPaintfile. I stared at the image, marvelling at the way the scales and fins seemed as clear as if they had been etched on the screen. After a time, I picked up courage, clicked on the 'lassoo' tool and selected a fin with it. The lassoo began to shimmer. I held down the mouse button and moved the rodent gently.The fin began to move across the screen!I selected 'Cut' from a pull-down menu and the fin disappeared. Finally, I closed the file, declining the invitation to save my changes, and the fish disappeared. Then I reloaded it from disk and there was the fish again, as good as new."It sounds so trivial now, but then it felt like what James Joyce might have called an epiphany. I remember thinking:this is the way it has to be!I felt what Douglas Adams later described as "that kind of roaring, tingling, floating sensation" that characterised his first encounter with MacPaint. "In the blink of an eye,"I wrote later, "all the teletypes and dumb terminals and character-based displays that had been essential parts of my computing experience were consigned to the dustbin of history. I had suddenly seen the point – and the potential – of computer graphics."Since then, although I've used all kinds of computers, I've always had a Mac. As has Stephen Fry, who also celebrated the machine's 30th birthday last week. "What cannot be denied,"he wrote, "is that the first Macintosh changed my life completely. It made me want to write; I couldn't wait to get to it every morning. If you compare computers to offices, the Mac was the equivalent of the most beautifully designed colourful space, with jazzy carpets on shiny oak floors, a pool table, wooden beams, a cappuccino machine, posters and great music playing. The rest of the world trudged into Microsoft's operating system: a grey, soulless partitioned office, with nylon carpets, flickering fluorescent lamps and a faintly damp smell."Amen.
Anyone who played games before the 00s and the advent of never-ending restarts and rolling saves knows the excruciating frustration games can produce. Given the move on to mobiles, it seems odd more aren't chucked at the wall in fits of pique – butSuper Splatform(P1XL, iPad, £1.49) sets out to change that. This stripped-down platformer presents a perpetually bouncing ball that must be navigated between the platforms that make up the game's landscape. Miss a landing and that's it – game over. Tilt controls make this&nbsp;even harder, and will soon have players waving their tablet around dementedly, swearing at the screen as the sphere descends to its doom. There are three modes: Super Splatform, with tasks and varied visuals; Classic, with simple black background and grey platforms; and Endless, in which you move ever upwards, until the inevitable crushing fall.TCHOW Rainbow: 'achingly hard but very rewarding'.TCHOW Rainbow(TCHOW, iOS £1.49) harks back to the first mobile game to capture the public imagination,Snake. You control a rainbow, brightening up the lives of the inhabitants of a grey world. Initially, there's one strand to control, avoiding obstacles while taking colour&nbsp;to the people, but it progresses&nbsp;to a multitude of colours to be guided and pulled about the landscape. With rewards for keeping as many strands as possible intact as&nbsp;well as your finger on the touchscreen at all times, it too can be achingly hard – but very rewarding.
&quot;Our music sells other people&apos;s hardware, and it&apos;s a hard pill to swallow,&quot; said will.i.am at Midem on Saturday. Speaking via Skype, the Black Eyed Peas frontman called the music industry “delusional”. &quot;I try my hardest not dwell on it, so I try to focus on my philanthropy.”Will.i.am pointed to the successive decline in revenue from recorded music that the industry has experienced for more than a decade as a reason to get into the hardware business. He said he had made more money from his equity in Beats Electronics – the makers of Beats by Dr Dre headphones – than what he made from Black Eyed Peas&apos; I Gotta Feeling, the most downloaded song of all times on iTunes.“Record labels should not compete with other labels – they should compete with Samsung, with LG,” he said. “I challenge you to challenge those you think you probably shouldn’t go up against. That’s what Dr Dre did with Beats.”The global music superstar, entrepreneur and philanthropist later told the Guardian that the world had seen the transformation going on today before, a hundred years ago, during the industrial revolution. &quot;African-Americans weren&apos;t part of that conversation back then,&quot; he said. &quot;What we&apos;re seeing now is the technological revolution – and inner city kids should be a part of that conversation.&quot;That&apos;s why Will.i.am launched the TRANS4M initiative, which is part of the i.am angel foundation he launched in 2009. The foundation’s aim is to promote and expand education in the areas of science, technology, engineering, arts &amp; athletics and mathematics (i.am STEAM), by providing scholarships, financial literacy and college preparation for underprivileged young people.In 2012, he brought TRANS4M to the UK, working with the Prince’s Trust, as it didn’t have a STEAM programme at the time.He said that going back to Boyle Heights, the LA neighbourhood he grew up in, inspired him to “give back”. “I wanted to do more than reaping the money and the fame, and live the way the videos and magazines suggest successful artists should live.”“Why wait for an earthquake or hurricane or tornado for someone in the music industry to wake up and use their success to focus? Every day there’s an earthquake or a hurricane, and no one pays attention. I wanted to address everyday urgent things that aren’t in Rolling Stones or the latest hot blog.&quot;Growing up listening to Public Enemy, KRS 1 and Rage Against the Machine, will.i.am said that his impression of what hip-hop should be was “each one to teach one” and “fight the power”. “It has stopped being that,” he continued. “Look, artists don’t have to rap about [transforming their neighbourhood] – my latest song doesn’t reflect my philanthropy – but you should use the power you have to go and fix it.”He has said that he only sleeps about four hours a night, which allows him to invest time in a vast number of projects, including launching his own self-funded i.am+ consumer electronics business last year, serving as Intel’s director of creative innovation, creating and co-founding the Coca-Cola company’s EKOCYCLE recycling strategy, and founding and hosting the TRANS4M conference – as well as write, produce, record and perform music and being a judge and mentor on BBC 1’s The Voice.“This is the new rockstar lifestyle,” will.i.am told the Guardian. “Bono does it. The question is: do you go to the Grammys or to Davos? We know the old definition of the word, but this is 2014 and that is not what I want to be. I want to be a rocket star, see the planet from above and then transform it.”•Will.i.am brings his $475 iPhone camera accessory to Macworld
On Tuesday, Facebook will be 10&nbsp;years old. It has 1.23 billion users. Ponder those two facts for a moment. A company that did not exist 10 years ago now has as many users as India has people.If you wanted a case study in how the internet enables "disruptive innovation", then Facebook is one of the four best examples. (The other three are the web, Wikipedia, and Skype.) Like the web, Facebook is essentially the creation of a single gifted, visionary individual, oneMark Zuckerberg. And he was only able to launch it because of the way the internet facilitates what one scholar calls "permissionless innovation".Facebook was not the first social-networking service. The most intriguing thing about it is why it emerged as the dominant player in a long-established and crowded marketplace. The idea of computer-mediated social networking is an old one that goes back to the Californian counterculture of the 1970s, and the history of the field is littered with the carcasses of ventures that flourished spectacularly before either crashing to oblivion (SixDegrees,MySpace) or finding a niche in the ecosystem (LinkedIn).When Facebook emerged, the most obvious comparison was withMySpace, but even then it was clear that they were not direct competitors. MySpace was riotous, vulgar and slightly weird – partly because it allowed users to decorate their pages by adding customised HTML code. Facebook, by contrast, looked preppy, severe and dull. And it was exclusive – you had to be a student at an elite US university to be a member. It looked as though the social stratification of the real world also applied in cyberspace. ANew Yorkercartoon of the time showed the preppy daughter of a Wall Street banker introducing her scruffy boyfriend to her parents. "Don't you think he's a bit too MySpacey for you, dear?" says her mother.Facebook triumphed for a number of reasons. One of them was the technical virtuosity of its founder and early staff: unlike many other comparable ventures undergoing explosive growth, Facebook coped brilliantly. But its marketing was also very astute: its initial growth was fuelled by the fact that the main preoccupation of Harvard undergraduates is getting laid; and it used its early exclusivity as bait, gradually adding less elite universities before eventually opening up to the world.Once it did that,Metcalfe's lawkicked in. In everyday parlance, this means that the more users there are on a social network, the more attractive it will be to people who are contemplating joining. What it means in practice (regulators take note) is a potential winner-takes-all situation. Which is where Facebook is now.From when its exponential growth began, Facebook has been the object of feverish speculation in both the financial and media senses of the term. In the pre-IPO (initial public offering, or flotation) phase it was mostly about valuation. Since the IPO, the hot air has been generated by topics such as whether it would be able to master the mobile market as it had the desktop world, whether its spectacular growth could continue, and the nature of its business model.Above all, the media frenzy has been about those mythical creatures known as "teens". Since the perception was that Facebook's growth had been driven by young people – who are known to be fickle and flighty in their affiliations – Facebook's share price came to be correlated with rumours that teens were, or were not, getting bored with it. The latest version of this is that teenagers will be repelledby the fact that their parents and even grandparentsare now piling into Facebook.An amusing example of the depths to which these speculations have sunk came from atechnical paper by Princeton Universityresearchers in which they used an epidemiological approach to model social-networking affiliations. Joining a network was, they conjectured, analogous to infection by a contagious disease, while abandonment was analogous to recovery. They concluded that Facebook had just entered the abandonment phase and that its user base would soon decline rapidly.This wascountered by three Facebook researchers, who first skewered the methodology used by the academics, before applying it to online data about Princeton. "In keeping with the scientific principle 'correlation equals causation'," they concluded, "our research unequivocally demonstrated that Princeton may be in danger of disappearing entirely."In fact, the most significant question is not whether teenagers will abandon Facebook, but whether its adoption by huge numbers of adults will result in the fulfilment of Zuckerberg's vision of owning "the world's social graph" – the network of humanity's online social connections. If it does, then our society's move into completely uncharted territory will be complete.The reason for this is that, in a strange way, Facebook's business model is analogous to that of the USNational Security Agency. Both need to use surveillance of both intimate and public online activity to make inferences about behaviour. The NSA claims that this enables it to spot and thwart terrorism and other bad stuff. Facebook's implicit – but rarely explicitly articulated – claim is that intensive monitoring of what its users do enables it to both tailor services to their needs and provide precise targeting information for advertisers.The difference is that while it's impossible to know whether the NSA's surveillance is a cost-effective way of achieving its mission, there's no doubt that Facebook's monitoring of its users is paying off, big time – as evidenced by itsquarterly results, released last week. The company had revenues of $2.59bn for the three months ending 31 December – up 63% from the same time last year; and for 2013 as a whole it had revenues of $7.87bn, up 55% year-on-year. Its profit last year was $1.5bn.All of which is pretty good for an outfit created by a Harvard undergraduate in his dorm room 10 years ago. What then of the next 10 years? As with most internet ventures, it's impossible to say. On the one hand, permissionless innovation might spring another surprise on the world. After all, software is pure thought-stuff and there's no shortage of geniuses in the profession. This is why many online moguls have Andy Grove's motto – "only the paranoid survive" – engraved on their psyches. The future of Facebook will be determined by the outcome of a struggle between Metcalfe's law and the capacity of the net to spring disruptive surprises.A few years ago, when I was doing research for my book, I discovered to my astonishment that some senior politicians thought that the world wide web was the same as the internet. One day I mentioned this toTim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the web, over coffee at a symposium. "It's even worse than that," he replied. "There are hundreds of millions in the people in the world today who think that Facebook is the internet."Which is why we should be concerned about Zuckerberg's achievement.John Naughton is the author ofFrom Gutenberg to Zuckerberg: What You Really Need to Know About the Internet
Civil rights lawyers expressed concern this week that judges reviewing the contempt of court case brought against Lavabit, an email service that was used by the National Security Agency leaker Edward Snowden, were dismissing privacy concerns raised by the case as a “red herring” that had been “blown out of proportion”.The founder of Lavabit, Ladar Levison, is challenging a contempt of court order brought against him when he initially refused to hand over the encryption keys to his secure email service. The case is now with the fourth US circuit court of appeals in Richmond, Virginia. Judges Roger Gregory, Paul Niemeyer and Steven Agee presided over a hearing on Tuesday.A decision is expected within 45 days. If Levison’s appeal is rejected, he will be held in contempt of court and it will be unlikely that the legal issues surrounding the case will be resolved.Levison has argued that the government put an undue burden on his business by forcing him to hand over the SSL encryption keys to his service, as part of the FBI’s investigation into Snowden&apos;s leak of thousands of documents to media outlets including the Guardian. Levison shut the service shortly after complying and has since argued that the government violated his fourth amendment right prohibiting unreasonable searches and seizures.An American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) attorney, Brian Hauss, said the hearing suggested the court was more interested in the procedural details of the case and Levison’s behaviour than fourth-amendment issues regarding the legal position of a business’s use of encryption.“We believe encryption is the heart of this case,” Hauss said. “The judges pointed out that the first order asked for data and didn’t demand SSL keys. But the only way Levison could have provided them with that data as they wanted it was to hand over those keys.”Lavabit was a secure email service through which account holders used an encrypted key to access their mail. Levison did not hold those keys. While he could have given the authorities access to a single user’s account, as he had done in the past, he has argued that the only way to give the FBI “live” access, as it demanded, was to compromise his entire system and its 410,000 users by handing over the master keys.Hushmail, a Lavabit rival, acquiesced to a similar FBI demand in 2007, only to see its reputation collapse. Levison and the ACLU have argued that that example and others show the government was making an unreasonable demand on his business – a legal defence against a court order.In a filing with the court, the ACLU has argued that the government “fatally undermined” Lavabit when it demanded access to encryption keys that kept the service secure.&quot;Lavabit&apos;s business was predicated on offering a secure email service, and no company could possible tell its clients that it offers a secure service if its keys have been handed over to the government,&quot; said Catherine Crump of the ACLU.Hauss said: “There should be some check on the courts’ authority to compel a person to comply with its demand. After all, these are innocent third parties.”The judges in the Lavabit case, however, seemed at the hearing keen to move away from encryption or any mention of the fourth-amendment argument.In court, Judge Niemeyer said: &quot;The encryption key comes in only after your client is refusing to give them the unencrypted data. They don&apos;t want the key as an object, they want this data with respect to a target that they are investigating. And it seems to me that that&apos;s all this case is about and it’s been blown out of proportion by all these contentions that the government is seeking keys to access other people&apos;s data and so forth. They are seeking unencrypted data with respect to a target.&quot;Judge Gregory argued the encryption key had become a “red herring”.&quot;There is such a willingness and a desire to argue about secret keys being provided and the government&apos;s going to take full advantage of that and spy on everybody,” said Niemeyer. What was ordered here was with respect to a particular target to provide unencrypted data pursuant to that order.&quot;&apos;Questions of enormous importance&apos;Levison’s legal woes began last June, when Lavabit was ordered to set up a &quot;pen trap&quot; to collect data from one of its customers, thought to be Snowden. A pen trap is software that records all the metadata from an electronic communication, including destination, address, recipient and header.In court, Lavabit attorney Ian Samuels argued that Levison agreed to set up the pen trap and had complied with at least one similar court order in the past. He balked at handing over SSL keys that would have given the FBI access to all his clients and they in turn lost trust in him. Initially he was gagged from speaking about the case, even to a lawyer.Forced to hand over the keys, Levison initially sent the FBI the details as 11 pages of print in 4-point type. Shortly after that, he closed the service and issued a press release saying he had made the decision in order not to be “complicit in crimes against the American people”.The judges criticised Levison for not correctly challenging the order, a criticism to which Samuels objected. Samuels said Levison had made an objection on &quot;statutory grounds and on constitutional grounds&quot; to handing over the encryption keys. He said Levison had argued it would place an undue burden on his business and that there were many good reasons to hear the appeal in any case.“As the government candidly concedes Mr Levison was &apos;intermittently represented by counsel&apos;, these proceedings were happening extraordinarily quickly,” Samuels said. He added: &quot;There are questions of enormous importance both to the government and to not just this litigant but to other service providers in the United States.&quot;He said Levison had tried to offer the FBI a solution that would not lead to the “loss of privacy for the hundreds of thousands of other customers.“When that was refused then the government didn’t say, &apos;Let&apos;s try and work something out,&apos; the government didn&apos;t even pursue the grand jury subpoena, which is the usual way you get information from an innocent third party that isn’t the fruit, instrument or evidence of a crime.“What the government said was, &apos;We don’t even want to deal with the procedural protections of the grand jury. We want to get this information, we are entitled to it in every case. Any time we install a pen register, we get the SSL keys if we decide that we don’t trust you.&apos; That is what the government went and said.“There were other options for them to get this information that didn&apos;t even involve them trusting the company if the government doesn&apos;t trust them anymore. What they can&apos;t do is they can&apos;t say that this statute, and the fourth amendment which doesn’t authorise any of this, gives it to us in every single case if we decide that we don’t trust you.”Levison declined to comment on the appeal.“All I really want is for this issue to be settled so that there is some clarity about what protection businesses have,” he said.Levison is currently working with the founders of Silent Circle, another secure online service that shut down, fearing the FBI would compel it to compromise its service. They are planning to launch a service calledDark Mailthat will offer an open-source tool that could make secure encryption an easy add-on for any email service.
Another Bentley! They keep on sending them. Well, maybe the average Guardian reader really is thinking of getting one – you just need a hand deciding which model. That's why I'm here, to help. You're welcome.So this one is the new Flying Spur, a bloody great barge of a car. If theContinental, the baby Bentley, is the footballer's car, then this one is the chairman's. Obviously, as an Arsenal supporter myself, I could never own a&nbsp;car called a Flying Spur. Perhaps they should have thought of that. I'll take a Renault La Gooner over this, any day. There could be a Twitter hashtag here: #FootballClubCars. An Aston Martin for the Villa fan, etc.So, what's it like? Well, in many ways astonishing. Astonishingly powerful (616bhp from its twin-turbo, 48-valve W12 engine). And&nbsp;astonishingly quick (look at&nbsp;the&nbsp;figures in the box). And huge.A monster like this is never going to feel like a sports car, however quick it is. It's down to physics: two and a&nbsp;half tonnes travelling at 200 miles an hour equals an awful lot of momentum, and doesn't change direction easily. Not that we did reach the full double ton up, Officer, on the school run, or on the way to Tesco.Driving a Flying Spur is something like a cross between driving the Queen Mary and flying Concorde (he says, having never driven either). But a lot of Flying Spur owners won't ever find out. They'll be driven. And they'll be driven in China (more Flying Spurs are sold there than anywhere else). Chinese football chairmen, then, sitting in the back.And they will be very happy there, reading their Guardians, having their backs (and egos) massaged, and their cracks aired – hot or cold – by their beautiful leather seats. They can play with the remote control, put on a movie, perhaps. Or plug in a&nbsp;laptop, connect to the internet using the car's own Wi-Fi hotspot. Do some deals, buy some new players. Obviously everything is perfectly colour matched, and hand-stitched, and buffed, and buffed again, by the good folk of Crewe. Lovely.Which makes the outside all the more disappointing. It's just a bit of an anonymous lump, really. A big brick. It caused very little stir on the school run, in the Tesco car park, parked in our road, where Bentleys are rare. Wasn't admired or envied or even resented. C'mon, people: it's worth £180,000. Oh yes, £140,900 is the minimum. But by the time you've added a few extras – £5,600 for a (very) nice stereo, £1,425 for contrasting stitching, £405 (!) for a&nbsp;bit of carpet in the boot – it quickly adds up. If I'm… if you, Guardian-reading potential Bentley buyer, are spending that kind of money, you want at least to be noticed, no?Bentley Flying SpurPriceFrom £140,900Top speed200mphAcceleration0-60mph in 4.3 secondsCombined fuel consumption19mpgCO2emissions343g/kmEco rating1/10Cool rating5/10
In 2005, when my brother Euan was still a schoolboy, we used to play a lot of Tekken 5 together. If you’re new to this famed video game series, it’s a one-on-one martial arts simulation - a ferocious yet endearingly flamboyant experience in which kangaroos trade blows with Bruce Lee clones, and winged demons grapple with Mexican wrestlers. And I’m fairly sure Euan is the most savage, unprincipled Tekken 5 player ever to lay his traitorous fingers upon a PlayStation 2 controller. Some combatants prefer to open a bout with a stunning punch to the lower body, but Euan was rarely that noble. “Wait a minute, I want to show you something,” he&apos;d declare, scuttling out of reach. I&apos;d dutifully wander over to his side of the arena, all patronising solicitude, and he&apos;d kick me in the face.Euan is a dirty fighter. But he&apos;s also one of the most fearlessly imaginative people you&apos;ll meet. And in its own small way, our shared gaming hobby is proof of this.There have been greater feats of cunning than his Tekken 5 antics, but I like that this gambit ducks right under the question of manual dexterity. Because on those, purely functional and “sportsmanlike” terms, my brother has a bit of a mountain to climb. He has Down&apos;s syndrome, a genetic disorder that reportedly affects one in every thousand babies born in the UK each year, which often hampers development of fine motor skills. I&apos;ve never been entirely sure what Euan thinks of his condition - if you&apos;re reading this, Euan, I apologise in advance for any stupid assumptions. Still, I can’t help but wonder whether his refusal to fight on terms that leave him at a disadvantage reflects something larger, a rejection of the role society wants him to play.Video games v expectationsWe expect “disabled” people – that’s to say, the vast spectrum of individuals branded as such for convenience’s sake – to be passive, unaware, content to live within tacit, carefully managed social nooks in exchange for support and guidance. We don’t expect them to recognise such overtures for what they are: well-meant, but limiting. We don’t expect them to break the rules. We don’t expect them to cheat.By contrast, most video games outright encourage you to misbehave, or at least refrain from bringing down the gavel when you do: it&apos;s what makes them such wonderful, liberating escapism. Just look at Timesplitters 2, the work of Nottingham-based developer Free Radical Design. A deranged cartoon shooter, it tracks how each player conducts him or herself over the course of match, and offers an appropriate award. As a rule, I’d end up with something like “hypochondriac” (for picking up medical kits when you&apos;re unhurt) or “backpeddler”. My brother, meanwhile, walked away from each round with a toxic cocktail of judgments usually including “most cowardly”, “bully” or “ricochet king”. He&apos;s a sneaky player.Euan and I don’t play Timesplitters 2 anymore, mainly because the disc has come to resemble a half-digested beermat. Nowadays we&apos;re fond of Gears of War: Judgment for the Xbox 360, a science-fantasy shooter in which granite-jawed marines scuttle around blasting hideous cave mutants with chainsaw-guns. It&apos;s an opportunity for Euan to flaunt his own, oddly 80s sense of machismo, equal parts Steven Seagal and The Village People – he&apos;s taken to somersaulting his character in time to a raucous rendition of Everybody Mambo. There&apos;s nothing in the game&apos;s world or fiction that accounts for this behaviour, of course. It&apos;s just his personality at play.No man behindAnother favourite is Left 4 Dead 2 (also on Xbox 360), a brilliant riff on B-movies from Valve Software, the games industry’s indefatigable pioneer and prankster. Though a world apart from Timesplitters in most respects – the idea is to carve a path through hyperactive crowds of Danny Boyle-era zombies, from one safehouse to the next – Left 4 Dead 2 compares to Free Radical&apos;s game in that in effect it is a personality test. The nature of the threat isn’t pre-determined but protean, shifting in response to your traits and tactics.Cower for too long at the mouth of a street, and Valve’s vaunted “Director”, a bundle of code with a Stanford complex, might sneak a few grumpy corpses into the road behind you, a none-too-subtle hint that you’re letting an unseen audience down. Split from the group in a fit of zeal and you’re asking to be pinioned by an elite nasty like the Hunter (imagine one of David Cameron’s huggable hoodies, cross-bred with a panther). Euan gets along famously with Hunters. He’s also well-acquainted with the Witch, a sinister, weeping apparition who won’t bother you, providing you don’t bother her. Suffice to say that we seldom leave a Witch to her own devices, and I&apos;m usually the one who winds up a broken ruin in the process.Left 4 Dead by Valve – a game about surviving the zombie holocaust, preferably without your brother goading the undeadAnd yet - my brother has never once abandoned me to my fate. His delight at leaving me in the lurch is exceeded only by the satisfaction he seems to feel at being my rescuer: it&apos;s another way, I guess, of refusing to be the kind of individual he&apos;s expected to be.Each of Left 4 Dead’s chapters or “campaigns” concludes with an all-or-nothing gauntlet run or final stand in the face of overwhelming odds. You might have to defend a rock stadium while waiting for a rescue chopper, using concert pyrotechnics to set the undead on fire, or refuel a car in the middle of an infested shopping mall. We&apos;re rubbish at these sections, but that&apos;s OK - dying in Left 4 Dead is often much more fun than surviving. The point isn’t so much to succeed as to share the experience of a protracted and hilarious failure, as best-laid plans fall to the Director’s tricks and only-human feats of incompetence or treachery.Clegg v senseGames like Left 4 Dead can be every bit as exhilarating and convivial as a real-life sport. It&apos;s frustrating that so many people continue to regard them as degrading and desensitising. Parents should “ration” a child&apos;s consumption of “corrosive” videogames, father of three Nick Cleggobserved on LBC in September, adding that players “occupy a sort of hermetically sealed world really of their own, and that can have a very detrimental effect”. The idea of joining in, much as you&apos;d join your kids for a game of football, doesn&apos;t seem to occur to Clegg – but how are we to lure people out of that “world”, assuming this is necessary, if not by comprehending what makes it so enticing? And what possibilities are we dismissing in the process?Quantum of Solace – this mediocre James Bond tie-in may have hidden benefits.My brother has been playing video games for well over a decade. If this has had “a very detrimental effect” on him, he hides it very well, though I suppose there is that slightly unnerving fixation with James Bond. This has been the cause of some strife: I&apos;ll travel home for the weekend armed with a critical darling like Bioshock Infinite - think Martin Scorcese&apos;s Gangs of New York meets David Mitchell&apos;s novel Cloud Atlas - only to discover him tucking into his battered old copy of Quantum of Solace, a middling adaptation of the Daniel Craig film. I&apos;ve hidden the disc on occasion. Not proud.The value of BondMy brother’s dedication to Quantum of Solace may actually have been constructive, much as I hate to admit it. Years ago, he&apos;d ask me to help out with the game&apos;s number puzzles (hacking into an electronic door lock, for example) and Quick Time Events - “on rails” sequences that are shot and edited like the action bits in any garden-variety blockbuster movie, where you tap buttons on cue to make it through unscathed. Nowadays, Euan is able to perform these without assistance. Is this evidence that his time in 007&apos;s shoes has honed his reflexes and improved his numeracy? Possibly. There&apos;sgrowing supportfor the idea that far from damaging youngsters, games can actually aid cognitive development and have educational benefits.Equipped with tools, objectives and obstacles, a game is analogous to a classroom, a crucible in which to test out and master all sorts of principles. That the principles transferred (eg where best to punch a kangaroo) may not be worth the trouble is no argument against the medium’s efficacy. Among the organisations that acknowledge this is the National Security Agency: indocumentspublished by the Guardian in November, our friendly neighbourhood G-men note that both the US army and Lebanese Hezbollah have developed games for training and recruitment. I like to think that the NSA has a file on Euan. He could certainly teach them a thing or two about underhand tactics.Visual learningIt&apos;s possible that children with Down&apos;s syndrome have more to gain from “edu-tainment” software than they do traditional teaching methods, as I learned during a conversation with Gillian Taylor, an occupational therapist at UK gamer&apos;s charitySpecial Effect. “People with Down&apos;s syndrome are very visual learners,” she tells me. “So they learn much better from visual materials than auditory materials or other learning styles. If you think about how much computer games give you visually, I think that could be a real benefit.” This may be especially true of touchscreen games, which allow players to meddle with an image without first mastering a control device.I&apos;m not trying to claim that every child born with the condition belongs in a virtual reality booth. In Gillian&apos;s view, “people with Down&apos;s syndrome are as different as people generally, in terms of the spectrum of skills that they have” - some will go to college, like Euan, others may not, and blanket solutions are of use to nobody. But where a real classroom may seem threatening to a person who isn’t as literate or socially adept as his or her peers, games at least offer a controlled environment in which to hang out and experiment with concepts.Learning something isn&apos;t necessarily the point - success of any kind is good for you, whether you experience it in the real world or not. “Motivation can be a problem for people with Down&apos;s syndrome,” Gillian observed. “If they&apos;re not getting any success with things, they&apos;re not going to develop the self-esteem, and they&apos;re not going to want to try, and therefore the skills aren&apos;t going to build. The right game can offer the right challenge, enabling them to enjoy success, which in turn motivates them to progress further.”Freedom and controlThe right game can be hard to find, unfortunately, which is why Special Effect puts on roadshows throughout the UK, where players of all abilities can try out the charity&apos;s colossal library of tailor-made control devices, many of them based on commercially available hardware, like Sony&apos;s DualShock pad. Examples include a peripheral that allows you to drag and drop virtual chess pieces with your eyes, and an intricate device that makes it possible to play a 3D shooter using chin movements, voice commands and a switch mounted on the side of a chair.“Our role there is as facilitators to help them experience a range of games with different speeds, cognitive levels and control complexities,” says communications chief Mark Saville. “The magic happens when they experience games that match their abilities.” These events are also on opportunity for friends and loved ones to experience these titles; in helping those with disabilities get to grips with a game, Special Effect is helping to lower the entry threshold across the board.Perhaps the leakiest preconception about video games right now is that they can&apos;t be shared - that gaming is an adolescent cult practise, inaccessible to any except card-carrying enthusiasts. But a world is only “hermetically sealed” if you insist on being outside it - and ultimately, the loss is yours. Playing games with my brother has made me more conscious of his spontaneity, his guile and resourcefulness, his intellectual independence and irreverence. It’s one of many ways he reveals himself not as a “disabled” person but simply as his own person, as hell-bent on deciding his own destiny as anybody else.• Minecraft at 33 million users – a personal story• Gamer communities: the positive side
My phone rings.&quot;Where the hell are you?&quot; someone screams at me.Apparently I was meant to be somewhere, with my car stocked and ready to take a group of friends 70 miles out of London. I have no idea what he&apos;s on about.&quot;But it was on Facebook! I sent you the invite and everything!&quot;The penny drops. My self-prescribed absence from Facebook has bitten me in the behind, because I&apos;ve realised I wasn&apos;t even aware of the stag do, let alone that I&apos;d been nominated as a designated driver. They assumed I knew because everyone sees everything that happens on Facebook, right?Unless you&apos;ve turned off all Facebook alerts and emails...A competition to see who has the best lifeAt one point I had around 300 friends on Facebook - considerably more than the average 130 for most Britons,according to social media site the Wall. Most seemed shallow connections, and the excuse for connecting was that random meetings, mutual friendships or past jobs inflated my friend count. It seemed more about networking or reminiscing with lapsed friendships.In reality, after the initial flurry of conversation I realised I had little in common with them, which meant my network wasn&apos;t related to my real world network at all - a couple of hundred people I never talked to properly, or didn&apos;t even really know. Yet they knew when I&apos;d been drunk at a party, or that my boss was a pig, or that my relationship was a bit “complicated”. I don&apos;t think that&apos;s normal.Having hundreds of friends and a constant stream of conversation happening day and night looks extremely sociable. How could anyone be lonely with hundreds of Facebook friends?In yet another academicstudy on Facebook from August 2013, researchers claimed that the more people used Facebook in their test group, the more unsatisfied they felt with their lives - regardless of how many friends they had amassed.“On the surface, Facebook provides an invaluable resource for fulfilling the basic human need for social connection. Rather than enhancing well-being, however, these findings suggest that Facebook may undermine it,” concluded the study.One explanation - which rings true for my own experience - is the bias towards presenting a perfect self-image. There&apos;s an enormous pressure to appear fantastic at every occasion, and whether boasting about success at work, an amazing night out or uploading a photo, it can feel like a competition to see who had the best life.Facebook is now the lowest common denominator for communication among my friends, largely replacing email and text with brief comments and likes.More than anything, I started to feel that I was calling my friends less, seeing my friends less and that our friendships were being reduced to a trickle of pictures, comments and quips. I could no longer remember the last time I just called up a friend for a chat or had something genuinely new to say that someone hadn&apos;t already seen on Facebook.ENOUGH!I had simply had enough. The volume of messages telling me I&apos;d been tagged, mentioned, commented on - that someone I don&apos;t even know said &quot;totes amazeballs&quot; on one of my posts - the pressure of being perfect, having to come up with witty one-liners and the utter disappointment when one of my posts didn&apos;t get more than five likes.So I switched every notification off, and swore not to touch Facebook for at least three months.Unfortunately, that happened at about the same time as one of my friends was getting married. When his best man sent an invite on Facebook, he assumed that everyone had seen it and we ended up with that panic phone call, a sprint downstairs and a mad dash (all within legal speed limits, of course) down the M3.He hadn&apos;t even noticed my social media blockade. &quot;Why would you want to do that?!&quot; he said with horror when I explained.The social penalty for being off-FacebookFacebook&apos;s pervasiveness means that it reaches most people’s lives, including mine. Leaving the service seems straightforward, but notice that your account is deactivated, rather than deleted, and they do keep your data.However... there is a social penalty for being out of the Facebook loop - as I found out. Opt out, and you opt out of the phone book of our age. It might mean you miss out on casual but important invitations and news. There is a currency, however superficial, in the ambience of a Facebook friendship, the holiday photos, the baby photos, the shared interest in a news story. It&apos;s not essential, but it keeps a trickle of communication open between someone you might otherwise not hear from.Facebook is the identity key for thousands of sitesFrom your fitness tracker to your music service, Facebook Login is used to sign into thousands of sites and services, as well as those who require a login before you can comment.Spotify is a good example, where sharing music with friends, seeing what people listen to and discovering new music through a shared listening experience is very much driven by Facebook. It is possible to follow people without connecting to Facebook, but it’s much harder and with nowhere near as many features.Leaving Facebook, then, creates a whole new set of problems.A friend cullSo my solution was a halfway house, a compromise that involved an enormous friend cull. I went through my 300-odd friend list and removed everyone I wasn&apos;t actually friends with. I removed all my work colleagues and anyone who I hadn&apos;t spoken to in three months, leaving just a 50 people that included all my actual friends and a few family members – I couldn&apos;t quite bring myself to tell my Mum that she couldn&apos;t be my friend any more.That changed the way I used Facebook. It is no longer a competition to see who has the best life. It also meant that I wasn&apos;t bombarded with notifications, because I had dialled down my notification settings so that I only received updates about the most important things form the most important people.It means I use Facebook a lot less than I used to, but I still get the invites and the photos from the events that I do actually want to receive.In fact, Facebook works quite well as a communication platform once you&apos;ve ditched the chaff, so perhaps it wasn&apos;t the site that was the problem but the people. Maybe it&apos;s time to find some new friends.•Who were the first 10 people on Facebook?
Sony has decided that in the premium smartphone market, smaller can be more beautiful. Having peaked with the 6.44in Xperia Z Ultra phablet, Sony’s latest smartphone has a 4.3in screen – far smaller than the 5in of the Samsung Galaxy S4 or 4.7in HTC One – and is being pitched as a “premium compact” rather than a budget small Android phone.When the phone was announced in January, Sony Mobile&apos;s head in Europe, Pierre Perron, claimed Sony was &quot;inventing our own market segment: the premium compact Android smartphone&quot;.Sony sees a significant market for a smaller, more manageable Android smartphone specifically targeted at the iPhone and with smaller hands in mind, but without compromising on quality or specifications.The Xperia Z1 Compact bucks the 5in and larger screen-size trend, demonstrated by Samsung&apos;s ever expanding Galaxy S and Galaxy Note line, which Sony reckons is getting out of hand.Recent data from research firm Kantar appears to support this theory, which showed 42% of people who owned phones with a 5in or greater screen size bought a smaller phone to replace it when upgrading.Designed to be small but not cheapSony Xperia Z1 Compact review Photograph: /SonyThe Sony Xperia Z1 Compact, as the name might suggest, looks like a shrunken Xperia Z1 – a flat glass slab both front and back with rounded metal edges available in black, white, yellow and pink.It is solidly built, if a little dense, and is constructed of premium materials with only a small bit of flex noticeable in the body when twisted. It weighs 137g - comparatively heavy for a premium smartphone given that most weigh less than 130g, even with larger 5in screens - but isn’t heavy enough to be noticeable in use.Its smaller stature is refreshingly easy to use for a powerful, premium Android smartphone. Easy to use with one hand, it fits well in the palm and has good button placement, which means reaching the power or volume buttons doesn’t require the dexterity of a Spanish guitarist. The Z1 Compact is also slips into pockets easily, something that’s often overlooked by much larger smartphones.Like the other models in Sony’s Xperia “Z” range, the Z1 Compact is waterproof and dust resistant. That means slots for the microUSB port, SIM and microSD slots are covered by little sealed doors, but thankfully the headphones port is exposed, waterproofed on the inside.Sony has equipped the Z1 Compact with a 4.3in screen with a 720p resolution meaning it has a screen density of 342 pixels per inch – besting the 326ppi of the iPhone 5S on its smaller 4in screen. Most premium Android smartphones with their larger 5in screens have much higher pixel densities in the region of 445ppi, but the difference is not appreciable at usable distances.The screen looks sharp, colourful and vibrant. It includes technology from Sony’s Bravia TV division called “Triluminos”, which enhances its overall colour saturation, colour accuracy and contrast, and as a result makes photos and videos look really good on the 4.3in screen.SpecificationsScreen: 4.3in 720p HD displayProcessor: 2.2GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 800RAM: 2GB of RAMStorage: 16GB plus a microSD card slot for expansionOperating system: Android 4.3 “Jelly Bean”Camera: 20.7-megapixel rear and 2-megapixel front-facing cameraConnectivity: 4G LTE, Wi-Fi (n/ac), Bluetooth 4.0 LE, NFC and GPSDimensions: 127 x 64.9 x 9.5mmWeight: 137gFast and lasts two daysSony Xperia Z1 Compact reviewThe Xperia Z1 Compact is Sony’s first attempt at a “premium compact” and as such has crammed as many high-end components as possible into the 4.3in phone.At its heart is the same top-end 2.2GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon processor, which is one of the fastest and most powerful chips currently available in a smartphone or tablet.That makes the Z1 Compact powerful enough to handle anything you are likely to want to do on a modern smartphone – graphically intensive games fly, apps load instantly and there is no lag to be seen anywhere during usage. With 2GB of RAM fitted, multitasking is fluid too making swapping between running applications smooth and seamless, something that often can’t be said of smaller Android phones like the Samsung Galaxy S4 Mini.For storage the Xperia Z1 Compact has 16GB of built-in memory, which is plenty of space to store applications given the phone also sports a microSD card slot for memory expansion up to 64GB for storing music, photos and videos.Smaller phones are prone to shorter battery life, which is primarily down to the lack of available space in the smaller frames in which to fit a big battery. The Z1 Compact sports a sizeable 2,300mAh battery, which although of smaller capacity than many larger smartphones like the 2,600mAh cell in the 5in Samsung Galaxy S4 is significantly larger than the 1,900mAh battery fitted to the Samsung Galaxy S4 Mini, for instance.As a result of the large-for-its-size battery, the Z1 Compact lasted about two days of full usage with about two hours of emailing, an hour of browsing, 30 minutes of video and constant connectivity pulling in messages and notifications. In most people’s hands the Compact is likely to last much longer.Sony has also integrated some aggressive, automated power-saving modes it calls “Stamina” mode, which shuts off data and inhibits power usage when the phone’s screen is off. Stamina mode is capable of extending the standby battery life by around 50 to 75%, should you need to be away from a charger for longer periods.Still Jelly BeanSony Xperia Z1 Compact reviewWhile the Z1 Compact disappointingly does not ship running the latest version of the Android software, limited to Android 4.3 “Jelly Bean” instead of 4.4 “KitKat”, Sony’s customisations to the standard Android experience are light and easy to use.A suite of Sony applications come pre-installed, including the Sony Walkman music app and Sony’s “Unlimited” media subscription service applications, which provide access to movies and music for a monthly fee, but all of them can be safely ignored if you prefer alternatives like Spotify or Netflix.The Z1 Compact has full access to the Google Play store, including its 1m or so standard Android apps, and comes bundled with all of the standard Google applications including Gmail, Maps, Google+, Search and Google Now.For gaming, the Z1 Compact is also a PlayStation certified device, meaning it has access to the PlayStation Mobile store for buying and playing PS1 and other PlayStation games.The software running on the Xperia Z1 Compact should be familiar to anyone who has used an Android smartphone before, looking and acting very similarly to the perfectly usable standard Android experience.Camera snapping funOne of the biggest standout features of the Z1 Compact versus other “Mini” competitors like the Samsung Galaxy S4 Mini and the HTC One Mini is the camera.Sony has managed to squeeze the same, impressive 20.7-megapixel camera from the full-size Xperia Z1 into the Compact and the results are great. The view finder is incredibly quick and lag-free, photos are sharp, detailed and colourful, while the Superior Auto mode makes taking a great-looking picture as easy as point and shoot.The Z1 Compact also has a dedicated two-stage shutter button, just like a traditional camera, and can be used to launch the camera application even when the phone is locked, making capturing a quick snap easier.A “Timeshift burst” mode is also available, which captures a series of photos before and after you hit the capture button to make sure you get the right shot – something particularly useful if you’re trying to capture a baby’s first steps or a celebrity racing by in a nice car.Sony also gives the user a load of manual controls, should people want to dig in and control things like the white balance, ISO settings or metering.In addition to the standard camera application, Sony has also used the impressive camera to have a bit of fun. The augmented reality-effect camera, for instance, will overlay a walking, roaring dinosaur on the real world, or put a knight&apos;s helmet on your friends and family.Sony’s Info-Eye application is capable of visually recognising objects, landmarks, text and QR codes. It can identify a bottle of wine, for example, and show reviews, more detailed information on the region it came from and what foods it is likely to go best with – a handy feature that allows you to pretend you know more about wine than the fact that it was on offer at £5 from your local supermarket.Sony Xperia Z1 Compact reviewPremium pricedThe Sony Xperia Z1 Compact costs £450 without a contract and will be available free on contracts costing £29 a month.At £450 it is £100 cheaper than the £550 iPhone 5S, but £150 more than the Google Nexus 5. The Samsung Galaxy S4 Mini and HTC One Mini cost around £315.Verdict: a great, small premium Android phoneSony identified a gap in the market for a premium, all-singing all-dancing Android smartphone packaged in a smaller sized frame. The 4.3in Xperia Z1 Compact is its first stab at capturing that market, and as a non-compromises smaller Android phone it is a very good first attempt.Sony has made a very good small Android phone with the Xperia Z1 Compact, but the biggest question is whether anyone will by a smaller but still premium-priced Android smartphone. Compared to the “mini” competition – cut-down variants of larger, more powerful smartphones like the Samsung Galaxy S4 Mini – the Z1 Compact is in a league of its own.The smallest of the Xperia Z line feels good in the hand, is sturdily built and is waterproof. It has a great screen, an excellent camera and applications simply fly on its powerful processor.It also lasts around two days on a single charge without having to resort to aggressive power management. It is slightly thicker than competing phones like the 4in iPhone 5S, and is slightly heavier too, but in general usage its not noticeable. Its smaller frame makes it easy to use one handed and slip into your pocket.The Sony Z1 Compact is the first of a new generation of small, premium Android phones. Now its time to see if that market gap that Sony seems to have identified really exists.Star rating: 5 starsPros:Waterproof, compact, fast, great camera, microSD card slotCons:Not the latest version of Android, relatively heavy for its size, waterproofing ports doors can be fiddly
The first three accounts on Facebook don&apos;t even exist.Everyone on Facebook has a user ID number, created when they joined. The numbers aren&apos;t strictly sequential: the first few million are segmented by university, so that Harvard users were assigned 0-99999, Columbia users 100000-199999, Stanford users 200000-299999, and so on.In September 2005, high school students were allowed to join and the system changed, and changed again a year later when the site was opened to everyone.But that means that the very earliest users of Facebook are marked out by their single and double-digit user ID numbers. Some have left the site, but a lot are still there today.Zuckerberg may have been first on the site, but he&apos;s not number one. The first three accounts were reserved for testing, leaving Zuck with the number four.Straight after come his co-founders, Chris Hughes at five and Dustin Moscovitz at six. Hughes was Facebook&apos;s first spokesperson, and after leaving the company, he ran Barack Obama&apos;s online campaign in 2008.His left-wing credentials thus bolstered, in March 2012 he bought long-running political magazine the New Republic, and as publisher and editor-in-chief he has revived its public profile (as well as provided a handy cash injection).Moscovitz worked on the technical side of the company, and after he left in 2008 he formed a new start-up called Asana, which creates task management software.And what of Eduardo Saverin, the third of Zuckerberg&apos;s co-founders, whose famous falling-out with the company was the subject of David Fincher&apos;s film The Social Network? With an ID of 41, he&apos;s not even one of the top 20 earliest members.Long before Saverin comes Arie Hasit, the first non-founder to sign up for Facebook, and Zuckerberg&apos;s roommate at the time. After graduating from Harvard, Hasit moved to Israel, where he is currently studying to become a rabbi while working for as a student Rabbi for NOAM, aJewish youth group.Facebook&apos;s next member – at least of those still on the site today – was Andrew McCollum (ID: 26), who knew Zuckerberg from a computer science class they both took. McCollum currently works at the venture capital firm NEA, where is title is &quot;entrepreneur in residence&quot;. As with many of the early members, he also had a role in the creation of the site itself. Among other contributions, he created the very first logo for &quot;thefacebook&quot;, as it was then known: a blue and white pixelated image of Al Pacino.But not everyone with a single or double-digit ID was there in the early days.Chris Putnam joined Facebook as an engineer in 2005, after he and two friends wrote a computer worm which spread through the site, infecting users&apos; profiles and making them look less like Facebook and more like MySpace.When Facebook tracked him down, rather than contact the police they offered him a job. But old habits die hard: after Putnam joined, some of the site&apos;s engineers realised that the lowest ID numbers were unclaimed.And that&apos;s how he now has an ID of just 13.•How Facebook&apos;s new app does clever things wih your newsfeed
The GameCity prize for 2013 has gone to SpaceTeam, a smartphone title described by its creators as, &quot;a co-operative shouting game.&quot; It was shortlisted against mainstream hits Fifa 14, The Last of Us and XCOM, as well as indie favourites Faster Than Light and Thomas Was Alone. And a daft and amusing game which involves yelling jargon at other participants in order to save a malfunctioning space ship won out against them all.This is pretty much why the GameCity prize is important. While other annual video game accolades are handed out by game reviewers or dedicated game players, the GameCity festival decides its prize by calling in a panel of judges from outside the industry – most of whom never play games. They have a totally different slant on the mechanics of fun, and on what games should do.I know this because I interviewed three of the judges after the extremely heated two-hour discussion that led to the winning decision. The session took place in one of the conference rooms at the Guardian office – a room that has probably seen its fair share of passionately voiced disagreements. And pretty soon into the evening, a gigantic fissure opened up between two sides of the gaming debate. In one corner was teacher and author, Phil Beadle, an expert in reaching out to school kids in working class areas; in the other were prof Uta Frith, a developmental psychologist at UCL, andSamira Ahmed, a journalist and broadcaster. None of them gamers, really, but the three of them opposed on the value of the medium.The politics of gamingBeadle hates games, it&apos;s pretty fair to say that. When I ask him why he decided to be on the panel, he squirms in his chair. &quot;I did it as a favour to a mate,&quot; he says. &quot;I know Iain Simons&apos; [the GameCity director&apos;s] wife. I&apos;m a school teacher by trade; I see how the mismanagement of games by parents has cut a swath through the educational possibilities among working class youths. I have a very visceral reaction to video games and I wanted to examine how much of that was my own bigotry. I have a political perspective, I see video games in the same way as I see football and religion – just a means to keep the working classes stupid and busy doing something of no intellectual value. They have a very corrosive political function.&quot;It&apos;s just about the most fundamental rejection of games I have ever encountered in anyone prepared to consider them. Beadle talked about going into schools and seeing boys asleep at their desks; boys who – he said – had been playing games until the early hours of the morning. &quot;I don&apos;t think games are intrinsically bad,&quot; he concedes at one point. &quot;But in certain communities, the use of them is completely unregulated. The negative impact they have is more to do with laissez faire parenting than it is to do with any intrinsic morality in the games. But anyone outside of the education system is blind to the corrosive effect they are having.&quot;I hadn&apos;t expected this. Beadle was the first judge to emerge from the discussion. I wondered what other deeply held belliefs were being voiced in there. I wondered if games were getting a pummeling. But they weren&apos;t.Frith knows about games from her sons. They are grown up now and in serious academic careers, but they once programmed their own projects on an old Acorn Electron. &quot;I was astounded by these games,&quot; she says. &quot;They are a real part of our culture. I know nothing about them and that&apos;s wrong. I wanted to know what I was missing. I don&apos;t think I will become a gamer – with one exception. SpaceTeam was the one game that I could play without any practice, that I could join in with others and have fun with instantly.&quot;On her side, to some extent, was Ahmed, whose key experience with games so far was one time she played Mortal Kombat for 11 hours on a flight from London to LA. &quot;SpaceTeam has something very important,&quot; she says. &quot;It has charm.&quot; Uta cuts in, &quot;Yes, and I found another game very charming – Thomas Was Alone. It&apos;s so sweet, so simple. But with that one, I felt I could never play at any competent level. I couldn&apos;t make him jump successfully.&quot;This brings us to a point that keeps coming up in our chat after the judging session: the exclusivity of games; their esoteric nature. Their shared language of input, sign and meaning. And how do you get past that?Time and meaningFor Ahmed there was another important consideration – she thought a lot about, &quot;the best use of time&quot;: did the games offer anything that would seem to her to be &quot;better&quot; than reading a book. &quot;I liked SpaceTeam because it was something people could just do together - to have fun, to unwind,&quot; she says. &quot;Like Twister. But less sexual.&quot;I told them both about games like Papers, Please and Gone Home – games that aren&apos;t necessarily about fun, but have things to say, that can engage in the same way as literature does. &quot;Games that try to bring in emotional engagement are interesting, because I sometimes wonder, should they bother?&quot; says Ahmed. &quot;In a way, one of the games that did it well without trying too hard was Faster Than Light, which to me, brought out the best aspects of the games I used to play as a child, where you fantasised about a sci-fi programme and you built your own space ship and imagined being in control of that world. And in FTL, you have that sense of being in the ship and taking ethical responsibility for your crew. That&apos;s lovely. It&apos;s important for young people to develop a sense of control over the world, because so much of their lives is out of control. It didn&apos;t pretend to be more than it was; it didn&apos;t go out to generate emotional engagement.&quot;The jury didn&apos;t like Fifa. Ahmed couldn&apos;t see the point of it, couldn&apos;t understand why people would want to simulate the sport in such detail, when the real thing is so readily available, either via 24-hour TV coverage or just outside in the street or park. &quot;I&apos;d like to see a swimming game,&quot; she says. &quot;It&apos;s deceptively simple, but I see the scope in a game that&apos;s about managing strokes, the angle, the dynamics, and just going up and down!&quot;The Last of Us impressed judges with its cinematic visuals, but Ahmed was disappointed that the lead protagonist was not the girlThe Last of Us was divisive. &quot;I was quite disappointed by this,&quot; says Ahmed. &quot;Ever since Red Dead Redemption, I&apos;d got this sense that there had been this huge advance in the quality of narrative, but actually it&apos;s not the case. The characters are formulaic... I suppose the thing about it is, if you love those great seventies distopian sci-fi thrillers, this game puts you in that world. It&apos;s like being Charlton Heston in the Omega Man and that&apos;s no bad thing. But I would rather watch Charlton Heston.&quot; I try to point out that it exhibits a progression in game stories, from basic fairy tales to something that explores parental relationships. But I don&apos;t get far.&quot;What annoyed me is, you start off as a girl exploring a house, and it&apos;s brilliant, it&apos;s very chilling,&quot; says Ahmed. &quot;But then later I&apos;m thinking, why isn&apos;t the 14-year-old girl the lead protagonist of this story? Probably for all kinds of boring commercial reasons. No one is making those creative decisions. Look at Buffy, look at The Hunger Games – the interesting thing about the latter is that it&apos;s incredibly critical of turning everything into a tournament of death. Katniss has a real investment, she has flashbacks to the horrors of what she has done. Could that work in games? Also I want to see Jane Eyre: the video game.&quot;Harnessing gamesWe talk about the conventions of games, and how they are defined and constrained by them. We compare the arcane language of games to how the conventions of cinema had to emerge over many years – spectators had to learn them gradually on a more or less societal level. But society hasn&apos;t yet learned the culture and semiotics of games to the same extent. And actually neither have developers. Everyone is still feeling their way. But I ask Frith, as a neuroscientist, if games have any professional interest to her. &quot;Yes, definitely,&quot; she says. &quot;Especially the promise they hold for education. Because clearly they tell us what people will do for a long time, what motivates them. People are now required to live their lives in what is a very complex society – if they can be motivated to learn things in the way that games motivate them, learning of everything may become very easy. That is extremely interesting.&quot;I ask Beadle if he sees any way to harness the love of games that his pupils have shown – after all, he has in the past used football to teach grammar. Can games not be exploited for educational purposes? He sighs deeply. &quot;If you had an educational game that exhibited the amount of creativity and intelligence that you see in The Last of Us, you would probably get buy-in from the kids. But to construct a narrative experience that detailed and engaging is a multimillion dollar operation. The use of games educationally is done on a much more tin pot basis and is done by people who want to make a fast buck, who don&apos;t necessarily have the talent. What we get from the ICT lobby within education is badly designed stuff that teaches you nothing. It would be fascinating to have a narrative constructed with that degree of creativity and intelligence for educational purposes. But I guess the dollars wouldn&apos;t add up.&quot;Ahmed seems caught in the middle, between Frith&apos;s excitement about the potential of games and Beadle&apos;s dogged resistance. &quot;If you compare gaming to alcohol, I think perhaps there&apos;s a difference between a connoisseur&apos;s appreciation of games, like sipping a fine malt, which is essentially what we&apos;re doing here, and binge-drinking because you&apos;re a teenager in an environment where, if you&apos;re not doing it, you feel left out. I don&apos;t think we can ignore the fact that it&apos;s about time - how much of your day are you spending on games? What else could you be doing?&quot;Reading vs gamingI sense in Ahmed a very familiar standpoint – that it would be conclusively better to read a book, any book, than play a game. So I ask her, would you rather a child read a Jackie Collins novel than play, say, Thomas Was Alone? &quot;No!&quot; shouts Frith, immediately. &quot;No, I&apos;d rather they play something like Journey than read something like Jackie Collins,&quot; agrees Ahmed. Ah good, I respond, so we&apos;re out of this territory where all games are inferior to all literature? &quot;The idea that any book is better than any game is not what we&apos;re saying,&quot; continues Ahmed. &quot;But on the whole, the concentration required to read a book is important - we underestimate, especially with school-age children, the rapidity at which their attention spans are being altered by television and games. Look, I used to program my own games, youhadto when home computers first arrived. We have to understand why things are different for young children.&quot;Frith counters. &quot;But we have to be careful with this assumption about games and attention span,&quot; she says. &quot;There is research that indicates attention span actually increases with gaming. And you could actually ask, well, is it a good thing to have a long attention span? Well, it depends on whether you live in a very fast-moving environment, and on whether you have to make lots of quick decisions…&quot; And this is another important point; the whole idea about children no longer memorising facts because they have the internet to hand. Is that bad? Or is it just the human brain adapting to the resources available?What came out the the judging process, from all the participants I spoke to, was a greater awareness of games, and the variety of experiences they offer. There were concerns about how much young people play them, and there was a sense that games still exclude those who don&apos;t know the conventions and traditions of the medium. But there was also an acceptance that these are things we should all understand. Because games aren&apos;t going anywhere.Frith was the most positive advocate, perhaps, and she told me how she had seen games help autistic children – I have seen that myself of course. But she also saw in video games a wider truth, that is often overlooked or casually downplayed. &quot;Human beings play, they have always played,&quot; she says. &quot;People worry, is it a waste of time? Or they say it&apos;s okay for children but not for adults. Actually though, there are many indications that it is a really wonderful thing to do –especiallywhen we&apos;re adults. These video games are new, what do they do for this love of play? There are problems that we need to discuss, but I can see that it is very creative. Not all video games are the same. It was wonderful for me to experience this world.&quot;• Gamecity prize: Last of Us and Fifa 13 shortlisted• Five things I learned at GameCity 8• GameCity 8, EToo London and the joy of gaming events
Jet lag is the bane of many a world traveller, and many gadgets, gizmos and techniques promise to nip it in the bud. The Valkee 2 is one such: it claims to reduce jet lag by blasting light, not into your eyes, but into your ears.On the surface it looks like a shiny metallic iPod nano with headphones attached, and uses fibre optics to shine more than 10,000 lux of UV-free blue-enriched white light into your ears. (For comparison, 10,000 lux is equivalent to the brightness of the non-direct sunlight on a cloudless day; the EU specifies that an office should have a minimum lighting brightness of 500 lux.)Winter BluesValkee 2 bright light headset review – light-emitting earbudsValkee sells the bright light headset as a treatment for seasonal affective disorder (Sad), commonly called the &quot;winter blues&quot;. SAD is a recognisedseasonal pattern of depression, which affects mood and energy levels in the winter months in the northern hemisphere. &quot;It keeps winter blues at bay,&quot; the website says.Sad is thought to affect around 20% of people in the UK, according to the non-profit Sad Association. Its effects are most felt during December, January and February, when the days are shortest, and alleviated with the coming of longer days in spring.The exact cause of Sad is not fully understood, but is thought to be linked to a reduction in exposure to sunlight. Most common treatments therefore involve bright lights shone into the eyes, as a way of simulating higher levels of sunlight exposure.The theory behind Valkee’s device is that the light penetrate your ear canal and triggers light-sensitive proteins in your brain which are involved in the control of your body clock orcircadian rhythm– the internal system that governs when you feel sleepy, awake and hungry among a myriad of important bodily goings-on. Shining light, it argues, treats Sad and resets the body’s clock.Light up your earsWhereas most Sad treatments use a very bright light or lamp that you sit in front of in the mornings, using the Valkee 2 is a lot more portable and discreet.The light dispensers look like earphones, complete with silicon earbuds, and fire the light along a 5mm thick rod directly into your ear canal. The only clue that you&apos;re not using earphones comes from a white glowing V logo on the back of the buds and the fact that your ears glow red from the light shining through your flesh.Valkee 2 bright light headset review: have you got a head for lights?Using the headset is incredibly easy – just one button on the silver battery pack triggers a 12-minute timer which counts down in a ring of lights around the large power button. Once the timer is done, the Valkee beeps and shuts down until the next session.The battery pack is charged via a standard micro-USB cable, just like a smartphone or tablet. I got well over a week’s worth of use (Valkee claims two weeks’ battery) out of the Valkee between charges, even while trying to combat jet lag.Warm ears, still laggyFor Sad treatment, Valkee recommends a full 12-minute does of light into your ears within two hours of waking up each morning at the same time every morning. I do not knowingly suffer from Sad, and so I cannot vouch for its effectiveness. I do, however, suffer quite badly from jet lag.While Valkee states that the headset is not a “Class II(a) medical device” for the treatment of jet lag, as it is for the treatment of Sad, it clearly states that “it can also be used to aid in the resetting of your biological clock”. It also says that Valkee is currently in the midst of clinical testing for “other benefits”.For jet lag, Valkee recommends a full 12-minute dose of light at 9am, 12-noon, 3pm and 6pm in the time zone of your destination for three to four days of your trip, starting while en route.Valkee 2 bright light headset: available in black and silverIn my testing, on a recent trip to Las Vegas – an eight-hour time difference that put my internal clock ahead of local time – I felt the headset did nothing to alleviate the sluggishness, out-of-sync effects of jet lag. It took me just as long to get over the time difference, both going there and coming back, as it has previously without using the Valkee. I did not feel any more alert or able to sleep at the appropriate times than on any other trip of that distance I have made.In fact, the only effect I felt while using the Valkee was a warming of the ears – although that could bepsychosomaticas the optical fibre in the earbud does not give off any perceptible heat.&apos;Valkee science facts&apos;The scientific basis for the Valkee 2‘s treatment of Sad is best described as murky. Valkee lists aseries of studies on its website– some published in peer-reviewed journals, some presented as &quot;posters&quot; at scientific conferences (and so not peer-reviewed) – and claiming that the mechanism under which the light headset is supposed to work is cold, hard “science fact”.Unfortunately, none of the peer-reviewed studies listed in Valkee&apos;s &quot;science summary&quot; appears to be conducted without a conflict of interest with the company that produces the light headsets, having at least one of Valkee&apos;s founders on each of the research teams. They also fail to uncover how the light actually causes the effects the Valkee scientists claim to see. Just because something is registered as a “Class II(a) medical device” does not mean it is necessarily effective.Further, the basis of the effects of shining light into the ear canal to affect circadian rhythm processes in the brain isdisputed by a further peer-reviewed study, conducted by researchers unconnected with Valkee.There is evidence to suggest that proteins in the brain are light sensitive, and that red and infrared laser lightcan penetrate the skin and bonetocause effects directly on brain cells. But the science is in its infancy at best, and certainly needs more research to even approach &quot;science fact&quot; (as Valkee likes to call it).Regardless of the science, the bright light headset did nothing to help my recovery from jet lag and did not affect my mood or state of alertness in any perceivable way. For me, the €200 Valkee 2 appeared to be at best a very expensive flashlight.Star rating: 0 starsPros:compact, long battery life, discreet, easy to use, comfortableCons:didn&apos;t cure my jet lag; expensive; science unproven
Last year, two new games consoles were released to the market: the PlayStation 4 and the Xbox One, which sold more than 1m each on their first few days on sale. By the end of the year they’d blown away all previous sales records. Their success has re-energised a games industry that was flagging thanks to years-old technology and a consequent stagnation in creativity that was beginning to harm consumer interest.There is one loser in this equation, however. In 2012, Nintendo, the oldest games company in the world and quite probably the most respected, released the follow-up to its phenomenally successful Wii - and it has failed to sell in more than a year what the Xbox One and PS4 managed in just a few months. The Wii U started strong, selling through 3.6m by the end of 2012. But after that it tanked. In the UK, estimates put it at around 150,000 total units, an embarrassing total that places it behind every other games console in recent history. Last week, Nintendo revised its sales estimates for the 2013-2014 financial year downwards from 9m to 2.8m units and forecast a 35bn yen operating loss, precipitating an 18% drop in the company’s share price. Things are so bad, the company&apos;s top executives have promised to take large pay cuts.Big N, big headacheAgainst a backdrop of rejuvenation for the wider video games industry, then, Nintendo is struggling to keep up. Analysts predict lifetime sales of the Wii U will approach 25% of that achieved by its predecessor, the Wii. In the face of this failure, and at this stage, it’s difficult to call the Wii U anything other than a failure. Speculation around Nintendo’s next move has centred heavily on whether this oldest and most respected of games creators should consider getting out of hardware and putting its games on other platforms, particularly smartphones. But although Nintendo desperately needs to move with the times, “doing a Sega” might well sacrifice the long-term integrity of its golden gaming brands like Mario and Zelda for short-term gains. Nintendo’s vast wealth – despite its current troubles, the company had around $10bn in cash assets and short-term bonds at the end of the last financial year – has been built upon owning its platforms, making money not just from its games, but from its often-revolutionary hardware.“I think it is highly unlikely that Nintendo will exit the home console market, although it is true that the business model behind dedicated games hardware sales has been steadily undermined for Nintendo since the launch of the 3DS,” says Piers Harding-Rolls, Head of Games at analyst and consulting firm IHS. “The company has the major challenge of transitioning to this commercial reality when developing its new products. At present handheld sales are driving sales, but we still consider the product strategy across both home and handheld console is legitimate and holds strong synergies for the company.”Rob Fahey, a games industry commentator based in Japan, agrees. “Exiting the hardware business altogether simply isn&apos;t on the cards, to the best of my knowledge. Those who say that Nintendo&apos;s primary value lies in its software brands aren&apos;t wrong, but they&apos;re viewing the company in a very warped way - analysing it like a western hedge fund manager wielding a scalpel, which is not how Japanese business culture works and certainly isn&apos;t how Nintendo perceives its own value. The company has perfected, perhaps more than any other technology firm, the art of joining up hardware design with software design and it believes that this is its core strength. A single tough year will do little to shake that belief, any more than a couple of financial tumbles would convince Apple to abandon hardware and license iOS and OSX to other companies.“Bear in mind,&quot; says Fahey, &quot;that Apple was told over and over again to do exactly that in the late 1990s - to license MacOS and stop building its own hardware. That drive was ignorant of the true value of Apple as a company, just as people trying to push Nintendo onto smartphones are missing the whole point of the company today.”Hardware is everythingNonetheless, long-term Nintendo president Satoru Iwata expressed scepticism about the ongoing viability of Nintendo’s old business model. “We cannot continue a business without winning,” he stated in a recent investor call. “We must take a sceptical approach whether we can still simply make [games consoles], offer them in the same way as in the past for ¥20,000 or ¥30,000, and sell titles for a couple of thousand yen each.”Iwata indicated that the company was looking at ways to incorporate smartphones into its strategy, but that things were, “not as simple as moving Mario onto smartphones”. Now that the iPhone and its competitors are fast becoming ubiquitous even in Nintendo’s home country of Japan, where they were slower to catch on thanks to established and already-advanced Japanese cellphone technology, Nintendo is, “naturally studying how smart devices can be used to grow the game-player business.”This indicates that although Nintendo isn’t going to be selling its games on smartphones in the near future, it might release complementary or promotional software on phones to help support its core business. A recent report fromNikkeisuggests that Nintendo intends to offer game trailers, information and even, “free minigames” on smartphones - like demos, perhaps, for 3DS and Wii U software. It wouldn’t be unprecedented, given that a complementary Pokemon iOS app was released after Pokemon Black and White became available in Japan on the 3DS. Nintendo’s Miiverse social network, meanwhile, is also viewable from smartphones, with dedicated apps coming soon. A presence on mobile is necessary for Nintendo, but that does not mean sacrificing its own hardware business.While the Wii U has struggled, the 3DS has been a success for Ninetndo Photograph: David McNew/Getty ImagesThe Wii U, after all, is only part of the Nintendo story. The handheld 3DS, meanwhile, has been selling like crazy, propelled by an incredible run of excellent games over the past year - it was the best-selling console of 2013 in Japan, the US and the UK. “The 3DS handheld was being written off a couple of years ago and is now performing excellently,&quot; says Fahey. &quot;It undershot its sales targets in 2013 but that speaks more to some poorly considered and over-ambitious targets than it does to weakness in the 3DS&apos; sales&quot;. True, smartphones have already encroached upon Nintendo’s handheld business, but with more than 40 million 3DS console sold and more than three games per unit, now is not the time to abandon it.Even with its vast war chest of ready cash and one successful console, though, Nintendo is still left with the question of what on earth to do with the Wii U. Is it possible to salvage it, or should the company move on to something new?“Following this weak Christmas performance, we believe the chance of a major turnaround has decreased significantly,” says Piers Harding-Rolls. “There remains a window of opportunity to build some momentum in the middle part of 2014, when we expect the launch hype for PS4 and Xbox One to fall away and new games releases for these platforms to enter a lull. However, having &apos;kept its powder dry&apos; in relation to its marketing spend in 2013 because of a lack of content, Nintendo now has a major challenge to kick start momentum through its marketing efforts in a much noisier market in 2014.”Harding-Rolls thinks that withdrawing the Wii U might not be a bad idea, if conditions don’t improve in the next year. “I&apos;m sure that Nintendo is already working on a successor and probably examining how the current console could be changed to improve it, as this is the nature of product development within console companies. I don&apos;t think Nintendo will consider retiring the Wii U until a new product is ready to bring to market but it would be right to change its product lifecycle strategy if the Wii U continues to underperform as it has.”Supporting the fansNot everyone is as pessimistic, though. It’s nearly impossible that the Wii U will become a mega-success along the lines of the Wii at this stage, but it could still find its niche. “I think Wii U will never rival the numbers achieved by the Wii, but wouldn&apos;t be surprised to see solid software releases and perhaps some judicious price-cutting restoring it to some measure of dignity in 2014,” says Fahey. “It&apos;s worth noting that Nintendo made a profit on the GameCube [which, at the time, was a distant third behind the PlayStation 2 and Xbox] and may well do so on the Wii U in the final analysis as well - but the console seems destined, at best, for a very small niche, which is an embarrassment after dominating sales figures in the last hardware cycle.”But then, abandoning the Wii U early in its lifestyle would also alienate the people who actually have bought one - who are likely to be Nintendo’s biggest fans. “It would be hugely damaging to the prospects for any future system,&quot; says Fahey. &quot;While working hard to resuscitate the Wii U and eke a niche success out of it will further cement the company&apos;s reputation in the eyes of its fans.&quot;Salvaging the Wii U will be difficult, then, but abandoning it altogether could prove just as damaging to Nintendo’s reputation. Harding-Rolls reckons that the only possible answer lies in marketing. “There is no social buzz or marketing momentum behind the Wii U in the West and until this is built, sales will not perform to expectation for the company. Nintendo should invest heavily in marketing the Wii U and educating the consumer about the platform over the next six to eight months to give it an opportunity to build some momentum running into the second half of 2014,” he says. &quot;The content pipeline looks strong, so there is plenty to shout about, but Nintendo needs to commit to the marketing spend, which may be difficult considering the recent profit warning.”This seems to be the thinking within the company. Inthe statement made by Iwatafor the recent third quarter financial results, he said the immediate future would be about supporting big Wii U titles like Mario Kart 8 and exploring the possibilities of the GamePad. There was even talk of a new market – health – and some kind of fresh strategy based around using Nintendo&apos;s skill with entertainment products to promote fitness. Whatever happens, though, Nintendo is not on the brink of collapse, and with its extraordinarily deep pockets - which are unique within the games industry - it won’t be anytime soon. Rather than put its prized franchises onto other people’s platforms or start porting to smartphones, it’s far more likely that Nintendo will do what it always has done: make something new. “[Nintendo] regards itself as a toy company and knows that any given toy it launches may fail to find an audience, despite being a bet costing tens or even hundreds of millions of dollars,” says Farley.“Satoru Iwata told me when the Wii launched that the company was prepared for the eventuality that it could fail completely - and then Nintendo would just go and design something else. I don&apos;t think that philosophy has changed in the intervening years.”• Nintendo denies plans for Mario games on smartphones• Nintendo&apos;s £146m loss: can Mario raise his game?• If Nintendo makes mobile games, what can it learn from Sony and Microsoft?
I recently changed my internet service from BT to TalkTalk. I have lost Wi-Fi on my Fujitsu Esprimo V5535 and my Acer Revo, but my tablet and another laptop both connect.HenryWireless networking is a huge can of worms, most of which have been hidden away. First, there was the Wi-Fi Alliance, which not only set interoperability requirements but made suppliers test them. Second, companies developed software to connect PCs, smartphones and tablets to these standardised Wi-Fi networks more or less automatically. One example was the Wireless Zero Configuration (WZC) utility added to Microsoft Windows XP. As a result, Wi-Fi usually works, except when it doesn't.The first thing to try with both your machines is the built-in Windows troubleshooter, which usually fixes the problem, in my experience. The troubleshooter should pop up when Internet Explorer fails to make a connection, so you can just click the button that says "Diagnose Connection Problems". Otherwise, right-click the internet icon in the SysTray on the bottom right of the Task Bar (next to the clock) and select Troubleshoot Problems.There are several other ways to run the Windows Network Diagnostics in Windows 7. For example, you can open the Control Panel's Network and Sharing Center, or go to the Start button in, typenetworkin the search box, and select "Identify and repair network problems". For Windows XP users, Microsoft has an online guide:How to troubleshoot home networking in Windows XP, but XP's Home and Small Office Networking Troubleshooter works in much the same way.You can also try the networking equivalent of turning it off and on again. Go to the Network and Sharing Center and click "Manage wireless networks". Right-click on your wireless network and select "Remove network" from the drop-down list. Next, go back to the Network and Sharing Center, click "Connect to a network" and add your own Wi-Fi network.If neither of those works, you can try the update and reboot route below. Ideally, keep a log of everything you try, in case you need to call in outside help.Update and rebootTo begin, plug your Fujitsu laptop and Revo nettop into the mains and make sure the Power Options setting is on Maximum Performance. (To be specific, we don't want the Wireless Adapter Settings to be in Power Saving Mode where they might turn themselves off.) You should now be able to connect your Fujitsu laptop and Revo nettop to the internet via standard Ethernet cables.When you get online, run Windows Update to get Windows up to date with essential (but not optional) updates. After that, check each manufacturer's website to see if they have any more recent drivers than the ones you have installed. If they do, use the Device Manager to update them. While you're at it, check to see if there are any firmware updates for whichever router TalkTalk has supplied, though generally I'd leave installing this until it's the next-to-last resort. (The last resort is re-installing Windows.)As far as I know, TalkTalk is still using the IPv4 Internet Protocol not IPv6, so you may want to make sure all your devices either support both or only use IPv4. Microsoft has a support page,How to disable IPv6 or its components in Windows, where you can disable or re-enable IPv6 simply by clicking a "Fix it" button.With everything up-to-date, shut all your devices down, and turn off the power on your router for one minute. (If it is one of those rare models with a built-in battery, you will have to find and press the re-set button.) Once the router has come back up and reconnected, turn on your devices one at a time and see if they connect. The router acts as a NAT (Network Address Translation) router, which uses one internet (IP) address to talk to the public internet, but gives each of your devices its own private address, usually in the format 192.168.x.x. Obviously, each device must be assigned its own separate address, so as to avoid conflicts. If your Esprimo and Revo are both trying to use the same address, probably neither will work.At this point, all your devices should connect correctly. If one doesn't, double-check that it is set to useDHCP(Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol) rather than a static IP address. With this approach, the device asks the router for an address and the router provides one. More accurately, it gives your PC a renewable lease on a specific address, which may last for a week or so.Using commandsIf you don't mind peeking inside the can of worms, you can check the IP configuration and force its renewal to one that, we hope, will work. To do this, open a command prompt (aka terminal window or "DOS box") by going to the Run box -- for example, press Windows Key+R -- typingcmdand clicking OK. This will run the cmd.exe program. At the command prompt, typeipconfig /all(there is one space after ipconfig) and check the result. It should say DHCP Enabled, Autoconfiguration Enabled, IPv4 Address Preferred, and give you the dates for Lease Obtained and Lease Expires.Now you can force your Windows PC to refresh its IP configuration by going to the command prompt and typingipconfig /releaseand pressing Enter, thenipconfig /renewand pressing Enter. If that doesn't work, you can re-set the whole TCP/IP stack back to its original state by using the NetShell utility, netsh, and try again. You don't need to learn NetShell commands because there's a "Fix it" button atHow to reset Internet Protocol (TCP/IP).There are a few other things that can mess up a Wi-Fi connection, but they're not usually problems for home users. Sometimes there are problems with network adaptors, but the Troubleshooter should catch them. If not, seeHow do I fix network adapter problems?SometimesWake-on-LAN (WOL)causes problems in PCs that are designed to be turned on remotely by a "magic packet" instead of responding to DHCP. This seems unlikely in your case.You don't say if you have contacted TalkTalk for help, but if your Esprimo and Revo are still not connecting, then you can check theSupport FAQand post your problem in theTalkTalk Community forum. I notice there's a long list of "known issues" with theHuawei HG533router, for example. This is the kind of thing that eventually drives people to install their own routers….
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple and Samsung lord over field once again as top OEMs in semiconductor spending for 2013 &gt;&gt; IHS iSuppliAs in 2012, Apple and Samsung were the top semiconductor spenders in 2013 among original equipment manufacturers (OEM) making more than $1bn in revenue," said Myson Robles-Bruce, senior analyst for semiconductor spend and design analysis at IHS. "Apple was in first place with chip spending in 2013 of $30.3bn, outspending runner-up Samsung's $22.2bn by more than $8 billion. However, the South Korean electronics titan attained the largest spending increase on chips of any Top 10 OEM last year, up almost 30% from 2012 levels, compared to a smaller expansion of 17% on the part of Apple."The data doesn't include chips that companies buy from their own divisions. (A lot of the Apple spending will be with… Samsung.)Milestone: I'm recommending Chromebooks instead of Windows laptops for civilians &gt;&gt; ZDNetDavid Gewirtz:While our relative wasn't up to managing financial affairs, she still wanted to keep in touch with family and friends, write, use her Gmail account, keep her calendar, and more.Denise is a pretty sophisticated PC user, but she's not a technician. Although she's installed RAM and drives into machines, she doesn't really have the technical chops to field strip a broken laptop in the field and set it back to rights.She thought about going out and buying our relative a new Windows laptop. Our relative was familiar with XP and Windows 7, but had never seen Windows 8. Denise didn't have the time to go through the Windows setup and update dance I described above, train our relative on Windows 8, buy and install Start8, and all the rest. It just wasn't practical.On the other hand, Denise had her Chromebook.Chromebooks are driving into the big gap that Windows 8 has left.Singapore's self-driving car makes Google's version an unnecessary luxury &gt;&gt; Tech In AsiaTerence Lee:a team in Singapore has successfully developed their own self-driving car prototype at under half the cost [of Google's] – just S$30,000 ($23,500) for two off-the-shelf Lidar sensors and an onboard computer which are mounted onto a conventional vehicle. That's like a Toyota to Google's Mercedes Benz, figuratively speaking.The team, comprising of 12 researchers from the National University of Singapore (NUS) and the Singapore-MIT Alliance for Research and Technology (SMART), hopes to bring the cost down to S$10,000 ($7,800) eventually.Singapore could really do with self-driving cars.The two teenagers who run the wildly popular Twitter feed @HistoryInPics &gt;&gt; The AtlanticThere is a new ubiquitous media brand on Twitter.No, I'm not talking about Pierre Omidyar's First Look Media or BuzzFeed or The Verge, or any other investor-backed startup.I'm talking about @HistoryInPics, which, as I discovered, is run by two teenagers: Xavier Di Petta, 17, who lives in a small Australian town two hours north of Melbourne, and Kyle Cameron, 19, a student in Hawaii.They've never met (and "copyright" is a new phrase to them - though you can see why they'd argue that they're not infringing, Twitter is). There are now lots of spoof accounts; @Historicalpics is quite fun.Hi Naoki, Just read your story about how your Twitter username was stolen. Sadly, the story was ... &gt;&gt; DroplrJosh Bryant follows up on Naoki Hiroshima's Twitter ransom saga (Hiroshima still doesn't have his handle back):Hi Naoki,Just read your story about how your Twitter username was stolen. Sadly, the story was all to familiar to me, and mine has a couple implications that are far worse. Just thought I'd share the story in case you were interested.I'm @jb on both Twitter and Instagram. So you can imagine my username is a very heavy target. It used to be primarily because of the Jonas Brothers but of course now it's all related to Justin Bieber. As you can imagine, with the marketing power behind his name, there's thousands if not more companies/hackers/etc… who'd love to get their grubby hands on it for profit.November 2008: Apple iPhone doomed to failure - Windows Mobile 7 plans for 2009 leaked &gt;&gt; Network WorldMitchell Ashley in November 2008:Too many major players are in the mobile phone market, who have and will bring iPhone-like products to market over the coming months and years. LG has already done so with the LG Voyager phone, and now Microsoft's plans for Windows Mobile 7 OS have been leaked and described in considerable detail by Inside Microsoft blogger Nathan Weinberg.With many features dubbed "iPhone compete", WM7 is all about effective uses of the touch screen, finger gestures, and additional motion gestures. Microsoft's put a lot of thought into how to make the mobile phone interface more intuitive and easier to use, even more so than Apple's iPhone.Apple has never had a product, or a year, when it hasn't been "doomed to failure".MacBook Touch &gt;&gt; All thisDr Drang:A couple of weeks ago, I got to do the kind of observation that user interface experts like to do. I was at a high school swim meet, in the stands a few rows behind a dad who was working on a touchscreen notebook computer between his son's events. In between my son's events and checking my email and Twitter, I could look down and see how he used the machine. What I saw is only one data point, but it represents real-world use, not the somewhat artificial use of a test subject who knows he's a test subject.The action I saw again and again was him reaching up to touch a button or a menu, bringing his hand away, and then going back to touch the screen again because he missed the target. He was pretty patient about it, which suggests it was behaviour he was used to. Had it been me, I would have flung the damned thing into the pool.This is exactly what [Apple software chief Craig] Federighi was talking about. Targets in Windows—which is what the man was using, of course—and OS X aren't designed to be hit with a finger. They're designed to be hit with the much more precise tip of a mouse pointer.Expand the targets, and you lose space for content.Ultra-portable PCs top 12% of notebook market in 2013, says ABI Research &gt;&gt; DigitimesAn estimated 12.3% (22.5m) of the notebook shipments in 2013 (182.7m) fit into the ultra-portable segment, according to market intelligence firm ABI Research. The year-on-year growth of ultra-portables reached 100% from 2012 to 2013.That includes Apple's MacBook Air, which probably accounts for around 8m of those (Apple sold a total of 17m PCs in 2013). Ultrabooks are looking like something of a niche for Windows buyers. Total PC sales in 2013 were 315m.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
Microsoft is close to appointing a replacement for long-time CEO Steve Ballmer and may even be considering ousting co-founder Bill Gates as chairman, according to reports.The man tipped to take over from Ballmer is Satya Nadella, head of the company's cloud computing division and enterprise business, which deals with corporate clients. Citing "people briefed on the process" on Thursday night Bloomberg said Microsoft's board is also considering replacing Gates as its chairman. An announcement could come as early as next week.The company was not immediately available for comment.Gates and Ballmer have led Microsoft since its founding 39-years-ago. In recent years the company has been left looking flat-footed by rivals Apple, Google and Facebook. Ballmer said he would step down last August and the company has since been conducting an extensive search.Nadella, 47, joined Microsoft in 1992 and has had leadership roles in cloud services, server software, internet search and business applications. He was born in Hyderabad, India and holds a master of science degree in computer science from the University of Wisconsin and a master in business administration from the University of Chicago.Last year Manipal Institute of Technology director Vinod V Thomas, who taught Satya 25 years ago, told The Times of India: "I cannot vividly recall him as he didn't figure in either ends of the spectrum. Records show he was a first-class student who achieved distinction."While he is largely unknown outside the company, Nadella runs one of Microsoft's fastest growing divisions. Microsoft's commercial cloud services grew revenue by 107% from a year ago, the company said when it reported its fiscal second-quarter results on 23 January.Microsoft's lead independent director John Thompson, who is heading the CEO search, wrote in a blog post last month that the board planned to complete a search for CEO in the "early part of 2014."Ford CEO Alan Mulally was once seen as a frontrunner for the Microsoft job. But Mulallly said in January that he was not joining the software giant. Former Nokia CEO Stephen Elop, now vice president of Microsoft's devices and services business, has also been seen as a contender.
Yahoo has uncovered an attempt to hack into customers’ Yahoo Mail and ordered passwords be re-set on all affected accounts.The company said the security attack had been a “coordinated effort to gain unauthorized access to Yahoo Mail accounts” and said it had taken immediate action to make affected users change their passwords.Yahoo did not give exact information on when the attack took place. It said an investigation showed that “malicious computer software” used a list of usernames and passwords to access Yahoo Mail accounts.“Based on our current findings, the list of usernames and passwords that were used to execute the attack was likely collected from a third-party database compromise. We have no evidence that they were obtained directly from Yahoo’s systems,” the company said in a statementposted to its Tumblr page.Yahoo said the attackers attempted to get names and email addresses from victims’ sent emails.The attack is the latest embarrassment for Yahoo, which was criticised after sending aflurry of tweetsabout the brief Gmail outage on Friday afternoon. Yahoo laterapologisedfor the tweets, which it said “reflected bad judgement”.In its statement, Yahoo said it was working with federal law enforcement to “find and prosecute the perpetrators responsible for this attack” and apologised to its users, saying, “We regret this has happened and want to assure our users that we take the security of their data very seriously”.Earlier this month, a malware attack hit Yahoo&apos;s advertising server,reportedlyaffecting tens of thousands of users per hour. And in 2012, hackersposted login informationfor more than 450,000 Yahoo users online.
Google&apos;s revenues climbed 17% in the final quarter of 2013, the company announced Thursday, but low-cost mobile ads chipped away at the price the tech giant commands for online ads.The company&apos;s results came a day after it announced it wasselling Motorola Mobilefor a fraction of its purchase price. Google&apos;s consolidated revenue, which includes the money-losing Motorola smartphone business, rose to $16.86bn for the quarter from $14.42bn in the fourth quarter of 2012. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had expected $16.75bn. Profits rose 17% to $3.38bn, or $9.90 a share, up from $2.89bn, or $8.62 per share, for the same period last year.“We ended 2013 with another great quarter of momentum and growth,” said Larry Page, chief executive of Google. “We made great progress across a wide range of product improvements and business goals. I&apos;m also very excited about improving people&apos;s lives even more with continued hard work on our user experiences.”Advertising revenues rose about 17% to $14.07bn from the year-earlier period. Paid clicks on Google&apos;s online ads jumped 31% year-on-year but the cost per ad clicked declined 11% from the year before and was 2% lower than the last quarter. The majority of revenues came from Google&apos;s own sites which include it search engine and YouTube. Google-owned sites generated revenues of $10.55bn, 67% of segment revenues,in the fourth quarter of 2013.Revenue from the Motorola Mobility unit declined 24% to $1.15bn, while the operating loss for the business was $384m, up from $248m in the prior period.Page announced the sale of Motorola Mobile to Lenovo on Wednesday for $2.9bn. The sale comes less two years after Google bought the the Moto X smartphone firm for $12.5bn, by far its largest-ever purchase.Sales of the new Motorola phones have not been strong and shareholders have been unhappy about the division’s losses amid intense competition in the mobile hardware market.On a conference call with analysts Patrick Pichette, Google&apos;s chief financial officer, described the sale as a “win-win”. He said the company had helped Google develop its Android mobile business. “We believe this is a great transaction where everybody wins,” he said.Pichette reiterated comments first made by Page that the company remained committed to hardware. Google recently bought smart home appliance firm Nest and is developing a smart watch as well as Google Glass, its web-enabled eyewear.
The Moto X was Google's vision for the future of mobile technology. Billed as the world's first artificially intelligent phone, its permanent listening mode enabled it to serve up directions or give weather forecasts in response to spoken commands. That was until the search giant called an end to the adventure with the $2.9bn (£1.8bn) sale of Motorola to rising Chinese star Lenovo on Wednesday, a move that will free its engineers to focus on other revolutionary technologies.Google's recent acquisitions – from robot maker Boston Dynamics to a London company that aims to make computers think like humans – show how its ambitions stretch far beyond the smartphone. After all, mobile phones are now a low-margin, high-volume manufacturing business, which makes them a better fit for Lenovo than Google. And smartphone technology is arguably reaching the limits of innovation. There are only so many processors, fingerprint scanners and voice-operated digital assistants you can usefully squeeze into a wallet-sized computer.Gazing through their Google Glass lenses, founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin have their sights set on more distant horizons: hot air balloons that carry internet connections to the remotest parts of the world; cars that drive themselves; humanoid robots; and, more prosaically, internet-connected home appliances like fire alarms. Google's U-turn on its first major hardware venture has not dimmed its desire to achieve a breakthrough on other projects.In aletter to staff about the Motorola sale, Page emphasised the exciting opportunities offered by products like Google Glass and intelligent smoke detectors: "The dynamics and maturity of the wearable and home markets, for example, are very different from that of the mobile industry. We're excited by the opportunities to build amazing new products for users within these emerging ecosystems."Google X, the secretive advance research group run by former military scientist Regina Dugan and originally housed within Motorola, will remain with Google. Here, according to Astro Teller, the lab's imaginatively titled Captain of Moonshots, the mission is to find "science-fiction-sounding solutions". Dugan's teams are developing digital tattoos that function as identity tags, contact lenses that monitor glucose levels, and software and sensors that will enable cars to drive themselves.The creator of Google's Android operating system, Andy Rubin, is now running a robotics division, and has bought a string of companies specialising in mechanical eyes, arms and legs. One of them is Schaft, a Japanese outfit whose robots can climb ladders, use power tools, and walk on uneven ground.Google's biggest recent purchase is Nest, which makes self-learning, programmable thermostats and smoke detectors. With it came chief executive Tony Fadell, an engineer whose skill in fusing hardware and software may well be applied to a broader range of products. This week's acquisition of UK-based DeepMind Technologies, a leading artificial intelligence firm, underlines how far Google has moved on from Motorola. Despite the sci-fi connotations of the deal, it is likely that DeepMind's talented employees, led by its chess-prodigy founder Demis Hassabis, will report to Google's search boss, Jeff Dean, rather than Rubin, with the expectation that artificial intelligence will help understand more complex and spoken queries.There is plenty of financial firepower left for more DeepMind-like deals, despite Motorola being Google's most expensive acquisition ever. This is a company that can afford for expensive, risky transactions to fail. Its formidable reserves stood at $57bn in cash and investments at the last count.In reality, the damage for Google has been more reputational than financial. Motorola was loss-making, and its quarterly shortfall under Google ownership reached $1bn in September. Add in the December quarter losses, and the $12.5bn purchase price, and Google has spent perhaps $14bn.However, this should be set against the $13.7bn in value that Google has received from Motorola, say analysts at Jefferies. This includes the $2.9bn in cash in Motorola's coffers when it was acquired; the sale of Motorola's set-top-box business for $2.35bn; Lenovo's $2.9bn offer; and $5.5bn of Motorola patents, many of which Google will keep. The patents were a key factor in the acquisition, giving Google ammunition to counter-sue rivals like Apple who were sniping at the success of Android with patent infringement suits against the likes of Samsung, whose phones use Android.Arguably, this aspect of the deal was not a success either. Samsung is facing an $893mdamages billafter losing a major court battle against Apple. But this has not stopped Android's unstoppable rise. Google's software is to phones what Windows was to the personal computer – the global standard."Google has been unwinding this 'bet' almost from day one," Mark Mahaney of RBC Capital Markets. "The key is that Google does maintain patent protection for Android and is divesting itself of a sub-par asset that didn't jive with its core competencies. We also respect Google's willingness/ability to take on the M&amp;A risk and then to later reverse its decision. Management flexibility is a good thing, in our book."Investors seem to agree: Google's shares rose when news of the disposal broke. They would rather see Google owning thousands of Motorola patents – and a number of highly futuristic companies – than a loss-making phones business.
Facebook hasannounceda new news-reading app called Paper for iPhone, which wants to replace Flipboard and be your portal to friends and news.The slick, gesture-driven app will launch in the US on 3 February and promises to overhaul how users view and interact with status updates, photos and videos from friends, as well as news content pulled from “the world’s best sources”.Facebook's new app for the iPhone is a slick new social feed and news reader.With Paper, Facebook is directly challenging Flipboard, the news and social aggregator that presents stories in a magazine-style layout that flips between stories with swiping gestures.Flipboard also pulls content from news sources and entertainment sites, as well as Facebook, Twitter and other social networks.Aiming for 150 million users by the end of 2014, Flipboard had about85 million users in September 2013with 6 million users added within a month of thelaunch of version 2.0of the application. The company was valued at $800m (£485m)by a $50m funding round in September.A re-imagining of its often-cluttered News FeedFor Facebook, Paper is essentially a re-imagining of its often-cluttered news feed, which acts as the main interaction point for most people on the social network. Instead of scrolling through lists of status updates, comments and Candy Crush Saga news blips, Paper presents all stories in a slick-looking horizontally scrolling set of screens.Every story appears in a “distraction-free” full-screen layout with captions and comments overlaid on images or video, the larger ones of which can be panned around by simply tilting the iPhone.Users will be able to customise their feeds with a choice of more than a dozen sections, themes and topics ranging from photography to food, each combining “a rich mix of content from emerging voices and well-known publications”. Users will not, however, be able to add their own feeds from sites of their own.Paper will also let people post stories directly to Facebook using a slick new editor that resembles modern web publishing tools allowing users to see what their posts look like before publishing them.The first product of Facebook’s new Create Labs, no dates were given for UK availability or when the app will be available on Android or other platforms.• Facebook postedrecord quarterly results in Januaryand reported a $1.5bn profit for 2013
Sony has announced that it will release the slimline version of its PS Vita console in the UK on 7 February. Originally launched in Japan last autumn, the re-designed handheld device is 216g and 15mm thick, making it 15 percent lighter and 20 percent thinner than its predecessor. It will retail at the suggested price of £180.The design of the console has also been tweaked to include rounder corners, which Sony claims makes it more comfortable to hold and use. Although six colours are available in Japan, it looks like only the default Black version will be available in the UK at first.Sony reckons the battery life of the refreshed Vita has been increased from four and a half hours of gameplay on the original iteration to six hours. The company has also included 1GB of built-in storage memory for downloadable games, although players will probably still need to buy extra Vita memory cards if they&apos;re planning to buy most of their new titles digitally.The Slim Vita will also arrive in a &apos;Mega Pack&apos; bundle, which offers the console together with ten popular indie games including Hotline Miami and Thomas Was Alone.There are two more controversial alterations however. The original OLED screen is being replaced by a presumably cheaper LCD display, which some feel will result in a dip in picture quality, especially for darker games where a richer contrast and deeper black tones are required. Also, the 3G capabilities of the console have been removed, so that the Slim Vita is Wi-Fi only.So far, the Vita has sold a modest 7m units since the Japanese arrival of the original version in 2011. However, Sony hopes that it will become a popular companion device to the PlayStation 4, thanks to the Remote Play feature. This allows owners of both machines to play PS4 titles on the Vita screen, as long as both are connected to the same Wi-Fi connection. It&apos;s likely that PS4 titles will also use the Vita as a second screen or a specialist controller. It&apos;s likely Sony will sell the devices together in a new bundle deal now the slim version of the Vita is more widely available.It&apos;s not yet clear if, and by how much, retailers will discount the slim Vita&apos;s £180 price tag. That is currently how much stores like Amazon and Argos are charging for the original unit.
The tablet market didn&apos;t live up to expectations in the fourth quarter of 2013, according to early data from IDC, as sales growth to consumers slowed with mature markets approaching saturation.IDC says that atotal of 76.9m units were shipped in the fourth quarter, up 28.2% on the figure from the same time last year. Apple led the pack with 26.0m, a 33.8% share, compared to 22.9m (38.2%) in the same period in 2012. Samsung nearly doubled the number of tablets it shipped to remain in second place, hitting 14.5m (18.8%) compared to 7.8m (13%) a year before.The question is now when, and whether, commercial tablet purchases will begin to ramp up in the way that they did to drive PC sales back in the 1990s.With Apple&apos;s sales growing by 13.5%, slower than the overall market, IDC questioned the space for the company to further grow its iPad sales: &quot;The numbers bring into focus the challenges the company faces as it attempts to grow its tablet business in markets outside of its traditional mature-market strongholds and in the face of continued success from competitors both large and small,&quot; it said.Apple chief executive Tim Cook seems to have been aware of these concerns during the company&apos;s earnings call on Monday, when he emphasised the iPad&apos;s presence in large &quot;enterprise&quot; businesses, and suggested that it has &quot;huge potential&quot;, citing figures for the proportion of iPad activations in companies (90%). &quot;I think the road in enterprise is a longer one,&quot; Cook said. &quot;The arc is longer than in consumer, which can immediately go out and buy things, etc. And I think we’ve done a lot of the groundwork.&quot;How the tablet market has grown in size, by manufacturer. Source: IDC. Photograph: /PR/IDCTablet market 2011-2013: manufacturer share as percentage. Photograph: /PR/IDCConsumers&apos; eagerness to buy tablets - and the number who haven&apos;t yet done so - seems unclear. Pew Internet, which carries out wide-ranging studies involving statistically representative numbers of US households,saysthat 42% of American adults now own a tablet computer, compared to 55% who have a smartphone, and around 78% who have a desktop or laptop computer.IDC didn&apos;t provide a breakdown by operating system, but the strong showing of Samsung and Asus points to Android tablets running Google services made up more than 50% of the market. Amazon&apos;s Kindle Fire, which had a 7.6% share, runs a &quot;forked&quot; version of Android, and many tablets sold in China - which would be a substantial part of the &quot;others&quot;, comprising 30.3% of sales, do not have Google services on board, and instead use local services.Though the year-on-year increase was 28.2%, IDC increased the number that it says were sold inthe fourth quarter 2012upward by 7.5m to 60m.The China factorMost of those extra sales last year were in China, IDC suggested. It is likely to revise the total figure for the latest quarter upwards too as more data is supplied from vendors - which could put growth above 30%.Apple, which shipped a record 26m tablets, regained share compared to the third quarter of the year, helped by the release of its new iPad Air and iPad mini retina in October. Samsung&apos;s share was essentially flat from the third quarter.Asus, which sells Google&apos;s Nexus 7 tablet as well as its own devices, saw sales grow only slightly, from 3.1m a year ago to 3.9m, maintaining a 5.1% share.&quot;While the market&apos;s growth rates remain impressive, they&apos;re down dramatically compared to the year-over-year rates of the same quarter one year ago (87.1%) and indicate a significant slowing of the overall market,&quot; IDC said in a statement. For 2013, it put total tablet shipments at 217.1m units, compared to 144.2m in 2012 - a growth of 50.6%.But Microsoft seems so far not to have turned up to the tablet party in any strength. IDC figures suggest that it shipped fewer than 3.4m tablets, the figure of fifth-placed Lenovo - and IDC smartphones and tablets analyst Francisco Jeronimo told The Guardian that fewer than a million were shipped to resellers - although it may have sold more than that due to stocks already in stores. Microsoft &quot;had good performance in some channels,&quot; he noted.•Smartphone sales passed a billion in 2013, with Apple and Samsung dominant and China the largest market
Online fashion retailer Asos claimed a 37% revenue increase in the last quarter to 2013 thanks to data insights that helped structure its pricing competitively, the brand has said.Asos has signed up for 200 of its fashion buyers to receive access to Editd, a London startup which aggregates fashion trend and retail information from retail sites, industry mood boards, social media and trend blogs.Asos has doubled its subscription to the service following an 18-month experiment, but announced today that Editd&apos;s information on pricing has helped drive revenues and a 33% increase in sales.Editd’s chief executive Geoff Watts told The Guardian that the startup&apos;s real value came from helping buyers make informed decisions grounded in data.&quot;Retail on a basic level is all about buying the right things, so getting that right and making sure you’re selling the right product at the right price is really what dictates your success,&quot; Watts said.&quot;Our product is all about helping people make those decisions,&quot; he added.An accessible front-end allows buyers to compare the brands that are performing well as well as look at price-points for specific trends. Photograph: EditdAlthough Asos aren&apos;t its biggest client – Editd also works with the likes of Target and Gap – Watts speaks glowingly about the online fashion retailer that is &quot;exploring new technologies and giving things a try.&quot;Watts said: &quot;If you think about where they’re growing in the market, how they’re perceived and the kind of work they’re doing, they were one of the organisations we wanted to work with.&quot;This is echoed by Asos&apos; retail director Maria Hollins, who stressed the importance of making the right decisions faster than their competitors.“At ASOS, being first for fashion means being always competitive and having just the right assortment,&quot; she said. &quot;We&apos;re using Editd every day to help us make critical buying and trading decisions”.Watts, a programmer, and co-founder Julia Fowler, a fashion designer, founded Editd in 2009 and moved from Australia to launch the company.Their platform combines a number of datasets –analysing retail sales numbers, catwalk photographs, and buzz on social media– to provide buyers with insights into the latest trends, as well as what&apos;s selling particularly well.Watts played down the significance of social media as sparking new trends – trends have &quot;always come from the streets as much as they have come from labels&quot; – but added that social media had made the process quicker and also allowed people around the world to create communities and connect around similar fashion styles.Fashion buyers can choose to make their decisions based on a number of data points, including analysing by price points or brands. Photograph: EditdEditd also believe that its success is down to giving its customers insights into the latest trends in real-time, with buyers also able to receive alerts.Fowler said that real-time analysis &quot;not only helps them understand ever-changing demand, but [companies] can now significantly reduce wastage by making less mistakes in pricing and assortment, and therefore maintaining and accelerating their growth and overseas expansion.&quot;Using this information, buyers can look at trends from other companies also. When did their competitor launch sales in the past and what kind of styles and brands are selling the best?This combined allows retailers to buy items that their customers want before then selling it as a price that isn&apos;t undercut by competitors.Fashion and technology is a growing trendEditd isn&apos;t the only company looking towards technology to enhance the retail experience. During their 2012 London fashion week show, Topshop partnered with Facebook to allow online users tocustomise clothes that appeared on the catwalk.The aim, according to Topshop&apos;s chief marketing officer, was to &quot;take the energy and the excitement of our iconic Oxford Street store to millions of people all over the world through Topshop.com.&quot;In the same year,Tesco tested a virtual fitting-room on their website, allowing customers to create a 3D version of themselves before seeing what they might look like in certain outfits.Beyond retail, there have also been a number of companies looking to experiment with wearable technology. Google, for example, releaseda version of Google Glass earlier this weekthat looked less futuristic and smartwatches have been a growing trend, starting withthe Pebble watchand moving to theSamsung Galaxy Gear, which has failed to generate much momentum.• Did you know thatfashion is worth £21bn annually to the UK?
Swing a cat on the App Store – boots optional – and you&apos;ll hit hundreds of rubbish fairytale apps for kids. More grim than Grimm.One of the publishers to have bucked that trend isNosy Crow, the British children&apos;s publisher that has built its business on a blend of traditional (print) book publishing and a series of critically-acclaimed book-apps.Its Three Little Pigs, Cinderella and Little Red Riding Hood show it is perfectly possible to make a fairytale app with craft and care, while ensuring that interactivity and inventive use of device features like the camera and accelerometer don&apos;t detract from the app&apos;s main purpose: storytelling.Now Nosy Crow has released a fourth fairytale app,Jack and the Beanstalk, which is its most ambitious yet. &quot;Interactivity is built into the app more so than before. It looks quite game-like, and it&apos;s consequence-driven in a way that&apos;s quite game-like too,&quot; says Tom Bonnick, the company&apos;s digital project and marketing manager.&quot;It&apos;s an app that rewards your success with more story, which feels like a really positive thing to do, in terms of encouraging reading for pleasure. We&apos;ve always tried to avoid interactivity that was tacked on: interactivity is what drives the story forward, and propels the narrative.&quot;There&apos;s a sensitive debate going on around books, apps and children within the publishing industry, fuelled by fears that children may be turning away from reading in favour of games. A survey of 2,000 British children and parents conducted by Nielsen Book in 2013suggested these fears may not be unfounded.Jack and the Beanstalk is the latest example of a product that&apos;s trying to get beyond a simplistic &apos;books good, apps bad&apos; response to these trends. &quot;We made it with younger boy readers in mind, maybe who are reluctant to read too much on the page, but who are comfortable with on-screen gaming experiences,&quot; says Bonnick.&quot;We thought this was a good way to bring them back to stories and reading experiences. There&apos;s a lot of story, with text on every page, and a lot of incidental dialogue: characters who talk when you touch them.&quot;&quot;We&apos;d done two stories with female protagonists in a row, and while girls will engage with boy protagonists, it&apos;s harder to get boys to engage with girl protagonists. I wish that was not true, but I&apos;m sad to say my commercial experience is that it is true,&quot; adds managing director Kate Wilson.&quot;Jack was interesting though: we did introduce women into the story more than is generally the case with this fairytale: we have quite a lot of incidental characters who are female and voiced by girls, rather than just the traditional naggy mum and housekeeper.&quot;Nosy Crow thinks a lot about this kind of thing: the mums in its last two fairytale apps have been deliberately shaped like... well, shaped like mums: normal women. Cinderella, meanwhile, was feisty rather than fairytale-princess – another deliberate design decision.&quot;We didn&apos;t give her Barbie proportions, and if you use the app, you&apos;ll notice the prince never refers to how she looks. He says &apos;you have a nice smile... you&apos;re so easy to talk to... you&apos;re friendly&apos;. It wasn&apos;t about her coming into the ballroom and him thinking she looked fantastic. We made it about their personalities.&quot;Jack and the Beanstalk includes more games than previous Nosy Crow apps.Nosy Crow builds its apps in-house – a point of pride for the company – with a development team drawn from the console games industry to complement its core publishing skills. Bonnick says the result isn&apos;t a clash of cultures, but something more unified.&quot;We share a common vision: it&apos;s not half of us saying &apos;make it really gamey&apos; and half saying &apos;make it really booky&apos;. What works well is that we have a shared set of beliefs about what our apps should be like, and what&apos;s going to appeal to children.&quot;Like previous Nosy Crow apps, Jack and the Beanstalk swerves some of the elements of the story: the giant doesn&apos;t get killed on-screen, just as the first two little pigs didn&apos;t die in the company&apos;s first fairytale app – they ran to shelter in the third little pig&apos;s house of bricks instead.That&apos;s a deliberate creative decision by the company, with Bonnick accepting that there is more freedom to include the &quot;darker&quot; material from fairytales in books, but suggesting that there are good reasons to leave them out of apps.&quot;The nature of the apps is that they&apos;re so interactive, you&apos;re implicated in the action. The user is performing these actions and tasks themselves, so retaining the violence from the original texts mean you get eaten by the wolf, or you throw the witch into the oven,&quot; he says.&quot;That sort of violence becomes a bit difficult: you&apos;re being implicated in a way that you&apos;re not as the reader of a print book, where arguably it can be quite helpful for children to read about some of these things at a young age.&quot;&apos;You can&apos;t have just a linear flow of dialogue...&apos;Jack and the Beanstalk is nevertheless pitched slightly older than the company&apos;s previous fairytales, if not in darkness then in difficulty. Its story sees Jack exploring nine rooms in the giant&apos;s house, each with their own mini-game that – while accessible for children – offer more challenge than in previous apps.This isn&apos;t so much about Nosy Crow&apos;s audience growing up with the company – five year-olds who used The Three Little Pigs when it came out in February 2011 will be seven or eight now – and more about the company&apos;s expanded creative ambition, and the impact of Apple&apos;s new Kids category on the App Store, which requires publishers to choose one age category for their apps: &quot;5 &amp; Under&quot;, &quot;6-8&quot; or &quot;9-11&quot;.&quot;Because we only have this one channel to market, we have to decide whether this is more of a pre-schooly thing or more of an emerging reader thing,&quot; says Wilson. &quot;We said this was more of an emerging reader thing, which pulled it into an older age group a little bit.&quot;Both Wilson and Bonnick talk animatedly about the challenges of the apps market for a children&apos;s publisher, including deciding in 2013 to release fewer, more ambitious apps rather than Nosy Crow&apos;s flurry of releases in 2012, and the difficulties of finding authors who are fully suited to the demands of mixing linear and nonlinear storytelling.&quot;In Little Red Riding Hood, we learned a lot about having core narrative delivered, and then dialogue floating on top of that. It&apos;s two kinds of things, and we don&apos;t find many writers coming to us with that ability,&quot; says Wilson.&quot;When I receive submissions for app ideas, they&apos;re often conceived in the way someone might conceive of a book idea, or some people come up with what looks like a TV script. But in these kinds of apps, you can&apos;t have just a linear flow of dialogue,&quot; agrees Bonnick.That brings us back to games, where this kind of storytelling – some linear narrative but then a lot of additional storytelling coming from non-player characters&apos; dialogue – is par for the course. A way games can influence book-apps in a way that&apos;s more than just breaking up the narrative with mini-games.Nosy Crow thinks hard about gender portrayals in children's apps.Nosy Crow did well from Apple&apos;s Kids category: many of its apps were featured by Apple when it went live last year. Wilson doesn&apos;t shirk questions about children&apos;s apps as a business though, admitting that it remains hard work for any publisher focusing on paid book-apps rather than games with in-app purchases.&quot;The tough thing is that a lot of people expect everything for nothing, or at least for very little. At the moment, it&apos;s hard to say that the price these apps are commanding is a reflection for the effort, expertise and thought that goes into them,&quot; she says.&quot;How do people think we pay the bills in Sainsbury&apos;s? How do they think we live? We can&apos;t make stuff and give it away unless there is some kind of financial model backing it. We have chosen to go with app-by-app sales, and that is proving tough. But all of this was worth the experiment.&quot;Nosy Crow&apos;s apps have had a positive impact on the company in ways beyond revenues: it has won several awards for innovation, boosting its profile within the publishing industry. It is also exploring turning some of its apps back into print books: one non-fairytale app from 2012, Animal SnApp: Farm, evolved into a book (and then, again, an app) called Flip Flap Farm.&quot;We found that the apps are incredibly content-rich: there&apos;s much more in any of our apps in terms of artwork than there is in the books that they might have sprung from. So we are looking at doing a few more projects reverse-engineering things back out from apps to books,&quot; says Wilson.&quot;Also, we&apos;re absolutely in the app marketplace, and we have no plans to leave it. But even if the &apos;app&apos; isn&apos;t how the interactive storytelling mechanism remains forever and ever, all the things we&apos;ve learned about constructing these stories will have made it a really valuable experience.&quot;
The Angry Birds site was defaced by hackers, the company behind the game has confirmed, afterrevelationsthat America&apos;s National Security Agency and the UK&apos;s GCHQ have been targeting the site&apos;s “leaky” user data.An image employing the NSA logo and a “spying birds” caption replaced theofficial Angry Birds websitefor a brief time on Tuesday.The hack was in response to the revelation that the Angry Birds apps, among others, wereleaking personal datavia advertising networks on which the UK and US intelligence agencies were spying.The hack was first spotted byFinland’s Helsingin Sanomat, and quickly corrected by developer Rovio.&quot;The defacement was caught in minutes and corrected immediately,&quot; said Rovio’s vice president of marketing Saara Bergströmto IDG. &quot;The end user data was in no risk at any point.&quot;The Syrian Electronic Armydescribed the attackas being carried out by a “friend” of the notorious hacker group on Twitter.The attack was by &quot;Anti-NSA&quot; Hacker, He sent an email to our official email with the link of the hacked website.&mdash; SyrianElectronicArmy (@Official_SEA16)January 28, 2014Changing the DNS record can misdirect all the traffic that relies on itThe hackers appear to have compromised the domain name registrar of the Angry Birds site and changed the DNS records to point to the hackers server, rather than the official Angry Birds site.DNS records, or domain name servers, provide a routing lookup for the internet: they tell computers where to find servers or other computers. Changing the DNS record can misdirect all the traffic that relies on it, and because changes in DNS records propagate around the internet between the servers, their effects can last for days – even after the original change has been undone – or not appear for most users if they are discovered quickly.Twitter and the New York Timeswere recently targeted by a similar attack, as well asGoogle MalaysiaandWhatsApp, AVG and Avira, showing that this type of rerouting compromise is becoming increasingly popular. Part of the reason for the growth in these kind of attacks is that improved security is making it harder to directly attack company servers that host websites.“We do not collaborate, collude, or share data with spy agencies anywhere in the world,” said Mikael Hed, chief executive of Angry Birds developer Rovio Entertainment.“In order to protect our end users, we will, like all other companies using third-party advertising networks, have to re-evaluate working with these networks if they are being used for spying purposes,” Hed said.• In January, Rovio, developer of Angry Birds, called on the mobile software industryto reevaluate its relationship with advertising networks
Koffee Cafe has a problem: its website, while just about useable for the small coffee chain, is held together with string, chewing gum and hope.For the past few years, it&apos;s survived because no one important has bothered to pay attention to it, but that&apos;s due to change. A multinational coffee chain has expressed interest in an acquisition, and now the auditors are being brought in to make sure there aren&apos;t any hidden dangers. If they look hard enough, they&apos;ll find some blinders.Not only has the company left up a voucher code generator that can get crafty users free coffee for life – it&apos;s also storing the credit card numbers of at least 20,000 of its customers in an insecure database.Thankfully, Koffee Cafe doesn&apos;t exist. The company is a fiction, put together to test the ability of some of the UK&apos;s best hackers while promoting the idea that cyber security is a career which people can, and should, consider entering.The cafe - and its website and IT infrastructure – were created byCyber Security Challenge UK, a not-for-profit that works with some of the UK&apos;s biggest tech companies to design and run events that aim to close the gap between the country&apos;s need for talented cyber security staff, and the number of people actually working in the industry.Its flagship events, the challenges themselves, are only open to those who aren&apos;t employed in cybersecurity: Dan Summers, the winner of the first challenge in 2011, was a postman. He still works for Royal Mail, but these days as a security consultant for their IT department.&quot;What we try to do is inspire people,&quot; says Stephanie Daman, the organisation&apos;s chief executive. &quot;Using the competition, we identity those who are good. We try and tell them to develop their talents and skills, and several of them play with us for several years. And at that point, a lot of them have got to the point of thinking &apos;OK, I really do want to do this as a career&apos; so they start sending their CVs out, and most of them end up in the industry.&quot;Hacking challenges are nothing new. Even before &quot;penetration testing&quot; took over as the term for hacking into systems to test their security, companies and individuals were setting up systems and offering prizes to those capable of breaking into them.Money, fame and prestigeSome do it for the money, such asa share of the £1.6m Googleis offering to the victors of the Pwnium 4 challenge to break into their Chromebook laptops. Others do it for the prestige or fame; theCicada 3301 puzzle continues to entice code breakers worldwidewith no discernible prize at all.But the cyber security challenge differs from many in calling for more than just coding ability from its contestants.The vulnerabilities in the Koffee Cafe website are very real, and Symantec, who provided the technical background to the event along with consultants PWC, say they are all based on flaws seen in past clients (although few companies would have quite so many all at the same time). But it&apos;s not enough to just break into the server.&quot;There are two sides to this challenge,&quot; says Symantec&apos;s Sian John. &quot;One is the technical bit… but what&apos;s great about today is that being technical isn&apos;t the full skill.&quot;&quot;Information security has been around for years, but now you&apos;re talking about cyber security. People think it&apos;s the same thing, but the difference is that the rest of the business cares now. If you look at most of the senior security professionals now, they suddenly realising they need to learn how to talk.&quot;A different set of pressuresPWC&apos;s contribution to the event is an effort to mimic those pressures. The contestants also have to brief Koffee Cafe&apos;s chief information security officer, speak to the press, and give Koffee Cafe&apos;s executives a plan of action, all based on what they have been able to find in just hours of testing. That leads to a very different set of pressures.&quot;Some bits are so much easier than others – like the infrastructure hacking, for example,&quot; explains Andrew Stockwell, who works in user support and taught himself cybersecurity basics from podcasts on the Tube.&quot;We discovered there was a Windows XP server, and it was vulnerable to a certain attack, so we used that and we were in… I&apos;m trying to avoid the presentations as much as possible. I don&apos;t like standing up in front of crowds. I did a Toastmasters course at school, and that didn&apos;t help.&quot;Sitting in on the briefings with the information security officer (played by Andrew Miller, the cybersecurity director of PWC UK), it&apos;s clear that even among those contestants who felt confident enough to volunteer to represent their teams, some are better than others.One starts listing version numbers of installed software as though it&apos;s obvious to all concerned what the problem is. Even when pushed, it takes several tries for Miller to encourage a non-technical answer; eventually, the contestant recommends downloading the latest patches from Microsoft.&apos;Freak out and turn the site off&apos;Some go too far in the other direction. A pair arrive for the briefing with a slick slideshow and well-rehearsed lines, but also seem afraid of delivering bad news. When they tell Miller that there is a leak which exposes the administrator password, their only advice is &quot;be careful&quot;. &quot;Freak out and turn off the site until you get this fixed&quot; might sound less professional, but in the circumstances it may well be better advice.However, this is a learning experience, and by the time of the press interview a few hours later, everyone is far more polished. Symantec&apos;s Emma Jeffs played the part of the reporter interviewing Koffee Cafe&apos;s security team, and I was invited to join in. In order to keep up the role-play, I had to pretend to pretend to be a journalist – a novel experience, but one I was well qualified for.Sadly, it seems like the first thing everyone is taught about dealing with the press is &quot;tell them nothing&quot;, and even with my professional skills I could not wheedle out more than a vague statement that &quot;Koffee Cafe&apos;s customers will be notified if there&apos;s any risk to their credit card data&quot;.Beyond the games, Daman reiterates the core purpose of the challenges: &quot;To get the right number of properly qualified people into the cyber security profession. We&apos;ve got a skills gap; loads of jobs, not enough people. We sit in that gap, trying to close it.&quot;In the end, the challenges themselves can only go so far – the 30-or-so attendees aged between 17 and 50 are all likely to be seriously considering a change in career, but you can&apos;t fix an industry a roomful of people at a time. For more widespread change, Daman pins her hopes on the organisation&apos;s school&apos;s programme, which teaches students the basics of cryptography.&quot;We teach students what cyphers are all about,&quot; she says, &quot;and then they are given the chance to break some cyphers that we provide. Then the second stage is designing their own cyphers, and pitting them against other schools.Women and girls&quot;What it does is it keeps people interested in these sorts of subjects. It also, I hope, encourages women and girls to stay interested, because you&apos;ll notice there are very few women and girls here today.&quot;The focus on cyphers – the rudimentary basis of encryption and codebreaking – hints at another of the event&apos;s supporters. It obtains much of its funding from the government, and a GCHQ spokesperson says the agency is &quot;proud of its association with, and sponsorship of, the cybersecurity challenge&quot;.&quot;It is through initiatives such as this,&quot; they continue, &quot;that organisations, be they in the public or private sector, can continue to develop and maintain our leading edge in cyberspace by being able to recruit the right people with the right skills.&quot;Somewhat less of a deliberate goal, but an achievement nonetheless, is showing self-taught hackers that they can use their talents in a more productive way. Daman emphasises that they don&apos;t ask contestants about that side of their history, but some admit it anyway, volunteering, for example, that they prodded their school network to see what would happen.Aaron Devaney, a 38-year-old software developer from Leeds who won the overall prize at the end of the challenge, had a more traditional route into the field, but still one driven as much by curiosity as by professional ambition.&quot;In my day-to-day work we have [penetration testing] companies report on the security of our products and looking through the reports, I started to get interested in how they found out the information they did.&quot;Daman sees her role as taking that curiosity and convincing people that it shouldn&apos;t stop there. &quot;These are valuable skills,&quot; she says. &quot;Not everyone can do this. And if, on top of that technical ability, you are able to articulate what you&apos;re doing, you&apos;re a very prized individual. There is a job out there for you.&quot;•How to be a hacker
Last.fm remains the biggest digital music company to emerge from the UK, if judged by the$280m that US media giant CBS paid for itin 2007. Since then, though, the company&apos;s profile has slipped as newer services like Spotify have come to prominence.Last.fm&apos;s co-foundersleft the company in 2009, itshut down its ability to play tracks on-demandthe following year, andmoved its personal radio service behind a paywallin the UK, US and Germany in 2012, scrapping the service altogether in most countries.The company reported pre-tax losses of£2.8m in 2009, just over £5m in 2010,£4.4m in 2011and£3.9m in 2012, reporting a global unique user base of 23m by the end of that year, although it has signed up 55m registered users since its launch in 2002.In 2014, though, a comeback could be on the cards for Last.fm, helped by some of the other services that might have been seen as rivals in the past. This week, the companyannounced a partnership with Spotifythat will bring back on-demand music to Last.fm, via play buttons for Spotify&apos;s 20m-strong catalogue of songs.&quot;This collaboration with Spotify brings the together the best qualities of both services, creating a stronger listening and discovery experience for music lovers across the globe,” said Last.fm managing director Simon Moran in a statement.Earlier in the month, meanwhile, Last.fm restored its personal radio serviceusing YouTube videos as the source of musicin a new, beta version of its music player. One obvious effect of these moves is to shift the burden of paying royalties for the music listened to on Last.fm to Spotify and YouTube, which may help the company end that run of net losses.Why use Last.fm rather than Spotify or YouTube, though? The company appears to be staking its claim on its scrobbling technology, which tracks every song each user listens to, builds a profile of their tastes, then serves up recommendations accordingly.The company says that its users have scrobbled 80bn tracks over its history, with an existing partnership with Spotify to enable people to turn on scrobbling from within that company&apos;s apps having helped to grow that total in recent years.Better recommendations based on big data is a much-discussed topic within the music industry at the moment, with companies like US firms The Echo Nest and Gracenote providing their technologies to a range of digital music services to help understand music fans and serve up suggestions accordingly.A reinvigorated Last.fm may have ambitions to play in this market too, although its own site and apps mean it is unlikely to become a pure business-to-business company like those firms.•Spotify, Pandora and the profits problem for streaming music
The UK needs “a clear legal framework” to tackle the problem of cyberbullying and the suicides of vulnerable young people such as Tallulah Wilson and Harriet Smith, the shadow minister for culture, media and sport said on Wednesday.“I think it is the responsibility of legislators to do what only they can do,&quot; Helen Goodman told an audience of educationalists and tech executives at a packed debate on childhood and the internet in Westminster.“We don’t want another voluntary response. We need to address this gap between online and real identity… and make cyber bullying a criminal offence.&quot; Goodman said the current legal situation was confused and that a offence of cyberbullying should mirror “charges of harassment that can be brought in the real world&quot;.A solution needs to involve education as well as law, she cautioned.“If you are in a playground and six people go [after] someone in the corner, you see them respond. The problem with social media is there is no feedback. Bullying is changed by the technology.&quot;Goodman also argued for more robust content controls to protect the under 18s.“We should be quite confident that we apply those norms built up over 50 years - what we see in the cinema, on television - to the net. Should we be putting 13 year olds into an adult space? They should not be treated as if they are 18.&quot;Delegates expressed concern that any heavy-handed move would criminalise rather than teach children to change their behaviour. Simon Blake, chief executive of counselling service Brook, said there needed to be more positive material available through search providers “for young people who navigate (the internet) well”.Claire Perry -David Cameron’s adviser and a government whip - said there needed to be a non-partisan approach and that Britain “had grasped the nettle&quot; and was &quot;the most family-friendly place to go online”, with the introduction of one-click filters by internet service providers, warning pages on adult content, and steps to block pornography from public Wi-Fi services.She said the real problem lay with user-generated sites which included “the good, the bad and the ugly”, and that some unmediated services would require legislation.Fifteen-year-oldTallulah Wilson died in 2012when she was hit by a train. An inquest into her death found that she had developed an alternative fantasy life online.In 2013, 14-year-oldHannah Smith was found hangedafter being being bullied on the open-discussion site Ask.fm.•Social networks to face government grilling over suicide content
Google have marked the eve of the Chinese new year with a celebratory doodle featuring a rocking horse and Chinese lanterns.The year of the horse begins on Friday 31 January 2014 as the year of the snake comes to an end. The Chinese new year is also the beginning of the lunar year and begins on a different year every day.Celebrations, which include lion dances, gift exchanges and feasting, last for 15 days and take place in all parts of the Chinese diaspora.In London, the new year will be marked when the London Eye is lit red although the main celebrations will take place on 2 February. On Sunday, a parade will begin at 10am and pass along Charing Cross Road and Shaftesbury Avenue before arriving in Chinatown. Dozens of activities will take place in Trafalgar Square and Chinatown throughout the day.In China, celebrations vary widely but most involve the reunion of families, the cleaning of homes for the new year and a profusion of red decorations and dress. Gifts are often given in red envelopes.The Chinese calendar does not use numbered years but some scholars date it from the third millennium BC. According to different opinions, this year of the horse is 4712, 4711 or 4651.
The UK&apos;s Office for Fair Trading has published its final principles for how online and mobile games firms use in-app purchases and use personal data of their players.Developers and publishers have been given two months to &quot;get their house in order&quot; by the OFT, as it set a deadline of 1 April for companies to make sure their games comply with existing consumer protection laws, particularly in relation to children.The OFT originallylaunched an investigation into games in April 2013, after a spate of incidents involving children spending up to four-figure sums on in-app purchases in mobile games without their parents&apos; permission.The investigation, which included an examination of 38 web and mobile games, as well as submissions from parents and industry stakeholders, resulted in itsChildren&apos;s Online Games reportpublished in September, including eight principles to help games firms abide by the law.Among the final principles published today: games should explain any in-app purchases or advertising upfront, as well as making it clear what personal data may be shared with other companies for marketing purposes; and that in-app purchases should not be accepted without the &quot;express, informed consent&quot; of the payment account holder.&quot;The online and apps based games industry has already made significant improvements during our consultation process. But it still needs to do more to protect children and treat its customers fairly,&quot; said OFT chief executive Clive Maxwell in a statement stressing that parents have responsibilities in this area as well as games developers.&quot;Parents and carers have an important role to help protect their child and their bank balance. Our advice is that parents check their device settings, play their child&apos;s games themselves and read the game&apos;s description online. Parents will also be encouraged to report concerns to Citizens Advice.&quot;British games industry body Ukie has welcomed the final principles, including the emphasis on parental responsibility as well as that of its members. &quot;Protecting consumers is a shared responsibility across those who make and sell games, as well as parents and carers,&quot; said its chief executive, Dr Jo Twist.&quot;Done responsibly, micro-transaction based business models give choice and value for both players and businesses. Flexibility for companies to operate different business models is crucial, and it is good to see the OFT recognise this.&quot;Ukie says it will run briefing sessions for games companies to help them understand how to apply the principles, including asession on 20 February in Londonthat will be addressed by the OFT&apos;s team.Companies who continue to indulge in shady practices will face &quot;enforcement action&quot; according to the OFT, which notes that from 1 April, responsibility for this enforcement will lie with the UK&apos;s new Competition and Markets Authority.&quot;Once the CMA acquires its powers in April 2014, we will pick up from where the OFT has left off. The CMA will continue to monitor the market to check whether the industry is complying with its legal obligations,&quot; said its chief executive Alex Chisholm.While in-app purchases were the topical news issue when the OFT&apos;s investigation was launched in 2013, more recently the attention has shifted to the personal data being shared by games via mobile advertising networks and analytics tools.This month, The Guardian reported that the US National Security Agency (NSA) and its UK counterpart GCHQ weretargeting &quot;leaky&quot; apps including Angry Birdsas a way to harvest more personal data from smartphone users.•OFT report into children&apos;s games raises more questions
Google announced Wednesday it was selling its Motorola Mobility smartphone unit to Lenovo for about $2.9bn, just two years after the search giant snapped up the company in its largest ever deal.Google paid $12.5bn for the Moto X and Moto G smartphone manufacturer in 2011. The acquisition, Google’s largest by far, came after Larry Page, Google&apos;s co-founder, took back day-to-day running of the company. Lenovo will pay $660m in cash, $750m in Lenovo shares, plus a $1.5bn three-year promissory note.While the purchase was seen as a strategic move to build Google&apos;s mobile business it has been unpopular with shareholders and analysts. Motorola has continued to lose money and sales of its new flagship phone the Moto X have disappointed.The sale looks like a major embarrassment for the company and Page. But while it is jettisoning the mobile manufacturer it will keep the vast majority of the 17,000 Motorola Mobility patents it acquired with the purchase. Patents have become a key battleground among tech firms – especially in mobile. Lenovo will keep some patent assets and the Motorola Mobility brand and trademark.In a blog post Page said Dennis Woodside, a former Google operations executive and Motorola&apos;s CEO had done “a tremendous job reinventing the company.” He said the company had helped Google&apos;s Android operating system create a “level playing field” with its rivals.“But the smartphone market is super competitive, and to thrive it helps to be all-in when it comes to making mobile devices. It’s why we believe that Motorola will be better served by Lenovo – which has a rapidly growing smartphone business and is the largest (and fastest-growing) PC manufacturer in the world. This move will enable Google to devote our energy to driving innovation across the Android ecosystem, for the benefit of smartphone users everywhere,” he wrote.The sale comes as Google has turned its energies towards hardware as well as software products. The company is working on Google Glass, its wearable computer, a smart watch and driverless cars as well as tablets and laptops. Earlier this month it bought Nest, maker of smart home devices like smoke alarms and thermostats for $3.2bn. Page was at pains to point out the Motorola sale was not a radical change of tack.“As a side note, this does not signal a larger shift for our other hardware efforts. The dynamics and maturity of the wearable and home markets, for example, are very different from that of the mobile industry. We’re excited by the opportunities to build amazing new products for users within these emerging ecosystems,” he wrote.This is the second sale Google has made of assets it acquired after buying Motorola Mobility. In 2012 Google sold Motorola Home, which made set-top boxes and cable modems, to Arris for $2.35bn.Lenovo is already the world&apos;s largest PC manufacturer, has been expanding into other areas. This is Lenovo&apos;s second large buy of the month. Last week the Chinese company paid $2.3bn for IBM&apos;s server business. It bought IBM’s laptop business in 2005.“We will immediately have the opportunity to become a strong global player in the fast-growing mobile space,” Yang Yuanqing, Lenovo’s chief executive, said in a statement. “We are confident that we can bring together the best of both companies to deliver products customers will love and a strong, growing business.”
A burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRoku's survival will take more than beating Apple TV &gt;&gt; BusinessweekHeavy users of streaming video love Roku, which makes puck-size boxes used to view Internet-streamed video on television sets. Since it began piping Netflix from broadband connections into viewers' living rooms in 2008, Roku has become the favorite device among 37% of U.S. households with streaming players, compared with 24% for Apple TV, according to researcher Park Associates. On Sept. 25, Roku released new versions of its devices, making minor improvements to its cheaper models and adding content from M-Go, a video rental and purchase service owned by MediaNaviCo.With hundreds of channel-like apps, the company already has much more content than Apple TV, although the absence of iTunes and YouTube are big gaps. Despite its early-mover advantage and coterie of hard-core users, Roku is struggling to expand beyond its niche and has been forced to find other sources of revenue besides hardware sales.Chromecast is in the picture too, though the other 39% of so of streaming is more likely PlayStations and Xboxes.How I lost my $50,000 Twitter username &gt;&gt; MediumNaoki Hiroshima says that PayPal gave out credit card data about him to a faked call (PayPal denies this) and was extorted, at the risk of losing his websites, into handing over control of@Non Twitter. Twitter said it was "investigating"; the account went from being out of use to "gone" overnight. Watch this space..Lodsys Victim Survey &gt;&gt; DevsBuild.ItDevelopers!Under attack by patent troll Lodsys? Help us with important research.The App Developers Alliance is working to fight patent trolls like Lodsys. Will you help us by completing this survey?After Google pressure, Samsung will dial back Android tweaks, homegrown apps &gt;&gt; Re/codeTerrific reporting by Liz Gannes:This week, Samsung and Google announced a wide-ranging deal to cross-license patents that cover mobile devices and other undisclosed categories. But there's more.Although the exact details of those meetings could not yet be learned, sources familiar with the discussions say not only will Samsung consider dumping or altering the Magazine UX interface in future devices, but, more importantly, new Samsung devices will spotlight Google's suite of apps to get movies, music and other content at the expense of its in-house-developed software, which was once a proud showcase of Samsung's evolution as a mobile industry leader.It's unclear what concessions Google may have made on its part. The company could have, for example, agreed to work with Samsung on a Nexus device or offered other cooperation.Her piece appeared hours before Google announced it was selling the Motorola handset division (but not its patents) to Lenovo.August 2011: Preliminary Special Proxy Statement &gt;&gt; Motorola SEC filingFrom August 2011, after Google said it would buy Motorola Mobility for $12.5bn, Motorola published an SEC filing with the "background to the merger":In early July 2011, Andrew Rubin, Senior Vice President of Mobile at Google, contacted Dr. Jha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Motorola Mobility, to request a meeting to discuss the purchase by some of Google's competitors of the patent portfolio of Nortel Networks Corporation and its subsidiaries (which we refer to in this proxy statement as "Nortel") in an auction conducted by Nortel in June 2011, and the possible impact of and potential responses to the purchase.Buying Motorola was never about the hardware.China's latest homegrown flop &gt;&gt; Light ReadingAs China believes it can manufacture a global pop star to challenge the likes of Rihanna and Beyonce, it should come as no surprise that it has also developed a device operating system that, it hopes, can challenge Android and iOS.But the release of the government-backed COS (China Operating System) hasn't exactly gone to plan.The cross-platform OS has come in for such a public mauling that the state press has had to come to its defence.Newspapers and social media have queried the similarities between COS and an implementation of Android by HTC, as well as the number of apps available and the level of government support.Official Communist Party mouthpiece, People's Daily, has published a Q&amp;A article answering what it called "seven major suspicions" concerning the COS."Honey encryption" could trick criminals with spoof data &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewAri Juels, an independent researcher who was previously chief scientist at computer security company RSA, thinks something important is missing from the cryptography protecting our sensitive data: trickery."Decoys and deception are really underexploited tools in fundamental computer security," Juels says. Together with Thomas Ristenpart of the University of Wisconsin, he has developed a new encryption system with a devious streak. It gives encrypted data an additional layer of protection by serving up fake data in response to every incorrect guess of the password or encryption key.Wouldn't it be smart to fill stores' credit card databases with fake entries too? That would cause real problems if they were stolen. (Problem is how you avoid using them for marketing.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Facebook has reported a record set of quarterly results, comfortably beating analysts’ expectations as mobile advertising revenues soared.The social network co-founded by Mark Zuckerberg, which turns 10 next week, announced it brought in revenues of $2.59bn for the three months ending 31 December, up 63% from the same time last year. Earnings per share were 31 cents. For all of 2013, Facebook had revenues of $7.87bn, an increase of 55% year-over-year. The company made a profit of $1.5bn for the year.&quot;It was a great end to the year for Facebook,&quot; said Zuckerberg, Facebook’s CEO. &quot;We&apos;re looking forward to our next decade and to helping connect the rest of the world.&quot; Zuckerberg noted Facebook’s anniversary next week. “It’s been an amazing journey so far but what’s ahead is even more exciting,” he said.The results came a week after a controversial Princeton University study claimed the social network would &quot;die like a virus&quot; and lose 80% of its users by 2015, wiped out almost as quickly as it spread. Facebook called the conclusion“crazy” in a blogpost.It also came a day after disappointing results from Yahoo, the internet giant that has been losing ad revenue to Facebook for years.Facebook’s shares have soared more than 90% since the middle of last year. The company went public in May 2012 in the biggest internet initial public offering (IPO) in history. But the sale was marred by technical glitches and worries that the company was losing advertising dollars as its customers moved to mobile. It took the company a year to recover from the IPO slump but it now appears to have convinced investors it has a mobile future. The company’s shares rose over 7% in after-hours trading.The company said it had 1.23 billion monthly active users, a 16% increase year-over-year but up just 3.4% compared with the third quarter, a sign that growth may be slowing. Monthly active mobile users totalled 945 million as of 31 December, an increase of 39% year-over-year and 8.1% higher than the third quarter. Revenue from advertising was $2.34bn, a 76% increase from the same quarter last year, and mobile advertising revenue represented approximately 53% of the total, up from approximately 23% in the fourth quarter of 2012.Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, said: “Every day people are spending more time with their mobile devices and marketers are increasingly trying to reach them.” She said Black Friday - start of the US Christmas shopping season - had been a big driver for mobile ad revenues in the quarter.Facebook accounted for 5.7% of all global digital ad revenues last year, up from 4.11% in 2012, according to eMarketer. Google, by comparison, accounted for 32.4% of all digital ad spending worldwide in 2013, up from 31.5% in 2012. Globally the digital ad market grew 13% to $117.6bn in 2013, according to eMarketer, up from $104bn in 2012.
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoskiwe hear from architect and artistUsman Haqueabout his work in dynamic networked installations.  An internationally reknowned technology-based creative, Usman discusses his new alpha projectthingful.netand why the internet of everything will potentially change how we live and work in buildings of the future.Also Aleks is joined by the head of TechnologyJemima Kiss, Technology editorCharles Arthurand Guardian tech reportersSamuel GibbsandAlex Hern.  The team discuss some of this week's big news stories including the acquisition of the UK based AI company Deep Mind by Google, revelations around the collection of smart phone app data by the NSA and GCHQ and the 30th birthday of the Apple Mac.
A Dutch court of appeal has overturned a court-ordered block of the infamous Pirate Bay torrent site by internet service providers (ISPs), labelling the practice as “ineffective”.The block prevented internet users in the Netherlands from accessing the Pirate Bay site directly via a browser.Two Dutch internet providers, Ziggo and XS4All, took the case to the court of appeals in The Hague. The court reversed the blocking order allowing internet users access to the Pirate Bay without having to resort to the use of proxy servers and other methods circumventing the blockade.“Victory for the free internet!” proclaimed Niels Huijbregts, spokesman for XS4Allin a blog post. “We are very pleased that the court ruled in favour of the freedom of information, protecting a fundamental right of all Dutch citizens.”Piracy actually increasedThe appeal judges ruled that blocking the Pirate Bay at the ISP level had not deterred users from using the BitTorrent network and the illegal downloading of copyrighted content, and had had the opposite effect. The ruling notes that the use of BitTorrent and &quot;magnet&quot; torrent links for piracy had actually increased since the blockade was implemented in 2012.The court applied case law from the European court of justice,which statedthat ISPs should not be forced to take measures like the blockade of the Pirate Bay which was disproportionate or ineffective.&quot;The court&apos;s ruling is detrimental to the development of a legal online market which requires protection against illegal competition,&quot;said Tim Kuikdirector of Dutch anti-piracy group Brein, which won the original blockade court order in 2012 that was overturned by the appeal.Ineffective and inhibits the free flow of informationBrien has been involved in legal battles with six major ISPs since 2010, including Ziggo and XS4All, in the Netherlands over the blockade of the Pirate Bay. The ISPs have continually argued that the blockade has been ineffective at preventing piracy and that it inhibits the free flow of information.Brien now has to assume responsibility for the €400,000 legal costs of the trial.The ruling sets a precedent in the Netherlands, which could have implications across the rest of Europe, in which anti-piracy groups have sought court orders for the blockade of piracy sites against ISPs.“Like Brien, we are against sharing copyrighted material without permission,” said Huijbregts.“Unimpeded internet freedom provides an unprecedented breeding ground for new possibilities and opportunities. For the entertainment industry, initiatives such as iTunes, Spotify and Netflix clearly show that the internet offers rightsholders new opportunities, rather than threats.”• In January, the Pirate Bayannounced plans for a new &quot;anti-censorship&quot; browser
Nintendo has denied reports that it will release “mini-games” for smartphones and tablets as its profits fell 30% since April last year.Instead, top Nintendo executives’ salaries will be cut for five months starting in February as they take responsibility for the poor performance. The compnay&apos;s president, Satoru Iwata, will take a 50% pay cut, while the legendary game designer and the father of Mario, Shigeru Miyamoto, took a 30% cut.‘No plans to offer mini-games on smartphones’A Japanese newspaper, Nikkei,reported on Tuesdaythat Nintendo was planning to release games for tablets and smartphones before the end of 2014 as a way to attract new players and boost its falling revenue.Nintendo later denied the report, saying that the company was “willing to make use of smart devices to promote” its products, but that “Nintendo’s intention is not to make Nintendo software available on smart devices”.“We can confirm that there are no plans to offer mini-games on smartphone devices,&quot;a Nintendo spokesperson toldgadget site Engadget.Struggling salesNintendo’s financial outlook looks bleak as the company is expecting to make a 25bn Yen loss (£146) for the 12 months in 2014 through to December, a reversal of the 55bn Yen profit originally expected.Part of the cause was the Wii U missing sales targets by a wide margin. Nintendo was forced to slash its annual forecast for Wii U sales by 69% from 9m to just 2.8m, having sold 2.4m of the consoles April through till December last year.Sales forecasts for the Nintendo 3DS handheld video game console also had to be slashed by 25% to 13.5m from 18m for the year, as smartphone and tablet adoption has impacted on mobile console gaming.Nintendo is expected to announce a new management strategy on Thursday to deal with its software and hardware sales decline.• If Nintendo ever did make mobile games for smartphones and tablets,what could it learn from Sony and Microsoft?
As a technology journalist – even one who hasn&apos;t written much about 3D printing – I&apos;ve noticed a big growth in questions from friends about the area in recent months. Often, those questions are the same ones, too.How does 3D printing even work? What&apos;s all this about 3D-printed guns? Can you 3D-print a 3D printer? Why are they so expensive? What can you actually make with them? Apart from guns...The ethical and legal questions around 3D printing and firearms are important and complex, but they also tend to hoover up a lot of the mainstream media attention for this area of technology. But it&apos;s the &quot;what can you actually make with them&quot; question that&apos;s been pulling me in recently.There&apos;s a growing community – from individual makers to nascent businesses – exploring the potential of 3D printing. This feature is just a snapshot of some of the products and projects that caught my attention, rather than a definitive roundup.A taste of what&apos;s happening, but one that&apos;s ripe for your comments pointing out better examples in these categories, and other areas that have been left out. All contributions are welcome, but here are 30 things to start the discussion off.1. RAF Tornado fighter jet partsEarly this year, BAE Systems said that British fighter jets hadflown with the first time with components made using 3D printing technology. Its engineers are making parts for four squadrons of Tornado GR4 aircraft, with the aim of saving £1.2m of maintenance and service costs over the next four years. &quot;You are suddenly not fixed in terms of where you have to manufacture these things,&quot; said BAE&apos;s Mike Murray. &quot;You can manufacture the products at whatever base you want, providing you can get a machine there.&quot;2. Arms for childrenTime&apos;s article from earlier this month onthe work of Not Impossible Labsmakes for powerful reading: a project using 3D printers to make low-cost prosthetic limbs for amputees, including Sudanese bomb-blast victim Daniel Omar. But this is just one of the stories emerging: see also3Ders&apos; piece on a four-year old called Hannah, with a condition called arthrogryposis that limits her ability to lift her arms unaided, but who now has a Wilmington Robotic Exoskeleton (WREX for short) to help, made using 3D printing.A prosthetic arm made for a 16 year-old bomb victim in Sudan. Photograph: Not Impossible3. Old Trafford and the Etihad StadiumManchester-based company Hobs&apos; business is based around working with architects, engineers and other creatives to use 3D printing as part of their work, but to show off its capabilities, the company 3D printed models of the city&apos;s two football stadia – Old Trafford and the Etihad Stadium –giving them away in a competition for Manchester Evening News readers. The models were estimated to be worth £1,000 each.4. Unborn babiesNot actually as creepy as it sounds. This is more an extension of the 4D ultrasound images of babies in the womb that have become more popular in recent years. The theory: why not print them out? One company doing it, 3D Babies, didn&apos;t have much luck with a crowdfunding campaign last year,raising $1,225 of its $15,000 goal. Even so, its website is up and running, offering eight-inch &quot;custom lifesize baby&quot; models for $800 a pop.5. Super Bowl shoe cleatsExpect to see a number of big brands launching 3D printing projects this year – part R&amp;D and part PR campaigns. Nike is one example: it&apos;s showing offa training shoe called the Vapor Carbon Elite Cleatfor this year&apos;s Super Bowl, with a 3D-printed nylon base and cleats – the latter based on the existing Vapor Laser Talon, which was unveiled a year ago.6. Honda concept carsAdmittedly, not an actual concept car that you can drive. Not yet. But Honda has made five 3D-printable modelsavailable from its websitefor fans to download and make, including 1994&apos;s FSR Concept and 2003&apos;s Kiwami. So it&apos;s more about shining a light on the company&apos;s archives and being seen to be innovative – although the potential of 3D printing for internal prototyping at all kinds of manufacturers (cars included) is one of the most interesting areas for 3D printing.Print your own Honda concept car. Just don't expect to drive it. Photograph: Honda7. Lost statues in AfghanistanIndustry site 3D Printer tells the tale ofthe Buddhas of Bamiyan, two of the largest standing Buddha statues in the world, which were destroyed by the Taliban in 2001 after five centuries watching over the surrounding landscape. A team of experts is now trying to put them back together, with 3D printing used to make 1/25 scale models as part of the planning process.8. Wheelchair rampsRaul Krauthausen is the man behind Wheelmap, a crowdsourced map of wheelchair-friendly places around the world. In December last year, though, hepublished the details of his experiments with a MakerBot 3D printerto create his own mini wheelchair ramp. &quot;Of course, there is still room for improvement. For example, I cannot reach the ramps in the back pocket and set them down by myself. But that was not really the idea. I find asking for help acceptable,&quot; he wrote.9. Skin&apos;n&apos;bones3D printing tissue could be an article in itself, and I&apos;d welcome your suggestions of innovation happening in this specialised area. The piece that caught my attention was on KVUE about the work of a research team at the University of Texas in El Paso toprint skin and other tissue. &quot;Something maybe out of a science fiction book, but now it’s a reality,&quot; as one member of the team put it. But from theBioPen that &apos;draws&apos; cells onto patientsthrough to3D bio printers that could one day be producing organs, this is an area of intense activity in 2014.10. SelfiesYeah, selfies. As if flooding Instagram with shots of yourself wasn&apos;t enough, 3D printing is being used by a number of companies to produce essentially action figures of the people printing them out, rather than the standard superheroes, cartoon brands and so on.Cubify&apos;s 3DMegot plenty of attention at the CES show earlier this month for its 3D-printed figurines, but frombobble headstoputting yourself on your own wedding cake, there&apos;s seemingly no end to this 3D-printing subcategory.Cubify's 3DMe turns people into action figures. Photograph: Cubify11. Book slipcasesMakerBot brought us the story ofChang-rae Lee&apos;s latest novel On Such a Full Sea, which has a limited-edition version with a 3D-printed slipcase designed by her publisher&apos;s art director Helen Yentus. She said that the idea was to give people &quot;the opportunity to have something to hold onto that is not available in digital form&quot;, with Lee adding that &quot;it revisits the book as an object... the pleasure I get from reading is something tactile&quot;.12. Houses3D-printed houses aren&apos;t such a big leap, conceptually, from some of the developments in construction and pre-fabricated homes over recent decades. Even so, some of the projects out there in the wild are fascinating. A team from the University of Southern California is working ona machine that is &quot;basically scaling up 3D printing to the scale of building&quot;by squirting out concrete in layers, while in Amsterdam, a 20-foot 3D printer called KamerMaker isprinting a house as an artwork.13. Duck legs and horse shoesIt&apos;s not just humans who are getting a 3D-printed helping hand (or arm, or leg...) – animals are also on the agenda. Witness TechCrunch&apos;sDesigners Delay Duck&apos;s Death With 3D-Printed Limbstory, about a duck called Dudley who lost his leg in an &quot;aggressive chicken fight&quot; and now has a 3D-printed replacement. Or look ata horse named Holly&apos;s 3D-printed titanium shoes, built by CSIRO to help her recover from a painful disease called Laminitis.14. Toys from children&apos;s appsChildren making their own toys (or, more accurately, customising them) via 3D printing is a growing area of experimentation. British startup MakieLabs was early into the trend: itsMakies Doll Factory iPad apphelps kids create a doll, which their parents can then order. But then there areapps like Blokify– essentially the creative sandbox part of Minecraft with the option to 3D-print the things children build at home, or order them from partners. On the way isMonstermatic, a mobile game where children create monsters, and can then print them. All this is expensive right now, but it&apos;s early days.Makies Doll Factory: an app for making dolls. Photograph: MakieLab15. Crime scenesVice&apos;s headline tells the story neatly:3D-Printed Crime Scenes Are Coming to a Courtroom Near You. Although in truth, unless you live in New Mexico, they may not bethatnear you for a while. A police station in Roswell has apparently bought a 3D scanner in order to create graphical representations of crime scenes to complement standard photography.16. Music boxesA startup called Left Field Labs has shown offcustomisable music boxes, with the twist being that you can print out the music on your own 3D printer, and order the box to play it on. What&apos;s more, you compose the tune using a simple grid-based system online. For now, the company isn&apos;t taking new orders for prints, but it&apos;s letting people save their creations for when it reopens them.17. WindpipesAnother biological application that&apos;s in its early days: a doctor in New York whose team is working on3D silicone tracheas which take 15 minutes to 3D-print. It&apos;s some way off actually being used for patients, mind. &quot;We have made a 3D airway. The next step is then to incorporate or embed stem cells within that that will differentiate into cartilage, which is the bulk of what the trachea is made up of...&quot;18. Hubble Space Telescope imagesThere are some beautiful images coming back from the Hubble Space Telescope, but blind people can&apos;t see them. Or can they? NASA reported this month on the project of two astronomers at the Space Telecope Science Institute who areturning Hubble images into 3D-printed pictures with stars, filaments, gas and dust. &quot;I want to represent that in 3-D and have people feel it with their fingers because they can&apos;t see it. They would be able to spatially understand where important features are relative to everything else and what the structure is,&quot; they explained.Hubble Space Telescope images turned into 3D-printed scenes. Photograph: NASA and ESA19. JewelleryIn the run-up to Valentine&apos;s Day, expect to read a blizzard of stories about 3D-printed rings, necklaces and other jewellery. FromAmerican Pearl&apos;s wedding rings(&quot;thousands of possibilities, billions of permutations: every piece is like a snowflake&quot;) to MIT-born startup Matter.io&apos;sdesign-your-own-bling serviceto the work ofindividual designers like Maria Jennifer Carewthere is plenty happening on this front.20. SoilNow back down to earth: as in actual earth. A team at Abertay University is working on creating3D-printed models of the structure of soil, in order to understand their pores and &quot;the ways in which the fungi and bacteria living within them interact&quot; in Phys.org&apos;s words. &quot;By inserting microorganisms (such as fungi and bacteria) into the pore spaces within the plastic soil, the scientists can now observe how these microorganisms move through it, survive, find food sources and interact.&quot;21. Inflatable flowersSomething else for Valentine&apos;s Day perhaps: 3D-printed inflatable flowers. Designed by Richard Clarkson, they&apos;re part of an experiment to produce the world&apos;s first inflatable 3D print. &quot;Forcing air into the cavities of the print causes it to ‘bloom’ and thereby reveal the complexity of its physical structure,&quot;explains his website. So, not a product as such, but a glimpse at &quot;an opportunity to generate complex forms and dynamic structures that are impossible to make by any other means&quot;.22. Iceberg holiday resortsThe idea of holidaying on an iceberg may not appeal – no Titanic jokes, please – but two students at the Pratt Institute School of Architecture used 3D printing to flesh out their idea for floating iceberg resorts, complete with internal hot springs. &quot;The way Andrew and I were able to be more confident in pursuing this project was having a way to build it,&quot; said one of the pair. &quot;I can’t see myself not having a 3D printer in the future; I think it’s just going to be part of what I do for the rest of my life,&quot; said the other.Fancy a holiday on an iceberg resort? Photograph: MakerBot23. Chocolate and other foods3D-printed food is regularly in the news, with one of the hits of this year&apos;s CES show being theChefJet 3D printer, which uses sugar and cocoa butter rather than plastics to create various sweet treats. The company behind it, 3D Systems, is alsoworking with confectionery brand Hershey&apos;sfor some experiments. But asthis handy wrap-up by Business Weekmakes clear, pizza, ravioli and chickpea nuggets are also on the 3D printing menu.24. MenurkeysThe story of 10 year-old Asher Weintraub was heartwarming last year: he created something called a Menurkey – a cross between the menorah candleabra and a turkey – whichraised nearly $50k on Kickstarterto become a product. Theinitial prototyping was done with a 3D printerat MakerBot&apos;s headquarters, although the company noted that Asher was keen to get himself a model to work on future products.25. InsolesAs things to fling $1.75m of funding at, a startup expected&quot;to make 3D-printed shoe insoles both sexy and mainstream&quot;sounds like quite a gamble. Still, that&apos;s the intention of SOLS, which announced its seed funding this week. Its customised 3D-printed insoles are aimed at making a range of shoes more comfortable. &quot;It’s 2014. The idea that we buy the shoes that don’t fit is ridiculous...&quot;26. Monkey handbagsThis comes from a Belgian company called Kipling, which islaunching a 3D-printed handbagcalled The Monkey Madness City Jungle Shopper. Inspired by The Jungle Book, all bar the logo and handle are 3D-printed, with the video below providing a taster.Put enough 3D-printed monkeys in a room, and they'll make a handbag.27. BikinisYes, alright, an easy headline: turning any new technology into lingerie tends to get plenty of attention. Such was the case with theN12 from Continuum, made out of Nylon 12 with its parts &quot;made directly by 3D printing and snap together without any sewing... For a bikini, the nylon is beautifully functional because it is waterproof and remarkably comfortable when wet.&quot; It&apos;s part of a wider range of fashion from the company, including a line of 3D-printed shoes.28. GuitarsDesigner Olaf Diegel isn&apos;t justmaking 3D-printed guitars: he promises to collaborate with the buyers to tailor the instruments to their musical and/or visual needs. His Spider design is particularly fun, coming from &quot;the interpretation of the ultimate heavy metal instrument through the lens of arachnids&quot;. Diegel will even 3D-print musician or band names on the back of an instrument.29. Vinyl recordsMore music: Bloc Party&apos;s Kele Okereke was part of a project last December torelease a new song as a 3D-printed record, sold from a pop-up shop in London as part of a charitable fundraising campaign. The actual record was made using a technique developed by American researcher Amanda Ghassaei for converting digital music files into 3D-printable records with wider, deeper grooves than traditional vinyl.30. Sad KeanuEven memes are getting 3D-printed in 2014. Thecollection of sullen Keanu Reeves modelsis the work of Japanese company idk: &quot;a remarkable instance of 3D mini ennui moving to the mass market,&quot; as 3Ders put it. Counting down to a 3D-printed Grumpy Cat in 3... 2... 1...Cheer up Keanu, you've been 3D-printed... Photograph: 3Ders
