The smartphone market passed a key milestone in 2013, with 1bn devices sold during the year, according to the research company IDC - and other research companies gave almost identical figures.Chinese vendors made significant inroads. Samsung and Apple topped the figures with 31.3% and 15.3% of fourth-quarter shipments, with Korean firm LG third with 4.8%. Huawei, Lenovo and ZTE were key players, taking nearly 15% of smartphone sales collectively.More generally, smartphones are eating into the total mobile phone market, which totalled 1.82bn handsets in 2013, up just 4.8% from 1.74bn in 2012, said IDC. That means that smartphones made up 55% of all mobile phone sales in the year.With growth accelerating, in the fourth quarter smartphones made up 58.2% of the 488.4m mobile sales, the research company said.But therapid expansion of smartphones to markets where featurephones have held swayhas also created a huge market at the low end, while seeing saturation at the premium end where Apple in particular dominates. Its year-on-year phone sales growth in 2013 was just 12.9%, compared to smartphone sales growth for the year of 38.4%.The figures suggest that Apple is increasing its share of the smartphone market against the context of total mobile phone sales that grew by 4.8%. That may be at the expense of featurephone makers - notably Nokia, which saw combined shipments of smartphones and featurephones for 2013 plummet by 25.2% from 335.6m to 251.0m.Nokia&apos;s mobile phone division is being sold to Microsoft, which is trying to build a smartphone platform to compete with Google&apos;s Android and Apple&apos;s iPhone.Metric choice&quot;Smartphone market share is a bullshit metric,&quot;commentedBenedict Evans, telecoms and tech analyst at Enders Analysis, on Twitter. &quot;Phone share matters. Smartphone share tells you nothing about Apple or Samsung&apos;s success.&quot;Samsung shipped 313.9m smartphones by IDC&apos;s estimates, up 42.9% on 2012, while its total phone shipments grew 9.1% to 446.7m. As a proportion of all its phone shipments, its smartphone shipments rose from 53.6% to 70.3%, according to IDC&apos;s estimates.Samsung does not provide official figures for smartphone or featurephone shipments.However, the mobile phone business remains a brutal one for many companies. While Samsung and Apple have made huge profits in the past two years from smartphones, other companies have seen losses.Even LG, which this week announced that it had surged back into contention with shipments of 13.2m smartphones in the fourth quarter, and 18.5m including featurephones, made an operating loss because of high marketing costs.Chinese handset makers driving growthThe drive of smartphones to newer buyers in developing markets as prices of handsets plummets - driven by the huge growth of handset makers in mainland China - is changing the basis of competition, suggested IDC.&quot;Among the top trends driving smartphone growth are large screen devices and low cost,&quot; said Ryan Reith, program director with IDC&apos;s Worldwide Quarterly Mobile Phone Tracker.&quot;Of the two, I have to say that low cost is the key difference maker. Cheap devices are not the attractive segment that normally grabs headlines, but IDC data shows this is the portion of the market that is driving volume. Markets like China and India are quickly moving toward a point where sub-$150 smartphones are the majority of shipments, bringing a solid computing experience to the hands of many.&quot;Smartphone sales volumes have doubled in just two years, from just under 500m in 2011; in 2010, they were fewer than 300m.•Three graphs to stop smartphone fans fretting about market share
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple is ceding the ecosystem battle to Google &gt;&gt; ForbesTero Kuittinen (he's busy):the long-term threat for the company is that Google may be able to leverage hot growth in Latin America, Africa, Middle East and Asia Pacific to undermine Apple's once so absolute dominance of the global app revenue generation. Strength in China alone cannot keep Apple in control. Unless Apple finds a way to fight Google's budget models in emerging markets, the app industry will start favouring Google Play, perhaps sooner than most people realize. Many developers are already starting to rethink the old "First iOS, then Google Play after 6-12 months" playbook. Apple's tepid, 5%, revenue growth in Europe reflects the strong gains Android vendors are making particularly in Mediterranean markets like Spain, Italy and France.Amazon Appstore now allows developers to charge for HTML5 web apps, promote them through "Free App Of The Day" &gt;&gt; TechCrunchFor consumers, it can be difficult to tell the difference between the native and HTML5 apps – they aren't listed separately in the Appstore, making them hard to spot at a glance. Had a significant number of developers participated here by submitting their web creations, that could lead to the perception that the developer community is turning to Android in greater numbers.However, Amazon didn't share in its announcement how many HTML5 apps are available today – something that could indicate it doesn't have numbers it wishes to tout just yet. (We've asked the company to clarify by offering us some figures, though, and will update when we have them. Update: Amazon declined to provide any numbers.)iPhone sales: the failure of traditional forecasting methods &gt;&gt; Tech-ThoughtsSameer Singh:In the premium smartphone market, the basis of competition among "lower-end" consumers has shifted to pricing and customization to individual preferences (e.g.: screen size). This, combined with carrier moves towards transparent pricing (driven by a basis of competition shift in the US telecom industry), increased competition to "unexpected" levels. Therefore, even as the sales performance of the flagship iPhone 5S remained strong, Apple was losing potential buyers of its "cheaper" iPhones to "good enough" competitors. The combination of the iPhone's weak volumes and sudden spike in ASP confirm this fact.Chinese New Year: Baidu tracks 1.3bn urban exodus &gt;&gt; BBC NewsAs billions of Chinese people prepare to celebrate the new year, social network Baidu - often referred to as "China's Google" - has been tracking the mass movement of people out of the country's cities and into the countryside.The interactive map, which is updated hourly, has been made by logging where data requests were made to its maps service and other apps that use its location technologies.The thicker, brighter lines are the busiest routes.An estimated 1.3 billion people make this kind of journey every year - with millions more travelling in from abroad to join the celebrations, which kick off on Friday.Wow.Here is the map.Samsung cuts target notebook shipments to 7 million units for 2014Samsung Electronics has set a goal of shipping 7m notebooks globally in 2014, a reduction of 41.67% from the 12m units shipped in 2013, and will no longer launch conventional notebook models except Chromebooks in 2015, according to Taiwan-based supply chain makers.Samsung aimed to ship 17m notebooks in 2013 but actually shipped 12m units, the sources said.Possible pinch of salt (and Samsung may be feeling the effects, like LG, of the Korean government changing its policy on buying PCs). But that's a notable shift towards Chromebooks if correct.Apple's strategy tax on services versus Google. Voice interaction becoming the "God particle" of mobile &gt;&gt; PraxtimeNathan Taylor:Long term, sometime in the next 5-15 years, I think voice interaction will become the "God Particle" of mobile. See more detail on the rational for voice's huge upside inmy previous post. Normal human beings who struggle with computers, even modern touch interfaces, would love the experience of workable voice interaction. People would connect with their phones on a visceral emotional level. If Google maintains their lead in voice, and voice interaction becomes as common as I expect, then Nexus Android becomes the de facto premium phone. Voice interaction as the "God Particle" of mobile isexplicitly clear to anyone who talks to Google about it.Watch out, Microsoft: Apple says iPad accounts for 90% of enterprise tablet activations &gt;&gt; GeekWireMicrosoft is aiming to protect its turf inside large businesses with the help of Windows tablets that run Office, but a new statistic demonstrates the size of the challenge facing the company.During Apple's quarterly earnings call this afternoon, CEO Tim Cook said that 90% of tablet activations in the enterprise are iPads, despite the features offered by the Microsoft Surface, as well as other tablets running Windows 8. In addition, Cook said that 98% of companies in the Fortune 500 are using iPads.Cook said he expects Apple to continue to grow in the enterprise."I think the road in enterprise is a longer one. The arc is longer than in consumer, which can immediately go out and buy things," he said. "But I think we've done a lot of the ground work … and I would expect that it would have more and more payback in the future."The race to buy the human brains behind deep learning machines &gt;&gt; Businessweek"DeepMind is bona fide in terms of its research capabilities and depth," says Peter Lee, who heads Microsoft Research.According to Lee, Microsoft, Facebook (FB), and Google find themselves in a battle for deep learning talent. Microsoft has gone from four full-time deep learning experts to 70 in the past three years. "We would have more if the talent was there to be had," he says. "Last year, the cost of a top, world-class deep learning expert was about the same as a top NFL quarterback prospect. The cost of that talent is pretty remarkable."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Technology and art have enjoyed a tempestuous relationship over the years. Fine art purists have demonstrated a wary scepticism towards the use and abuse of new technologies, and tech-heads have been staunchly resistant to art’s whimsical influence.But as the pressing issues of privacy and identity, addiction and dependency, and lives increasingly enmeshed in technology begin to create compelling subject matter for artists and technologists alike, art and tech are enjoying a second honeymoon.This rebooted relationship will be clearly visible in 2014 with a number of high-profile, boundary-pushing exhibitions and initiatives being launched, and more tech-art collaborations being funded by government bodies.Art-tech mashupThe Barbican is launching “Digital Revolution” this summer – a homage to the artist’s love affair with technology in all its various guises and promises to be one of the biggest, and most comprehensive survey shows to date celebrating the art-tech mashup. The Tate is also in on the action with its recent announcement of the shortlist for the IK Prize – a new award and professional development scheme celebrating creativity and digital art.Over the pond, both The New Museum in New York and Los Angeles County Museum of Art have announced the opening of newArt+Technology labsas part of the general drive towards fostering collaborations across both disciplines and industries.One of the trailblazers of the current obsession with the tech-meets-art model is the arts organisationRhizome. Originally founded in 1996 by the legendary artist Mark Tribe, Rhizome is now a thriving nonprofit, organisation which has played an integral role in the history, definition and growth of contemporary art engaged with technology and the internet.This May, Rhizome will be celebrating the fifth anniversary of their seminal art-meets-tech speed-date event “Seven on Seven”. Heather Corcoran, executive director, explained why Rhizome has been staging these encounters since 2010.The format is simple but effective: seven technologists are paired with seven artists over the course of 24 hours and asked to develop something new to present to a live audience.The aim is to “reach out to wider audiences, and break down the binaries between technology and art,&quot; Corcoran explains, tapping the potential for developing new technologies in London and New York, where entrepreneurs and developers collide with culture and the arts.Growing success storiesFrom TweetDeck, Sum.ly and Last.fm in London, to Kickstarter, Foursquare and MakerBot in New York, there is a growing culture of success stories that Corcoran attributes to “the interaction between art and technology&quot;.The results of this alchemical speed-date are presented to a paying audience at the conference the following day. The quality of the results produced by the pairings can be patchy, and some of the most interesting are often the actual conversations between the two participants.This is not entirely unexpected, given the fact that artists are not naturally predisposed to working to deadline, and technologists are generally pretty immune to convoluted art world lingo. The resulting air of experimentation and friction added a certain drama to the workshop cum performance.Given the calibre of the partnerships in previous conferences - including Tumblr’s David Karp and celebrated new media artist Ryan Trecartin, and conceptual photographer Taryn Simon and the late Internet activist Aaron Swartz - the pressure was on to come up with the goods.Simon and Swartz’s 2012collaboration resulted in a prototype project called “Image Atlas” - an image search engine illustrating how a Google search for the same word produces different results in different countries and regions. The prototype eventually became a functional search engine and is on permanent display on theNew Museum’s website.Other projects have included an urban umbrella-share service, an interactive world-history timeline and a self-generating stream-of-consciousness web site.The London line up included Foursquare co-founder Naveen Selvadurai, Michelle You of Songkick, Turner prize-winning artist Susan Philipsz and Haroon Mirza, a Venice Biennale Silver Lion winner.After a slow start, with a few of the duos failing to produce anything more tangible than unanswered questions and fuzzy speculations, things started to get interesting. The artist-technologist pairing of Haroon Mirza and image sharing site Dump.fm’s founder Ryder Ripps produced an instant messaging platform called “whateveritisabout.com”. The project takes the form of a localised, live comment feed projected on to the large screen behind the conference podium. This allowed the audience to add comments and questions about the conference in real time via their smartphones.A pantomime spectacular of the live feedRipps suggested that this new app could be applied to any localised situation in order to create zoned and isolated audience feedback - such as a concert, or even a billboard covering a particular radius in the city. Although very effective, and the cause of great hilarity (juvenile delinquency and anarchic sabotage abounded), it seemed almost a pantomime spectacular of the live feed we are familliar with from Facebook and Twitter.While interestingly playful, it was also an unnerving demonstration of the workings of the geo-fenced “splinternet” - the “Balkanisation” of the internet seen in private networks and the subject much public debate around surveillance.Another tongue-in-cheek yet subversive take on systems of social control was demonstrated by the pairing of Serpentine artist Cecile B Evans and BERG’s creative technologist Alice Bartlett. The duo developed a piece of software that breaks the behaviour pattern of your online identity - or, what they call “the bad copy” of yourself – created by the social media site Twitter.Their new app heroku acts as an irritant, inviting the user to “do what those algorithms aren’t suspecting” by making Twitter profiles act irrationally. The app randomly adds a group of unknown people to the users “following” list on Twitter and then “un-follows” a selection of people, or organisations, that they are actually following. This fractures the neat, commodifiable picture Twitter has built up of the individual, making it almost impossible for companies to target and profile the user for sales.Transparency and the digital selfThe themes of transparency and the digital self were also picked up on by the artist Jonas Lund and technologist Michelle You. Lund is a respected and celebrated Swedish artist known for his interest in shared online experiences, whilst You is co-founder and chief product officer at concert- and gig-sharing siteSongkick.The duo’s starting point was a shared interest in the phenomenon of Fomo, or the fear of missing out, in our increasingly community-obsessed, event-saturated Facebook world. The result of their collaboration was the email exchange app “eeeemail.com” - a truly disturbing combination of art and technology.Activated live in the conference by You, the app randomly, and anonymously sends an email from your inbox to someone else outside your network. This is the ultimate surrender of human privacy over to digital control, and represents a truly radical fusion of art - albeit conceptual art - and technology.Both the presenters and the audience recoiled in horror as You pressed the “Send” button and her private correspondence was catapulted into cyberspace.As the conference drew to a close, I was left wondering how much control we really do have over our digital selves. Rhizome’s conference celebrating digital improvisation certainly posed a set of tricky questions, and the arranged marriage of technology and art went some way to answering them.
It's Wednesday.
More than 70 people have lost their jobs after a row between high-street retailer Argos and a Welsh electronics supplier over licensing of Google software forced the company into administration.KMS Components, based in Penarth, near Cardiff, called in administrators on 8 January after a cash crunch left it unable to pay debts.KMS, founded in 1994, was forced into liquidation after Argos withheld £3.2m from the business. The funding row included stopping a cheque for £850,000 that Argos had sent as payment for 5,000 of its ill-fated MyTablet gadgets, which ran on Google's Android software, as well as thousands of CnM-branded Android tablets, all made and distributed by KMS.In documents seen by the Guardian, Argos claimed it had withheld the money because the tablets did not have the required "Google Mobile Services" (GMS) licence, which is controlled by Google and can take months to obtain. A GMS licence allows manufacturers to load Google services such as Maps and the Google Play app store on Android devices. Google can injunct and sue companies that sell Android devices using Google Play which do not have a GMS licence.Within 24 hours of the MyTablet going on sale in October, Google challenged Argos on the basis that it did not have a GMS licence, according to a former KMS employee. A legal document shown to the Guardian indicates that Google told Argos representatives in January 2013 that they would need a GMS licence to sell the MyTablet. Google declined to comment on either claim.On receiving a second Google complaint, Argos complained to KMS – which responded that Argos had known about the licensing issue since July 2012, and had continued to press ahead with the CnM tablets.A source at KMS said the company offered to get GMS licences for the MyTablet when Argos raised objections in October but that Argos refused to allow KMS Components to seek the appropriate GMS licence from Google, or to remove the unlicensed Google software. Separate sources at Android device makers have said that licence testing is a time-consuming process which can take months, especially for smaller companies.Argos did not respond to the claim the company had refused to allow KMS to pursue the GMS licencing process.KMS Components was founded in 1994 as an electronics and components supplier, and became one of the UK's largest trade suppliers of big-name technology and computer brands, including Microsoft, Samsung, Toshiba and Asus. The company also manufactured electronic devices, including Android tablets, under the CnM brand, which were sold through Argos, Expansys and Amazon among others. It had been a supplier to Argos for over three years.One former KMS director said the withdrawn payments had led to the company's closure. "It is highly unlikely the company will ever come back, dashing our hopes of a bright and expanding future."Argos sent a cheque for £850,000 by second class post in the middle of November, to cover a first shipment of 5,000 Bush MyTablets that went on sale on the 16 October. The cheque was banked on Friday 15 November but KMS was notified on Monday 18 November by its bank that Argos had cancelled the cheque over the weekend, according to people formerly employed by KMS Components talking to the Guardian. That left KMS with a critical shortfall in its available cash.Argos subsequently cancelled an order for a further 30,000 Bush MyTablets, according to documents seen by the Guardian."We had never seen anything like it. The way that they treated us, the way they went about things – looking at it at the time, we thought they were working with us to try and resolve the problem, but in fact they weren't. They were looking out for number one," one former KMS employee told the Guardian.Despite the row over GMS licences, Argos continues to offer five different CnM Android tablets on its website, none of whichappears to have the appropriate Google licensing.A spokesperson for Argos said, "Suppliers are very important to Argos to deliver the very best for our customers and we look to maintain strong working relationships with them. KMS is an established supplier to a number of consumer electronics retailers and we therefore have been deeply disappointed that they breached certain provisions in their agreement to supply products to Argos. Due to potential legal proceedings we are unable to comment further. Argos customers are our priority and they are unaffected by our dispute with KMS."Google declined to comment on its knowledge of the Argos Bush MyTablet.• This article was amended on 29 January 2014 after the headline and picture caption inaccurately described KMS as a software company.
Yahoo became the latest tech firm to disappoint Wall Street on Tuesday when its share price fell after announcing a drop in display advertising.The company’s shares fell 5% in after-hours trading as it released its latest quarterly results and a forecast for the coming quarter that fell below analysts’ expectations.Yahoo reported revenue of $1.26bn for the fourth quarter of 2013, a 6% decrease from the fourth quarter of 2012. Display advertising revenue was $553m for the fourth quarter of 2013, a 6% decrease compared with $591m for the fourth quarter of 2012. Profits rose to $348.2m up from $272.3m a year earlier. Yahoo said it expected current-quarter net income of between $130m-$170m, well below forecasts.Eighteen months after former Google executive Marissa Mayer was appointed to turn around the struggling company, analysts said a lot of questions still remained. The company has been attempting to reinvigorate its display advertising business and last year appointed former CBS news host Katie Couric as its &quot;global anchor&quot;.The company has also been on a spending spree, snapping up 23 companies under Mayer’s tenure including Tumblr, the picture blogging site, for which it paid $1.1bn last May.Colin Gillis, internet analyst at BGC Partners, said: “It’s still a business that’s in decline despite all the talk of a turnaround. Display fell 6% in the fourth quarter, which is supposed to be a good quarter for display ads.”Gillis said many investors now held Yahoo because of its stake in Alibaba, China’s internet giant, and Yahoo Japan. “All of these efforts are not translating into revenue growth. More of its income comes from equity investments [in Alibaba and Yahoo Japan] than the core business,” he said.Mayer said: &quot;I&apos;m encouraged by Yahoo&apos;s performance in quarter four and 2013 overall. We saw continued stability in the business, and our investments allowed us to bring beautiful products to our users and establish a strong foundation for revenue growth.”“We are extremely heartened by the year-over-year traffic increase we experienced in 2013, an early sign of return on our investments and the acquisitions we&apos;ve made,&quot; she said.The company’s share slide echoed a similar fall for Apple, which released its quarterly results on Monday. On Tuesday, Apple’s shares hit their lowest point in three months after disappointing iPhone sales raised concerns about the firm&apos;s growth prospects.
The vice-president of the Bitcoin Foundation, which lobbies on behalf of the digital currency, has resigned amid allegations he helped launder money for Silk Road, the online drug bazaar.Charlie Shrem, 24, who is one of the digital currency’s highest-profile faces, was arrested by US authorities at John F Kennedy airport in New York on Sunday as part of the ongoing investigation into Silk Road, a now-closed online store that allegedly dealt in drugs, guns and other contraband items.The arrest came as a major blow to the Bitcoin Foundation, which has been lobbying for greater acceptance in Washington for the digital currency andtestified before the Senatelast year in an attempt to dispel the perception that the currency is linked to organised crime.Shrem is also the chief executive officer of BitInstant, a Bitcoin exchange company that attracted investment from Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, famous for their early involvement with Facebook and now two of Bitcoin’s biggest backers. BitInstant aims to widen Bitcoin ownership and allows people to buy the digital currency in over 700,000 locations.Jon Matonis, the executive director of the Bitcoin Foundation, which is a non-profit organisation, said: “As a foundation, we need to remain focused on our core mission to standardize, protect, and promote the Bitcoin core protocol. While Charlie has contributed a great deal of personal effort and resources to enhance the adoption of Bitcoin worldwide, a prolonged legal dispute would inevitably detract from advancing that core mission.&quot;Therefore, in order to focus on his pending trial, it has been mutually decided that Charlie Shrem resign from the board of directors, effective immediately.&quot;On Monday, Preet Bharara, the US attorney for the southern district of New York, alleged that Shrem helped Robert Faiella, who was charged alongside him, to sell more than $1m-worth of bitcoins to Silk Road customers. Faiella, a 52-year-old Florida man whom Shrem had never met, allegedly ran an underground Bitcoin exchange using the alias BTCKing.In ablogpost, the Bitcoin Foundation pointed out that Bharara had said: “The charges contained in the complaint are merely accusations and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.&quot;It continued: “We are both surprised and saddened to learn of these allegations. The foundation does not condone illegal activities and values transparency, accountability and a high level of responsibility towards its members and overall community.“It is also worth noting that the indictment itself is not against Bitcoin or the community at large. Indeed, the complaint acknowledges, ‘Bitcoin are not inherently illegal and have known legitimate uses’.”“As a foundation, we will continue to work towards standardizing the technological infrastructure for widespread adoption, protect the integrity of the Bitcoin protocol, and promoting its social and economic benefits through public education.”
Hackers gathered in Brussels to investigate the work of the European parliament. Photograph: Tomas Spragg/European MovementStartFragmentIt is the end of a long weekend in Brussels and 36 Europeans are gathered in a room where they have spent the past 48 hours - leaving only to sleep for short periods and to find food and energy drinks.This is a hackathon, an event where computer programmers join with designers, journalists and activists to create digital projects at high speed. Hack days can be focused on using a particular application, programming language or are used to create a new product for a particular company.The hackers gathered here are not the criminal sort who attack computer security or intercept voicemails, but believers in open government and in using technology for good.Most are volunteers who have travelled from countries across the European Union. They want to create something that holds the European parliament to account and encourages citizens to vote in the elections in May.Computers are branded with stickers that warn “this is an NSA-monitored device” and an Orwellian sign on the door reads “ignorance is strength”. When introductions begin, a hacker from Hungary shouts: “We want to dig dirt!” and is received with cheers.Europe&apos;s &apos;lack of information&apos;The Europarl Hackathonhas been organised by Xavier Dutoit, who works with NGOs to help them use technology. What started as a plan to get a few friends together in his hometown turned into a continental event, oversubscribed with 200 applicants.They are united, he says, by what he calls “the hacker spirit – everybody here is thinking the same thing: I know that something is broken and I know I can do something to fix it”.When the European parliament was first elected in 1979,voter turnout across the EU was 62%.It has been in steady decline ever since, with turnout in the UK consistently well below the European average. This is in spite of the fact that more proposed amendments are introduced into law at the European level than in any national parliament.When it comes to national elections in the UK,anger against the political class is most often citedas the reason for voter apathy. Xavier Dutoit believes that Europe suffers from the opposite problem: a lack of information.“There is a huge gap between the power of the European parliament and citizens’ knowledge of it. It frightens me. At the national level, we hold politicians to account. But the only people holding MEPs accountable are in the Brussels bubble. Can you name your MEP? Can you name a single MEP?”The EU&apos;s first database of declarations of interestSome of the hackers here are interested in challenging specific laws or issues. One group has built atoolthat enables users to assess the green agenda of their MEPs, on a ranking from &quot;climate champion&quot; to &quot;climate killer&quot;.An online tool that shows how green each MEP is. Photograph: Laurence WatsonAnother group has createda campaign websiteto challenge the EU on its copyright laws, out of a frustration with being unable to access YouTube videos in Germany: “this is not a national issue. The internet does not have borders”, says developer Florian Stascheck.The largest group of hackers has spent the weekend clustered in a separate room, scrutinising hundreds of individual PDF documents, which make up the declarations of interest of the 766 members of the European parliament. Each document, a scanned PDF handwritten in the language of the MEP, must be manually translated and added to a spreadsheet.To the hackers&apos; knowledge, it is the first time anyone has tried to systematically hold MEPs to account in this way. They are creating the first common database of its kind in the EU.The requirement for MEPs to declare their financial sources and potential conflicts of interest became mandatory for the first time in 2012, part of the new code of conduct introduced by the European parliament. The ruling followed thecash-for-lawsscandal, in which four MEPs were accused of accepting money to influence legislation.Austrian MEP Ernst Strasser was jailedfor bribery in January 2014.Dumping PDFs online &apos;is not open government&apos;But manyNGOs are angrythat the parliament shows no will to implement the code and it is clear that some MEPs do not take the exercise seriously. The Danish MEP Jens Rohde lists his occupation as &quot;master of the universe&quot; while many others have neglected to fill in any information at all.Ronny Patz, who works forTransparency International, has lead the project over the weekend. “Why do we, as citizens and volunteers, have to come and spend the entire weekend in Brussels liberating handwritten Lithuanian and Greek just to hold our representatives to account?&quot; he says. &quot;The information goes through the hands of the parliament’s adminstrators - dumping PDFs on a website is not open government.”Although the project is not yet complete, the hackers are forming a campaign that uses technology to make the EU accountable. Their parting commitment isan open letteraddressed to the secretary general calling for a more access to a parliament that is open in practice.Dan O’Huiginn is leaving the hackathon to take an eight hour flight back to Sarajevo. He says he will miss the hacking community.“There is technological knowledge here but there is also an atmosphere of idealism,&quot; he says. &quot;In Bosnia, no one believes they can change how corrupt and incompetent politics is.&quot;Here, people just write a bit of code and do something about it.”•Self-driving cars irresistible to hackers, security expert warnsA data visualisation of the subjects proposed in dossiers for the European parliament. Photograph:Chiara Girardelli
• Now 37, Hassabis was born in London in July 1976 and quickly showed academic promise and skill with board games, especially chess.• At the ages of 13 Hassabis reached the rank of chess master, and was the second-highest-rated player in the world under 14 at the time – beaten only by the Hungarian chess grandmaster and strongest female chess player in history,Judit Polgár.• Accelerated through school, Hassabis completed his A-level exams two years early.• He began a career in video games at British studioBullfrog Productions, co-designing and lead programming onthe classic game Theme Parkat 17 years old, alongside the legendary games designer Peter Molyneux.•  Released in 1994, Theme Park sold several million copies and won a Golden Joystick award. The game set players the task of building a successful theme park in the UK with just a few thousand pounds and a small plot of land. (Strategies for success in the game included putting more salt in crisps so people would buy more drinks, making queues long but fast-moving and obscuring the destination, hiring a cleaner to clean the toilets, and placing the exit of one roller-coaster close to the entrance of the next to minimise walking distance between attractions.)• Hassabis left Bullfrog to studyComputer Science Triposat Cambridge University, which in 1953 had the world's first undergraduate computer science course. He graduated from Queens' College Cambridge with a double first-class honours degree in 1997.• After graduation, Hassabis rejoined Molyneux, who had now set up another games developer calledLionhead Studios, a breakaway from developer Bullfrog. Hassabis briefly worked as a lead AI programmer on the titleBlack &amp; White, a game that allowed gamers to play the role of a god ruling over an island populated by various tribes.• In 1998, Hassabis left Lionhead Studios to found his own London-based independent games developer,Elixir Studios. The company grew to 60 people strong and signed deals with large publishers Vivendi Universal and Microsoft. His games includedRepublic: The RevolutionandEvil Genius. The intellectual property and technology rights from Elixir Studios were sold to various games publishers and the studio was closed in April 2005.Hassabis during his time as the MD of Elixir Studios. Photograph: David Sillitoe• In 1999, aged 23, he won theMind Sports Olympiad– an annual international multi-disciplined competition for games of mental skill. He won it a record five times before retiring from competitive play in 2003.• Hassabis was later elected as a fellow of the Royal Society of Arts in 2009 for his influential game-design work and contribution to the games industry.• Hassabis then changed tack, switching from games development to a career in cognitive neuroscience, to allow him to return to his primary interest in artificial intelligence. During the course of a PhD in cognitive neuroscience at University College London (UCL), Hassabis published several influential papers concerning memory and amnesia.• His work was listed as inthe top 10 scientific breakthroughs of 2007by Science magazine. Hassabis established a new theory around the way the mind creates and maintains the context of remembered events as a key process underlying both the recall of memories and imagination. Some of Hassabis's findings were subsequently disputed by experts in the field; the debate is still ongoing.• Hassabis received his PhD in cognitive neuroscience from University College London in 2009. He continued his neuroscience and AI research at theGatsby Computational Neuroscience Unitat UCL as a Wellcome Trust research fellow. He was also a visiting researcher jointly at MIT and Harvard.• In 2011 he left academia to co-found a London-based artificial intelligence startup, DeepMind Technologies, with Shane Legg, whom he met at UCL, and Mustafa Suleyman. Among other things, the company developed a computer system capable of understanding and playing an Atari computer game simply by looking at it on a screen as a human would.• On 27 January,DeepMind was acquired by Google for £400m– the company's largest European acquisition – in order to add technology and talent to Google's core business of search. Google uses AI to understand search queries providing context awareness and allowing users to talk to the computer as they would a human, whether by voice or using a keyboard.
Apple&apos;squarterly financial resultsand earnings call didn&apos;t wow investors. Here is some of the stuff that got left out of the other coverage.1 Demand for the iPhone 5C was lower than expectedAccording to the independent Mixpanel system, which collects data about devices as they browse websites, the pricier 5S modeloutsold the 5C by about 3:1- with the two combined making about 21% of models in use. (The iPhone 5 dominates at 34.7%; 2011&apos;s iPhone 4S has 25.6%; the iPhone 4, from 2010, is 17%.) That suggests that any &quot;divide and rule&quot; plans Apple had for the cheaper (but not sufficiently cheaper) 5C didn&apos;t work.Apple&apos;s chief executive, Tim Cook, dodged the question of what Apple will do with the 5C this year, and said there were &quot;significant&quot; numbers who were new to the iPhone who bought the 5C. He hinted – perhaps – at a price cut (given that there was very little price difference between the phones). But Cook admitted that &quot;demand percentage turned out to be different than we thought&quot;.2 Touch ID could become part of a mobile payment system for real thingsThis week the Wall Street Journalreportedthat Apple was considering getting into the mobile payment business, after years in which it has ignored advances such as NFC. Using the Touch ID fingerprint system from the iPhone 5S to pay for real things - it&apos;s already available to buy iTunes content - could get it into mobile payments.Cook told analysts on Monday that “the mobile payments area in general is one we’ve been intrigued with… You can tell by looking at the demographics of our customers and the amount of commerce that goes through iOS devices versus the competition that it’s a big opportunity on the platform,” he said. Apple has about 600m credit card details in the iTunes Store (one of the 10 largest holders of credit cards online), so it would be a strong competitor in that space.3 No one’s buying iPodsTo a good enough approximation, that is. Ten years after 2004, when iPod sales really took off, they’re now declining rapidly - down 52% year-on-year. As a multiple of the previous year&apos;s sales, iPod sales have been below one (ie declining) for the past 19 quarters.4 Peoplearebuying MacsApple sold 4.84m of them, a 19.1% jump compared to a year ago. That&apos;s against a PC market that was down 8.4%. The sale gave Apple a 5.9% share of PC sales, its highest since the third quarter of 1998 (and possibly earlier - our figures only go back that far). For 2013, it sold a total of 17.1m Macs, compared to the total of 315.7m worldwide according to IDC. That&apos;s a 5.4% share. Apple has grown its sales on a year-by-year comparison faster than the rest of the PC market for 30 of the past 31 quarters. (The only dip was a year ago.)5 iOS7 is now running on 80% of devicesApple announced this during the earnings call. That agrees with data from Mixpanel, which measures website visitors and shows iOS 7 adoption at 84%, iOS 6 at 13.5% and earlier versions at 2.3%.More than a billion iOS (iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch) devices have been sold since their launch in mid-2007. Total iPhone users will probably peak in the future at somewhere around 500m worldwide,according toBenedict Evans of Enders Analysis, with 2.5bn-3bn Android phones. iPads could make another 300m.6 Something new is still coming, honestGene Munster, the analyst who has been predicting since some time in the Paleozoic era that Apple will unveil a TV set this year, asked about the future “product categories” that Cook promised him during an earnings call in 2013. Cook replied “Yes. Absolutely. No Change.” Everything is on track. Of course, what those new product categories are – iWatch? iTV? – and when they’ll actually be revealed is a whole other story.Munster tried to press Cook to talk about the future of the Apple TV set-top box, but Cook gave the boilerplate “we believe in innovation” response. Another analyst asked Cook about future products, and Cook coldly responded with, “We’re working on things you can’t see today.” Then silence.“We have zero issue coming up with things that we want to do that we think we can disrupt in a major way,” he said. “The challenge is always to focus to the very few that deserve all of our energy.”7 China is big, and expected to get bigger&quot;Greater China&quot; made up 15.4% of Apple&apos;s revenues for the quarter (compared to 34.9% for the whole of the Americas). Cook says sales are already growing faster than ever in China thanks to the new China Mobile deal. &quot;Last week was the best week for activations we’ve ever had in China,” said Cook. “It’s been an incredible start. At this moment we’re only selling in 16 cities and that number is projected to be 300 cities by the end of the year.”8 iPads and iPhones are working their way into big &quot;enterprise&quot; businessesCook had lots of numbers here: the iPhone is used in 97% of the Fortune 500, 91% of the Global 500; the iPad is used in 98% of the Fortune 500 and 93% of the Global 500; some of those accounts have thousands of users; and 90% of tablet activations in corporations are iPads. &quot;I think we&apos;ve done a lot of groundwork… and I would expect that it would have more and more payback in the future,&quot; Cook said.9 iPhone sales grew more slowly than the smartphone marketThe 51m shifted in the quarter (only the second company, after Samsung, to ship more than 50m in a quarter) was only 7% up from the same time last year; the overall smartphone market grew by 24.4%, according to IDC. Apple probably won&apos;t care about this; what it wants to do is grow its share of the total mobile phone market, because &quot;mobile phone market&quot; and &quot;smartphone market&quot; are becoming synonymous; around 60% of all phones sold each quarter now are smartphones. (In the UK, the proportion is 84%, according to Kantar ComTech.)•Apple shares falldespite announcement of record iPhone and iPad sales
A plugin critical to the operation of thousands of websites was disabled for hours by Sky Broadband&apos;s parental content filters over Sunday night and Monday morning.Access to the code.jquery.com website was blocked by Sky&apos;s content filters after the domain was mistakenly listed in the &quot;malware and phishing&quot; category. The site hosts code for jQuery, a code library which is used by over three-quarters of the top ten-thousand websites to ease the burden of creating responsive websites.&quot;JQuery was temporary blocked this morning having been misclassified. Our review process kicked in shortly afterwards and the site was unblocked just over an hour later,&quot; said Sky in a statement.Without jQuery, sites like Google and The Guardian are unable to deliver the sort of instant response which internet users expect, and are forced to fall back to designs which require the entire page to be refreshed every time it is changes. The code required to enable those instant responses is usually hosted on one of three &quot;content delivery networks&quot;, run by Google, Microsoft and jQuery itself. It was this latter CDN which was blocked by Sky.It is unknown how jQuery ended up classified as malware, and for exactly how long it was blocked, although it was eventually removed from the list at 9:45 am. The Guardian understands that the most likely explanation is that an actual malware site was using code hosted on jQuery, causing the latter to be incorrectly categorised.Due to the malware label, the network was even blocked for users who had selected &quot;18+&quot; on Sky&apos;s content filters. Only those users who opted out entirely could access a fully working internet.The news adds a further twist to the debate over opt-in content filters. Despite being introduced by most major ISPs in the midst of a debate about access to porn and child protection, the filters block far more than just sexually explicit material.For instance, Sky Broadband Shield&apos;s main filter also blocks sites classed as &quot;dating&quot;, &quot;cyber bullying&quot; and &quot;anonymisers, filesharing and hacking&quot;, while BT&apos;s parental controls offers parents the option of blocking &quot;sex education&quot; and &quot;social networking&quot; categories.A number of sites have been incorrectly filed in these categories; in December, for example, an LGBT charity in the capital called London Friendwas blocked by TalkTalkhaving been classified as &quot;pornographic&quot;.•Social networks to face goverment grilling over suicide content
Self-driving cars will prove an irresistible target for hackers if they ever hit the roads, a top security executive has warned.Speaking exclusively to the Guardian, Eddie Schwartz, the vice president of global security solutions for Verizon&apos;s enterprise subsidiary, said that the cyber-security industry is still 40 years from maturity, and that the first half of the 21st century will see the number of targets increase exponentially.&quot;All of the major automobile manufacturers are working on self-driving cars,&quot; Schwartz explained. &quot;For cars to be able to self-drive, they have to be able to negotiate with each other. You can&apos;t negotiate something like that without having some security principles behind it. So cars have to do basic things that we do with each other, like recognise each other – authentication.&quot;OK, I authenticate to you, that means there has to be an underlying artefact, a certificate or something like it that says &apos;you&apos;re an authorised car, and I&apos;m an authorised car, therefore we can exchange this information really fast.&apos; And you stop and I turn.Schwartz described &quot;a million applications&quot; in the car industry alone designed for machine-to-machine communications with potentially a million underlying security issues.Even normal cars are susceptible to hacking attacks. In August, a pair of researchersdemonstrated attackson a Ford SUV and Toyota Prius which enabled them to slam on the brakes, jerk the steering wheel, or accelerate the car using a laptop plugged into the the diagnostics port.In 2011, a different team of researchersmanaged to penetrate similar systemsthrough bluetooth, mobile data and even a malicious audio file burned onto a CD played in the car&apos;s media player.But self-driving cars have many more avenues of communication with the outside world, and – definitionally – less oversight from a driver to correct any errors.A ransom for your medical data?As well as self-driving cars, Eddie Schwartz cautioned that the entire field of machine-to-machine communications, also known as &quot;the internet of things&quot;, presents an enticing target to hackers.&quot;How many IP-based [internet connected] devices does the average person have in their home today? Most people can&apos;t even count them. If you ask them, they would probably say &apos;oh, I have two computers and a whatever&apos;, but the reality is it&apos;s probably more like 20 to 30 if they start thinking about it… You&apos;re going to see a spill from 4 or 5bn IP devices to hundreds of billions over the next 10 years.&quot;Schwartz cautioned that with the growth of new devices and services in the health space the potential for malicious hacks will grow exponentially, including devices that gather intimate personal medical data.&quot;These are going to be embedded solutions. It&apos;s going to be wireless communications or NFC. These are machine-to-machine communications, and for critical care, they are going to have telemetry going on 24/7.&quot;There&apos;s an underlying security and privacy issue: imagine ransom-ware [software such asCryptolockerthat breaks devices and demands a fee to fix them] in that world.&quot;•US police force pay bitcoin ransom in Cryptolocker malware scam
As obvious as it sounds to say so, in Thief you nick things. You nick a lot of things. Broaches, necklaces, wallets, candelabras – anything valuable that’s lying around, really – all disappear into lead character Garrett’s bottomless sack. You find some of these trinkets in the oddest of places. One would expect to find a golden bracelet or two in a wall safe behind a painting, but who on earth leaves a goblet on a rooftop or a couple of coins at the edge of a pond?It’s possible Eidos Montreal has left these treasures scattered around its game in order to put players into the headspace of its protagonist. If that’s the case, it’s an absolutely brilliant piece of game design because stealing stuff in Thief isn’t just fun, it’saddictive. After you’ve snagged your first five or six baubles, you turn into a veritable magpie, filled with the need to obtain any shiny object that catches your eye – even if it means potentially exposing Garrett to danger in order to do so.Victorian architecture and glowing lamps dominate the cityscape. Photograph: /PRThis compunction to loot is backed up by the game’s open-ended structure and its seductive visuals. Thief is set in a gloomy urban sprawl where the architectural schools of Gothic Europe, Victorian London and Steampunk Sci-Fi seem to have collided in a mass of fog and iron. Garrett, the antihero of the series since its 1998 premier, it back, returning to his home town, which is now in the grip of both a horrendous plague and a tyrannical ruler, The Baron. A palpable sense of foreboding drapes over the city’s gas-lit streets and shadowy rooftops, an effect that&apos;s bolstered in no small part by the flashes of lightning that briefly throw Garrett’s shadow onto the walls and pavements around him.As sinister as all of this sounds, it becomes apparent early on that the city’s darkened alleys and rooftops are Garrett’s natural turf. His almost superhuman ability to move noiselessly through his surroundings turns the skyline into his thoroughfare and makes every shadow inviting. Garrett also has the ability to ‘swoop’ in and out of pools of light quick enough to avoid detection and he’s armed with a decent array of equipment including lockpicks, arrows and a crowbar to force open the odd window.Stolen momentsFrom the evidence of the preview build I had a hands-on with, Thief contains the odd brief linear passage, which helps move the narrative along, but once Garrett is in view of a building that houses a valuable item he’s after – whether it’s part of a side task or a story mission – Thief’s structure opens up. Couple this loose framework with the kleptomaniacal impulses instilled in the player early on, and the world in Thief simply begs to be explored.A great example of this came in a passage of play that occurred after the game’s tutorial level. Following a bungled robbery, Garrett has to flee back to his headquarters through one of the city’s mercantile districts. As I picked my way across the rooftops, noticing one of the streetlamps below me was on the blink, I heard a couple of guards remarking on how beautiful a golden mask in the window of a jewelry shop looked.Well, I thought, since it’s on my way…The jewelry shop raid showed there’s no set way to successfully pull off a burglary. It was possible to enter the premises by observing the nightwatch guards, taking note of their patrol patterns, timing one’s  movements to reach the shop’s door undetected and then picking the lock. Alternately, I found after circling the emporium that one of the back windows was open and it was possible to enter by shimmying up to therooftops.Once inside, I found that the open-ended nature of progression extended to the style of play, too. To wit, players can proceed as loudly or as quietly as they wish, although, they’ll find that playing to Garrett’s strengths – moving stealthily and hiding from view – will prove easier in the long run.In my run-through I found one guard on patrol in the front of the shop, but incapacitating him was easy enough. Once I’d helped myself to everything that wasn’t nailed down on display, I picked the lock of the window display case and found that the mask in the window that had so impressed the guards was actually gilded glass – and thus, worthless. At this stage I could’ve easily made my exit but I decided, since I’d gone to the trouble of breaking and entering, to explore more of the shop.Waiting gameI’ll neither reveal what else I found, nor will I reveal any details I uncovered about the game’s plot. Believe me when I tell you I’m doing you a favour. The less one knows about the game’s story and its hidden gems, the better time one will have when it’s released at the end of next month. That is, if the developers manage to sort out a couple of issues that, while not deal-breakers, are irritating nontheless.Garrett’s inventory, for example, is mapped to the touchpad on the PS4’s controller, but the way it’s been implemented renders it virtually useless. Selecting items involved hammering the touch pad and while this is irritating enough during sections of the game where players have a lot of time to consider their next move, it would be potentially infuriating if they’re under duress.A plague threatens the clearly otherwise joyous city.Second, I can report that Thief has a lot of beautiful loading screens, and it&apos;s a good thing that they&apos;re beautiful, because players will be staring at them for an awfully long time.  Loading times feel interminable and when they appear after a dramatic cutscene, they manage to break the atmospheric spell the rest of the game is so successful at weaving. Facial animations also look positively last-gen, which is strange because the environments surrounding the characters are fantastically detailed and beautiful to behold.Here’s hoping Eidos manages to tighten up these flaws because they’re sizable chinks in Thief’s armour. Without them, there’s a lot in this game to admire and the pull of its world is intoxicating. Thief puts players into the headspace of a light-fingered ne’er-do-well and drops them into a city filled with trinkets to steal and houses to break into. Even with its niggles Thief accomplishes what the best adventure games set out to do – it surrounds you in a world you could get lost in and then encourages you to do just that.• Thief is released on PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One on 25 February (US), 27 Feburary  (Aus) and 28 February (Europe)
Indiegogo, the crowdfunding platform famous for financing films, tech startups andthe Jamaican bobsleigh team, announced on Tuesday that it has raised $40m in funding as it looks at global expansion.A third round of funding has raised more than twice the $15m the company raised in 2012 and comes after two films backed by Indiegogo, Dear White People and Life Itself, were big hits at the Sundance film festival.Co-founder Slava Rubin said the financing would be used to make key hires, expand globally and focus on mobile users, personalisation and trust. Rubin said that within a decade crowdsourcing for projects will be seen as a standard source of funding.“If the 80s were about desktops, the 90s were about commerce and the 00s were about social, then the next decade is going to be about crowdsourcing,” he said. Rubin said the company now had close to 1,000 competitors but as the largest player it was well positioned to maintain its lead. “We bring the crowd to crowdsourcing,” he said.Indiegogo has hosted more than 190,000 campaigns from nearly 190 countries since its debut in 2008. In the past two years the company said funds raised on Indiegogo have grown by 1,000%. The company’s online platform currently supports contributions in five currencies (US dollar, Canadian dollar, euro, pound sterling and Australian dollar) and four languages (English, German, French and Spanish).The new round of funding was led by Institutional Venture Partners (IVP) and Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers (KPCB), with additional funding from existing investors Insight Venture Partners, MHS Capital, Metamorphic Ventures and ff Venture Capital.“Indiegogo is playing a central role in the transformation of the global economy,” said John Doerr, general partner at KPCB. “We are excited to partner with Indiegogo to help support the dreams and aspirations of the Indiegogo community and continue establishing Indiegogo as the leading international platform for funding new ideas and innovation.”Jules Maltz, general partner it IVP, said: &quot;Indiegogo’s flexible funding model and open platform are helping it become the market leader in the rapidly growing crowdfunding space. The company is the Android of crowdfunding – easily accessible and open to all.”In January, Indiegogo raised more than $50,000 to help send the Jamaican bobsled team to the Sochi Winter Olympic Games. Rubin said more than 40 companies at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas earlier this month had been funded by the site.
The chief executive of casual games firm King, the publisher of Candy Crush Saga, haspublished an open letterresponding to attacks on the company’s recent moves totrademark the word ‘Candy’.King has been fiercely criticised by other games developers for both the filing and for opposing indie studio Stoic’s attempts to trademark the name of its Viking strategy game The Banner Saga.The controversy has extended to an older web game called Pac-Avoid, published by King, which wasaccused of being a clone of an existing game called ScamperGhostwhich had been pitched to King before being published elsewhere.In a letter aiming to “set the record straight”, chief executive Riccardo Zacconi apologised for Pac-Avoid, but defended his company’s decision to file for trademarks based on its more recent games, while opposing Stoic’s filing.“The game strongly resembles another game called ScamperGhost. The details of the situation are complex, but the bottom line is that we should never have published Pac-Avoid,” wrote Zacconi.“We have taken the game down from our site, and we apologise for having published it in the first place. Let me be clear: This unfortunate situation is an exception to the rule. King does not clone games, and we do not want anyone cloning our games.”On the trademark filings, Zacconi explained that King acquired the EU trademark for ‘Candy’ last year from a bankrupt company, and has now filed for a similar trademark in the US.“We’ve been the subject of no little scorn for our actions on this front, but the truth is that there is nothing very unusual about trademarking a common word for specific uses. Think of ‘Time’, ‘Money’, ‘Fortune’, ‘Apple’, and ‘Sun’, to name a few,” he wrote.“We are not trying to control the world’s use of the word ‘Candy’; having a trade mark doesn’t allow us to do that anyway. We’re just trying to prevent others from creating games that unfairly capitalise on our success.”On The Banner Saga, Zacconi admitted that Stoic’s game does not resemble any of King’s titles – in other words, it’s not trying to unfairly capitalise on their success – but argued that the move was necessary in order to protect King’s use of the word ‘Saga’ for its casual games.“We’re not trying to stop Stoic from using the word Saga but we had to oppose their application to preserve our own ability to protect our own games.  Otherwise, it would be much easier for future copycats to argue that use of the word ‘Saga’ when related to games, was fair play,” he wrote.It seems that even within King, there are people who disagree with some of the steps taken by the company in recent weeks. “There has been a vigorous debate both inside and outside King about how we protect our intellectual property,” as the CEO put it. “At its simplest, our policy is to protect our IP and to also respect the IP of others.”With King seemingly intent on continuing its opposition to Stoic’s trademark filing, Zacconi’s letter is unlikely to dampen down the criticism of his company – which plays into a wider, often-heated industry debate about the dominance in the mobile games world of free-to-play games like Candy Crush Saga.That game alone is estimated to begenerating revenues of $3.5m a dayacross smartphones, tablets and Facebook from in-game purchases of virtual items, but that has made it a target for increasingly-vociferous critics of this business model.King’s most recent financial resultsshowed the company – under its original trading name of Midasplayer.com – reporting turnover of €26.6m (£22.1m) and a net profit of €5.3m for its 2012 financial year, although with Candy Crush Saga only launching for Apple’s iOS in November that year, its financial impact on the company won’t be known until its 2013 results are published.And the millions of people playing Candy Crush Saga every day? They’ll remain blissfully unaware of the trademark filings, cloning accusations and industry rows about free-to-play gaming. The rows about King and its games are unlikely to put off many of the actual players, for now.•Candy crushed: a lawyer&apos;s view on King v Stoic
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamOpinion: Land Registry is not for meddling &gt;&gt; Law Society GazetteMichael Cross (co-founder of the Free Our Data campaign):The problem is that Land Registry is a key part of the critical national infrastructure and ministers know they cannot get away with flogging it to Amazon or Google. The 26-page plan put out for consultation last week bends over backwards to demonstrate that the new company will continue to be state controlled and enjoy an intimate relationship with the chief land registrar.Indeed several functions would be shared after the split – these include keeping a register of title, dealing with objections and responsibility for the consequences of complaints arising from alleged maladministration.As usual with these exercises, the government suggests three models for the new delivery company: it could be 100% state-owned, jointly owned by the state and a private partner, and wholly government owned but with its day-to-day responsibilities outsourced. With the third model clearly the bonkers option - a double layer of responsibility for an outsourcing contract is a recipe for blame-shifting and disaster - and the first too much like the status quo, the public-private partnership is clearly the favoured option.But what would a private partner bring to the necessarily monopoly business of land registration?Privatising Land Registry would almost certainly be bad for open data.Tencent joins Android launcher trend &gt;&gt; TechnodeWe see Android launcher will be one of the hottest topics in China in 2014. Ambitious Chinese companies or entrepreneurs always want control of users' access to Internet services and then monetize user traffic or sell services to users. On the Chinese Web, Qihoo is such a company that successfully converted its free security users into adopters of its browsers through which users access all Web content. Now the company is making revenues from businesses through a variety of online advertising offerings and from users through mobile gaming.Apple earnings analysis, Q1 2014: smartphone makers are doomed &gt;&gt; BGRTero Kuittinen:There is little doubt now that the handset industry and Wall Street analysts have completely missed something essential about the phone market — some dreaded turning point was reached around the September-November time frame. The most likely explanation here is a sudden slowdown in high-end sales in affluent markets like North America and Europe, possibly combined with a faster than expected mix shift towards cheaper models in emerging markets.We are now facing a genuinely fascinating March quarter. Is there a smartphone glut building globally? Will we see an escalation in price erosion as vendors fight for space in an industry that is not growing in the manner they expected?Things could get very exciting in coming months.Lotus Formula 1 team sells stake to new Russian backer &gt;&gt; AUTOSPORT.comAlthough Lotus would not confirm the buy-in, a spokesman for Yota Devices revealed that the tie-up with the team included an investment plan."It is not a sponsorship, we have bought a stake," Kirill Lubnin told AUTOSPORT."It is also important to underline that it was not our company which made the deal but our owners."Lubnin said that the aim of the partnership was to make use of F1 technologies in its own business activities."The target is simple - Formula 1 has a very strong engineering component with a lot of innovative technologies," he added."So we would like to see what is possible to borrow from F1 to the IT-industry."Wheels?An open letter to Microsoft's next CEO: 12 wishes from the Windows faithful &gt;&gt; CIO.comWoody Leonhard:While the world waits for that puff of white smoke and the announcement of a new Defender of the Windows faith, I wanted to take a few minutes of your time and explain how things really look from the trenches.No, I'm not going to tell you how to run a bazillion-dollar company with 130,000 employees and a bewildering array of products. You have enough folks with green eyeshades running around already -- no doubt with a nasty propensity to tell you, "Yes, sir!"I just want to talk about customers, especially Windows customers. If you can keep us in the fold, we can help you out of this fine mess Microsoft seems to have gotten itself into.A fine colossal profit-making mess you've got us into, Steve. Some of the points are good, though.Samsung acknowledges disabled Note 3 accessories, will issue OTA update &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaAt the time, Samsung claimed that "[a] correlation between the Android version 4.4 and the supposed incompatibility of third-party accessories does not exist" and suggested that users buy official Samsung accessories. Today Samsung sent a new statement to Ars Technica:"We have currently identified a software compatibility issue with the Galaxy Note 3 update to Android 4.4 (KitKat) and select 3rd party accessories. A software update will be available shortly. We are committed to offering a diverse and reliable mobile experience for all customers, providing continued support and solutions for any issues that arise with product updates for both Samsung manufactured and third-party accessories."Samsung now says that the update did indeed break some third-party accessories, and an update is on the way to fix it.Russia's Megafon signs new iPhone deal with Apple &gt;&gt; ReutersRussia's second-biggest mobile phone operator, Megafon, said on Monday it had signed a direct contract with Apple Inc and resumed selling iPhones after a four-year break.Megafon has not been able to sell iPhones since 2009 as the company and its rivals could not guarantee the sales volumes demanded by Apple, industry sources had said.Megafon said it would buy various iPhone models under the new three-year deal with Apple.…Apple has a 20% share of a $6.50bn Russian smartphone market in money terms, or 9% of units sold in 2013, according to cellphone retailer Euroset.A graphical explaination of UI [user interface] vs UX [user experience] &gt;&gt; HitenismEd Lea created this awesome graphic which explains the difference between user interface and user experience using breakfast cereal.We like the data centre.Samsung, Google sign patent license deal &gt;&gt; WSJ.comSamsung and Google, which are closely allied as the primary backers of the dominant Android mobile operating system, declined to disclose financial terms of the deal, which covers the two companies' existing patents, as well as those filed over the next 10 years. However, the agreement doesn't transfer ownership of patents and as a consequence won't allow Samsung to use Google's patents to defend itself in litigation with other companies such as Apple.Samsung and Google also didn't specify whether the scope of the deal was limited to Android, which currently powers about four of every five smartphones sold globally.The companies said that the agreement paves the way for deeper collaboration between Samsung and Google on research and development of current and future products.The Motorola patents are covered as part of the licence. Quite what the point of the deal is (since there's not the slightest indication either was going to sue the other) isn't clear.Meanwhile, Samsung signed a deal with Ericsson that will see it paying about $650m initially, and an ongoing royalty subsequently over standards-essential patents (SEPs.)Prosecutors charge former Foxconn employees in bribery probe &gt;&gt; WSJ.comTaiwan prosecutors charged several former Foxconn Technology Group employees with taking bribes, in the latest setback for the manufacturer of iPhones and other popular gadgets.Prosecutors said Thursday that they detained a former Foxconn general manager for allegedly taking kickbacks from suppliers. Prosecutors said three other former Foxconn employees were released on bail. Prosecutors declined to provide detail on the suppliers.Prosecutors said they had no plans to investigate Foxconn's clients, finding no evidence in the yearlong investigation that they were involved in the alleged bribery.Foxconn, formally known as Hon Hai Precision Industry, said it would fully cooperate with the investigation. "Our internal investigation found these violations to be limited to the procurement of consumables and accessory equipment related to a small part of our business," Foxconn said. "The employees in question are no longer with our company."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
Apple shares fell late on Monday, after the tech giant announced record sales of iPads and iPhones in the run-up to Christmas that still fell short of analysts’ expectations.Releasing its results after the stock markets closed, Apple reported record sales of 51 million iPhones during the last quarter, up from 47.8 million in the same period last year. The company sold 26 million iPads, also a record.The sales helped Apple turn in a profit of $13.07bn, slightly below $13.08bn profit in the year-ago period. Revenue grew 5.7% to $57.59bn from $54.51bn in the same period a year earlier.The iPhone sales came after the launch of two new phones last year and were below the 55 million analysts had been expecting. Shares initially fell over 5% in after-hours trading.“We are really happy with our record iPhone and iPad sales, the strong performance of our Mac products and the continued growth of iTunes, software and services,” said Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, in a statement. “We love having the most satisfied, loyal and engaged customers, and are continuing to invest heavily in our future to make their experiences with our products and services even better.”Sales of iPhones have been challenged in recent years by ever more sophisticated offers from Samsung and other rivals running Google’s Android operating system. Samsung too has struggled amid ever intensifying competition, however, and it reported a dip in profits in December.Apple has attempted to head off a sales slump by expanding in China, Japan and other countries. It recently struck a deal with China Mobile, the world&apos;s largest wireless network.The company has also expanded its product range. Last November Apple introduced two new iPhone models instead of one, the cheaper 5c and more high end 5s, a first for the company. It is now reportedly considering scrapping the 5c and launching an iPhone with a larger screen, like many of it rivals.It also released two new iPads last year and added NTT Docomo as a carrier partner in Japan, which helped fuel record sales up from 22.9 million last year. The company also sold 4.8 million Mac computers, up from 4.1 million last year.On a conference call, the company said America continues to be Apple’s largest sales segment, but its dominance is declining in percentage terms. Revenue in the Americas fell 1% to $20.1bn in the quarter, down from $20.3bn. Sales in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan rose 29% and Japan rose 11%. Sales in the rest of the Asia-Pacific region fell by 9%; sales rose in Europe by 5%.Apple forecast fiscal second-quarter revenue of between $42bn and $44bn, also below the $46bn analysts had been predicting in the period, the first full quarter to include results from the China Mobile pact.Apple’s chief financial officer, Peter Oppenheimer, has said the company has been struggling to keep up with sales of the iPhone 5s.“We continue to invest heavily in the future and remain confident in our product pipeline,” Oppenheimer said, in a call with analysts.Gross margins, a closely watched measure of the percentage of revenue that remains after manufacturing costs, was 37.9% in the December quarter, down from 38.6% in the year-ago period but higher than forecast. For the March quarter, Apple forecast a gross margin of 37% to 38%.
A senior figure in the Bitcoin Foundation, which lobbies on behalf of the digital currency has been arrested for conspiracy to commit money laundering and “knowingly contributing” to anonymous drug sales.Prosecutors announced on Monday that Charlie Shrem, the organisation&apos;s vice chairman, was arrested at John F Kennedy airport in New York on New York Sunday.The news comes as a major blow for the digital currency lobby group and its supporters including Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss. The twins, famous for the early involvement with Facebook, have become big backers of the digital currency. They said in a statement on Monday that they were “deeply concerned” by the news.A second man, Robert Faiella, has also been arrested and charged for the same crimes relating to his operation of a small bitcoin exchange under the name BTCKing.The charges, unsealed by the US attorney for the southern district of New York, Preet Bharara, accuse the pair of &quot;engaging in a scheme to sell over $1m in bitcoins to users of Silk Road&quot;, the online black marketplace which was closed by the FBI in October 2013.Shrem has been one of the highest profile executives on the Bitcoin Foundation. His arrest comes as staff at the foundation have been working hard to distance the digital currency from its links to crime, testifying to the US Senate last year and been lobbying regulators in Washington. Patrick Murck, Bitcoin’s general counsel, said: “I don’t think it’s damaging for the Foundation. [The] foundation wasn’t involved in any of the allegations.”James Hunt, an agent at the US drug enforcement administration agent, said in a statement: &quot;The charges announced today depict law enforcement&apos;s commitment to identifying those who promote the sale of illegal drugs throughout the world. Hiding behind their computers, both defendants are charged with knowingly contributing to and facilitating anonymous drug sales, earning substantial profits along the way.&quot;The charges stem from Shrem&apos;s ownership of the BitInstant bitcoin exchange, of which he is the chief executive, co-founder and compliance officer. The exchange hit the headlines in May 2013 when the Winklevoss twins led a seed round which raised $1.5m of investment. The timing of the charges is unfortunate for the Winklevoss brothers who are set to speak this week at a two-day conference on digital currencies held by New York state&apos;s department of financial services.In a statement the twins said: “When we invested in BitInstant in the fall of 2012, its management made a commitment to us that they would abide by all applicable laws – including money laundering laws – and we expected nothing less. Although BitInstant is not named in today’s indictment of Charlie Shrem, we are obviously deeply concerned about his arrest. We were passive investors in BitInstant and will do everything we can to help law enforcement officials. We fully support any and all governmental efforts to ensure that money laundering requirements are enforced, and look forward to clearer regulation being implemented on the purchase and sale of bitcoins.”Shrem is additionally charged with &quot;wilfully failing to file any suspicious activity report regarding Faiella&apos;s illegal transactions through the company,&quot; the documents reveal.“As alleged, Robert Faiella and Charlie Shrem schemed to sell over $1m in Bitcoins to criminals bent on trafficking narcotics on￼￼￼￼￼ the dark web drug site, Silk Road,&quot; said Bharara. &quot;Truly innovative business models don’t need to resort to old-fashioned law-breaking, and when bitcoins, like any traditional currency, are laundered and used to fuel criminal activity, law enforcement has no choice but to act. We will aggressively pursue those who would co-opt new forms of currency for illicit purposes.”The substance of the allegation is that Faiella offered bitcoins for sale on the Silk Road website, a move which would entail knowing of their involvement in the drugs trade. Those bitcoins were purchased from the Bitinstant exchange.Shrem, as the compliance officer of the exchange, was in charge of ensuring its compliance of anti-money laundering rules.The charges, delivered by an IRS agent who was assigned to the New York organised crime drug enforcement strike force, allege that &quot;not only did Shrem knowingly allow Faiella to use the company&apos;s services to buy bitcoins for his Silk Road customers, he personally processed Faiella&apos;s transactions, gave Faiella discounts on his high-volume orders, wilfully failed to file suspicious activity reports about Faiella and deliberately helped Faiella circumvent the company&apos;s [anti-money-laundering] restrictions, even though it was Shrem&apos;s job to enforce them.&quot;In December 2013, Shrem was profiled by news website Vocativ in a piece titled &quot;My Night Out With Bitcoin Millionaire and Proud Stoner Charlie Shrem&quot;. In it, Shrem tells reporter Eric Markowitz that &quot;I won’t hire you unless I drink with you or smoke weed with you&quot;, and says that he was forced to temporarily close BitInstant several times due to increased regulatory scrutiny. &quot;If we want to exist 20 years from now, we want to make sure all of our ducks are in a row,” he tells Markowitz, “and right now, they’re not.&quot;The Winklevoss brothers&apos; investment in BitInstant is just a small part of their total investment in bitcoin and related companies. Following the news of Shrem and Faiella&apos;s arrest, the price of bitcoin on the Mtgox exchange dropped by 3%.
Google'sacquisition of DeepMind Technologiesis its largest in the European Union, and its eighth-largest ever at the purchase price, which the Guardian understands is £400m ($625m).Google's largest acquisitionsCompanyWhenPriceWhat it doesMotorola MobilityMay 2012$12.5bnSmartphone manufacturer, owns large number of patentsNestJanuary 2014$3.2bn“Smart” home appliances inc thermostats and smoke/carbon monoxide alarmsDoubleClickApril 2007$3.1bnOnline advertising networkYouTubeOct 2006$1.65bnVideo sharing siteWazeJune 2013$966mSocial sat-navAdMobNov 2009$750mAdvertising for mobile phonesITA SoftwareJuly 2010$676mTravel technology and information systemsDeepMind TechnologiesJan 2014$650mArtificial intelligence and machine learningPostiniJuly 2007$625mEmail anti-spamWildfire InteractiveAug 2012$450mSocial media marketingAdMeldAug 2011$400mOnline advertisingIt is the third acquisition Google has made that has been clearly to do with artificial intelligence over the past few years.Google's purchases in 2013/4WhenCompany nameCountryPriceWhat it doesStaffJan 2013Channel IntelligenceUS$125mData management and product supply optimisation for retailers100FebDNNresearchCanadaundisclosedNeural networks which can “learn” to classify objects; used to recognise objects and images3MarchBehavioUSundisclosedUsing phones to track real-world behaviour3Makani PowerUSundisclosedAirborne wind turbines - in effect, kites that generate electricity24MayWazeIsrael$966mSocial sat-nav100AugBumpUSundisclosedSmartphone data transmission app25OctFlutterUS$40mgesture recognition - when you wave at a screen, it interprets it6DecSchaftJapanundisclosedDesigner and manufacturer of humanoid robots< 10Industrial PerceptionUSundisclosedComputer vision systems for recognising objects, eg for unloading trucks< 50AutofussUSundisclosedSister company to Bot & Dolly (below)< 75Redwood RoboticsUSundisclosedRobotic arm manufacturer< 10Meka RoboticsUSundisclosedRobotics - including a humanoid “robot girl”n/aHolomniUSundisclosedRobotic wheel manufacturern/qBot & DollyUSundisclosedRobotic camera maker: systems were used in the film “Gravity”< 10Boston DynamicsUSundisclosedHumanoid robots able to “climb walls like a gecko and jump as high as 30ft”. Has military contracts80Jan 2014NestUS$3.2bnMakes “learning” home appliances such as smoke alarms and thermostats100DeepMind TechnologiesUK$400mMachine learning3A clearer trend has been the acquisition of robotics companies, in a drive apparently led by Andy Rubin. Until March 2013, Rubin was in charge of the Android division at Google - but then moved to be in charge of the new robotics division.
On 23 January,Linda Liukaslaunched a Kickstarter projectto raise $10k to publish a children&apos;s book called Hello Ruby, teaching kids the fundamentals of programming. Four days later, and with 25 days of the campaign to go, she has raised $185k from more than 4,300 backers.&quot;I thought this would be a 20-year project, and hopefully it still can be, but now I get to do a lot more stuff than I expected early on,&quot; Liukas told The Guardian today.The book will tell the story of Ruby – &quot;a small girl with a huge imagination&quot; – who meets penguins, a snow leopard and green robots (among other characters) on her adventures. It&apos;s actually two books: an illustrated storybook with Ruby&apos;s tale, and an activity book that teaches early programming skills. Both are aimed at 4-7 year-olds.The project has been three years in the making: a time in which Liukas co-founded theRails Girlsnon-profit volunteer community aiming to make building technology more approachable for women, and also worked atCodecademy, the online education company.&quot;I started drawing the pictures about three years ago, when I was working with more serious programming languages like Ruby. Whenever I ran into a problem that I didn&apos;t understand, I&apos;d think &apos;how would Ruby explain this?&apos;,&quot; said Liukas.&quot;When I came back to Helsinki after Codecademy, I really thought this would be a little art project: a side thing I would do for my friends, or the Ruby community. I felt tremendous warmth and love for the idea from the Ruby community, but never would have guessed it could be this popular.&quot;Linda Liukas started working on Hello Ruby three years ago.The Kickstarter listing sets out the principles behind Hello Ruby, including how Liukas feels about programming&apos;s role within the education system, and its status as a creative discipline, even if some parents and teachers still see it in purely technological terms:&quot;Code is the 21st century literacy and the need for people to speak the ABC of Programming is imminent. Our world is increasingly run by software and we need more diversity in the people who are building it.More importantly, writing software is about expression, creativity - and practical application. Our kids should learn to bend, join, break and combine code in a way it wasn&apos;t designed to. Just as they would with crayons and paper or wood and tools. I believe there&apos;s plenty to learn in programming logic and culture before showing children a single screen.&quot;Liukas told The Guardian that there is a robust debate happening in Finland about how coding should be part of the national curriculum, just as there has been in the UK. She is also hoping it can break out of its existing Information and Communications Technology (ICT) box.&quot;Programming is an intersection: it combines the artistic vision of arts students, engineering and then the societal-change qualities of social studies,&quot; she said. &quot;But in the past, I think we have only talked about programming in terms of technology, or ICT or STEM [Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths]&quot;The heroine of Liukas&apos; book is a girl, but it&apos;s not abook for girls. Or rather, it&apos;s for children of both genders, at an age when girls and boys alike may be playing with tablets and games, and perhaps even encountering programming through languages likeScratchor coding-for-kids apps likeHopscotchandKodable.&quot;It&apos;s important that we have a girl protagonist in my storybook, but it&apos;s definitely not a girl/boy thing. Technology is not just for girls or boys,&quot; she said.An image showing the planned structure of the Hello Ruby book.With Hello Ruby having already raised more than 1,800% of its initial target, Luikas has already published some &quot;stretch goals&quot; on Kickstarter: if the project reaches $250k, she&apos;ll write a downloadable parent&apos;s guide for the workbook, and if it reaches $500k, she&apos;ll work on turning Hello Ruby into a mobile app.&quot;I really thought that if I had to have stretch goals, I wouldn&apos;t have to think about them in the first three weeks at least,&quot; she said. But there are plenty more ideas brewing for that 20-year project.&quot;I want to do an art show where you can crawl inside a computer and see how it works,&quot; she said. &quot;And I am definitely hoping to make Ruby&apos;s world more than one book. I have probably 3-4 books in my head, and it would be interesting to see where I can take her world onto the internet, tablets and so forth.&quot;Liukas added that she is also excited about the community emerging around her Kickstarter project, complete with the ability for her to send backers weekly updates about the book, but also the wider programming world. But after the initial excitement of the launch, she&apos;s also keen to continue work.&quot;I&apos;m really looking forward to getting back to the drawing board!&quot; she said. &quot;It makes me very calm and happy to be drawing...&quot;•Tablets in schools: coding, creativity and teachers
When a user checks in to Foursquare, the location-sharing app does more than just check them in. It also notes the location using the phone&apos;s GPS tracker, the strength of any surrounding Wi-Fi networks and also collects data on the distance to the closest mobile towers. And when this data is collected from a community of 40 million (and more than five billion check-ins), it gives the company an incredibly valuable data set.Breaking it down further, this means that when a user attempts to check in, Foursquare can predict where they are, even if they&apos;re in the underground basement of a coffee shop without any reception. How? Because after four years of checking in various users, another Foursquare user has probably faced a similar lack of signal in the same venue and connected to a wifi network to check in.For those of you unfamiliar with the app, Foursquare is a social network that allows users to check in to specific locations, such as coffee shops, restaurants, bars and offices. Once users check in, they traditionally receive a pop-up notification containing a useful tip from someone. Those who check in atthe Guardian&apos;s office, for example, might receive a notification suggesting theyvisit the gallery at the foot of the building.It&apos;s these types of tips that make the app worthwhile. If you&apos;re looking for a good coffee shop or hidden gem in a new city, for example, chances are that Foursquare users have recommended a nearby place for you to visit.Why the data mattersSincean update in August, Foursquare users now spend 30% longer with the app. Why? It&apos;s fairly straightforward: users no longer have to start the conversation with the app by checking in. Instead, when they reach a location, users receive a push notification with tips from previous visitors.If a user connects to the free wifi in a coffee shop without checking in, for example, it&apos;s likely that he or she will receive a notification because the app instantly knows where they are.This update just brings about something the chief executive Dennis Crowley has wanted from the very beginning. He didn&apos;t want users to have to work hard to receive tips but wanted them to receive them automatically, in the form of contextual notifications. Why did it take so long? Previous test iterations of the app were draining battery and often incorrectly predicting where a user was.It was only when a data scientist got involved in the project that the update became possible.EnterBlake Shaw, who joined as one of Foursquare&apos;s first data scientists two and a half years ago. He approached the Foursquare improvements from a new angle. Rather than pushing mobile devices to work harder to find a strong signal – and draining battery in the process – why not build algorithms based on the data already available?&quot;It&apos;s obviously a big feat of engineering,&quot; he said,&quot; but a variety of data problems had to be tackled and having someone on the team with a strong scientific background was a key component.&quot;Before he joined, Foursquare hadn&apos;t put much effort towards understanding their data. &quot;We hadn&apos;t done a lot of data mining, without which it&apos;s very hard to understand five billion check-ins,&quot; he said.But once the data scientists started to look at the data along with product engineers, they realised the difficulties that came with trying to build an intuitive app that would provide contextual updates when users wanted them. Early in-house test versions found that the system would bring up notificationswhen users passed by a venue rather than walked inside.But Foursquare&apos;s future looks set to be focused on providing even better contextual notifications to users. For Shaw, the prime goal is for the app to be more &quot;useful&quot;.He paints a scenario that many might be familiar with: &quot;So we know you&apos;re at Foursquare HQ, or somewhere else that you don&apos;t often frequent,&quot; he begins. Based on your check-in data, &quot;we&apos;ll know that you&apos;ll want coffee in two hours so we can suggest somewhere you can get really good coffee.&quot; That information will typically come in the form of tips from your friends on the social network. After all, the best recommendations are word-of-mouth and this is almost as good.The rise of contextual appsFoursquare&apos;s isn&apos;t the first attempt at using contextual information to provide more useful data.Dark Sky, for example, is aKickstarter-funded iOS appthat provides weather forecasting depending on your exact location. It goes further than other weather apps as users can set it up to receive text alerts if it&apos;s going to rain in the next 10 minutes, for example. Rather than being focused on one location – home or work – the app will base the information you receive on your location as you move around.The taxi-hailing app, Uber, also uses contextual information to create a great user experience. Once open, the app identifies where both the user and the closest drivers are on a map and gives an estimated pick up time. This is a much quicker process than having to type in your postcode, or check the corner of a street for a road name, before giving a pre-loaded &quot;We&apos;ll be there in less than 30 minutes!&quot; message.My own suggestion, if anyone&apos;s listening, for a contextual app that some world leaders might want to download: an app that recognises when you&apos;re at a funeral anddoesn&apos;t let you take a selfie.•Bing&apos;s latest update attempts to make search results more relevantby pulling in data from Twitter, Facebook and other social networks.
Google has made one its largest European acquisitions to date with a deal to buy DeepMind technologies, a London-based artificial intelligence firm which specialises in machine learning, advanced algorithms and systems neuroscience.The Guardian understands that Google paid £400m ($650m) forDeepMind, which develops technologies for e-commerce and games, and has demonstrated computer systems capable of playing computer games. It aims, it says, to develop computers that think like humans.The two-year-old artificial intelligence startup was founded by former child chess prodigy and neuroscientist Demis Hassabis alongside Shane Legg and Mustafa Suleyman.DeepMind has reportedly competed with Google and other major artificial intelligence companies for talent and Google’s chief executive Larry Page is said to have led the deal himself. Facebook reportedly failed to acquire DeepMind in December 2012, according toForbes.Part of the acquisition deal saw Google establish an artificial intelligence ethics board to ensure the technology is not abused, according tosources talking to The Information.Google confirmed the purchase but declined to clarify specifics of the acquisition.‘Infinitely more intelligent’DeepMind is the latest in a long line of artificial intelligence acquisitions from Google thatrecently includedthe learning thermostat and smart fire alarm company Nest, described by Google’sEric Schmidtas &quot;an important bet&quot; which will lead to products that are &quot;infinitely more intelligent&quot;.“DeepMind was generally interested in reinforcement learning, and in deep learning, which is very useful in mining so called ‘big data’, something Google has a lot of and is interested in processing,” said Murray Shanahan a professor of Cognitive Robotics at Imperial College London.Google also acquired a string of robotics firms in 2013, culminating in the purchase of Boston Dynamics in December,the most high-profile purchaseat the time and a company holding contracts with the US military.Google’s robotics and artificial intelligence efforts were put under the leadership of the father of Android, Andy Rubin,in Decembercombining seven quietly acquired technology companies to foster a self-described “moonshot” robotics vision.Computing prodigy Demis HassabisBefore DeepMind, Hassabis – described as &quot;very brilliant&quot; by his peers – completed his A-level exams two years early and went on to have a career in computer games with high-profile games studio Bullfrog in the mid-1990s.At 17, Hassabis co-designed and was lead programmer on the classicTheme Parkwith legendary game designerPeter Molyneux.Hassabis then left Bullfrog to take a place at Cambridge University, attaining a double first in Computer Science in 1997, and going on to be lead AI programmer at Molyneux’sLionhead Studioson the landmark gameBlack &amp; White.Having set up his own games developer, Elixir Studios in 1998, Hassabis left the games industry for cognitive neuroscience and artificial intelligence publishing influential papers in memory and amnesia.Attaining a doctorate in Cognitive Neuroscience from University College London in 2009, Hassabis left academia in 2012 to found DeepMind Technology.• What is Boston Dynamics andwhy does Google want robots?*This article was updated on 27 Jan at 15.20GMT to correct the price of the acquisition.
Culture secretary Maria Miller is to call on social networks such as Tumblr, Twitter and Facebook to crack down on cyberbullying in a dedicated summit scheduled for the next few weeks.The plans follow the suicide of a London schoolgirl, Tallulah Wilson, who had spent months accessing blogs about self-harm and suicide on Tumblr beforehand.Her mother, Sarah Wilson, described Tallulah having entered &quot;a world where the lines between fantasy and reality became blurred&quot;, and called on companies to &quot;withdraw their advertising from those sites who continue to host inappropriate self-harming and suicide-promoting blogs to stop this poison spreading&quot;.Miller is expected to echo Wilson&apos;s call, and demand that social networks be more proactive about tackling content which could be harmful to younger users.The government is reportedly feeling emboldened having won the fight over filters on the internet, and is now aiming to do the same thing for social media sites.Tumblr already bans blogs which encourage self-harm, but, in common with most other social networks, only acts when infringing accounts are brought to its attention.UK law currently distinguishes between publishers, who pre-emptively edit content and are held liable for everything they host, and platforms, which are exempt from liability until they are given notice. Without such a distinction, networks argue that they would be forced to close.•Facebook works with Samaritans to introduce suicidal friend alerts
Smartphone gaming is a cut-throat business, there&apos;s really no doubt about that. When a successful title emerges to prominence on the Apple or Android app stores, you can bet its success will attract dozens of &quot;clones&quot;, near-identical games with very similar titles, designed to ensnare unwary purchasers. In a sector where anyone can write a game, have it approved and then put on the market beside thousands of other titles, your brand is vitally important. What&apos;s in a name? In mobile gaming these days, practically everything.So few in the industry were surprised when it emerged on Monday that casual games publisher King has trademarked the word &quot;candy&quot;, in order to protect its best-selling game, Candy Crush Saga. The title, which has been downloaded over 500m times and is estimated to make around $1m a day in revenue, is one of the biggest mobile games in the world. Yet there are few elements of the game that are essentially &quot;original&quot; – it belongs to the familiar &quot;match-three&quot; puzzler genre, in which objects on a grid need to be re-arranged in order to match similar items and make them disappear. There are literally hundreds of similar games, including Popcap&apos;s Bejeweled series and Zynga&apos;s Ruby Blast. Candy Crush Saga has its own slant on the conventions of the genre, of course, but really, the defining element is its candy name and theme. King says this has made it a target for unscrupulous developers who produce similar titles simply so that iPhone and Android users download the wrong game when searching the cramped and cluttered digital stores.In a statement to news site GI.biz,the company put it like this: &quot;We have trademarked the word &apos;Candy&apos; in the EU, as our IP is constantly being infringed and we have to enforce our rights and to protect ourplayers from confusion. We don&apos;t enforce against all uses of Candy - some are legitimate and of course, we would not ask App developers who use the term legitimately to stop doing so.&quot;Marked for lifeThe first question for a lot of gamers, though, is this: how is it even possible for a company to trademark a word in such common usage? The answer is that it can only be applied in specific contexts.  &quot;A trade mark can be anything that identifies the goods and services of a business or distinguishes them from those of another – so youcantrade mark a single word of common usage,&quot; explains Alex Tutty of law firm Sheridans, which represents a range of games companies. &quot;However, when a trade mark application is made you must specify the type of goods and services that you are using it for (or intend to use it for). You cannot trade mark a word that is descriptive or devoid of distinctive character. For example you could not trade mark &apos;soap&apos; for cleaning products, but if you made a successful game called &apos;Soap&apos; then you could apply for a trade mark for that in relation to games.&quot;In many ways then, from a dispassionate business standpoint, King&apos;s action is understandable . Things get more interesting though, if you take a look at the company&apos;scurrent trademarking activities. Here you&apos;ll find that it is also looking to protect the actual design of its in-game icons (including the stripy jelly bean and the chocolate drop covered in hundreds and thousands) and the word &quot;tasty&quot;. For a game making $1m a day many will wonder if it really requires this level of protection.  The answer is &quot;yes&quot;, if you&apos;re looking to set the foundations for major brand expansion.&quot;King has applied for their Candy trade mark in the EU and the US for a wide variety of goods and services,&quot; says Tutty. &quot;It has also applied for a number of other marks including Candy Coin, Candy Factory, Candy Town. What this would suggest is that King is expanding on the Candy franchise and releasing a series of games with Candy as the unifying term. Easyjet courted a lot of controversy for this in the past – effectively trying to own the word &apos;easy&apos;, which many argue is a mark that is descriptive or devoid of distinctive character. Easy had some considerable success with its approach often because defendants capitulated rather than fight.&quot;The Banner sagaThis brings us to King&apos;s more controversial action. On 27 December, the companyfiled a notice of oppositionwith the US Patent and Trademark Office, attempting to prevent indie studio Stoic from trademarking the name of its acclaimed Viking strategy game, The Banner Saga. In the document, King claims that Stoic&apos;s use of the word &quot;saga&quot; is &quot;confusingly and deceptively similar&quot; to its own range of &quot;Saga&quot; titles. Certainly, King did first use the world &quot;saga&quot; in 2011, as it states in its opposition, but then the word itself has ancient origins as a Nordic storytelling tradition. So, really, the Vikings go there first – and by some considerable distance. A mere glance at a Banner Saga screenshot is enough to inform most people that it is a game based around the history and tradition of the Viking sagas and not around endlessly matching up coloured objects while being asked to pay for power-ups.The Banner Saga: patently not a match-three puzzlerIt was, then, an action seemingly designed to provoke the ire of the games press and the development community. A huge global publisher with a massively successful casual gaming brand pitting itself against a  small studio in Austin, Texas, with a respected and rather beautiful new title. PC gaming site Rock,Paper, Shotgun has beenparticularly vociferousin its detailed coverage of the proceedings.The outrage provoked another concillatory statement from King:&quot;King has not and is not trying to stop Banner Saga from using its name. We do not have any concerns that Banner Saga is trying build on our brand or our content. However, like any prudent company, we need to take all appropriate steps to protect our IP, both now and in the future.&quot;In this case, that means preserving our ability to enforce our rights in cases where other developers may try to use the Saga mark in a way which infringes our IP rights and causes player confusion. If we had not opposed Banner Saga&apos;s trade mark application, it would be much easier for real copy cats to argue that their use of &apos;Saga&apos; was legitimate.&quot;It is also worth reading thein-depth explanation of games and trademarkson the site GamerLaw, which explains in some detail  about how companies are virtually required to protect their trademarks, and abouthow trademarking a word does not necessarily give a company complete control over it in their business sector.Beneath the wordsBetween the internet anger and the King PR assurances there is a more measured but troubling story. King is being disingenuous. For a start, it doesn&apos;t currently own the trademark on the word saga – it has an application in process. So is there any grounds for its objection? Is there any merit to its action then? &quot;King is relying on pre-existing unregistered trade mark rights  – on which the action called &apos;passing off&apos; is based,&quot; says Tutty. &quot;Marks that are not registered have common law protection through passing off - which occurs if a third-party uses a trading name, style or get up that misrepresents a connection or association with the owner of goodwill in a business undertaken under or by reference to that trading name, style or get up and in doing so causes damage to the owner. That damage includes lost revenue that it would have received had the &apos;infringer&apos; entered into a licence agreement with the owner.&quot;In other words, business brands are protected in common law even if they are not trademarked. The victim would just need to show that another company was deliberately attempting to confuse customers by trading with a similar brand. So yes, King can oppose even if it doesn&apos;t currently have a trademark in place.But let&apos;s look at that official king statement again:&quot;We do not have any concerns that Banner Saga is trying build on our brand or our content.&quot;Compare that with the statement in the company&apos;s opposition document:﻿&quot;Applicant&apos;s THE BANNER SAGA mark is confusingly and deceptively similar to opposer&apos;s previously used SAGA marks.&quot;In short, if King really has no concerns about the use of the word &apos;Saga&apos; in the The Banner Saga, its opposition would seem to have no merit. There is no confusion, no deception. &quot;To an extent [King is] constrained by the wording required for a bona fide opposition,&quot; says Tutty, &quot;but they are not the victim here. The question that should have been asked is whether The Banner Saga is likely to cause confusion. The answer to this is likely to be no and on that basis King should not have opposed this trade mark. If they had a concern with Stoic they could have spoken to them first before taking this step.&quot;Being crushedOscar Clark, a casual games analyst and developer, is more sympathetic, but still sees the issues in King&apos;s action. &quot;King is of course feeling the pain that happens when you are successful, and they are simply making the best use of what is available to them to protect their assets. The trouble is that in the process of protecting ideas and copyright its hard to avoid upsetting some people as the legal process is quite a blunt instrument.&quot;The guys I know at King are great people who love making games and I am sure the last thing they want to do is frustrate other great designers; or worse still start to lose the great rapport they have with their players. Brings to mind a Star Wars quote when Leia says to Tarkin &apos;The More you Tighten Your Grip The More Star Systems fall through your fingers&apos;… but on the other hand if your want to protect your brand what else can you really do? In the end I think this is simply the growing pains of the mobile industry as it matures and its King’s turn to be pointed at.&quot;But then there are alternatives. It is possible, for example, to enter into a trademark coexistence agreement, allowing both parties to use the same word. It could prove costly to engineer, but then King is in a strong financial position, and there&apos;s surely a public relations advantage in seeking to work with a smalldeveloper, rather than placing a studio in a position where they may not be able to trademark their own game title. For its part,Stoic has statedthat it won&apos;t produce a Banner Saga sequel without the word &apos;Saga&apos;, ramping up the PR pressure on King.If formal opposition proceedings begin, the costs to both participants will be in the thousands of dollars – affordable to King, a disaster to Stoic. It&apos;s debatable whether the bad press from this action will have any effect on King&apos;s business – many of the gamers downloading its colourful casual titles will be utterly unaware of this industry controversy. But within King&apos;s opposition to Banner Saga, and its land grab on words and images to do with Candy, there is exposed once again a brutal dichotomy between the friendly face of major game publishers, and the brutal business practices they must sometimes engage in.ZyngaandElectronic Artshave both been through this treadmill. There are ways for King to avoid such chagrin, but it needs to act rather than pacify.The Candy Crush saga – a lawyer speaksAlex Chapman is a lawyer at Sheridans, a firm specialising in media law. This is his own take on the King controversy.Different companies have different approaches to the use and protection of their IP including their brands. Increasingly how a company approaches the management of its IP is becoming a part of the brand itself and what we are seeing here is a backlash to the approach one particular company has taken. This, of course comes on the back of other similar examples and whist I (as an IP lawyer) have some sympathy for King’s desire to protect its brand I also cannot help but feel that in this case it may have gone too far and therefore ultimately risk damaging the brand.Of course, we don’t know what advice King received or even what its longer term plans are and effective IP management involves anticipating your future needs. However what we do know that King’s brand is “Candy Crush Saga” or “Candy Crush” not “Candy” or “Saga” in isolation.Of course, it’s possible that they will follow up “Candy Crush” with other “Candy” games and “Candy” will become a brand in its own right. Certainly that is something that King may need to argue otherwise theyrisk having their registration cancelled as being made in bad faith (a mark needs to be used as it is registered and there must be a bona fide intention to use the mark as registered at the time of registration). However, even if that is King’s intention it should also realise that there are many companies using the word “Candy” in their games already and so it now feels inappropriate to now assert a quasi-monopoly over the use of that word.Candy worldNow, if a company was to have used “Candy” as a brand on its own I’d have a lot more sympathy. For example if the games were intended to be a range such as “Candy Racing”, “Candy Runner”, “Candy Shooter” because there the distinctive and dominant part of the brand is “Candy”. However in this case “Candy” is no more distinctive and dominant than “Crush”  and in terms of establishing goodwill and reputation I’d argue that it exists in “Candy Crush” or “Candy Crush Saga” not “Candy”.Additionally, there is the concern that the reason for using the word “Candy” in the title of the game would appear to be that candy (and the crushing thereof) is the subject matter of the game. Candy is therefore acharacteristic of the good and one would have to question whether the use of the word “Candy” in a way that indicates a should therefore be protectable.Looking at the registers, King clearly is intending to do this now – it has filed for “Candy Coin”, “Candy Factory” and “Candy Town”. I don’t think anyone would have any real argument with that, however it is the retrospective attempt to own “Candy” and / or “Saga” that is of most concern.Fly the bannerThis concern seems most acute in respect of the opposition to Stoic’s trade mark for “The Banner Saga”, since King’s claims in respect of the word “Saga” are clearly weaker and the word “Saga” is inherently devoid of distinctive character when used to denote a long story or series.It is also worth noting that even if registrations exists Article 6 of the Trade marks Directive (EU) provides that a trade mark cannot be used to prohibit a third party from using the protected term to indicate kind, quality, quantity, intended purpose, value, geographical origin, the time of production or other characteristics of goods or services. Therefore is there are people out there using “Candy” in games that feature candy (sweets) then they will have a defines – whether it is successful or not will depend on a number of factors.The issue does however illuminate a very important and difficult issue however and that is the way that certain developers and publishers are using third party IP and brand recognition as a way of making money for themselves and effectively misleading consumers into buying their apps / in app purchases thinking that the app is related to the well-known product.Law and hypocrisyIt is here that IP lawyers can face challenges of hypocrisy. For example we are very active in protecting our client’s brands and removing infringing products from stores. We are very good at it and we can get infringing websites down inside 24 hours and can remove counterfeit merchandise from online retail stores in hours, if not minutes. However we are acutely aware of the effect that this can have on the community of followers that support a brand and it must therefore be done with a considerable degree of judgement.What is unacceptable – and I don’t think anyone would reasonably disagree – is for any other app to use the name “Candy Crush” in its title or for people to produce “Candy Crush” T-shirts and sell them through eBay.Similarly, reasonable people would (should) agree that it would be unacceptable to lift / copy the assets from “Candy Crush” in an infinite runner game. That is what IP law is there to protect against and it does that job very well. Put simply you cannot expect to be able to use the fruit of someone else’s labours for your own benefit.However that is exactly what is happening and on an increasingly large scale - so it is not surprising that sometimes brand and IP owners overreach. For example if you go on the app store now you will see hundreds of apps using words in their title or keywords solely in order to show up in the search results. On the one hand this is a breach of the Apple terms and may be trade mark infringement. However there is clearly a grey area when it comes to words like “Candy”. 2199 apps use “Candy” in their title or as a keyword on the UK app store and you can guess why many of them do. Equally it shows how ubiquitous the term has become.So as lawyers who work on identifying, protecting, enforcing and exploiting (or IPEE) intellectual property and advising on those things, we know that there can be a thin line between what is right and wrong in law. However, we also need to realise that there is an equally thin line between what is perceived to be fair and unfair in terms of the use of the law. Falling on the wrong side of that line can be just as damaging for the brand – but in a different way.
Generations to come will be able to hear what celebrities and notable individuals actually sounded like, starting with Stephen Fry, thanks to Wikipedia’s new voice recording project.TheWikipedia Voice Intro Project(WikiVIP) aims to add the voice of celebrities, scientists, artists and other people of note from around the world to their Wikipedia biographies, providing 10 seconds or so of audio to enable current and future readers to know what they sounded like.&apos;Hello, my name is Stephen Fry&apos;The project kicked off with Stephen Fry, often an advocate for technology and its use in education and the free dissemination of information, who recorded a sample of his voice foruse on his Wikipedia biography.“Hello, my name is Stephen Fry, I was born in London and I’ve been in the entertainment business, well I suppose since 1981,” said Fry in the freely available audio recording.Stephen Fry recorded this snippet for Wikipedia's new voice archiving project,&nbsp;WikiVIP.The BBC is also working with Wikipedia on the project to extract small clips of audio recordings of targeted people from certain BBC programmes for inclusion on Wikipedia. Volunteers identified over 300 clips featuring notable people, whichare being processedby the BBC and uploaded to the relevant Wikipedia articles.Internet pioneers, lunar astronauts and lordsExamples of those already added to the archives includeSir Tim Berners-LeeandAung San Suu Kyi. This marks the first time the BBC has openly licensed its content from broadcast programmes.Other contributors to the project led by the Wikipedia editor,Andy Mabbett, include the lunar astronautCharlie Duke, who went to the moon on Apollo 16 in 1972 and is now 78, andBaron Knight of Weymouth, who has been a member of the House of Lords since 2010.The voice recordings allow Wikipedia users to hear what notable people sounded like, including those who are unlikely to have appeared on television or radio.• In January, Googleadded links to its Knowledge Graph built-in encyclopaedia into search results, which leans heavily on Wikipedia, to speed up searches for information
From September, coding will be part of the primary and secondary education curriculum in the UK, as part of wider changes designed to boost computer literacy alongside reading, writing and maths skills for British children.Some independent schools are already providing a glimpse at the potential. Which is why I recently found myself in Cambridge, watching a classroom of Year 5 girls – 9-10 year-olds – practising their programming skills on iPad apps like Hopscotch, Move the Turtle and Kodable.The school is theStephen Perse Foundation, where I later see a Year 7 class sat at computers getting hands on with MIT&apos;s Scratch programming language, then meet members of the school&apos;s App Club, who have been making their own apps using Objective-C.It’s fair to say this school is still an exception rather than the rule for the British education system: it’s an independent school with more freedom to set its own curriculum, and the resources to have rolled out an iPad for every senior-school pupil, with more available for younger pupils to use too.The Foundation even has its own director of digital strategy, Dan Edwards, who is one of more than 2,000 Apple Distinguished Educators dotted around the world. It’s a powerful case study for what that company is doing in the education sector, but one that also raises thorny questions about the strategies of other schools, technology companies and governments.The way tablets were introduced at the Stephen Perse Foundation followed an increasingly common pattern: first a limited pilot with teachers using the devices, then a trial with children, and finally the full rollout across the school.The process has included training teachers, evaluating apps and constructing courses using Apple’s iTunes U service, as well as frequently shaking up the strategy when, according to Edwards, the girls blaze through a course or app that he thought would present a challenge for their age group, and demand to move on to the next level. “When we’re planning for next year, we genuinely don’t know where they’ll be,” he says. “When you remove barriers, it’s amazing how quickly things move.”It’s interesting to see how the tablets are being used across the school’s curriculum, rather than being hived off into specific ICT lessons, as they might be in schools where the devices are more limited. The Year 5 class use the Pages app to create field trip reports and mock up newspaper front pages, and other apps for tasks like creating comic strips about the sinking of the Mary Rose.Their teacher tells me the emphasis is on using tablets to create, rather than consume; a message later reiterated when I sit down with the school’s principal, Tricia Kelleher. &quot;If you&apos;re a school, you have to get beyond this just being a device that you use. You can create what&apos;s on it as well, and that&apos;s been the transformation in the last year. Otherwise, students are just being consumers,” she says.Hopscotch is one of the coding apps being used at the school.Kelleher also tells me about the Foundation’s decision to make tablets such a core part of its teaching, which she says was grounded in a wider strategy of reaching out to Cambridge’s thriving technology community, while providing skills that – even if pupils don’t end up in tech-related careers – will serve them well in the workplace.&quot;It&apos;s about not just seeing a child as being a set of subjects, but looking at their world and the world they&apos;re going to live in. And we had a lightbulb moment about five years ago, realising there was something missing here,&quot; she says.&quot;Pupils would happily go into IT rooms, do their IT, go to another lesson and then not remember what they’d just done in IT. We realised that it needed to be embedded in what they do. We weren&apos;t sure about the full potential of the iPad, but we took the risk. We can&apos;t be telling our young people they should be risk-takers if we as an institution can&apos;t take a risk.&quot;Those coding apps at junior-school level are laying the foundations for some students to explore the discipline when they reach senior school, through its App Club. It’s run by Rob Percival, once a teacher at the Foundation who quit to run his own business, but now helps out with the club.I meet four members – Trinity, Michelle, Laura and Emi – who’ve already made one iOS app – a tool for helping teachers track their “House Points” system of rewards for students – and are about to begin work on a second.“The coding games and Scratch are wonderful, but it&apos;s nice if at the end of it, you can produce something that&apos;s of a quality that other people can use and enjoy,” says Percival, who says the club doesn’t shirk the initially-steep learning curve of Objective-C.“There&apos;s a huge amount of initial enthusiasm, because they&apos;ve all got ideas, and they think it&apos;s cool and fun. Tapping into that is quite easy, but it&apos;s a bit more difficult when they sit down to actually make an app,” he admits. “There&apos;s a massive high, then quite a fast low, but once they manage to get through that, they can make something happen.”The girls say they’re enjoying the challenge. “It&apos;s interesting to solve the problems that come with it. We all made mistakes when we started, but it&apos;s interesting to solve our mistakes and know not to make them later,” says Michelle.There’s always a media fuss when a teenage developer and/or entrepreneur has some success – Nick D’Aloisioselling his Summly startup to Yahoofor a rumoured $30m being one prominent example. Actually, the prospect of whole year-groups of schoolchildren learning even just the basics of coding is just as interesting.'We can't be telling our young people they should be risk-takers if we as an institution can't take a risk.'But that brings me back to some of those thorny questions. My two sons go to a great primary school that’s a long way from having tablets available for every child. My children are lucky, with a tech hack for a father and tablets, apps and an enthusiasm for early coding close to hand. I recognise their privilege, but can&apos;t help wondering about wider accessibility issues.Apple has iPads going into a wider range of schools than you&apos;d think –Hove Park school is another flagship case study– and rivals are also thinking about these problems. Just this week, Samsung announced an expansion of its Europe-wide &quot;smart classrooms&quot; initiative, which focuses on 6-16 year-olds at schools in disadvantaged areas, for example.Samsung also signified its presence at this month&apos;s BETT 2014 education technology event in London with a survey of more than 500 parents of primary and secondary school children in the UK, finding that 57% of them think schools do not invest enough in technology.Perhaps if Apple and Samsung carry their fierce rivalry in the consumer technology world into the education sector, that will help. Libraries, too, could have a powerful role to play in boosting access to technology, although here too, there are complex and sensitive questions of resources. Initiatives likeCode Club, which runs more than 1,800 after-school coding clubs around the UK, are also encouraging.The visit also made me realise how there is more to tablets in schools than, well, tablets in schools. Look at the ecosystem around Apple&apos;s iTunes U, iBooks Textbooks, Distinguished Educators and even lesser-reported moves like theEducations Collections sectionwithin the App Store, which groups apps and e-books by discipline (maths, science, history etc) with teachers in mind.Can Google and/or its device partners build asimilar educational ecosystemin the months and years ahead, to complement the growing numbers of affordable Android tablets that may be an appealing alternative for schools and school authorities, for example?Visiting the Stephen Perse Foundation and seeing how tablets, apps and coding are woven into its curriculum rather than hived off into &quot;ICT&quot; was an inspiring experience, but it&apos;s made me want to know more about how this can be brought to many more children in the years to come.As a last point, it also made me think about the role of humans: from head teachers like Tricia Kelleher pushing through the resources and reforms required; through figures like Edwards who are figuring out how to use the new devices and give colleagues the support they need; through to those teachers using the technology on a day-to-day basis.It reminded me that humans are important, rather than simply boiling these issues down to &quot;School buys X tablets&quot; headlines. &quot;Speaking as a history teacher, the power of the story and the ability to have them in the palm of your hand? We mustn&apos;t lose that,&quot; says Kelleher.&quot;That&apos;s the human contact. We must not become so focused on the technology, we forget the importance of the relationships that are part of learning. The thing that holds this together is the teacher.&quot;
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamProsecutors charge former Foxconn employees in bribery probe &gt;&gt; WSJ.comTaiwan prosecutors charged several former Foxconn Technology Group employees with taking bribes, in the latest setback for the manufacturer of iPhones and other popular gadgets.Prosecutors said Thursday that they detained a former Foxconn general manager for allegedly taking kickbacks from suppliers. Prosecutors said three other former Foxconn employees were released on bail. Prosecutors declined to provide detail on the suppliers.Prosecutors said they had no plans to investigate Foxconn's clients, finding no evidence in the yearlong investigation that they were involved in the alleged bribery.Foxconn, formally known as Hon Hai Precision Industry, said it would fully cooperate with the investigation. "Our internal investigation found these violations to be limited to the procurement of consumables and accessory equipment related to a small part of our business," Foxconn said. "The employees in question are no longer with our company."Digitimes Research: global tablet shipments in 4Q13 estimated at 78.45m units &gt;&gt; DigitimesThere were an estimated 78.45 million tablets shipped globally in the fourth quarter of 2013, increasing 25% on quarter and by 29.8% on year, according to Digitimes Research.iPads accounted for 29.7% of shipments, brand models launched by vendors other than Apple for 36.6%, and models launched by white-box vendors for 33.8%, Digitimes Research indicated. Android-based models took up 51.2% of the shipments, iOS-based 44.9% and Windows-based 3.9%. 7-inch models accounted for 31% of the shipments, followed by 9-inch models with 25.4%, 7.9-inch models with 19.7%, 10-inch models with 15.8% and 8-inch models with 7.6%. In terms of touch solutions, GF2 accounted for 41.5% of shipments, GFF for 38.6%, OGS for 9.8% and GG for 9.5%.Among vendors, Apple had the largest global market share at 29.7%, followed by Samsung Electronics with 17.4%, Amazon 5.4%, Lenovo 4.2%, Asustek Computer 2.8%, Google 1.4%, Acer 1%, Dell 0.8% and Hewlett-Packard 0.5%.Google loses again In AdWords patent infringement case &gt;&gt; Search Engine LaneA judge has determined patent-holding company Vringo is entitled to additional royalties from Google in a patent infringement case involving Google AdWords.The order stems from a case brought by Vringo subsidiary I/P Engine in 2011 that claimed filtering technology used in Google AdWords violated two of its patents. A jury found in favor of I/P Engine, awarding it $30.4m and running royalty payments of 3.5%. The case is I/P Engine Inc. v. AOL Inc., 11cv512.Google claimed to have updated the AdWords system in May 2013 in such a way that the patents were no longer applicable and said it should not be subject to royalty payments after that point.In a Memorandum Order issued yesterday, U.S. District Judge Raymond A Jackson disagreed writing, the modified version of AdWords "is nothing more than a colorable variation of the infringing system." As such Vringo is "entitled to ongoing royalties as long as Defendants continue to use the modified system."1990s patents, previously used against Microsoft too.Samsung, Google strike wide-ranging patent cross-license deal &gt;&gt; Re/codeSamsung and Google have reached a broad deal to license one another's patents.The agreement, announced on Sunday, covers the two companies' existing patents as well as those to be filed over the next 10 years. Samsung and Google didn't say whether the deal covers all of their respective patents. But they did say it extends beyond mobile, and covers multiple product categories.While noteworthy, Google and Samsung have already been largely on the same side of the global patent wars. Apple has focused its legal attention on Samsung rather than Google directly, though its arguments have sometimes centred on how Android is a copy of Apple's iPhone operating system.Nonetheless, both companies used the opportunity to highlight the deal as an example of choosing cooperation over litigation.What hard drive should I buy? &gt;&gt; Backblaze Blog »Because Backblaze has a history of openness, many readers expected more details in my previous posts. They asked what drive models work best and which last the longest. Given our experience with over 25,000 drives, they asked which ones are good enough that we would buy them again. In this post, I'll answer those questions.Spoiler: Hitachi or Western Digital did the job (3-5% failure rate in three years). Seagate showed a 26.5% failure rate in three years).Three reasons why Ubuntu smartphone will succeed &gt;&gt; IntoMobileDusan Belic:This year we should see the first Ubuntu smartphone launched with demo devices most likely being on display at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. As far as we know, China's Meizu may be just one of the launch partners with more OEMs likely to join the party in no time at all. Here we want to explain why we think Ubuntu smartphone(s) will change the game for good.CommentfromFrancisco Jeronimo, smartphones analyst at IDC: "Unfortunately these are not strong enough. Lack of MOs [mobile operator] &amp; Vendor support, not strong value for common users &amp; need for big pockets of cash will impact Ubuntu Smp [smartphone] success."The one metric that matters most in Taiwan: non-PC Revenue &gt;&gt; DIGITS to DOLLARSJonathan Greenberg has been hearing that Taiwanese manufacturers are most focussed on how they can increase the revenues they got from making things that aren't PCs:In my work, I have always found visiting Greater China to be an important antidote to the Valley's echo chamber. It is one thing to write a blog post, it is quite another to run a mammoth manufacturing enterprise on that same basis. They supply chain tends to take a very 'grounded-in-reality' approach to operations. This is not always to their benefit, but I like hearing both sides of perception.So I think there is more to this 'data' than just another headline in on an ongoing theme.  If, in fact, we are seeing the Taiwanese complex seriously disengage from building PCs, it will have important implications for the whole industry. As much as everyone in the Valley (and I am as guilty of this as anyone) has been prophesying the end of the PC era, PC sales are still very large. However, if the ODMs begin to disinvest in their PC production, we will likely see an acceleration of PC declines. The PC complex is built on steady increases in volume, and optimized for economies of scale. If the best minds and most-skilled engineers at the ODMs turn their efforts to other products, this will no longer hold true.Debunking Princeton &gt;&gt; FacebookMike Develin digs into Google Trends:This trend suggests that Princeton will have only half its current enrollment by 2018, and by 2021 it will have no students at all, agreeing with the previous graph of scholarly scholarliness. Based on our robust scientific analysis, future generations will only be able to imagine this now-rubble institution that once walked this earth.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Monday!
Google's latest doodle marks the birthday of Eugène Emmanuel Viollet-le-Duc, the French architect known for his gothic revivalist restorations of medieval buildings.Born in Paris in 1814 to a civil servant father, the young Viollet-le-Duc embraced republicanism and anti-clericalism and took part in the July Revolution of 1830.After his return in 1835 from studying in Italy, he was commissioned to restore the Romanesque abbey of Vézelay, the first in a long series of restorations which included work at Notre Dame de Paris.The later project brought him to national attention, as did work at Mont Saint-Michel, Carcassonne, Roquetaillade castle and Pierrefonds.After 1848 he supervised the restoration of numerous medieval buildings, the most important being the Amiens Cathedral in 1849, the synodal hall at Sens in the same year, the fortifications of Carcassonne in 1852 and the church of Saint-Sernin at Toulouse in 1862.Viollet-le-Duc's influence in early 19th-century theories of architectural restoration was largely unrivalled. But while his early aim was to carry out restorations in the style of the original building, his addition of entirely new elements later on has been criticised by 20th century archeologists.Later in his career, he was involved in the defence of Paris during the Franco-Prussian War of 1870-1, developing theories which influenced the engineers behind the fortifications at Verdun prior to Second World War and the Maginot Line before the Second World War to World War II.He lived out his final years in Lausanne, Switzerland, where he constructed a villa and died there in 1879.
Price from £30,980MPG up to 47.9Top speed up to 155mph"We call that the Waitrose stripe," said the red-trousered man in the carpark of Bath's posh supermarket. He had stopped next to me as I crouched to examine the long, pale graze that ran the length of the&nbsp;brand newAudi Q7. Water still dripped from its bumpers on to the clean concrete floor and, as far as I could tell, the wound to its polished flank was sickeningly fresh. The poor owner – what a&nbsp;nightmare, I&nbsp;thought. You nip to the shops and this happens. It would have wrecked my Christmas. My fellow shopper studied me for a while then bleeped open the door and I&nbsp;suddenly realised it was his car and not mine. He didn't seem bothered in the least. "I did it on the way in," he said, rolling his eyes and puffing out his cheeks like Billy Bunter. "Bloody hate shopping…"Poor Billy, I thought, in more ways than one. I also thought what a&nbsp;trial multistorey car parks are. Their malicious sharp-edged columns, knee-high kerbs and miserly turning circles must account for more scrapes and gouges, dings and dents on our cars than any other buildings in the land. Our cars probably wince as we turn their wheels on to the approach ramp.In his colossal Audi, Billy would have had no chance. The reason I'd been inspecting his car, other than general empathy,  was that I&nbsp;had initially thought it was mine that had been "striped" and I'd panicked. I was driving the identically coloured Audi SUV parked in the next bay. But mine was aQ5, the petite sister to Billy's big-boned Q7. To my mind it offers everything the top-of-the-range Q7 offers without the drawback of its size. In the Q7 you are always the fat man in Speedos squeezing up to the poolside bar, love handles bulging out. In a&nbsp;Q5 you are that same man after his gastric band has been fitted…Audi has long excelled at sniffing out niches in the motoring market and have a suitable vehicle for every eventuality. But when it proposed the midsize SUV in 2008 it could not have known it would go on to become the brand's bestselling vehicle in America and the car leading the charge in China. A remodelled version is due to be launched at the end of this year to go on sale in 2015, but in the meantime there is still plenty of life left in this refreshed 2014 edition.Inside story: the refined interior of the new Audi Q5In the flesh it's extremely well proportioned. Big enough to swallow my family of five plus dog and all Santa's presents for the Christmas journey home (the sliding rear benchseat is a neat touch), but also small enough to cope with city streets and, of course, multistoreys. The lack of stature means it drives much more like a car than many of its SUV rivals, but it still gives you that in-demand "command" position that today's drivers can't get enough of.There is a range of engines to choose from, but the entry-level 2.0-litre TDI provides the ideal compromise between performance and economy. For my money, I'd stretch for the 3.0-litre SQ5 diesel which with Audi's legendary Quattro four-wheel-drive system (fitted to every model in the line up) develops 650Nm of torque, will do 0-62mph in 5.2 seconds yet has an official average fuel consumption of 41.5mpg and emissions of 179g/km. Cake? Eat it!It's not often you get a chance to truly test a car's capabilities, but the appalling weather of early January meant the Audi and I faced floods, 80mph winds, lanes overwhelmed with mud, a vomiting dog (she ate the Christmas pudding) and that multistorey. And never once did Audi's sure-footed Q5 falter.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.uk. Follow Martin on Twitter@MartinLove166
Initially a PC title, cult adventureThe Stanley Parablehit Macs in December, but  was lost in the rush for new Christmas console releases – which was a shame, as this  game about games  is certainly worthy of attention. It opens with a mystery, as its titular hero realises his bleak, expansive workplace is suddenly deserted. As he begins to explore, Galactic Cafe's creation immediately starts to tease the player, turning conventions of game design on their heads and toying with the illusion of a fabricated world. None of the usual norms are respected, from how the game defines beginnings and endings to player freedom and progress. It's all held together by exceptional writing and voice acting, which turn this sharp, intelligent plaything into a truly hilarious experience.Saying more would spoil the magic.To understandThe Stanley Parableyou have to play it – and everybody really should.
There is something truly sadomasochistic at the heart of skateboarding – it demands a huge investment of pain, frustration and discipline before it gives back. Mastering tricks is a constant tussle with the counterintuitive, and each small success the result of endlessly repeated failure. All of which is a trying concept for video games to capture, especially at a time when players are increasingly mollycoddled by the medium.OlliOlli, however, has caught much of the essence of what it is to skateboard; something of&nbsp;a surprise considering that it has reinterpreted the sport&nbsp;into a unrelentingly fast 2D platformer.Presented as a series of short, intense trick-based scoring challenges that tease player dexterity,OlliOlliis difficult and built around an atypical control scheme that initially feels anything but intuitive. Those same controls, however, underpinOlliOlli's greatest achievement. They bring to life the rhythm and momentum of skateboarding, highlight the importance and impact of a well-timed landing, and engender the precise focus that will be familiar to skaters across the world.That's not to suggest thatOlliOllirequires an intimacy with skateboarding, and it is certainly not a simulation, but for anyone who has travelled with a deck beneath their feet, this is a fascinating interpretation of the experience.
Sometimes there's nothing quite like the refreshing change of simplynotplaying the stereotypical hero. InRhythm Thief and the Paris Caper(Sega, iOS, £6.99) you are Raphael – a dancing Parisian burglar, portrayed in bold cartoon style. The jaunty music blunts the edge of any criminal undertakings and the sound goes on to take on greater importance as the action gets under way. Played through a series of swiping and tapping rhythm tasks and puzzles, coordination is key to success as you progress and collect accomplices, who endow Raphael with different bonuses. If there's one complaint it's the entirely redundant necessity to be online while playing – it adds nothing and is a serious bugbear on a mobile title.Castle Doombad(Grumpyface, iOS, £1.99) similarly casts players as a ne'er-do-well, Dr Lord Evilstein, who must prevent the hero from rescuing the princess – a nice twist on traditional gaming mechanics. In essence a tower-defence title, it's spread vertically through a castle, rather than across a sprawling map. As the good guys attack through windows and doors you use a dazzling variety of traps and tools to stop them. All can be upgraded to see off the pleasingly diverse cast of foes (from Rambo types to super-powered do-gooders). With surprising depth,Doombadproves that occasionally it's good to be bad.
For all their virtual accomplishments, gamers aren't feted for their real-world usefulness. But that perception might be about to change, thanks to a new wave of games that let players with little or no scientific knowledge tackle some of science's biggest problems. And gamers are already proving their worth.In 2011, people playingFoldit, an online puzzle game about protein folding,resolved the structure of an enzyme that causes an Aids-like disease in monkeys. Researchers had been working on the problem for 13 years. The gamers solved it in three weeks.A year later, people playing an astronomy game calledPlanet Huntersfound a curious planet with four stars in its system, and to date, they've discovered 40 planets that could potentially support life, all of which had been previously missed by professional astronomers.On paper, gamers and scientists make a bizarre union. But in reality, their two worlds aren't leagues apart: both involve solving problems within a given set of rules. Genetic analysis, for instance, is about finding sequences and patterns among seemingly random clusters of data. Frame the analysis as a pattern-spotting game that looks likeCandy Crush, and, while aligning patterns and scoring points, players can also be hunting for mutations that cause cancer, Alzheimer's disease or diabetes."Our brains are geared up to recognise patterns," says Erinma Ochu, a neuroscientist and Wellcome Trust Engagement Fellow at the University of Manchester, explaining why scientists are turning to gamers for help, "and we do it better than computers. This is a new way of working for scientists, but as long as they learn how to trust games developers to do what they do best – make great games – then they can have thousands of people from all around the world working on their data."The potential is huge. As a planet we spend 3bn hours a week playing online games, and if even a fraction of that time can be harnessed for science, laboratories around the world would have access to some rather impressive cognitive machinery. The trick, though, is to make the games as playable and addictive as possible – the more plays a game gets, the larger the dataset generated and the more robust the findings.Zoran Popovicis the director of the Centre for Game Science at the University of Washington and is the co-creator ofFoldit. He explains that while successfully entertaining the masses, these games are meeting a very pressing need: science needs more people."No matter what academic process we go through," he says, "we end up whittling down a huge population of middle schoolers interested in science to some small percentage that actually survive the PhD process and end up doing science. Considering how many open scientific problems there are, and how few scientists there are, it's clear that we're stymied in the progress of science simply by the number of able and interested people out there."ThroughFolditalone he estimates that the number of people working on protein folding around the world has increased by four times in the past two and a half years.Zooniverse, a website that offers a wide range of online citizen-science projects includingPlanet Hunters, estimates that, together, their volunteers give them a virtual office block of 600 people working around the clock on scientific questions.If you want to join in and become a fully fledged citizen scientist, or if you just want to contribute to science on your way to work, here are 10 of the best games around. But be careful, because they're all pretty addictive. But that shouldn't be a surprise… they've been designed, by scientists, to be so.PhyloPhylo: 'colourul puzzles and jazzy music'.Make patterns and research diseasesIt's tough to know what to like more aboutPhylo, the colourful puzzles or the jazzy music. Either way, their combination makes the complicated world of bioinformatics, or more specifically multiple sequence alignment optimisation, incredibly accessible. By pushing around coloured blocks into patterns, you're actually aligning DNA from different animal species, helping research into genetic diseases by identifying disease-associated or mutated genes. Beat algorithms and other players by aligning the patterns and minimising gaps as much as possible.FolditMake a shape and understand proteinsA bewitchingly addictive puzzle game. Use shakes, tweaks, wiggles and rubber bands to twist and contort your protein into its most stable and thus highest-scoring shape. Each puzzle is a bit like a Rubik's cube in that there is only one perfect solution to each structure, but there are various intermediate or less stable ones in between. Work your way up the high scores tables by joining groups and sharing puzzle solutions with other players. En route, you'll help researchers discover more about the rules that govern the shape, and therefore function, of proteins, helping the fight against cancer, Alzheimer's disease and HIV/Aids.Forgotten IslandForgotten Island: 'visually beautiful'.Study organisms to assess man's impactIf you lovedMonkey Island, this game, a visually beautiful point-and-click adventure game with a compelling narrative, is for you. You're a scientist with a secret past, trapped on a mysterious island where an explosion has destroyed the biology lab. Photographs of organisms are strewn across the island. Collect and answer questions about the photos to earn game money, which you spend on tools to help you progress and hopefully get off the island. Your classification of these real-life photos from around the world will help biologists to study the effects of urban sprawl on local ecosystems or to detect evidence of regional or global climactic shifts.FraxinusAlign patterns to save ash treesThinkCandy Crushbut with coloured leaves. To play this Facebook game, align different patterns with a reference pattern: the better the alignment, the higher the score. Tussle for ownership of a given pattern by beating other players' scores. In sorting the patterns to increasingly higher accuracy, you'll actually be helping to detect genetic variants that can protect Europe's ash trees (Fraxinus excelsior) from a deadly fungal disease. Each pattern represents actual DNA lengths from the trees and the fungus, from which scientists hope to identify genetic variants that either confer resistance or increase susceptibility.EteRNAMake shapes to understand genesA similar concept toFoldit(it was made by some of the same people), but this time you're trying to get RNA into a target shape. RNAs, which have an important role in building proteins and regulating genes, are made up of four different types of nucleotide bases. Switch these to alter the RNA's configuration, increase its stability, and up your score. Target shapes get increasingly more complicated as you progress to becoming a puzzle architect or, in the lab mode, compete for the chance to have your own RNA designs synthesised and assessed by scientists at Stanford University.OraProtect a forest… to help protect forestsNot released until later this year, but well worth keeping an eye out for. You'll be charged with taking care of a plot of New Zealand forest and protecting it from ravenous Australian bushtail possums. Set traps, create sanctuaries or fly aerial operations to sow toxic bait to save your pixelated forest. Researchers will then take the best strategies and apply them in real New Zealand forests, where native plants and animals are under threat from these invading possums. To help raise money for the game, Ora's developers have releasedPossum Stomp, a mini game app available on iOS or Android.Galaxy ZooGalaxy Zoo: 'an authentic experience of science'.Classify galaxies to understand universeZooniverse's flagship project. Sift through pictures of millions of galaxies and help classify their shapes to unravel their history. A galaxy's shape tells you whether it's collided with another galaxy, if it's formed stars, and how it's interacted with its environment. Like all Zooniverse projects,Galaxy Zoooffers an authentic experience of science, so you'll not get points. However, if seeing far-flung corners of the universe before any other human eye isn't enough for you, keep a look out for weird and wonderful objects and they might be named after you, such asHanny's Voorwerp, a galaxy-sized gas cloud named after one player.EyewireUntangle puzzle and unearth new neuronsHelp scientists figure out how the brain is wired, starting with nerves in the back of the eye. You're given a cube of tangled nerves from which you have to tease out the shape of individual nerves and, slice by slice, build up their three-dimensional structure. It's little wonder this game is so pleasing: it taps into two things you probably forgot that you love – colouring in and treasure hunts. Score points by tracing well and unearthing new neurons. The timed events really ramp up the heat, and might have you sitting at your computer all night. Be warned.Whale FMWhale FM: help marine biologists find out more about whales.Listen to whales, help marine biologistsAnother authentic experience from Zooniverse. This time be a marine biologist (no scuba diving, sadly) and study whale song. Listen to recordings of killer whales and pilot whales from around the world and link them with a list of potential matches. Find a match and it'll be stored for further analysis. Your work will help biologists determine the size of these animals' repertoire and whether they have accents, indicators of intelligence or a culture. If you've noticed neither animal is a whale but instead a type of dolphin, this game is probably for you.Cropland CaptureIdentify arable land to feed the worldBy 2050 there will be 10 billion of us on the planet. That's a lot of hungry mouths that we'll struggle to feed with the current agricultural setup. Trawl through satellite images of the Earth and look for arable land to help develop the first-ever global crop map, which will help plan for global food security, identify yield gaps and monitor crops affected by droughts. The more land you identify, the higher your score and the better your chances of winning great weekly prizes, such as an Amazon Kindle, a smartphone, or a tablet. But hurry: the competitions stop in April.• This article was amended on 27 January 2014. An earlier version referred to Zoran Popovic as director of the Centre for Game Science at Washington University. That should have been the University of Washington at Seattle, Washington state. Washington University is in St. Louis, Missouri.
The parent company of games firm King, whose Candy Crush Saga is one of the most lucrative mobile games in the world, has published its financial results for 2012.Midasplayer.com reported turnover of €26.6m (£22.1m) and a net profit of €5.3m for the year, compared to €30m and a €209k loss respectively in 2011.The financials don’t reveal much about the mobile growth of King’s business, however. Candy Crush Saga only launched for Apple’s iPhone and iPad in mid-November 2012, although it had been available on Facebook since April that year.The filing with Companies House in the UK doesn’t mention the game, describing the company’s principal activities as “the production and distribution of online skill games”, although later in the document this is reworded as “the production and distribution of online and mobile games”.Midasplayer.com originally launched in August 2003 as a skill-gaming site – a form of online gambling where people play games based on skill rather than chance. In November 2005, it was rebranded asKing.com, with the company expanding into Facebook social games in 2011, and then mobile in 2012.By the end of 2013, King’s games were being played more than 1bn times a day by 282m monthly unique users, with games like Papa Pear Saga and Farm Heroes Saga having followed Candy Crush’s path from King.com to Facebook and then on to mobile.According to Apple, Candy Crush Saga wasthe top grossing app on its App Store in 2013. King has never published stats for how much money the game is making, although research firm SuperData Research claimsCandy Crush Saga is currently generating revenues of $3.5m a day.This success comes with controversy, including current criticism of the company’sattempts to trademark words including “Candy” and “Saga”in relation to games. Independent games firms have attacked the move, and there is already aCandy Jam websiteencouraging developers to protest by making games with Candy in the title.The trademark filings came ahead of an anticipated IPO for King, which wasreported to have filed the necessary documentswith the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in September 2013, keeping them secret under rules covering “emerging growth companies” wishing to go public.As things stand, King is a multi-layered business entity. Midasplayer.com and sister company Midasplayer (Skills) are registered in the UK, with a parent company (Midasplayer Malta Holding Company) and the ultimate holding company (Midasplayer International Holding Company) both registered in Malta. There is also a sales and marketing company, King Com Inc, registered in the US.•Candy Crush Saga: &apos;70% of the people on the last level haven&apos;t paid&apos;
On Twitter, there exists a character calledComplete Ledge. You might have come across him; the more luckless among you might have come across the kind of person he's based on in real life. Ledge works in sales, where he's a self-styled "target-smasher". He is a fan of banter, Babestation TV, Lynx Africa andDanny Dyer. "Driving down the Fulham Road, top down, shirt off, got Sex On Fire cranked – ladies hit me up," runs a typical update.Mr Ledge sprang immediately to mind when the Lexus GS300 turned up. For one thing, it's destined to be driven almost exclusively by target-smashers. It's aimed squarely at the fleet car market: the CO2emissions of the entry-level model guarantee tax advantages for company car drivers. For another, the F Sport I&nbsp;drove looked like something Mr&nbsp;Ledge would covet, if, of course, he could bear to face himself in the mirror in the morning knowing that he's the owner of a hybrid, with a driveline based on that of the distinctly un-lad-ish Prius. But the styling is distinctly shouty. From the outside it's a car that, metaphorically speaking, has teamed its suit and tie&nbsp;with wraparound Oakley sunglasses and insists on referring to you as "fella".But then I got in it. The interior is great: roomy, comfy and tasteful in a&nbsp;way the exterior suggests it won't be. It's like cracking open a bottle of WKD and discovering dancing, floral notes underscored by a crisp, mineral finish. The F Sport model comes laden with gadgetry. The stereo's fantastic: good news, because you'll probably crank it up to mask the noise the car makes when accelerating hard, which isn't so much a vroom as a whine. The multimedia screen, meanwhile, is massive, but controlled by a joystick system so fiddly I gave up on the satnav, trusted instead to my own legendarily innate sense of&nbsp;direction and ended up in Tunbridge Wells, which would have been fine had I&nbsp;wanted to go to Tunbridge Wells. At least the GS&nbsp;300h made my visit a&nbsp;pleasurable experience.The ride matches the car's interior. It's refined, very smooth and hugely enjoyable, at least around town. If you're in the business of flooring the accelerator, however, you're subject to the weird phenomenon common to all cars with E-CVT transmission: you put your foot down, the revs leap, but the car, disconcertingly, doesn't quite accelerate in the way you'd expect. Which left me wondering what the kind of person attracted by its outward appearance – I believe Complete Ledge would describe said person as an "utter classic" – might make of actually driving it.Lexus GS 300h F SportPrice£42,355Top speed119 mphAcceleration0-62mph in 9.2 secondsCombined fuel consumption56.5mpgCO2emissions115g/kmEco rating8/10Cool rating7/10
Games currently on release include team beat 'em-up,Dragon Ball Z: Battle Of Z(PS3, Xbox 360, Vita), which is built around the popular manga franchise and lets you participate in four- and eight-player online brawls, andThe Banner Saga(PC), a Kickstarter-funded Viking adventure with artful turn-based combat and a habit of giving you tricky moral choices before gleefully trampling all over your good intentions. The2014 Call Of Duty Championshipis underway, with the European finals due to take place in London (28 Feb-2 Mar). The winners will join teams from around the world in Los Angeles for the grand final at the end of March, where a $1m prize pool will hopefully make up for the 10,000 hours of online pre-adolescent verbal abuse endured while practising for long enough to stand any chance of winning.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewIt's the end of January, but that doesn't matter to Nintendo, whose Year Of Luigi continues unabated with this modest reissue. Like Tetris, Dr Luigi sees you dropping coloured blocks into a grid in an effort to stop it filling up. In this case the blocks are medicinal capsules, which you use to get rid of cartoon-monstrous viruses by matching at least four of the same colour in a vertical or horizontal row, and you can play alone, against a friend or versus your Wii U. Originally released as Dr Mario, this version has spruced-up presentation, a simple online mode and Operation-L, where the capsules you drop are L-shaped, but in every other way this is the same as it was nearly 25 years ago. In that time, what used to be a passably minor console release has become the kind of game you'd expect to download to your phone for free. So being asked to pay the best part of £15 for  a creaky old cousin of Tetris is offensive to the point of obscenity.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewSkateboarding is hard, and making it look good is something best reserved for the pros. While gaming forebears such as Tony Hawk's Pro Skater liked to indulge your dreams of competence with relatively straightforward ways of achieving spectacular combos, OlliOlli's air of authenticity is underlined by its understatement, eschewing ludicrous stunts in favour of repeated tests of timing and concentration. Weaving tricks, landings and grinds together requires single-minded attention. It's one of those games you can only play in "the zone", free of all distractions. Looking halfway good takes dedication, although unlike the real thing, you won't kneecap yourself in the process.
So, "Facebook could die out" (Report, 23 January). Many of us might welcome this but it's unlikely. Two engineers, John Cannarella and Joshua Spechler, predict this on the basis of declining searches for "Facebook" in Google and link this to a disease model of how innovations spread. For Facebook, a key question relates to "network advantage" – the attractions of the service given that so many others use it. Facebook has a lot going for it here. The disease model can be questioned; it's been popular ever since the father of research on word of mouth, Gabriel Tarde, wrote of "contagion sociale" in the 19th century. More recently, Malcolm Gladwell (in The Tipping Point) related shifts in fashion to epidemics. This inadequate account covers the way in which one convert conscripts new buyers (passes on the disease) but doesn't deal with the way in which conversation begets more conversation among existing users and thus increases conscription. I do not think social scientists have made great progress in this field but, if engineers want to help us, they need a better model than disease.Robert EastKingston Business School
A striking study by researchers at Princeton University this week made headlines for its claim that Facebook would lose 80% of its users by 2017. Now, in an effort to point out flaws in the study, a Facebook analyst has applied similar methodology to predict the impending doom of Princeton University.In a paper published earlier this week, John Cannarella and Joshua Spechler, from Princeton&apos;s mechanical and aerospace engineering department,compared Facebook’s spread to that of an infectious disease. After noting a fall in the number of times &quot;Facebook&quot; was typed into Google as a search term, they concluded that the population was gradually becoming immune to the attractions of the social network.The research was widely picked up –including by the Guardian– and quickly went viral. Since then, commentators have lined up to debunk it, and Facebook itself stepped on on Thursday. Using Facebook Likes to illustrate the popularity of America&apos;s top universities,Mike Develin wrote:﻿In keeping with the scientific principle &apos;correlation equals causation&apos;, our research unequivocally demonstrated that Princeton may be in danger of disappearing entirely.Graphs published by Develin indicated that Harvard and Yale have peaked in popularity and are on the slide, while Princeton’s appeal has already crashed. To reinforce his point, Develin used Google Scholar to create a graph of the number of papers written by Princeton academics since 1940. His graph shows that since 2009, the percentage of “Princeton” papers has dropped steeply.Develin then applied his methodology to the environment. He found searches for the term “air” had been gradually declining, suggesting “grievous consequences for the fate of humanity”.In a postscript, Develin explained: “We don’t really think Princeton or the world’s air supply is going anywhere soon. We love Princeton (and air). As data scientists, we wanted to give a fun reminder that not all research is created equal – and some methods of analysis lead to pretty crazy conclusions.”Other sites were less charitable about Cannarella and Spechler&apos;s claims, pointing out that the authors ignored Facebook’s own user data, which shows steady global growth, in favour of information from Google Trends, which appears to show declining interest.Slate&apos;sWill Oremus in Slatepointed out that using search trends are not an accurate measure of site use.﻿[Facebook&apos;s] widely accepted metrics, it seems, are of no interest to the paper’s authors. Instead, they pull their data exclusively fromGoogle Trends, which measures the number of Google searches for a given keyword over time. In other words, the researchers’ claim that Facebook is faltering is based entirely on an apparent dip in the number of people typing “Facebook” into Google in 2013.The tit-for-tat aside, Facebook has admitted that younger users in particular may be turning their backs on the social network. &quot;We did see a decrease in daily users, specifically among younger teens,&quot; saidits chief financial officer, David Ebersman, in October, reporting on a dip between the second and third quarter of 2013.Despite a changing demographic, Facebook’s monthly active user numbers globally have been steadily increasing, and reached nearly 1.2 billion in October. Traffic from desktops computers is falling, but visits from smartphones and tablets is increasing. However, reliable information on whether mobile growth is making up for desktop shortfall in key markets such as Britain and the US is not available.The company will update the markets with the publication of full-year results on 29 January.•Just how rich are the richest billionaires in tech?
Google's executive chairman, Eric Schmidt, has criticised the lack of leadership shown by world leaders, complaining that Europe has accepted the inevitability of high levels of unemployment and taking aim at the paralysis in Washington.In an interview with the Guardian, Schmidt said that politicians had been reduced to talking about issues rather than addressing them.The system, he said, failed to make them accountable and made it hard for them to effect real change."We deserve better from politics leadership," he said. "I would like our leadership to say 'this is what we are going to do', to say 'I'm going to negatively affect these groups, positively affect these groups' and, in a democracy, be held accountable at the end. That's what [chief executives] do, and they can lose their job every quarter."The Google chairman dismissed Japan's political system as sclerotic, despite attempts by the prime minister, Shinzo Abe, to reform the country's economic policy, but said the US and Europe were suffering from the same lack of effective leadership."In the American system, conventionally the only thing you can do in a presidency is in the first 18 months, because the system becomes so tough and the lobby is so powerful."Europe seems to have accepted 12% unemployment for ever, and that is terrible. A whole generation of people are losing their jobs. Where is the leadership? And where is the leadership going to come from to tackle climate change?"Schmidt is a well-known supporter of Barack Obama, informally contributing to the technology strategy for the 2012 re-election campaign and overseeing a $700,000 (£425,000) donation from Google. That year, the company donated $715,000 to Republican candidates and $2.1m to Democrats. In December 2012, shortly after Obama's re-election, Schmidt reportedly turned down a role in Obama's administration as treasury secretary.Schmidt has been the charismatic corporate voice of Google since he joined as chief executive in 2001. Now promoting his new book, The New Digital Age, written with a fellow Google executive, Jared Cohen, Schmidt outlines his vision of the future, where the requisite insights into the potential of artificial intelligence sit alongside warnings about how governments need to be prepared for technology threatening the jobs of the middle classes.Everyone in the world is unhappy with their government, he believes. "I would like to figure out a way to bring back a stronger model for leadership that is responsible and respectful, but capable of addressing things rather than just talking about them," he said. "We lack the kind of leadership that will drive societies forward, and there's something wrong when it is so difficult to politically manoeuvre."Schmidt still denies that he is interested in a career in politics; the question was rebutted with a brief "no".But he is far more forthcoming about the achievements of Google: "This is winning. We're making a difference, achieving things, so people will attack us, partly because people are afraid of change."Our job is to invent things, to drive innovation, and there will be losers out of that. But as long as you are on the users' side, as long as there is a human benefit, you will eventually win."
1976The original Apple Computer, also known as the Apple I. Designed and built by Steve Wozniak's own fair hands. Wozniak's friend Steve Jobs had the idea of selling the computer and the Apple I was born.&nbsp;Photograph: Ed Uthman/CC-BY-SA1983Steve Jobs with a Lisa computer. A groundbreaking model, it was far more advanced than the original Macintosh. However, priced at $10,000 (almost $20,000 in today's dollars), the Lisa was never going to take off.&nbsp;Photograph: Ted Thai/Time Life Pictures/Getty Images1984The Apple IIc, the fourth model in the Apple II series of personal computers, was Apple's first effort to produce a portable computer. The end result was a luggable 7.5 lb notebook-sized version of the Apple II. Photograph: br1dotcom/Flickr1984: User-friendly and intuitive, the original Mac. When Steve Jobs presented the machine to investors, he said he believed it would change everything. He was right. Photograph: MattsMacintosh/Flickr1991The Powerbook 100 (right) was Apple's first laptop, pictured next to a MacBook Pro Retina 13inch. The design work may have been subcontracted out to Sony's portable computing team, but the PB100 showed that Apple could make a decent portable. This was the beginning of a line that would continue until 2005 when Apple changed direction in favour of the MacBook Pro.&nbsp;Photograph: raneko/Flickr1994&nbsp;Ahead of its time, Quicktake&nbsp;was Apple's first digital camera and was built by Kodak, and a second model was built by Fuji. A failure in the market, it was pulled after three years. Photograph: Wikimedia1995Power Macintosh 9500 was powerful, expandable, yet dull as dishwater – and expensive too, at $5,300. Photograph: Alexander Schaelss/CC-BY-SA-3.01997The award-winning&nbsp;PowerBook went through several major revisions and redesigns, and it was often the first to incorporate features that would later become standard in competing laptops.&nbsp;Photograph: grmwnr/Wikimedia1998: With Steve Jobs back in the driving seat, and with Jonathan Ive's help, the Apple Internet Mac, aka the iMac, brought the 'decade of beige' to an end. A lower price and USB ports also helped to keep shareholders happy. Photograph: Getty Images2001The device that changed everything, the iPod may be the definitive gadget of its generation.&nbsp;There are four current versions of the iPod: the ultra-compact iPod Shuffle, the compact iPod Nano (pictured), the touchscreen iPod Touch, and the hard drive-based iPod ClassicPhotograph: Monica M Davey/EPA2014&nbsp;The&nbsp;MacBook Air, the core of Apple's Mac line-up in 2014. As originally released, in 2008, the Air was an underpowered, overpriced machine which prioritised thinness over everything else. But over a series of revisions, the computer has dropped in price and got more powerful, to the extent where it was hailed as the best laptop in the world byThe Wirecutter– three years running.&nbsp;Photograph: Hugh Threlfall/AlamySteve Jobs poses with 1984's Macintosh computer. Photograph: Paul Sakuma/AP
Alistair Aitcheson likes people to fight over his games. Literally, physically fight right over them. His first smartphone and tablet title, Greedy Bankers, had a multiplayer mode where participants could steal money from each other on screen. His second, Slamjet Stadium, was a futuristic sports sim, in which two opponents fought it out to score goals in a trap-filled arena. Both games encouraged players to interact physically, knocking each other away from the screen, intentionally controlling the other person&apos;s onscreen avatars. He has seen full-blown wrestling matches erupt as a result.His new game, Tap Happy Sabotage, is a continuation of that philosophy into uncharted territory. Developed for an Intel App Innovation competition it was designed to showcase the capabilities of the company&apos;s 27-inch touchscreen monitors. Each player has to pick an icon card to represent them on the screen. The cards have nice pictures of flowers or parrots or bees on them – it looks cute, but Aitcheson is just messing with you. Next, the competitors gather around the screen and over a series of different round have to quickly tap their card when they see it displayed on screen amongst a myriad of others – the first person to hit their card wins the match. To make matters more complex however, each player card has a sort of evil twin which looks similar: tap that in the heat of the battle and you immediately lose.Each round brings a new variation on the gameplay. Sometimes you have to tap everyone else&apos;s cards and the one car with the least taps wins. In other rounds, you have to put your finger on your card and drag it around the screen as a bouncing bomb whizzes around: while moving yours out of the way, it&apos;s perfectly acceptable to try and shove a player&apos;s card into the bomb&apos;s path. There are no rules. &quot;I&apos;m a big fan of players getting in each others&apos; way, pushing and shoving and playing dirty,&quot; he says with no hint of apology. &quot;I just thought, hey, you could fit a lot of people around this! I&apos;m used to fitting two or three people around an iPad but on a touchscreen monitor you could do eight or ten. Which is why I decided to set the maximum number of players on this game as 52...&quot;Aitcheson showing Tap Happy Sabotage to some fight-happy playersOf course, not everyone owns a 27-inch touchscreen monitor so Aitcheson is also working on tablet versions of the game. Cleverly, you&apos;ll be able to lie four devices together, regardless of the make, and they&apos;ll form one large arena. &quot;The reality is, Unity does a lot of the leg work for me,&quot; admits, Aitcheson. &quot;You can write a piece of network code in Unity and as long as you&apos;re all connected to the same network it will work across all devices. It&apos;s pretty simple, to be honest. The tougher challenge is to make sure the screens line up so that something that passes from the edge of one display,  comes on to the right edge of another. You&apos;ve also got to keep track of 100 cards on screen at once and the behaviours of those cards needs to be tracked on all for screens simultaneously. That&apos;s where it gets challenging.&quot;Aitcheson describes Tap Happy Sabotage as a cross between the card game Jungle Speed and the Wii Play mini-task, &apos;Find Me&apos; – &quot;that is s really simple game but it&apos;s the kind of thing you can play with anyone and it gets very competitive, very quickly. I like how that works. I wanted to make a game about visualisation: what can I see in front of me and can I react to it quickly enough, rather than how much dexterity does each player have.&quot;I played the game at the recent Pocket Gamer Connect conference in London, against Alistair and another couple of young developers. It&apos;s ridiculously fast and frantic, there is showing and pushing. There is a lot of pushing – and, actually, what you&apos;d usually describe as cheating if it wasn&apos;t for the fact that Aitcheson has gleefully built every heinous activity possible into the design plan. Later, he entered the game into the event&apos;s Indie Pitch contest, which saw an array of small developers showing their new wares to a selection of journalists and veteran developers. He came joint first. People just like fighting over games.• Tap Happy Sabotage is out on Windows 8 in the next couple of months. Android and iOS versions will follow. You can find out about Aitcheson&apos;s games athis official website.
When Steve Jobs launched the Mac 30 years ago today, I was already a user. As editor of Practical Computing magazine, I&apos;d made the pilgrimage to Apple&apos;s UK headquarters for a briefing, along with staff member Ian Stobie, and been &quot;seeded&quot; with its vision of the future.One of the freebies was a deep blue T-shirt with a squiggly Mac drawing and a brilliant slogan: &quot;I&apos;ve seen the future of computing but I&apos;m not allowed to talk about it.&quot; This wasn&apos;t strictly true. The Mac wasn&apos;t really a secret, and my loan machine sat happily in the living room through December 1983. To be honest, I was somewhat disappointed with the reaction. Visitors regarded it as a curiosity, not an object of lust. Even my art director friend Steve Kibble didn&apos;t seem enthusiastic, and I had him down as the prime market.My main problem with that Mac was that it didn&apos;t do very much. There were only two programs, MacWrite and MacPaint, MacWrite maxed out at writing a resume. The Motorola 68000 processor was too slow, it had too little memory (128K), one floppy, no hard drive, and a cramped 9in monochrome screen. Computer scientist Alan Kay famously described it as &quot;a Honda with a one-quart gas tank&quot;.Worse, it was a sealed box. Steve Jobs had the idea that a computer should be an appliance, like a washing machine. Or a games console. But in those days, buyers wanted computers they could adapt, expand and upgrade, like the Apple II and the IBM PC. The Mac&apos;s limitations were bad enough, but Apple had made it really hard to fix them.Of course, the Mac did represent a real vision of the future of computing, and many of us expected graphical user interfaces to replace character-based computing. But this idea wasn&apos;t new to the Mac, or even to Apple. The Xerox Alto and, later, Star had introduced it a decade earlier, and directly inspired both Steve Jobs and the Mac. (Xerox got a deal in payment – 100,000 Apple shares at $10 each – and Apple also hired several of its staff.)However, many other companies were working on similar systems. Apple had already introduced the Lisa in January 1983, and the Mac was just its little brother. Personal Software had shown off its graphical VisiOn suite, and Microsoft had announced but not shipped Windows. Digital Research was working on GEM (Graphical Environment Manager), which appeared on the PC and Atari ST. Commodore bought a small company that was developing a powerful colour system, the Amiga. There were many more.In fact, we had all seen the future of computing: we just didn&apos;t know which version would win. Not many people were betting on the Mac.Nonetheless, the Mac came in with a bang that still reverberates three decades later. It was launched with a single showing of a TV commercial, 1984, during the American Super Bowl XVIII. This memorably portrayed brave little Apple saving the world from Big Brother – the giant IBM had controlled the data processing market for decades, and its IBM PC had rapidly taken over the microcomputer market. This was followed up by saturation advertising in leading American magazines, and reviews from the numerous journalists &quot;seeded&quot; with pre-release Macs.The result was that thousands of Macs flew off the shelves.Although there weren&apos;t many programs, Steve Jobs got the leading software houses to promote the Mac, with personal appearances from Mitch Kapor of Lotus 1-2-3 fame and an enthusiastic Bill Gates. Microsoft had been working closely with Apple and was developing Word and Excel for the new machine. The future looked bright…But while the Mac was exciting, it was very expensive for what it could actually do, and sales slumped. Jobs&apos;s sales forecasts and manufacturing plans were, to put it politely, hopelessly optimistic. In the middle of 1985, Apple closed three of its six factories, shed 20% of its staff, and announced the first quarterly loss in its history. In September, after a boardroom showdown, Jobs was fired from the company he had co-founded.It could have been the end, but it wasn&apos;t. The Mac found a profitable niche thanks to its laser printer and Aldus&apos;s PageMaker program, which created a new industry: desktop publishing. Also, Jobs&apos;s sealed Mac got redesigned into a standard, modular PC-style system with the Mac II in 1987. At last, Mac buyers had bays for hard drives, expansion slots, and support for colour screens.Jobs&apos;s strategy for the Mac was a mistake in 1984, but it&apos;s one he kept repeating with great success after his return to Apple. Heavily publicised &quot;big bang&quot; launches for sealed appliance-style devices worked for the iMac, iPod, iPhone and iPad. Although the Mac barely dented what was then IBM&apos;s monopoly, its children have turned out spectacularly well.
It is one year since the video social network Vine made its debut on the iOS app store. In that time, the app has acquired over 40 million users, includingthe President of the United States, sparked a flurry of imitators, and arguably invented an entirely new creative medium.By limiting users to sharing videos no more than six seconds in length, requiring that those videos be shot on a mobile phone and, at least to begin with, offering no editing functionality beyond scrapping it all and starting again, Vine brought about a new type of filmmaking. The best of the app is a hyperkinetic mixture of sketches, stunts, in-jokes and pratfalls, presented in an infinite stream of six-second chunks.But despite this success, the first question anyone asks when they hear about Vine hasn&apos;t changed: why on Earth would anyone make a video-sharing app that limits clips to six seconds?&quot;We knew from the start that the videos needed to be brief,&quot; explains Vine&apos;s co-founder Colin Kroll, &quot;for creative reasons, technical reasons, and attention reasons. Over two months, we tested variations of the size, from 10 seconds down to five seconds, and we went for six because it just feels right.&quot;&quot;It turned out to be right, you know. The quote from Robert de Niro that &apos;you can tell a whole story in six seconds&apos; really sums up my feeling about the length.&quot;Nash Grier, Vine superstar.It&apos;s a lesson clearly learned from Twitter, whose own 140-character limit initially began as a mere technical necessity – to allow for the message, a 23-character username, a colon and a space to fit in one 165-character SMS message – but soon grew into something else entirely.That shared approach, that from constraint comes creativity, perhaps explains Twitter&apos;s interest in the company, which led to an acquisition in October 2012.Even in buyout-heavy Silicon Valley, the acquisition was a little odd, as it predated the launch of Vine&apos;s product by more than three months (Twitter Buys Vine, a Video Clip Company That Never Launched, reads one contemporaneous headline). But Kroll, who had started the company just four months before with co-founders Dom Hofmann and Rus Yusupov, says that they weren&apos;t unhappy to lose the shot at developing an independent identity.&quot;We felt that video was on the brink of becoming this new medium that everyone would use, in the same way that photos had become that medium over the previous fifteen years… We wanted to get big fast, we wanted to get this out in the world and let people connect in this way. I think it worked out really well.&quot;The launch itself didn&apos;t go entirely smoothly. In the first week, hardcore porn was added to the editor&apos;s picks section of the app, which showed up on the main feed of every user. Vine apologised, citing &quot;human error&quot;, and scrambled to get content filters up and running. &quot;Obviously a mistake will happen,&quot; says Kroll, &quot;but we are very serious about adding those controls, and we continually improve them.&quot;For example, users can report content which is inappropriate that they find on the network. There&apos;s a content review team which is a growing part of Vine, that reviews that content every day to try and make it a very safe environment.&quot;A new communityAs users figured out what worked and what didn&apos;t on Vine, a common vocabulary of rapid cuts, non sequiturs, and running jokes began to emerge. The best practitioners were elevated first to internet fame, and then to actual fame.Nash Grier has 5 million followers, more than any other user on Vine. His videos –the most recent features him confessing his love to a sandwich– have landed hima profile in the Mail. When he visited Iceland in January with Jerome Jarre, another power user with over 4 million followers whose most recent video is of a fellow passenger on Icelandair picking her nose,the pair were mobbed by wild fans. The shopping mall hosting their visit was forced to close for their safety.Grier is also just 16 years old. Every Vine he&apos;s ever posted totals less than 20 minutes&apos; combined footage.Jerome Jarre, Vine star.Not one of the top 10 users of Vine had a public profile before they started posting on the app; in fact, the most popular user who doesn&apos;t owe their fame entirely to the app is the rapper Tyler The Creator, with more than 2 million followers. There are 22 Vine stars with more followers than him, almost all of whom fit broadly in the category of &quot;comedians&quot;.Perhaps because of this organic community, the stars of Vine are an incredibly diverse group. It&apos;s by no means perfect – nine of the top 10 users are male, and nine of the top 10 are white – but compared with the line-up of the average sketch show, it&apos;s a world apart.And diversity sells. Twitter itself, according toa recent reportin the Wall Street Journal, has been &quot;moving to capitalise on its demographics&quot;, since the social network boasts a significantly less homogenous userbase than competing sites such as Facebook. But Kroll says that commercial pressures aren&apos;t at the front of his mind; Vine&apos;s diversity is a happy accident.&quot;We definitely don&apos;t chase after it. In fact it&apos;s been an interesting organic direction that the platform has taken… Vine is uniquely democratic and a level playing-field in video that&apos;s just not been there, and there&apos;s clearly a thirst for that in this generation.&quot;Video is the most intimate medium for communication. I think that these users feel that they know each other just by watching each other, and you see many of them meet and collaborate openly together.&quot;&quot;We have that luxury&quot;It&apos;s not surprising that commercial pressures don&apos;t factor into Vine&apos;s decisions. The company remains sheltered by Twitter, and has been left alone to focus on building its product and community –  &quot;driving the best possible experience for our users&quot;, in Kroll&apos;s words.But the diverse, youthful demographic is too much for advertisers to ignore, and already brands have been proactively adopting Vine. Virgin Mobile commissioned a thirty-second TV commercial made out of user generated Vines in July, and Dunkin Donuts ran a single Vine as a commercial in September.A Dunkin Donuts ad on Vine.&quot;Sure there&apos;s been brands that have adopted the platform proactively, and the results have been really interesting… but going back to Twitter, we have that luxury. We can do well by our users.&quot;The priority right now is sorting out Vine&apos;s discovery tools, easing new users in to the community. It&apos;s a problem Twitter has as well, with chief executive Dick Costolo admitting in November that the site remains &quot;confusing and opaque&quot; to first-time visitors.Kroll cites channels, which group popular posts by theme, as one way Vine is attempting to leap those hurdles. Those channels might be a shock to the system for anyone from old media – &quot;cats &quot; and &quot;dogs&quot; each have their own channel, while &quot;news and politics&quot; is combined into one channel – but they make idly browsing the service far more enjoyable.Of course, content discovery was the source of Vine&apos;s first big mistake, but Kroll insists that the safety of its users is &quot;at the top of our priority list&quot;. A year on, hopefully the company will have a bit more luck, and bit less porn.•In the future, everyone can be famous for six seconds
It's great, isn't it?Someone sends you a link to a Tumblr of Trees That Look Like Benedict Cumberbatch (NB That's all trees, really, isn't it?). You tweet it. It sinks without a ripple. A fortnight later, someone tweets the same link toCaitlin Moran. She retweets it and in moments Twitter is afire with Cumbertrees. Moran is carried shoulder high. The guy who tweeted her the link racks up messianic follower numbers. Your fists whiten as you sit at your MacBook in impotent rage. All you can do is tweet to Caitlin, through gritted beak, your voice lost in the howling cybergale, "It's great, isn't it?" Those four little words whose true, neurotic meaning is: "I want you know I'd already seen this thing before you tweeted it. I am not one of those people slavishly retweeting you, rather I am adopting a paternal, knowing aspect reflecting the fact that this is old news to me." She doesn't care, pal. No one cares who tweeted it first, which wasn't you anyway. Are they your photos of trees? No. Get on with your life.Placename, i am in youScotland, I am in you. My hotel room doesn&#39;t have a Gideons bible, poor start.&mdash; Ben Taylor (@bentaylor251)January 22, 2014"Nottingham, I am in you!" Ha ha! It sounds like a hilariously baroque way of declaring you're having sex with Nottingham! But actually you're just saying "I am in Nottingham". Which takes up four fewer characters, so that's something to think about.Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome to Twitter…Ladies and gentlemen: please welcome the lovely@kristenlisa8to twitter.&mdash; Thaddeus Stewart (@thaddeustewart)January 19, 2014If, a week ago, you'd been asked to compile a list of the 500 people you'd like to see join Twitter, would the J-lister you're currently affecting breathless giddiness about have been on that list? No. So stop pretending to be all excited about them now, you whinnying berk. Also, you're not a town crier.&lt;THISAgreement is already implicit in the act of retweeting. Pointlessly suffixed to a retweet to indicate earnest accord, "&lt;THIS" is really nothing but an unctuous tagnut. Like you.Yay!YAY! YAY! YAY!#BFV@Bar_Chix&mdash; Trina Braxton (@TrinaBraxton)January 24, 2014"Yay!" is the clifftop of bare acceptability beyond which tweeting like a child tips into the rolling, sticky spume of gormless, cuff-clenching twee. Are there really "nine sleeps 'til new Who" you gurgling oaf? Are you 10? No. You buy your own underwear and have a National Insurance number. Infantile delivery also frequently serves to take the curse off self-publicity; sleight of hand for those who find "my programme is on BBC2 tonight" too presumptuous and exposing, and prefer to cower behind the low-status imbecility of "I done rote a fingy for da tellybox!"A joke about…Amid the flurry of gags that follows any news event, you'll find the sullen poop of a tweet that simply reads "A joke about…", followed by the story in question. What the tweeter thinks they've done with this wry placeholder tweet is to deconstruct the form, exposing the joyless, formulaic rote of topical joke writing. But clearly what they've actually done is spent ages trying and failing to think of their own joke.There. Are. No. Words.#PeytonManningThere are no words.&mdash; Don Lemon (@donlemon)January 19, 2014Another utterly fart-headed adjunct to a link or retweet. The even voider cousin of the hateful "Wow. Just wow." There are words. You're just too lazy or inarticulate to express any other than these four, self-contradictory ones. Is the link you've burdened with this redundant prefix really so extraordinary, so epochal that language cannot do justice to your emotional response to it? Or are you a melodramatic, shiftless clodpole?Watch this nine-year-old boy nail homophobia/racismLiberal click-bait for a generation vainly seeking its own "I have a dream". For "nail", read "make a reasonably articulate point about". Wherever racism is tackled, misogyny called out or any iniquity adequately exposed on camera, Twitter will elevate it in seconds to The Greatest Speech Ever Made.#blissA day of tender packages, then a weekend away on Anglesey to recover. Coastal walks, wood burner and pubs!#bliss&mdash; Kate Robinson (@katedesilva)January 24, 2014Kids in bed. Bar of Lindt. Glass of red.Goggleboxon the telly. Great, I'll hang out the bunting, smugnut. The most fist-provoking hashtag since #justsayin.Must readIf I'm on fire in a well full of kerosene, then the emergency ladder release instructions are a "must read". A report into declining ocelot numbers in Suriname is not a "must read". Don't be The Boy Who Cried Must Read.Sad to hear about the passing of……such-and-such an actor before I'd had the chance to form some hair-thin link to them which I could then squawk on about when they died. Because I'm sure it would have been of great comfort to the family to know that the newly de-lifed was a true gentleman when I fitted him for a stevedore costume at the Theatre Royal, Winchester in 1997.It's wine o'clock!It&#39;s wine o&#39;clock!!! Long weekend is here!!!#kettleandtin#longweekend@ Kettle &amp; Tinhttp://t.co/8pTTRHCw4d&mdash; Kettle and Tin (@KettleandTin)January 24, 2014No. It's time you asked a neighbour to cut off your typing fingers.
