I have no TV and, therefore, do not pay for a TV licence. However, the BBC is planning to allow people to download and view their programmes on their computers. Does this mean that I will require a TV licence for my laptop? Victoria RichardsonIt seems this is still under discussion. The BBC's interactive media playeriMPlets you download and view programmes up to a week after they have been transmitted. It does not obviously fall under the law that says, to quote the BBC: "A licence is required to receive programmes broadcast 'live' or 'virtually live'."The BBC's iMP help file says: "Advances in technology mean that in some instances the ability to download programmes via iMP might bring them within the television licensing regime. iMP is currently a technical trial with around 4,000 participants, and we are currently reviewing the specific legal and policy implications of the service."However, since you don't need a TV licence to watch a BBC series on DVD, I don't see why you should need one to watch it from a memory card or a hard drive.
I begrudge paying BT a full line rental charge as I don't use my landline, but I still want broadband. Raj PanjwaniThe line rental charge does not pay for the phone service, and is payable whether you use the line for voice calls, broadband, telex, morse code or anything else. Even with LLU (local loop unbundling), where another supplier takes over the service from BT, a line rental charge is still payable, though it may be hidden in the total charge. BT has voluntarily reduced its fully unbundled line rental charge from £119 to £80 a year, but a broadband supplier who takes over your line will have to pay this to BT, and will therefore pass on this cost plus any overheads.Ofcom has been reviewing "how much it costs BT to lay and maintain the copper access network connecting homes and businesses to its exchanges," and BT's cost of capital, so the charge may change, but it isn't going to go away. Of course, cable suppliers such as Blueyonder can offer "broadband only" options without using BT lines.
Shigeru Miyamoto has given abrief interviewto US publication, Business Week, providing some more insight into his views on game development and design. Unfortunately, the magazine blows all its credibility in the intro, confidently proclaiming:"And in the 1990s, his Super Mario 64 was the first console title with 3D graphics."Hmm, please stay behind in class this evening, Mr Business Week. (Although I suppose you could argue that it was the first game to make full and intuitive use of a 3D interface...)Anyway, among the conversational titbits, Miyamoto argues that provoking an emotional response from the player is - or at least should be - a key element of game design. He also namechecks Rubik's Cube as a major inspiration and talks about reclaiming videogames for the whole family (which is why the Revolution controller looks like a TV remote control - to make it more accessible to non-gamers). Finally, he comes up with this enticing nugget:"I've always thought that games would eventually break free of the confines of a TV screen to fill an entire room. But I would rather not say anything more about that."Will the next Nintendo console be a holodeck? The mind boggles.
If one of the barriers to the mainstream acceptance of video games is that they are not considered high art, then, as an accompaniment to a previouspost(and aWiredarticle), perhaps their inclusion in so-called high art is a good start. I picked up William Gibson'sPattern Recognitionafter finishing his seminal cyberpunk classicNeuromancerand was extremely pleased to discover that he's added his own take on the cultural and intellectual impact of theSinclair ZX81on British and US culture:"What does this ZX81 look like&gt;"He stops, rummages in his pouch, and produces a rather tragic-looking rectangle of scuffed black plastic, about the size of a videocassette. It has one of those stick-on keypads that somehow actually work, something Cayce knows from the cable boxes in the sort of motel where guests might be expected to try to steal them."That's a computer?" "One K of RAM!" "One?""Why do you like them?""Of historical importance to personal computing," he says seriously, "and to United Kingdom. Why there are so many programmers, here.""Walking on, he explains to her that Sinclair, the British inventor, had a way of getting things right, but also exactly wrong. Foreseeing the market for affordable personal computers, Sinclair decided that what people would want to do with them was to learn programming. The ZX81, marketed in the United States as the Timex 1000, cost less than the equivalent of a hundred dollars, but required the user to key in programs, tapping away on that little motel keyboard-sticker. This had resulted both in the short market-life of the product and, in Voytek's opinion, twenty years on, in the relative preponderance of skilled programmers in the United Kingdom. They had their heads turned by these little boxes, he believes, and by the need to program them......"But if Timex sold it in the United States," she asks him, "why didn't we get the programmers?""You have programmers, but America is different. America wanted Nintendo. Nintendo gives you no programmers. Also, on launch of product in America, RAM-expansion unit did not ship for three months. People buy computer, take it home, discover it does almost nothing. A disaster."A pretty interesting contention, and perhaps a good insight. Most British game developers do get misty eyed when the ZX81 comes up in conversation, and many British gamers remember the good old days of theBBC Micro, theSinclair Spectrumand other personal computer-based games. I have no such emotional reaction. In the US, games exploded when all-in-one-systems like the Atari and Nintendo were released on the market. Until then, arcades were your only gaming option.However, I would agree with Gibson's protagonist's view that...England wanted Nintendo too, and got it, and probably shouldn't be looking too eagerly forward to another bumper crop of programmers...We only have Windows to blame (she says with tongue firmly in cheek).
Imagine a library where you can find all the books in the first place you look. Imagine you can search, Google-style, over their text, and then feel the pages between your fingers, or see the tea splotches of the first readers, long dead. And imagine doing all of this in your own home.The plan is a book lover's dream; and the particular book lover intent on creating this Open Library is Brewster Kahle, known as the digital librarian of the internet.Kahle made his name indexing and storing the web in his Internet Archive. His non-profit organisation, stationed in an unassuming colonial home in San Francisco's Presidio, has moved on to grab and upload all kinds of media: public domain films, audio archives, and amateur endeavours such as Project Gutenberg, which has been painstakingly hand-typing public domain texts since the 70s.Now he has taken the idea of digitising the text of books one step further, and is storing not just the text, but, incredibly, high-resolution snapshots of book pages, good enough to reproduce every fold, blotch and texture of the world's catalogue of public domain works on your screen.It is an ambitious project, but he has allies among other technologists, and the support of large companies such as Microsoft and Yahoo. A consortium of tech companies, libraries and academic institutions has formed the Open Content Alliance, working together to create the Open Library, the future home of these works."Finally, a library I won't get thrown out of," said David Mandelbrot, vice-president of search technology at Yahoo, and one of the founders of the Open Content Alliance.Book-scanning itself is a sophisticated technical challenge. The latest generation scanner used by the project produces books of 16 megapixel pages for a little over five pence per page. A cradle holds the book open in an 90 degree V-shape, while cameras perched overhead, and controlled by the scanner's central software, shoot the high resolution images. Software creates a text version, and the images themselves are collated and used to create beautiful digital books, which you can print from anywhere with the images of the text intact. All that is missing is the smell of old books.The data collected is conveyed to the archive's "Petaboxes" - a bright red computer, tall and deeper than a bookshelf, is filled with pizza-box-shaped computers and produced by a commercial spin-off from the non-profit archive. Each box stores 80 terabytes, or the equivalent of about three Libraries of Congress.At five pence a page, the money and support needs to be committed, but Kahle's supporters have deep pockets, and an enthusiasm for the project.Companies like Yahoo and MSN Search are looking to make books a standard answer to internet search engine queries. Funding from Yahoo will cover 18,000 books out of the University of California's library system. MSN Search, Yahoo's Microsoft competitor, has committed to funding another 150,000 books over the next year alone, though they haven't been selected yet.Librarians have lined up to scan in their collections, with one careful proviso that every supporter of the projects agrees to: none of these books must have been published since the 1920s.Kahle divides the existing literary world into strata of copyright protection. In-print books are the ones you can buy and often read snippets from via Amazon. Out-of-print publications are harder to reach. What Kahle calls "orphaned works" come next: these book are out of print, and their copyright owner is un-contactable. Generally, these books are found in libraries or not at all. Finally, there is the pre-1926 world of the public domain. These are books that copyright law allows everyone to reprint, rework and convert into pristine digital formats as they see fit.The majority of works are in the first three categories but the public domain itself remains huge. This is where the Open Library initiative is focused.And that may be why the big boys are so interested. When the impetuous Google Print project set about scanning the very top strata, books still within copyright, it provoked a fire-storm of protest. But Kahle ducks that controversy, and has come up with something more impressive. Not just text, but real books that are free to use, and unladen with lawsuits and licences.Kahle hopes to begin moving up to the next strata, orphaned works. These remain in a legal limbo for now, but Kahle and his supporters hope that future legislation in the US could open up more of these often disregarded works to be used in new ways.He sees Amazon's "search inside the book" and Google Print as moving down to meet him, both burrowing to his ultimate aim. This, he defines, with a slightly tired smile, as: "Universal access to all human knowledge - one page at a time."Useful linksBrowse through the Open Library
This week's Technology sectionreviewsBlack &amp; White 2, the seemingly disappointing sequel to the God game with big creatures. I've been in Peter Molyneux's press conferences before and witnessed his almost hypnotic enthusiasm about his latest game. But B&amp;W 2 doesn't sound like it has matched the hype, though I haven't played it myself yet. Wonder howThe Movieswill fare? Elsewhere in the section, I have alookat the Game Boy Micro while Keithpondersif today's games are ever actually over.
Google has had a busy time. In the past month, it has announced what appeared to be a pointless deal with Sun Microsystems, launched an RSS feed reader, applied to supply free city-wide Wi-Fi in San Francisco, got sued by the Association of American Publishers over its Google Print initiative to digitise libraries, accidentally unveiled its Google Base database product, and floated the idea of taking over the advertising business.At this stage, Google could be turning its impressive and extremely profitable search franchise into a powerful portal based on innovative, interworking web-based software. This is what Yahoo and Microsoft's MSN are doing. Instead, it is dabbling with a wide spectrum of unrelated and apparently incidental playground projects.But, perhaps I'm looking in the wrong direction. Perhaps Google isn't turning from a search company into one that delivers a suite of useful web-based applications. Perhaps it really is more interested in turning into an advertising behemoth that knows enough about you to target you with ads.This change in perception has been triggered partly by the leaking of Google Base, which seems to be a classified advertising vehicle, among other things. There's been fevered speculation that it could wipe out everything from Craigslist to Monster to eBay.Either way, the New York Times ran a big story pointing out that this year Google will sell $6bn (&pound;3.4bn) worth of ads, which is more than is sold by any US newspaper chain, magazine publisher or television network. Obviously, Google already sells ads for a huge number of websites, but, says the paper, "now it is preparing to extend its technology to nearly every other medium, most significantly television. It is looking toward a world of digital cable boxes and internet-delivered television that will allow it to show commercials tailored for each viewer, as it does now for each web page it displays."So, if you search Google for information about washing machines before going to the New York Times site (ads supplied by Google), you can presumably expect to see ads for washing machines next to the sports coverage, and ads for washing machines when you turn on your TV.If you ever search for things like Britney Spears nude, penis extension technologies or treatments for haemorrhoids, better stop now. Google is logging your searches already.I just hope that while Google is paying attention to the results-based personalisation of advertising, it isn't neglecting its non-search efforts. Gmail email and Google Maps are excellent, and Google Talk represents a good start. However, some of its offerings are lacklustre at best - the feed reader, personalised home page, and Orkut social network are obvious examples. The Google Directory based on Dmoz, the Open Directory Project, is worse than lacklustre.Aside from this variable quality, Google doesn't seem to have any coherent goal. Too many of its programs don't even seem to be aware of each other's existence - Gmail, Blogger, Picasa, Orkut and Google Maps, for example.And finally, Google still tends to launch services in the US only, often with limited or no support for non-Microsoft products or for alternative platforms. Yes, it makes sense to target the mass market: it's where the money is. But Google is now a giant multinational corporation with billions in the bank, not a tiny start-up. It should be able to launch programs that support multiple browsers, multiple operating systems and multiple languages.Google is now in the happy position that it can get massive amounts of publicity for whatever it does. But fail to deliver, and what publicity helped build, it will happily tear down.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Apple has stunned everyone with its latest product: beautifully designed, streets ahead of the competition and threatening to revolutionise the market all by itself. We're talking about the iPod digital music player, of course. But that intro could just as easily have been written about the Macintosh computer in 1984. Or the Newton handheld in 1993. Or even the Apple II in 1977.You've heard of the Mac, you say, but the what and the what?This is not the first time Apple has found itself with the best product in a market it has almost single-handedly created. And yet the Mac - launched with the famous TV advertisment 1984, which was aired once during that year's Superbowl - is now no more than a bit player. The Newton is long dead, and the Apple II is a museum piece.The whole history of Apple Computer is a series of astonishing successes followed by disastrous collapses. And two clear threads run through each cycle.One is chief executive Steve Jobs. Co-founder in 1976, kicked out of the company in 1985 only to return in 1997, Jobs is a brilliant, forward-thinking and inspiring perfectionist. But he is also an egomaniac prone to believing there is only one possible solution: his.Then there is Apple's corporate culture, which is independent, creative, imaginative and determined. The company's engineers and designers have produced awe-inspiring technologies over the past 30 years. But this innovation comes with a price: arrogance and a deep-seated control instinct.Having created a market, Apple's conviction has frequently mutated into stubbornness and it has seen the market run off in a different direction once competitors have caught up.At the moment, Apple can do no wrong. But the warning signs are already there. If the company is to achieve its lifelong dream of leading and heading a market, it has to tackle three key areas. Without them, the iPod could become just another cultural footnote.Digital dominanceIt is a little-known fact that in 1985, Microsoft chief executive Bill Gates wrote to Apple pleading with it to license the Mac operating system. Apple refused. It had built its business by keeping strict control of both the hardware (the computer itself) and the software (the operating system), and feared the money from software licences would never cover lost hardware sales. It was the biggest mistake Apple ever made. Gates decided to do it himself with Windows and the rest is history.Apple now enjoys Windows-style dominance in the digital music market - 80% of player sales and 75% of online music sales - and it has got there by keeping close control of the hardware and software. "What has made it so successful is this incredibly tight, seamless linkage between the iTunes service, the user's PC and the iPod," explains Gartner analyst Mike McGuire.But, as more people start downloading music, Apple risks losing the market by insisting everyone do it its way. It has its preferred format - AAC - and it makes sure the iTunes software and the iPod hardware speak only to one another. It will only take one company to produce and license a sharper piece of software for Apple's products to become just one among the compatible many.Apple appeared to have answered this fear in September by licensing iTunes to Motorola for its Rokr phone. "Apple has shown that for the right deal, it is going to be willing to license it," says McGuire.But Jobs has made known his real feelings about splitting the hardware and software, slamming as "thieves" those producing alternative software for the iPod. He had a different word - "leeches" - for those that did the same with the Mac operating system. And yet the shortcomings in iTunes are enough that one such product, Anapod, can charge users $20 (&pound;11), while Apple's version is free.The iTunes Music Store charges a flat 99 cents (79p in the UK) per song, and has so far sold more than 600m tracks. By running a closed shop, Apple has guaranteed iPod sales and dominance. But music companies now want change. Specifically, to charge more for the latest songs. We know this, because Steve Jobs told a recent Apple conference about their "greedy" demands. Owen Linzmayer, freelance journalist and author of the company's unofficial biography, Apple Confidential 2.0, thinks Jobs knew exactly what he was doing: "Sometimes it pays to hash things out in public."'Commercial suicide'Apple's apparent refusal to budge from its decided model is an echo of past stubbornness. One music industry executive said negotiating with Apple was like dealing with a cult.Apple also made a bad name for itself by trying to use its dominance to pressure independent labels into taking a smaller cut. One executive said it would be "commercial suicide" to accept the terms.The music companies don't have to let Apple sell their music, and since Apple doesn't own a record label, its hand will be drastically weakened once iPod's dominance is eroded. The multibillion-pound music industry has a very poor digital record, but Apple's attempts to pressure it have motivated it to look for, and push, alternatives.Much of the iPod's allure is in its design. It has been perfected to the extent that a database of several thousand songs can be accessed with just your thumb. From the very first graphical Mac that popularised the mouse, to the curvy and colourful iMac that revamped its image, Apple has an illustrious design past.But it has also got it horribly wrong. In 1980, Jobs's obsession with aesthetics led him to insist the Apple III not have a fan, to make it run quietly. The machines simply overheated and died. Jobs then repeated the exact same mistake with the G4 Cube in 2000.Apple also got into hot water in 2003 when, after 18 months' use, the iPod's rechargeable batteries started dying and customers were told they could not be replaced. They would simply have to buy a new iPod, the company told them.Small problemsJobs's most recent design obsession with the iPod being "impossibly small" has created problems with its two latest products. Thousands of Nano customers complained within days that their screens were scratched or had simply shattered. And by keeping the new video iPod so small, its battery will power it for just two hours - putting the player's whole practicality into question.Apple's current dominance of the digital music market can't go on forever, but how the company deals with events over the next two years will show whether it has learned lessons from the past."There is a chance that Apple will stumble," says Linzmayer. "But it may simply be because they have pointed the way to the future of music, been terrifically successful, and have attracted swarms of competitors. With so many people gunning for the market leader, it's almost inevitable that you'll be shot in the back sooner or later."Much of it will come down to Steve Jobs - a man who has undeniably turned Apple around since rejoining in 1997. "He is somebody who has learned from his difficulties before. He now has age, experience and wisdom," says McGuire.Lightning success has always come naturally to Apple, but its real maturity as a company will be in avoiding failure.Strange fruit: Apple's most famous designsSuccessesApple II (1977), with its integrated keyboard, was many people's first foray into personal computing.Macintosh (1984)was the first computer to popularise the now-familiar graphical user interface.iPod and iTunes Music Storeconvinced the music industry that digital delivery was theway forward.FailuresLisa (1983), the first personal computer to use a graphical interface, was both slow to run and very expensive.The Newton (1993)was the first PDA, but it proved clunky, difficult and failed to stop competitors from thriving.While thePower Mac G4 Cubewas stylish and small, it was too expensive, and within two years it was history.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Earlier this week, Vodafone announced a deal with Sky to deliver a package of the broadcaster's TV channels, including Sky One and MTV, to 3G phones. It follows 3, which announced its service two weeks ago, and Orange, which has had its system running for several months.While the footage delivered by the Orange and 3 TV services are perfectly watchable, there are some clear drawbacks to the technology the networks are using. Video streaming over 3G is not ideal for TV, as it doesn't deliver a particularly stable image and seriously eats into a phone's battery life. It is likely to be a stopgap solution, which is superseded by more sophisticated digital TV platforms that have been optimised for mobile phones.For example, Nokia is backing a system called DVB-H, which is set to launch in several European territories in 2006 and will most likely reach the UK next year.To highlight the potential of the format, Nokia has unveiled the N92, its first handset with a DVB-H decoder built in, which will launch next year, price yet to be confirmed.The mobile is a top-end model, which features Nokia's Series 60 interface and includes all the usual bells and whistles, including integrated Wi-Fi, web browsing and music playback. It's an odd shape - a hybrid of Nokia's recently launched top-end cameraphone, the N90, and the hard disk-endowed iPod rival, the N91. The clever design twist is that the screen can flip round so that it looks like a tiny DVD player, making it ideal for TV viewing on the go. There's a new style of tactile keys and the phone also boasts dedicated buttons for TV use.It is, however, the quality of the screen that blows the viewer away. Video footage on its 2.8in, 16m colour screen looked astonishing for a mobile device, with superb contrast levels and rich colours. Nokia claims the phone will deliver DVB-H images to an equivalent level of high-end VHS.Whether consumers will ditch their slinkier handsets in order to watch TV on bigger mobiles - the phone is, inevitably, fairly large - remains to be seen. However, the screen, form factor and video quality of the N92 really are something special.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
After a few quiet years, the ultra portable laptop - a notebook PC with a screen of 11ins or less - is very much back in the limelight. Much of the credit for its renaissance must be given to Sony, which last year unveiled the Vaio X505 - an astonishingly slim and lightweight model with a 10.4in screen. Now Sony's designers have delivered the VGN-TX1 at &pound;1,700, an attempt to offer a reasonably well-specified laptop in a similarly skinny frame.As soon as you pick up the VGN-TX1, you are struck by just how skinny the screen is - it really is hard to imagine a thinner monitor. The 11.1in 1366 x 768 pixel monitor is in the movie-friendly 16:9 widescreen format, and Sony has shoehorned a DVD+RW drive on to the side of the PC and added useful dedicated DVD control buttons.Sadly, the rest of the laptop doesn't quite match the excellence of the screen. The worst part is the mouse pad, which is very fiddly and takes some getting used to. The two control keys underneath the pad are also rather thin and will probably annoy anyone with chubby fingers. And, while the keyboard is tactile and responsive, it feels a little sticky, which will slow users down.In spite of the VGN-TX1's compact size, Sony has kept the specification high, with both b and g standard Wi-Fi; Bluetooth for easy hook up to mobile phones; and PCMCIA, Memory Stick Pro and Secure Digital (SD) card slots.Under the hood, the laptop has 512MB of memory, a 60GB hard disk, and integrated graphics provided by the Intel 915GMS motherboard chipset. The laptop also features a 1.1GHz Intel ULV Pentium-M processor, which Sony claims is so frugal in its power consumption the battery can run for as long as seven-and-half hours. In reality, it ran for slightly less - significantly less with Wi-Fi enabled - but it is still an impressive achievement for an ultra portable.If you can live with its quirks, this is a model that's certainly worth investigating, especially if size is a key issue. But there are other options - the innovative Flybook, which we reviewed previously, will have its fans, and don't forget to take a peek at the Fujitsu Siemens Lifebook P7120 as well. It has the edge over the VGN-TX1 in features and battery life, is simpler to use and a few pounds cheaper.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Making the switchAfter a decade of shuttling between two desktop PCs and a laptop, I want to simplify everything and get just one very good laptop. I am drawn, not least by Which? and the propaganda of Appleusing friends, to switching to a Mac laptop. On the one hand, I would have to grapple with a whole new system plus compatibility problems with some of my existing files, as well as the usual potential for disaster. On the other, everyone says Apple Mac is so much easier anyway. Being quite at home with Windows XP etc and nervous of change, am I crazy to even consider switching? If this is a can of worms, then my apologies for trying to open it.Mark OttawayJack Schofield replies:People generally like what they know, and as you say, switching will involve learning new ways to do things. This is particularly hard if you have been using one system for a decade, since it involves more than relearning the operating system. It also means relearning applications - or buying new applications that do the same job - and, in the Mac's case, the keyboard.The main advantage of switching to the Mac is the freedom from viruses and other malware. Mac OS X, like all software, has security glitches, but criminals can find much easier pickings in the Windows world. The Mac market is relatively small and not generally subject to attack. I also love the way Mac OS X closes and almost instantly resumes on Mac laptops. For this reason, I usually take my iBook to conferences, rather than my IBM ThinkPad X31, which is thinner, lighter, faster and has a better keyboard. Someone else might take a different view, of course. The important thing is to make your own choice for your own reasons. You can then ask any friends who don't respect your freedom to make a personal choice whether they are worth having as friends.Whether a Mac is easier to use than a Windows machine is a difficult point. It certainly used to be, and Mac OS X is still more logical and more elegant. However, for my money, the Mac OS X Finder isn't what it was, and I now prefer Windows Explorer. Worse, I find the Mac OS Dock much less usable than Windows' Taskbar. With both Macs and Windows PCs, you can add utilities to make the interface work the way you want, and in general, I don't think the differences are worth a holy war.Windows still has many other advantages. These include a huge number of hardware suppliers offering a vast range of machines from handhelds to mainframe class servers, and many thousands of programs that are not available for the Mac. This includes most games, and many more specialised financial and commercial applications. There is also no Mac equivalent for things like Tablet PCs and Windows Media Center. The Mac does mainstream things well, but doesn't have the range or freedom that Windows offers.If a Mac does what you want at a price you can afford, go for it. If not, don't. It's your money, and your choice.Licences for laptopsI have no TV and, therefore, do not pay for a TV licence. However, the BBC is planning to allow people to download and view their programmes on their computers. Does this mean that I will require a TV licence for my laptop?Victoria RichardsonJS:It seems this is still under discussion. The BBC's interactive media player iMP (www.bbc.co.uk/imp) lets you download and view programmes up to a week after they have been transmitted. It does not obviously fall under the law that says, to quote the BBC: "A licence is required to receive programmes broadcast 'live' or 'virtually live'."The BBC's iMP help file says: "Advances in technology mean that in some instances the ability to download programmes via iMP might bring them within the television licensing regime. iMP is currently a technical trial with around 4,000 participants, and we are currently reviewing the specific legal and policy implications of the service." (www.bbc.co.uk/imp/help/index.shtml#a21).However, since you don't need a TV licence to watch a BBC series on DVD, I don't see why you should need one to watch it from a memory card or a hard drive.Begrudging BTI begrudge paying BT a full line rental charge as I don't use my landline, but I still want broadband.Raj PanjwaniJS:The line rental charge does not pay for the phone service, and is payable whether you use the line for voice calls, broadband, telex, morse code or anything else. Even with LLU (local loop unbundling), where another supplier takes over the service from BT, a line rental charge is still payable, though it may be hidden in the total charge. BT has voluntarily reduced its fully unbundled line rental charge from &#163;119 to &#163;80 a year, but a broadband supplier who takes over your line will have to pay this to BT, and will therefore pass on this cost plus any overheads.Ofcom has been reviewing "how much it costs BT to lay and maintain the copper access network connecting homes and businesses to its exchanges," and BT's cost of capital, so the charge may change, but it isn't going to go away. Of course, cable suppliers such as Blueyonder can offer "broadband only" options without using BT lines.Backchat&#183;Last week, I gave some reasons for generally preferring .rtf (Rich Text Format) to .doc, Microsoft's Word document format. Mark Pack adds another: "It's a simple way of minimising the chance of including embarrassing information in the file by mistake, for example track changes information."&#183;Both Mary Hagger and Ann Hodges have written to say thanks for the recommendation - which came from reader David Jones - to contact John King about converting Amstrad PCW disks (www.pcwking1.netfirms.com). To paraphrase, they found him helpful and he did a super job.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Nintendo is renowned for many things - gaming innovation, Mario, brand exploitation - but creating stylish consoles isn't one of them. From the blocky NES to the clunky DS, Nintendo's games machines have always looked more at home in the bedroom than under the living room TV. This was fine when your average gamer was a 13-year-old boy, but things have changed. Gaming has grown up, and a 13-year-old is now as likely to own an iPod as a Game Boy. Nintendo has belatedly recognised this with tomorrow's launch of the Game Boy Micro - a sleek, diminutive update of the Game Boy Advance (GBA).The most striking feature is the size - Micro really does live up to its name. Measuring 4 x 2in, and less than an inch deep, it looks more like a mobile phone than a games machine. The screen is sharp and bright, much improved on previous GBA displays, while the lower-cased font on the two main buttons is typical of the minimalist design.In practice though, the Micro is just a little too small. The screen quality is admirable, which is handy as you'll be spending most of your time squinting at it, but the shoulder buttons are hard to press at the same time as using the other controls. And, as your fingers get numb, you will wish the cute little gadget could hit a growth spurt.Of course, the Micro is designed to be used in short bursts while travelling, and for this it works fine. Owners of the PSP and iPod will be pleasantly surprised by the 10 hours or so of battery time the Micro offers.But where it excels is in the sheer choice of games, with more than 700 available for the system. And it is worth revisiting older GBA titles, as the vibrant screen allows them to be seen in a new light.Nintendo has finally recognised the importance of product design. Techno-lust can be just as important as release lists when it comes to selling hardware. Sony capitalised on this with the PSP handheld console, whose style and features hide the fact that it lacks the gaming innovation of its plainer-looking rival, Nintendo's DS.Yet ultimately, the Micro is still just a Game Boy Advance. Yes, it looks relatively stylish and will not cause embarrassment on the train. And yes, it has access to a huge back catalogue. But while new owners may be able to easily fit it in a handbag or pocket, they will still be playing the same old titles. Nintendo may be able to get the Micro into the hands of new players by the virtue of its looks, but it is unlikely your average Heat reader will be interested in Japanese roleplaying or Mario.Game Boy Micro will appeal most to GBA owners who value the diminutive size and sexier design, and don't want to upgrade to the innovative but bulky DS. But unless portability is your ultimate consideration, then Nintendo's DS and Sony's PSP offer a more satisfying handheld gaming experience.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Yahoo has been sending men up mountains. Last week, the portal - which claims to be the world's biggest, with a user base of more than 345 million - unveiled its latest journalistic enterprise, Richard Bangs Adventures. The five-part multimedia package is produced by the eponymous adventurer, who is following mountaineer John Harlin on an expedition up the same peak that killed his father 40 years ago.It's a marvellously well-formed piece of multi- media journalism, and gives the kind of all-encompassing coverage that only the combination of video, audio and text provides. It's the kind of experience that can only be delivered through a complex channel such as the web.It goes without saying that this appropriation of other media by and for the internet is not new. Yahoo is only alone in pushing forward in multiple areas. The portal recently announced that it was hiring former CNN and NBC correspondent Kevin Sites to work for it. Sites - who came to prominence writing a weblog of his journeys in Iraq - is travelling to every war zone in the world in a year. His exploits will be tracked through the website Kevin Sites in the Hot Zone (hotzone.yahoo.com).The idea that Yahoo is interesting in making news, not just repackaging it, should come as no surprise. After all, it is now a vast media empire. But while it's all very well sending reporters on "dangerous" missions into the unknown, elsewhere the commitment to independent journalism doesn't seem so secure.One man who would tell you all about it - if he was allowed to - is Chinese writer Shi Tao. Imprisoned earlier this year for "leaking state secrets" through his contributions to a pro-democracy website, Tao's biggest crime was using a Yahoo email account. The Chinese authorities demanded information from Yahoo; the company handed over its data; Tao was arrested and then sentenced to 10 years in prison.At the time, Yahoo cofounder Jerry Yang said his company had no other option but to comply with local laws. It hasn't always fallen in line with law enforcement so readily, though. Several years ago, there was a tooth-and-nail fight against banning sales of Nazi memorabilia through Yahoo's website. The sale of hatred-inciting materials is illegal in France, but the company argued that freedom of speech out-ranked any provincial legislation.Yahoo eventually lost that battle, which perhaps goes some way to explain its pliability in Tao's case. But this is a wider conflict faced by an entire industry. Internet firms across the board are eyeing up China as a potential outlet - and Google, Microsoft and a host of others are already in on the gold rush. If taking a slice of this pie means cooperating with repressive authorities, then they're willing to take the risk.What jars here is not so much that these companies are behaving like multinational corporates, but that they are betraying the principles they have built their business on. For years, the internet's pioneers have spun us the rhetoric of revolution: the web, they said, is about communication, information and freedom. Now we discover there's a limit to everything.While web companies want the kudos of being associated with popular and independent voices, they simultaneously undermine commitments to privacy and free speech. Gonzo assignments might rack up a few extra stamps on your passport, but would Yahoo be so willing to acquiesce if the Chinese authorities tried to imprison one of its own reporters?In terms of the internet's mayfly attention span, Shi Tao's story is old news. But we all live in the real world, where real decisions have real consequences - and even if we forget this injustice, he will remain imprisoned for a decade. One man tackling a mountain may be a good story, but there are other more important obstacles still left to surmount.bobbie.johnson@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Black &amp; White 2PC, &pound;34.99, 12+ yrs3/5Peter Molyneux is often regarded as Britain's best games designer. Since his first hit, Populous, in 1989, he has produced a consistent stream of titles that helped define a genre - the "god game" - which is now an accepted part of the videogame landscape. But despite this reputation, few titles have been as divisive as his 2001 hit, Black &amp; White. Taking the god game to new extremes of involvement, the player is personally responsible for every aspect of a primitive civilisation's evolution towards enlightenment or despotism.Some loved it enough to award it two Interactive Baftas, while others dismissed it as a gaggle of great ideas in search of a game. But just about everyone agreed that the sequel would be a whole lot better. After all, given the author's pedigree, how could it not be?Initial impressions seem to satisfy that prediction. For the first 30 minutes, Black &amp; White 2 inspires nothing but slack-jawed awe. For instance, your perspective zooms effortlessly from high mountain peaks to ants scurrying across the desert floor. Whether it's designing cities with a precision that Norman Foster would die for, or picking up peasants and hurling them mercilessly into volcanos, the power at your fingertips is stunning. This is a game that will have children fighting with grandparents for control of the mouse, and for that reason alone it deserves credit.But it's when you actually get down to playing it that the problems begin. And these are not small reservations; they are god-sized ones - only fitting, perhaps, given the subject matter.World in your handsAs before, your divinity is depicted by an onscreen hand that glides across the land, dealing out prizes or punishments at will. If your crops need rain, you cast a water spell and squeeze it dry over a field. If your city needs a road, you draw it with your fingertip across the landscape. In fact, almost nothing is beyond your reach or power to change.You also have a representative on earth; a living manifestation of your power in the form of gigantic beasts. They tower over the landscape and change in appearance according to the choices you make: black or white, good or evil, it's up to you. You can choose your beast to be a cow, an ape, a wolf or a lion - but although each is animated very differently (and magnificently), they perform much the same tasks.Training your beast - one of the previous game's most laborious elements - is easier this time around, but uses the same combination of petting to encourage and slapping to punish. They learn quickly, however, after which you can assign them roles. They can, for instance, gather grain, construct buildings or entertain villagers. Alternatively they can be powerful warriors, capable of stomping whole battalions into the dirt or casting mighty spells.Your citizens respond in much the same way. Treat them nicely - by building what they ask for and showering them with affection - and they will help maintain a city so impressive that villagers from elsewhere will migrate to your settlement. As the objective is to control the entire land, this is one way to win. The other is to draft legions of soldiers, archers or siege weapons to take other settlements by force, but even then you have to maintain some vestige of "goodness" to keep enough citizens to raise an army.By now, the game's fundamental weakness should be self-evident: there are simply too many things, all pulling you in different directions. Beneath the graphics, it feels like a glorified Excel spreadsheet that needs constant balancing.Missions and miraclesAnd there are so many distractions: side missions that have you chasing sheep or smashing rocks; spectacular miracles; the ability to speed up time. No one said being a god was easy, but did it have to be so confusing?A perfect example of this is the morality that goes to the heart of the game and its title. Whether you want to be a dutiful deity, or a vengeful one, it often seems that you have no choice. For example, you may be given the objective of flattening a rival army - you can choose to ignore it, of course, but what gamer aiming for the perfect score could possibly resist the temptation? And while raising armies logically sets you on the path of evil, you may be attacked by other civilisations for doing no more than building a wall, leaving you no choice but to defend yourself. Once hostilities do break out, further problems arise, namely the crude animation of your troops and their primitive intelligence that has you chasing after an enemy whose only tactic is to have no tactics at all - sometimes they fight, sometimes they run around in circles.Luckily, the combat model has one saving grace, namely what transpires when two rival beasts meet. Here you can expect a no-holds-barred fight to the death, with fur and blood flying in every direction: something that helps explain the game's PG rating. If only your armies fought with similar passion or resolved their differences as conclusively.So much about Black &amp; White 2 is visionary but much is poorly implemented or simply unfair. All of which leaves it somewhere in the middle: above average but nowhere near the greatness it aspires to.Mind you, like the deities he portrays, none of this will deter Molyneux's many fans. If the original Black &amp; White sealed his OBE, don't be surprised to see this one bagging him a knighthood - the irony being that the accolades are getting bigger as his games lose focus.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If you thought the complexities of modern life were giving you a headache, spare a thought for game designers. Once, they could provide us with definite objectives - get the high score, complete all the missions, save the planet. But now, in the obsessive quest for realism, such absolutes are passe. Videogames are all about uncertainty.Civilization 4, out this week, comes from a line of successful empire-building simulations. In them, you guide a prehistoric tribe through to the modern era, growing the population, discovering new technologies and, of course, fighting everyone else. The original Civilization, released in 1991, offered just two routes to victory - destroy all your enemies or be the first to build a spacecraft. These reflected the twin political obsessions of the baby-boomer generation, and made the game perfectly understandable and winnable.Civilisation 4 has six possible endings. You can still win by conquering all other tribes, but there is also domination, where you conquer a certain percentage of the world, and a new diplomatic victory, where the aim is to lead the UN. A decade ago, we wanted to fight; now we want to head an international talking shop. Videogames are striving for realism, after all, and what could be more realistic than an uneasy peace?Football Manager 2006 has also added more complexity. Once, this game was built around easily definable skills - passing, shooting and the like. Now, it is possible to give half-time pep talks to get a better performance out of your team. In return, your moody players will bitch about you in the media, or praise your understanding. As in the Premiership, it is as much about managing the whims of superstars as it is about building a team of skilled professionals.These sound like small additions - but each new parameter for success is a beat of the butterfly's wing, with massive ramifications through the entire coding process. It's going to take a lot of intricate tweaking to get this right: uncertainty is expensive.But is it worth it? It must be, because these are just two examples of a growing trend. Take the Grand Theft Auto-influenced gangster adventure genre. There are usually so many things to do, to see, to shoot at, that players never really have to leave - they can become permanent citizens of Vice City, locked in a cycle of violence. Urban racers such as Burnout and Need For Speed offer so many alternative modes and options that the main game is just a fraction of the entertainment on offer. Every player carves out a unique experience.And when victory is defined differently by each competitor, or never defined at all, the word becomes meaningless. In a world of unwinnable wars - the war against terror, weather, pandemic - the game is never over.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Bubble bursters should look closer to homeHenry Blodget (The crash test, October 27) mentions nothing about why "bubbles" happen, who powers them, and who stands to gain from them. Answer: investment banks and venture capitalists - and, of course, major financial organisations can make money whether shares go up, or down. The dotcom boom had less to do with technology companies and more to do with the hype perpetuated by Blodget and other individuals, to drive silly valuations and even stupider predictions.Chris LakeLondonAn evolution in footballSimon Burnton says that the main update to Pro Evolution Soccer 5 is the new menu screen (Champion wins on goal difference, October 27). Did he fail to notice that this version is networkable? No longer is it about taking on the computer, it's about taking on the world. I have no idea whether this feature exists in Fifa 2006 or not, and it would have been good to have a review of online features: how easy it is to set up, and how the online league works. He also failed to mention that all official names of players, teams and kits can be purchased via eBay on a memory card, bringing Pro Evolution back to reality.Brian Matthew PeersCoventrySounding offThe audio quality on FM depends on how good the reception is (Innovations, October 27). I've got good FM reception, and the audio quality on my &pound;25 Sony portable FM radio is a lot better than on my Pure Evoke-1 DAB set. It's an unfair generalisation to suggest that DAB or the Sky Gnome automatically sounds better.The audio quality of digital radio stations depends on the bit-rate each station uses. If the stations sound slightly worse than via DAB then all that means is that the Sky Gnome hasn't been particularly well designed.Steve Green&#183;There's no need to purchase any such device from Sky. Simply connect the audio-out socket of your digibox to the aux-in of your hi-fi or music centre, and you can have first-rate sound. I use a Sony digibox with an optical connection to a Yamaha AP-U70 digital amplifier, and the result is excellent.Tony Montgomery-SmithHuntingdonFair gameLee Cheshire states that videogames deserve the coverage of opera and literature (Letters, October 27). This is a category error: videogames are not art, they are games. As such, they deserve coverage alongside sport or Sudoku. Placing them next to War and Peace does them few favours. By insisting that they be regarded as high art, their supporters display all the snobbery they decry in their supposedly elitist opponents.Robert PalkLondonMobile morphineProfessor Mark Griffiths's comments regarding the benefits of videogames in aiding pain relief (Letters, October 27) put me in mind of my son's friend, who passed time in hospital playing on his mobile phone. Staff were amazed at his stoicism and ability to concentrate on the game while in pain, until they realised that signals from the phone were triggering his use-on-demand morphine pump.Gary CornfordBlogbackThe talk among mobile phone operators is of music licensing and over the air downloads (Innovations, October 27). Hello? We've been trying that for a year and guess what ... nobody wants it! Why pay three, four, even five times more for the same song with even more restrictions than iTunes or Napster?Let's break this down. Folks want music that they can buy for the going rate, move from one device to another and add to their collection. Any mobile offering that starts from that point has a shot. Everything else? Well, I wouldn't invest my life savings in them.digitalmusicservices.blogspot.com
No matter what the marketing men tell us, computers are complex and fragile. They can't really look after themselves."I know what the problem was now: viruses.""How many viruses do you have?""Seventeen.""How did you manage that?""The bloody thing wasn't updating."A familiar tale. My friend's antivirus program had indeed stopped updating its database of known threats, but he was unaware. As a consequence, the operation of his PC had slowed to a crawl, then a halt.A cursory glance every week or so at the status of his antivirus program would have saved him, and me, many hours of frustration. A friend in need ... he'll certainly be busy when he eventually gets up and running again.It's important to realise that like a car, your computer needs regular servicing if you want it to stay in tip-top condition. Without regular checks, it will eventually break down, sometimes taking all your important data with it. More often than not, your computer has stopped working because you didn't look after it. You just wanted it to work.Maybe you are quite diligent with regard to your computer housekeeping, but then through no fault of your own you fell foul of a hard disk failure. But it's OK, because you'll just refer to your backup, right?"I lost all my MP3s last week when my drive failed," grinned another friend a month ago. He smirked because he knew that the loss of his files would annoy me more than it did him. If he wasn't bothered, I shouldn't have been. But I was.It's all so silly: trouble-free computing is simple. Enable your automatic update program, get a free software firewall and some antivirus software. Then download a program to deal with adware and spyware. All that is required is 10 minutes each week to check they're up to date and doing their bit.Finally, regular backups. Most new computers have built-in DVD writers, but even external ones come in at under &pound;40, or you could even use a USB flash drive.So, no excuses then. If you don't treat backing-up as a priority and you find that your "stupid" computer keeps dying, along with all your files, just ask yourself one question. Could I have avoided those hours of cursing and crawling around under my desk?If you still can't be bothered, close down all your programs, turn off the computer and put it back in its box. Then go out and buy yourself a leather-bound ledger for your accounts. Ledgers are great because they don't need to be serviced and they definitely don't get viruses. Better still, get an abacus.Then you can work out how much time your "stupid" computer was saving you.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The specifications of digital cameras are now often unintelligible. If you thought all four-, five- and six-megapixel sensors were the same size, think again. And to complicate things further, the image sensors in compact digital cameras are far smaller than the type found in the higher-end digital SLR models.It's all to do with quality: put simply, a larger, less pixel-dense chip is more sensitive to light, and the result is that image signals require less amplification, and benefit from lower interference and purer colour.Old photographic enthusiasts will remember the debate over the relative benefits of APS versus traditional 35mm film. On the one hand, APS cassettes were simpler to handle and re-order prints from, but on the other, the smaller negative could never match the quality of 35mm. This time we have to contend with both the number of pixels and sensor size.Sony knows a thing or two about image sensors, as one of the principal producers and suppliers to other manufacturers, and has just launched the 10.3-megapixel Cybershot DSC-R1. Sometimes referred to as a bridge camera, these prosumer types are neither as small as a compact nor as adaptable as a digital SLR. But this model employs an imaging sensor that is similar in size to those used by most digital SLR cameras and with ISO settings maxing out at a high ISO3200.At &pound;700, it's priced to appeal to those who have a digital SLR in mind, but the R1 has plenty of appealing features. Not least is the inclusion of a top-drawer Carl Zeiss T zoom lens. The wider-than-average view is attractive and the quality outclasses any starter lens. There is also a novel, top-mounted colour monitor that works unbelievably well and a mass of options and features that would put most entry-level digital SLRs to shame. I had qualms, however, about the large file sizes as well as the absence of both image-stabilisation and interchangeable lenses.Even though it is well-equipped and inspirational, it is still not quite as versatile as the digital SLR. But if you don't intend to take advantage of a handful of additional lenses, then it is good value.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The life of a dairy farmer is long hours and hard graft: awake before dawn, working all day long and unable to rest until the cows come home. But things are changing, thanks to a technology that hands control of the milking process over to an unusual agency - the cows themselves.Robotic Voluntary Milking Systems, which are increasingly popular, let cows decide when they need to be milked, rather than submitting them to the grind of twice-daily milking that is the routine on most dairy farms. The technology has been pioneered by Dutch engineers, who say it is the perfect solution to farming's cow conundrum.Milking robots cost about &pound;60,000 each, and have been rolled out at hundreds of farms in America and Europe. The cows wear electronic tags and when they decide they need milking - about six or seven times a day - they enter the shed and are identified by the system. As they line up to be milked, a laser-guided robot locates the cow's udder and then latches on to its teats. Developers say that it is easy for cows to grasp the basic mechanics of the system, and letting them control the milking schedules actually increases their productivity.It's a revolution that's been gathering pace since the first VMS machines were built in the late 1990s. "More and more farmers are choosing an automatic system," says Thierry Perrotin, a manager with DeLaval, and the figures bear him out: his company sold more than 300 milking robots in the first half of this year.Critics of mass farming say that although voluntary systems are more humane than traditional methods, they do little to alleviate the real problems with factory methods. But few doubt that giving the animals control over when they are milked is a step forward.And now the revolution is spreading further afield, with Australia the latest nation to take it on board. The government of New South Wales is now pumping more than &pound;2.1m into finding out what the benefits for the region's farmers could be.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It already ranks as one of the most desirable cities on the planet to do business. But London, it seems, is set to get even bigger. In recent months, Israel, Malaysia, Australia and even parts of the United States, have all become sucked into the capital's thriving business community. How? It is all due to the recent breakthrough in internet telephony - and the emergence of a phenomenon known as "Virtual London".Dial a business number with an 020 7 prefix these days and the chances are that the person answering will not be in a Canary Wharf office or an east London warehouse, but will be sunning themselves in the hills of Sardinia or working in a steamy office in downtown Kuala Lumpur.For, thanks to the emergence of firms offering low-cost telephony via the internet - Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) - your company can be located anywhere in the world and still have a central London telephone number. The call is simply diverted through the internet's pipes at minuscule cost to wherever your business happens to be.The result is that you can have all the gravitas of a London number, but the cheap living and labour costs of anywhere you choose in the world.Colin Duffy, managing director of Voipfone, an internet telephony company that caters to the new market for a Virtual London number, thinks the trend marks the birth of a new generation of technologically-literate entrepreneurs."I think it's about people realising that technology can give them a choice as to where they live - and that it can also be used to acquire some of the cachet of places like London without incurring the cost."Using technology is not being geeky any longer, it's very cool," adds Duffy, whose own virtual company boasts a London switchboard, servers in the Docklands - and real offices in Brighton.Sam Morgan, who runs WiredEyes, a virtual London-based internet design company operating from Sardinia, is delighted with his London number."We moved here because we had had enough of London and the high cost of everything that living in London means."But if people see a London phone number, I think that that gives them reassurance."Another happy Virtual Londoner is Philip Craig, director of the Kuala Lumpur-based airport company Leapp. "It gives a better impression if we have got offices in London and Kuala Lumpur - because people then assume that our headquarters are in London."And that's very positive for us because London means well-established, well-off, stable and solid. Virtual London allows us to capitalise on that."Craig has also found that it has led to better communication between them and their colleagues in Europe. "If people think that you are in Malaysia then they have to work out the time difference and that can be a chore, and then when they have, they think it might be expensive because they don't know what the call rates are."The Virtual London phenomenon is not just confined to businesses. Richard Anderton, club secretary of the Ocean Cruising Club, whose membership is restricted to people who have sailed 1,000 miles without touching land, have also opted for a fashionable London number. "I could have had a Scunthorpe number if I had wanted, but central London says ever such a lot about you," he says. "To outsiders, it puts us alongside the Royal Yacht Club."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
TheMicrosoft Gadgetssite is trying to build up a supply of gadgets for use on the newLive.compersonal portal site by offering a prize -- an Xbox 360 -- for the best effort. (No expense spared, apparently.)Microsoft Gadgets come in three flavours for the Web, the Windows Vista sidebar and auxiliary screens (eg a display on a laptop lid, keyboard or mobile phone). The idea harks back to the (failed)ActiveDesktopidea Microsoft tried with IE4 in 1997 in the great days of (failed) "push" technology andWebcasting-- RSS before its time -- and beyond that to desktop accessories on the original Mac.Update:Date error corrected. Thanks, Ken! ;-)
Yahoo! Movies haspostedsome production shots of the forthcoming Silent Hill movie, directed by Brotherhood of the Wolf helmer Christophe Gans. They certainly seem to have caught the look of Konami's downbeat survival horror titles - grubby alleys, blood-coloured hallways, freakish arms tugging at screaming women, ghostly staring children... No sign of pyramid-head though.Yahoo's preview blurb describes the town of Silent Hill as "a world of decay inhabited by strange beings". Why, that could be any high street in provincal Britain! No wonder the games were so popular.Sadly, I suspect the film won't have several different and utterly inexplicable endings...
I love this statistic, always have. "On average, London commuters get wet fewer than 12 times a year." I've often quoted it to people myself, to be met with looks of disbelief and ridicule. It must, one feels, fall into the category of "lies, damned lies and statistics". Admittedly, October's weather was exceptional, but there are periods in winter when I'm sure I get wet 12 times a week, let alone a month. And commuters in cities such as Manchester and Glasgow will be laughing up their Gore-tex sleeves at the idea of soft southerners braving a mere 12 days a year of cycling in the rain. But then it is, as we know, grim up north.The 12-times-a-year stat comes courtesy of the London Cycling Campaign, recycled to coincide with the news from Transport for London that cycle use has doubled in the capital in the past five years. There are lots of claims for the credit: more and better cycle routes, improved parking facilities, the congestion charge and increasing cost of other means of transport, the "safety in numbers" effect of more cyclists on the road and, latterly, the fear of terrorism. The net effect is that the mayor's target of increasing the number of cycle journeys by 80% has been more than met five years ahead of its 2010 schedule.A cause for celebration, time to crack open the champagne? You might think so, but that would be to underestimate the innate propensity of cyclists to snatch defeat from the jaws of victory. The truth is, cycling just wouldn't be any fun if we couldn't grumble about it. In this case, the complaint I'm hearing from the hardened veterans of city commuting is that all these latecomer cyclists don't have a clue about how to ride. They overtake you on the inside, push past at the lights, seem entirely oblivious to the Highway Code and - worst of all - can't even repair a puncture.And now we know that it's no good hoping they are just fair-weather bikers if there are only 12 days a year when they decide to catch the bus instead. So, you see, every silver lining has a cloud.
Sony's newMP3 Walkman(which also plays Atrac files) is due to hit the shops next Monday. Will anyone be camping outside in anticipation? It features a "spectacular ergonomic design," says Sony, and comes in two sizes: 20GB (NW-A3000) and 6GB (NW-A1000). The reason I actually want to see one is the "advanced organic EL display".
A game based on the film of Dan Brown's terrible Da Vinci Code novel is due out next year. This is the bad news. The good is that Charles Cecil, ofBroken Swordfame, is involved in the development. What form the game will take is unknown - though I think we can rule out first person shooting - though the inclusion of Cecil suggests there will be some adventure elements. There was some marketing spiel in the release as well, but I won't bore you with that. Suffice to say 2K games are thrilled - aren't marketing types always? - to be making the game. How involved Cecil is in the development looks like being the key to the quality of this game.
One theme in some of the Microsoft Live reports (not that I've read all 600 or so) is the comparison between 2005 and the great Web announcement of 1995 and, to a lesser extent, the .Net announcement from 2000. It's an idea that Business Week's TechBeat tackles head on inMicrosoft: 1995 redux?Way back then, Netscape was eighth wonder of the world and lots of people were saying Microsoft was finished, it couldn't compete on the net, and Java was going to take over. Yeah, right.It's not an exact comparison, as the BusinessWeek article warns:I think the most important thing to focus on when you compare 1995 to 2005 is: back then, Microsoft was taking on a software company. It could kill Netscape by giving away what Netscape had to charge for. Google et al are different animals. They make money from ads. And, as long as Google and Yahoo are compelling places that attract zillions of people/viewers, they're going to be able to charge a premium for their ads. Microsoft's monopolies can't change that.However, one of the messages from the Live launch is that the Live consumer services will be funded by selling advertising. For example, the Reuters report,Microsoft shifts to ad-backed Web software services, inlcudes the following:"Google has done an amazing job of making that ad engine click on eight cylinders. We have all learned quite a bit from them," Ray Ozzie, Microsoft's recently named chief technical officer said. "They and we have barely scratched the surface."There's nothing new about Microsoft offering online services like Hotmail and MSN, and there's nothing new about it selling ads on them -- it was doing both before Google arrived. However, Google has taken that approach to a level far beyond Microsoft or, indeed, anybody else, so it won't be a surprise if Microsoft plans to copy it.BusinessWeek is surely right to argue that "as long as Google and Yahoo are compelling places that attract zillions of people/viewers, they're going to be able to charge a premium for their ads." But by feeding Hotmail users to its Live portal instead of to MSN, Microsoft can also attract zillions of people/viewers, and the extra competition could help drive down the cost of advertising online. If that reduces Google's profit growth, and therefore impacts its share price, Microsoft may well consider Live a success, whatever happens to the technology.
Electronic Arts has inked a deal with Fox allowing the publisher to create multiple videogames based around the reasonably well-known cartoon series. Apparently, development duties will be handled by EA's LA studio, previously responsible for From Russia With Love, Lord of The Rings: Tactics, The Godfather and The Sims games.According to the press release, the dev team will be, "working closely with the television studio's Licensing and Merchandising division, Gracie Films, and The Simpsons writers" - although justhowclosely remains to be seen. We've already heard about how Peter Jackson felt locked out of EA's Lord of the Rings conversions, allegedly taking King Kong to Ubi Soft as a result. Do international licensing deals really come about as a result of creative sulks? We can only hope that they do.The press release continues:"The first game of the multi-game deal will be launched on next generation systems; no launch date has been announced. 'This is a great opportunity for our talented development team to collaborate with the brilliant minds of THE SIMPSONS to bring original Simpsons material to videogame fans,' said Nick Earl, Vice President and General Manager, EA Redwood Shores Studio. 'This is something EA's been interested in for years and now game development and technology is at a place where THE SIMPSONS characters and world will really come alive in these games.'"Full marks there for using the word 'game' in the first line (twice!), rather than 'product', 'franchise' or 'entertainment experience'. As for the form that the first EA Simpsons title is likely to take, I'm opening the betting thus:Medal of Honor-style FPS -25/1Lord of the Rings-style battle tactics -10/1Sims-style virtual soap opera -3/1Free-roaming driving adventure -Evens
Alpha geek and MySQL expert Jeremy Zawodny has published graphs of his AdSense numbers inFollowing the Search Engine Referral Money Trail. The second graph, Who makes me money?, shows unequivocally that it's Google.Jeremy works for Yahoo.
Since book publisher Tim O'Reilly more or less invented and defined the Web 2.0 meme -- and organised the Web 2.0 conference -- he's probably the keenest observer of Microsoft's plans for Live. He observes that Microsoft hit all the right buzzwords and runs through the press conference,commenting:Overall, I was really heartened by the presentation. Competition is good for the industry, and good for users. As they did in 1995 with the first coming of the Internet, Microsoft clearly now gets that the starting line has been reset, and everything is up for grabs. I'm looking forward to the next couple of years, as competition does indeed make what we experience today a pale shadow of what will soon be possible.Another key takeaway for me from this presentation was that Microsoft realizes the power of being able to build an integrated experience across a hardware device, a software application, and an internet service. Ray Ozzie cited iTunes as an example (as have I), and pointed out the similarities to the Xbox 360. Microsoft has more than a decade of experience with hardware devices, and has been involved in everything from game consoles to phones, PDAs, automobiles, and more. This may turn out to be a trump card that gives Microsoft an advantage against players like Google and Yahoo!Comment:The main result of the press conference is that people like Tim O'Reilly now know that Microsoft "gets" Web 2.0, though it has yet to unveil the products and those products have yet to attract any users. Microsoft building on XML and adopting RSS wholesale could have been considered a bit of a giveaway, but it doesn't hurt to make these things explicit.Where Xbox 360 fits in to Web 2.0 remains a bit of a mystery, but with the launch approaching fast, it's no surprise that Microsoft is keen to promote it. It's also not the same as Microsoft producing software targeted at phones, PDAs, media players, cars, "thin client" terminals and other devices: all that stuff came from the Windows Everywhere strategy launched in the early 1990s (of which the home "digital hub" is just a subset). Online Halo players aren't going to be watching their RSS feeds update, are they?
This week the extremely stylishXBox Loungeopened to the general public in Japan (here's themenu). A few months ago, theNintendo World Storeopened up in Times Square in NYC. Soon, Nolan Bushnell'sGaming Cafewill throw wide its doors to Americans. Hey, what about us lot???Without a doubt, these stores are the future of a kind of high-class video gaming. Like the Apple stores, they'll guarantee a different type of clientele than the rabble that hangs out around local games emporia, if only for the spectacle.So when do we get our shiny shiny game-themed store?And in other news, a nefarious rumour has surfaced thatLondon's Trocaderois going to shut its gaming area. Is there any truth to this?
Sony president Ken Kutaragi gave an interesting keynote speech at last week's Tokyo International Digital Conference, in which he spelled out some of his ambitions for the company'sCelltechnology.Accordingto Gamesindustry.biz, there are plans to shrink the components and develop a Micro Cell, which will be used to power handheld products such as mobile phones - hmm, an entertainment handset with comparable power to PS3? If that doesn't kill off mobile gaming's obsession with retro titles frankly nothing will."Kutaragi also talked about the PS3's capability to run games at 120 frames per second," suggests the same article. However, this is slightly more contentious. Aninteresting poston the Beyond3D.com forum, complete with PowerPoint slides from Kutaragi's presentation, suggests that the 120fps comments were limited to the Cell technology'svideo/movieperformance on forthcoming high definition TVs and didn't directly refer to games. So if youwerelooking forward to graphics performance possibly above and beyond the human eye's capabilities, you may be disappointed.Finally, Kutaragi mentioned using multiple Cell chips in futuristic HD displays and home servers thereby allowing users to watch several channels while simultaneously viewing the internet, or to play sports sims alongside viewing real sporting events. There seemed to be much talk about being able to rotate, re-size and re-position different image streams on the screen. I think he's been watching Minority Report a bit too much - or possibly those Dixons adverts that pastiche the Spielberg sci-fi movie. You know, the ones where an attractive Dixons employee answers a customer phone call while standing in front of a translucent display - "you want a laptop computer? That's no problem at all, sir," she says politely as she moves various graphics across the screen.Yes, that's definitely where he got the idea from.
The website MySpace.com is a time sink. Hours drain like seconds from sweaty fingertips. Click through to Sarah-Boo's profile and you'll find a Photoshop-happy student from Liverpool who complains, "my frappuccino was just too ... frappy this morning." Then, browse on to Jim, a 42-year-old "well-travelled raconteur" who poses with a banana in his zip. He thinks Sarah is "hottt". Investigate the thumbnails of his 206 intertwined acquaintances, pausing to read the blog of a dreadlocked blonde with facial piercings - "I live for pain," she boasts. Suddenly, it's morning.MySpace was created in 2003 after users of community website Friendster became disheartened by its founder's decision to delete profiles he believed to be fraudulent. Paris Hilton was removed, and Kate Moss. And God. MySpace, originally conceived by 29-year-old film studies graduate Tom Anderson as an unadvertised haven for bands to share their music, has spiralled into a networking phenomenon. It's the fourth most visited domain on the internet, with 35 million users showcasing their intimate snapshots and navel-gazing blogs.With the personality of a smoky teenager's bedroom, MySpace celebrates its hormonal members, and advertisers are taking note. Nine Inch Nails, Beck and Queens of the Stone Age launched albums on MySpace, and the American version of The Office made its debut there. Rupert Murdoch's decision to buy the site's parent company in July was followed by a swiftly constructed Murdoch MySpace profile (username Dirty Digger), and an American production company are developing a reality series based on MySpace relationships, with special late-night "sexy" content planned.Krissi Murison, new bands editor of the NME, says: "MySpace has become a really important tool for unsigned bands. Pretty much every new band in the country with a modem and an ounce of ambition is already registered." By hosting songs for users to copy and share, and allowing bands to keep up a dialogue with fans, the website helped Sheffield punksters Arctic Monkeys knock Sugababes off the top of the UK singles chart.Though some users admit that they joined in order to exploit their potential network, most view the site as a comfortable space to while away work hours, with many relying on MySpace to organise and orchestrate their personal lives. But as quickly as they join (130,000 a day), the kids are moving on, complaining about Murdoch's influence, bored of the homogeny of profiles - of a million fringes and foibles, or upset by watching their ex, or cheating current, conduct affairs online with public love letters, fawning digital-mix tapes and photo albums of dirty weekends away. Still, with MySpace's new feature which, in a stroke of Mean Girls genius, allows users to list their "top eight" friends, you can bump a baddie to the bottom of your page, or even delete him or her for good.
"fyuze is a personal information aggregator that automatically collects information from the internet so you don't have to. Sign up for an account, tell fyuze what you're interested in, and you'll be able to -- at a glance -- see what's new on the web every time you log on," saysthe Fyuse site.Think of sources such as Flickr, Technorati. Delicious, Yahoo News.... OK, basically it looks like another web-based feed reader with knobs on....
As scheduled, Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates and chief technology officer Ray Ozzie unveiled beta versions ofWindows Liveand Office Live this morning. (Well, Office Live will appear as an invitation-only beta early next year.) According toReuters:Windows Live and Office Live will give users much of the functionality of the software giant's two most-profitable products, but without the complexity of installing and maintaining the software in computer hard drives, Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates and Ray Ozzie, a longtime software services pioneer who recently joined Microsoft, told reporters in San Francisco.Windows Live will integrate instant-messaging, a new online email service, security, data storage and other features, all of which will be accessible over the Internet. Office Live will give smaller companies access to many of the features in Microsoft's collection of programs for business tasks, as well as the ability to maintain corporate email accounts and data.Michael Arrington of TechCrunch has somegood pictures of the eventon FlickrComment:This is Microsoft's entry into the Web 2.0 market with AJAX-style applications. The Live site is clearly based on the experimentalStart.compersonalised home page site, which not only showed Microsoft could do somethingbeforeGoogle, but do it better. However, it's one thing to do it in a sandbox, and quite another to do it on a commercial platform supporting millions of users. That's the challenge Microsoft faces now.The other thing that should be obvious is that the new sites are extensions of Windows and Office, not replacements for them. (Microsoft isnottrying to get rid of $20bn worth of desktop software business.) However, as you can see atWindows Live Ideas, Live will eventually take over a lot of things from MSN, including instant messaging, horrible Hotmail (see Kahuna,below) and the hugely successful MSN Spaces blogging service.And as Jupiter Research analystMichael Gartenbergsays:There's been a lot of chatter about how this is a response to Google or how it's Microsoft being dragged into offering these type of services at the expense of losing it's traditional market for Office apps. Well, that analysis is all wrong. Microsoft has been planning this for quite some time, long before it would appear as a response to Google or anyone else.
Sensible Soccer is getting remade. Yes, the classic footy game from the 90s is returning in anew guise. Apparently it retains the top-down view but with up-to-date graphics. Due out next Easter at a mid-range price (think 20 quid) the game is being pitched as an alternative to the dogged realism of PES and FIFA. More good news is that Jon Hare, designer and producer of the original series, is back on board."We are doing everything in our power to modernise and recreate the sheer playability, fun and footballing depth of the original and remind the playing public just what they have been missing out in the current market of slow, drab sims."Of course, Hare is slightly missing the point here. Much of Sensi's mid 90s success was down to the fact that it had real teams and players from around the world. Yes the action was often fast and furious, but it really wouldn't have done as well if it had only had the made-up teams. Also, it will be very interesting to see how after-touch feels when using an analogue stick rather than joystick. But still, after some pointless phone and toy remakes, the thought of a new Sensi is exciting. Bring it on.
Wired.com has done anefficient jobof summing up the Jack Thompson vsPenny Arcadefeud, still 'raging away' like a slightly damp indoor firework. Thompson, you may recall, is the shy, retiring attorney who's made it his raison d'etre to hound the videogame industry into oblivion. Or at least into court. Penny Arcade, meanwhile, is the American videogame humour site with, by the looks of things, an army of over-excitable teenagers as readers. When Thompson recently accused the site of criminal harassment, he was apparently inundated with emails from Penny Arcade fans featuring such devastating put-downs as, "I hate you, and the world would be a better place if you were brutally murdered" - seemingly proving all his fears about the industry.Just another example of howutterly ridiculousvideogame scandals are. This confrontation will probably be made into a film - and when it is, let's hope it's directed by game-to-movie supremoUwe Boll. Only this way could the parties get the respectful treatment they deserve.
Cash incentive: want to start your own eBay business? Photograph: David McNew/GettyLast week'sBusiness Sensesupplement - our monthly section dedicated to business and technology - teamed up with eBay to offer five readers the chance to set up their own eBay business.The five will then compete against each other over three months, and a series of challenges, to see who shows the greatest Business Sense of all. The winner - the person who increases their seed money by the greatest amount, and performs best in the challenges - will win a further £2,500.To enter the competition, you just need to let us know why you are the perfect candidate for £1,500 in seed funding. But you have to do it by Friday!Click here for more details.
I've been playing with theGame Boy Microahead of its Euro release on Friday. And yes, it's obvious, but this thing is tiny. Actually, it's too small. I haven't got particularly big hands, but an hour on the Micro and my fingers were throbbing. I'd be interested to hear from anyone who has imported one as to whether this improves over time. The good news is the screen, which is bright and vivid - but again, at 2 inches wide it is just a little too small. Still, it was good enough for now to encourage me to dig out some unfinished GBA business - and my dusty copy ofGolden Suncertainly looks lovely on the smaller screen.Ultimately though, you have to wonder who will actually buy the Micro. Yes, this is the first Nintendo console that hasn't overdosed on cheap plastic - Nintendo in techno-lust shocker! - but is that enough? Nintendo are advertising Micro in the non-gaming media, but is your average Heat reader, or in fact anyone who isn't a gamer, going to want to playAdvance Warsor Pokemon?
Scott Adams takes a flight.....
Mark at Sysinternals has done a lot of work on rootkits, which are now used by malware writers to cloak their misdeeds. Checking his own hard drive, he was shocked to find he had one.His blog explainshow he found out what it did and where it came from: "Sony BMG's Get Right with the Man (the name is ironic under the circumstances) CD by the Van Zant brothers." The problem was that removing the rootkit also removed his CD drive from Windows. He writes:The entire experience was frustrating and irritating. Not only had Sony put software on my system that uses techniques commonly used by malware to mask its presence, the software is poorly written and provides no means for uninstall. Worse, most users that stumble across the cloaked files with a RKR scan will cripple their computer if they attempt the obvious step of deleting the cloaked files.While I believe in the media industry's right to use copy protection mechanisms to prevent illegal copying, I don't think that we've found the right balance of fair use and copy protection, yet. This is a clear case of Sony taking DRM too far.
Regular readers might know that one of my pet peeves is the increasing number ofspam phone calls, and those annoying silent calls that you get from marketing firms.Silent calls happen when telemarketing spivs use an automated dialler to cold call "customers": the dialler phones numbers regardless of whether there's a call centre agent ready to speak... and when there's nobody available on the other end of the phone, all you hear is the sound of silence.There are certain ways you can reduce silent calls - but theTelephone Preference Serviceonly does so much. It stemmed my regular flow of silent calls and marketing spam for some time, but I've recently started getting them again.So maybeyesterday's announcementthat communication regulator Ofcom is increasing the possible fines against silent callers tenfold to £50,000 could make a difference.Ofcom has amended its policy on persistent misuse to combat the problem of silent calls. Ofcom's revised policy sets out a series of requirements for organisations using automated calling systems, including:* Any abandoned calls must carry a recorded information message which identifies the source of the call and offers the person called an opportunity to decline further calls from that source; * Calling line identification (CLI) must be presented on all outbound calls from call centres using automated calling systems. CLI allows people to dial 1471 and access the telephone number of the person or organisation calling them; * Telephone numbers dialled then abandoned should not be called again by that organisation's automated calling system for at least 72 hours, unless a dedicated operator is available to take the call; * Abandoned call rates must be below three per cent of total calls for any 24 hour period for each campaign. This is a lower threshold than existing published industry codes which require a five per cent limit, and is intended to require operators to manage their systems more effectively; and * Records must be kept to demonstrate compliance with these requirements.All well and good: but we need to see action against these firms, not just more toothless regulation.
We've been looking at Windows browsers, and in an update to my previous post, I said I was going to tryMaxthon. Having installed it, I've discovered it's one I tried before: it used to be calledMyIE2!My first impressions are favourable. It's certainly very fast, and feels faster than IE. It has tabbed browsing and recognises a couple of mouse gestures, if that's what you want. It picked up all my Favorites etc.Last time round with MyIE, I uninstalled this browser the same day (not uncommon in my job -- I often try three or four utilities a day). This time it's survived overnight, so I'm going to keep using it and see how it goes....
A whole host of interactive debauchery entered my flat on Friday just in time for a party at the weekend, much to the dismay of both friends and neighbours. At 6am we were still "singing" along withSingStar '80sandXFactor Sing, waving ourselves silly withEyeToy Play 3and frantically lunging at the novel controllers for Relentless Software's quiz offering,Buzz: The Music Quiz(General Knowledge, Movie and Sports coming out soon, according to the in-game promo video). It's surely Christmas Party season time. But is this a means to get non-gamers into the gaming club? Unlikely.All of the titles bask in the rituals of public humiliation, which is perhaps what makes them so accessible. Everyone knows karaoke; everyone knows pub quizzes; everyone knows how to throw their bodies in wild directions at imaginary bells and volleyballs. Everyone is willing to have a go.The same can't be said for traditional titles. On Sunday afternoon after the hilarity had died down I tried to foist my controller into the hands of a friend who the night before had gleefully hogged the mic and had stripped the competition in Buzz with her stellar musical knowledge. I had hoped that with the introduction to the PlayStation 2 the barriers might be broken down enough that she might be willing to try Katamari Damacy. She promptly turned into a quivering wreck and backed away with hands outstretched and horror in her eyes. She was simply tooscaredto give it a go in case she was rubbish or broke it or, well, humiliated herself with her inability to grasp the control mechanism.One of the things we existing gamers forget is that we have been indoctrinated into a play style, a thumb language, a way of justbeinginteractive. What we do takes a skill which most other people are unwilling to grasp in the same way that watching high-brow films or taking a film course indoctrinates us into conversations aboutJim Jarmusch,Ingmar BergmanandAkira Kurosawa, leaving most blockbuster-heads accusing us of being film geeks.Perhaps that's why games like Solitaire (well-established in offline circles), Nintendogs (who hasn't had the experience of playing with a pooch?),DopeWars(it's all about the spreadsheets), SingStar, Buzz and EyeToy have been successful with the mainstream - they're not asked to do anything they've not done before. There's nothing new to learn. The great hopes of converting the masses to Halo after they've had a laugh singing along toGrace Slickor answering a quick fire question correctly are truly unlikely because while they break down the barrier between person and PlayStation, they do not introduce the new "gamer" to the core language of playing a more involved game.If the objective is to get more business and keep the new converts attached to their machines, Greg Costikyan'slistof genres that should be experimented with is a good start. Macroeconomic theory. That'll get the City types playing. The love story (and not hot coffee). That'll get the romcom public engaged.I'd like to add one more: public humiliation. It's already proven to be a viable model if some of the photographs from Saturday night can be believed. What other genres haven't been explored to their full potential?
See how I pitched that with a hint of self-depreciating understatement? I know a lot of Gamesblog readers shudder at the very thought of mobile games (and usually quite rightly - sometimes I wonder how I got myself into this particular area of specialisation), but once in a while it's worth taking a peak at emerging concepts just in case they transform into a killer app.Anyway, UK mobile games publisher Advanced Mobile Solutions (fair enough, it sounds like one of those shady companies that run direct marketing operations out of the Azores), has got together with Cat games, the developer of a successful series of online multiplayer management sims, to port key titles over to mobile. Soon phone users will be able to hook into titles likeSunday League Manager(which apparently has two million registered users),Cricket Managerand Manage the Band to compete against PC users using the same database of live stats."The mobile element will basically be plugged into the existing database so the player will be able to register for the games through their phone and actually manage their team from the handset," explains Richard Neale, Director of Advanced Mobile Solutions."There will be a front end java app to download that will contain all the regular game selections/options - i.e. for Sunday League, training the team, selecting your side, formation etc. Your team will continue playing its season on the database, and you will be able to log in at any point to check league positions, results and upcoming fixtures as well as make changes, as in regular management games.""When the player logs in, the app will connect to the database via 3G/GPRS to receive all the latest stats/info from the database meaning the game will constantly be up to speed, setting it apart from current java management games on the market."Getting to control the activities of amateur sportsmen may not be that attractive to many gamers, but the technology is interesting, hinting at a near-future where, say, World of Warcraft could be accessible wherever you are. The interplay of network-enabled handset with home computer is certainly something Sony and Nintendo are looking at with their respective Wi-Fi portables and next-gen consoles. Also, earlier this year Yahoo got together with US mobile operator Sprint to offermobile-to-PC online gamingin the States. It has been hinted at many times in the past, but maybe the true role of mobile gaming is as a roaming host to larger experiences offered by more powerful platforms.
Steve Case, the man who built AOL, has quit the board of parent firm Time Warner, reportstoday's Guardian:Mr Case was an architect of the merger in 2000 between AOL and Time Warner at the peak of the internet-driven stock market boom. He had been regarded on Wall Street as a visionary for building one of the biggest brands in the emerging digital media sector. However, attitudes changed swiftly as the AOL business began nosediving shortly after the merger, taking the company's share price with it. He stood down as chairman of the company, then called AOL Time Warner, under pressure from angry investors in January 2003.Other important people behind the deal including former Time Warner chief Gerald Levin and Bob Pittman, a former senior AOL executive, had already gone.
"The US edition of Official Xbox Magazine reports this month that [Chris Liddell, Microsoft's Chief Financial Officer,] addressed a gathering of industry analysts after Microsoft's financials were announced last week, and told them that the company hopes to have 4.5 to 5.5 million consoles on the market by the middle of next year," reportsGamesIndustry.biz."Liddell once again reiterated Microsoft's warning that launch volumes of the console may be low, with the firm focusing on keeping a steady flow of consoles into retail from launch onwards rather than delivering a large batch for day one."Comment:The hard drive version of the Xbox seems to have sold out weeks ago here (its Amazon.co.uk sales rank was 3, last time I looked), and if Microsoft is smart, it will be pumping as much stock as it can sell into the fiercely nationalistic Japanese market. It remains to be seen how many will ship before Christmas, but a run rate of 10 million a year would imply a (roughly) $2 billion business.
As it's Halloween, Google is advertising for a whole bunch of"scary smart" advertising salespersons. Jobs range from a Southeast Tech B2B Team Manager in Atlanta to a Regional Team Manager for Toronto."MBA degrees from leading institutions preferred."
The US Census Bureau has just publisheddata for October 2003in its Current Population Survey (CPS) Reports series. Basically, you're more likely to have a home PC if you are rich, well educated and white or Asian. Home PC ownership is lower in households that are not well educated (less than high school graduate), poor (earning less than $20,000 a year), or "black alone or Hispanic", according toTable 1C.But as theHindustan Timesnoted, "Asians as a bloc top the chart of 'digital haves'."However, home computing is no longer just a man's game. In its short report,A Window on Ourselves, The Washingon Post notes that "in 1984, 63.1% of men who had a home computer used it; only 42.8% of women did. In 2003, more women (83.5%) than men (81.5%) used their home computers."
"Microsoft is holding a briefing in San Francisco Tuesday, at which Mr Gates and Microsoft Chief Technology OfficerRay Ozziewill discuss the company's response to the trend [towards software hosted on the net]. Though officials wouldn't comment in advance of the event, people familiar with the company's plans are expecting the men to disclose new plans for combining programs such as Windows and Office with additional features and services that can be accessed over the Internet or corporate networks," reportsThe Wall Street Journal(paid sub required)."The success of the strategy will largely hinge on Mr Ozzie, a PC software-industry pioneer who joined the company six months ago when Microsoft bought his software company, Groove Networks Inc. In comments last week at an Internet-industry conference, Mr Ozzie argued that software-based services are fundamentally changing the way people use technology and the Internet. As an example, he pointed to the way Apple Computer Inc.'s iTunes software and online store have worked to ensure the success of its iPod portable music player."Comment:Microsoft was the first company to useAjax(back in a previous century) to create Outlook Web Access, and created a hosted version of Office in response to the short-lived hype for the ASP (application service provider) approach. Microsoft is also developing the previously-mentionedAtlas, which is "the codename for a set of technologies to add Ajax (Asynchronous JavaScript And XML) support to ASP.NET."I also wonder if they will mention Kahuna. This is the new Ajaxed version of the currently horrible Hotmail service, which is under development. It's unknown, of course, but only insofar as almost nothing interesting in Microsoft is now unknown:the Kahuna team is blogging.
Flying mounts, new races, turgid fantasy back-story - yes, the first World of Warcraft expansion pack has it all. TheBurning Crusadewill be released next year and allow addicts - of which I am still just about one - to grind their characters up from a maximum of 60 to 70. There are also new areas to explore, new skills to learn and an even greater emphasis on grouped combat. The latter is a shame, as the real thrill of WoW is exploring the world itself with occasional small scale battles against the opposing faction. But the developers now seem to be focussing on large-scale combat which forces players to group and, most importantly to anyone playing who has managed to retain a stake in the real world, demands far more of your time to succeed.
