Launch audio playerThis week in Tech Weekly we talk to Peter Gabriel about his new web recommendation service, The Filter. It's a kind of last.fm for the whole of your cultural life - and he explains how he got involved.We couldn't pass up Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference, so we dissect the latest on the big 3G iPhone announcement. Was it as big as was expected? And is this a sign that Apple is changing its business approach?Also in this week's show, more news of Microsoft's proxy Yahoo takeover, the BBC's moves to stream its archive live online, the phenomenon of advertising within Playstation 3 games, and whether broadband adverts will really change.We'll also have your words of wisdom with comments from the blogs and our inbox too. Get in touch using any of the methods below, and don't forget toSkype usand join our newTwitter feed.• Tell us what you think bycalling our Skype voicemailor mail us attech@guardian.co.uk•Post a message on the blog about this week's programme•Get our Twitter feed for updates on the programme across the week•Join our Facebook groupSubscribe via iTunesDownload mp3Podcast feed URL(Apologies. We wanted to find a Guardian picture of Peter Gabriel dressed as a flower, but couldn't. CC on Flickr, anyone?)
This week in Tech Weekly we talk to Peter Gabriel about his new web recommendation service, The Filter. It's a kind of last.fm for the whole of your cultural life - and he explains how he got involved.We couldn't pass up Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference, so we dissect the latest on the big 3G iPhone announcement. Was it as big as was expected? And is this a sign that Apple is changing its business approach?Also in this week's show, more news of Microsoft's Yahoo takeover, the BBC's moves to stream its archive live online, and the phenomenon of advertising within Playstation 3 games.We'll also have your words of wisdom with comments from the blogs and our inbox too. Get in touch using any of the methods below, and don't forget toSkype usand join our newTwitter feed.• Tell us what you think bycalling our Skype voicemailor mail us attech@guardian.co.uk•Post a message on the blog about this week's programme•Get our Twitter feed for updates on the programme across the week•Join our Facebook group
Big Ideas (don't get any)fromJames HoustononVimeo.Radiohead's new line-up for this version of Nude is:Sinclair ZX Spectrum -- Guitars (rhythm &amp; lead) Epson LX-81 Dot Matrix Printer -- Drums HP Scanjet 3c -- Bass Guitar Hard Drive array -- Vocals &amp; FXThe video is by James Houston, whowrites: "I'm a student graduating from the Glasgow School of Art's visual communication course in a few days. This is my final project."Thanks toWaxy
Neelie Kroes. Photograph: APThe long-running war of attrition between Microsoft and Europe took another twist today when competition commissioner Neelie Kroes told the continent's governments that they should spend their IT cash on open systems.According to theNew York Times, Kroes - who hasfined Microsoft twicefor a sum total ofalmost €1.2bn- didn't name Microsoft, but made her intent pretty clear."I know a smart business decision when I see one -- choosing open standards is a very smart business decision indeed," Ms. Kroes told a conference in Brussels. "No citizen or company should be forced or encouraged to choose a closed technology over an open one."She praised the German city of Munich for using software based on open standards, along with the German Foreign Ministry and the Gendarmerie Nationale, France's national police force.I doubt that's enough to change anyone's mind, but politicians looking to reduce state spending on IT have been making goo-goo eyes at the idea of Open Source Software - even the Cameroons havepraised open standards.· For some further reading, you can check outsomeofJack's previous posts, or read ourinterview with Neelie Kroes
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
I caught the videogame culture documentaryKing of Kong: Fistful of Quartersafter its cinematic release in the UK on Friday.Excellent.Truly excellent.The plot follows two challengers for the throne of Donkey Kong high scorer - incumbentBilly Mitchelland down-and-out dadSteve Wiebe. Both are old enough to know better. Both have loads at stake. The prize is a place in the giddy heights of gamer glory, and a place in the Guinness Book of World Records.I've got a closer analysis of the film and its issues in Thursday's paper (how different the arcade competitions are from the bling of games events with modern titles!), but wanted to give the blog a heads up that we'll be running a competition for copies of the DVD (released on Monday), starting in two days' time. We have an interview lined up with Steve Wiebe: what would you like to ask the first man who broke 1 million points in the arcade classic, and who holds the world record for Donkey Kong Jr.?More on King of Kong here.
Google has increased its share of the UK search market by almost 10 points over the past year, and has now reached a monopoly market share of 87.3%, according to Hitwise. Yahoo's share of the market slumped from 8.6% to 4.1%.This is, of course, exactly the sort of thing you would expect in a competitive technology market, according to thepower laws. However, while this kind of result is predictable in markets where there are strong network effects, such as operating systems, processors etc (well, unless you seem utterly clueless, like the European Commision), it's impressive to see it working so well with Google, where people can more easily switch to an alternative.Progress is a little slower in the US, where Google's market share of search grew from 65.1% to 68.3% over the past year, on Hitwise numbers. But its share will continue to grow unless Yahoo or Microsoft can come up with a product that is obviously very much better than Google (being as good or just a bit better isn't enough) or Google manages some sort of privacy screw up. Even then, it would have to be a biggie.Meanwhile if you want to play on the web, commercially speaking, then you have to play by Google's rules, because it can delist your site at any time, without notice, or just devalue it. If your business depends on getting 30% to 60% of its traffic from Google searches, you certainly know which side your bread is buttered.... though that's not going to stop some people trying to game the system with linkfarms, splogs and other SEO (search engine optimization) scams."Google's rules"are good for us, of course. We could be a lot worse off....
It's design crunch time onSpaceship!, the gamesblog's wikigame project. In less than a fortnight, the coders will get their mitts on the key components of the text adventure - thepuzzles, thelocations, and the puzzle objects - and all this week we are appealing for your assistance!Every day this week, we'll be posting up two links to two of the rooms we've got to describe before the programmers can get started. Each room needs a few sentences explaining what the player sees when she or he enters that room. For example, I've describedthe Kitchenthus:The dingy kitchen is approximately 3 metres x 4 metres wide, and would be cozy when the whole crew is on call, but it's nice and roomy when you're on your own. It looks like it was decorated circa 1984, with unattractive korma-coloured cupboard doors and faux tile lino on the floor. You can see vermin footprints in the flour that's fallen off one of the pantry shelves.There are various industrial appliances lining the worktop that look like they've not seen a wash in several light years. Which is strange, as the sink is less than a metre away, on the starboard wall. On the island in the middle of the room are the leftovers from your last noodle fix sitting on a battered kitchen tray. The bin, next to the refrigerator, overfloweth.Yes, that's what my kitchen looked like before I remodeled. It was truly disgusting. And now the horror has been permanently captured for eternity in Spaceship!. How proud I am.Today's locations are theEscape Podand theRec Room. What in the world does the player see upon entering these two locations?TheEscape Podis integral in one of thewinning puzzlesfrom our Puzzle Design Competition. All we know about is is that theEscape Pod's control system is covered in multi-coloured buttons, knobs and switches. What does the rest of it look like?Add your thoughts here. Click the link and type away!TheRec Roomis a tabula rasa. Are there arcade machines? A pool table? An Xbox 1080 with Rock Band 5 peripherals? A pop machine? A jukebox? A shuffleboard alley? What's your dream recreation area?Add your thoughts here. Just click the link and type away!Tomorrow we'll be bringing you two new locations for your creative pleasure.
Roadrunner was always expected to be fast out of the blocks. And after a test run one night in the city of Poughkeepsie, New York, its creators are far from disappointed.Built from microchips originally destined for games consoles, Roadrunner is the world's latest supercomputer. Yesterday it was officially crowned the fastest computer around, having performed a record million billion calculations per second.As an indication of how fast this is, manufacturers explained that if 6 billion people were to do one sum a second on calculator, it would take 46 years to do what RoadRunner could do in a day. The world's first supercomputer, the Cray 1 built in the mid-1970s, would take 1,500 years to finish a calculation that Roadrunner would perform in two hours.David Turek, vice-president of IBM's supercomputing programs, likened Roadrunner to "a very souped-up Sony PlayStation 3". The $120m (&pound;61m) supercomputer was named after New Mexico's state bird, and is more than twice as fast as the previous record holder, another IBM machine called Blue Gene.By harnessing the power of 116,640 processors working in concert, Roadrunner surpassed a milestone in computing power, to enter a new era of what those familiar with such things call petaflop computing. Peta means a million billion, while a flop is a type of calculation."We had teams working around the clock," said IBM's Kevin Roark. "Once they got it hooked up, it was just a couple of days before they broke the record. Everyone here is ecstatic. There were people who doubted it was even possible." The record was broken at 3.30am on May 26.Next month, the 230-tonne machine will be loaded on to 21 trucks and hauled across the country, from IBM's east coast facility to New Mexico. There, it will become the American military's latest toy, when it is installed, along with 57 miles of fibre optic cable, at Los Alamos National Laboratory, birthplace of the atomic bomb.For six months, the computer will direct its formidable processing power at scientific problems. It will analyse how HIV vaccines should best be administered, and map the region of the human brain that governs vision.In another series of tests, it will churn out data on whether firing laser beams into plasmas will trigger nuclear fusion, which advocates believe could one day bring us almost limitless cheap energy. Other projects will focus on testing and improving the accuracy of climate change models.The first six months will give operators time to get used to the machine, and to iron out any bugs and glitches, before it begins its real task of providing classified data to help assess the safety, and readiness, of the US nuclear arsenal.Roadrunner will be used by nuclear weapons experts at Los Alamos to simulate the first fractions of a second of a nuclear detonation. Additional computing units will be linked to Roadrunner, allowing a quarter of its power to remain available for unclassifed projects.Speaking yesterday, the US secretary of energy, Samuel Bodma, called Roadrunner an "enormous accomplishment", adding: "Roadrunner will not only play a key role in maintaining the US nuclear deterrent, it will also contribute to solving our global energy challenges, and open new windows of knowledge in the basic scientific research fields."Alan Dix, professor of computing at Lancaster University, said that by rough calculations, Roadrunner was possibly only five to 50 times less powerful than the human brain. "Wait another three to five years and it will be there," he said.Thomas D'Agostino, head of the US national nuclear security administration, which oversees nuclear weapons research and maintains the warhead stockpile, described it as a "speed demon". He added: "It will allow us to solve tremendous problems."
A year ago it was hailed as a piece of technological wizardry, prompting American fans to camp out for days to be the first to get their hands on it. Last night Apple hoped that it could recapture some of the excitement of 12 months ago by announcing the latest version of its iPhone.Speaking on stage at Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference, the company's chief executive, Steve Jobs, unveiled the  iPhone 3G - a cheaper, more powerful replacement intended to boost sales. The gadget, which already combines an iPod, mobile phone and touch-sensitive internet browser, will now also sport a high-speed 3G internet connection and GPS satellite positioning. And, crucially, it will cost far less than it does at the moment. The handset will be available from next month at $199 (&pound;100)."We did figure out what our next challenges are, the next mountain we have to climb," Jobs said last night. "The number one reason people didn't buy the iPhone was that they couldn't afford it, so we need to make the iPhone more affordable."The news was welcomed by industry observers, who are keen for the gadget to fulfil the hype generated over the past 18 months. But the changes reveal some of the difficulties that Apple - which has been flying high for the best part of a decade on the success of its iPod music player - has found with moving into the phone industry. Dropping the price marks a shift in its strategy, which originally involved selling iPhones at the high price of &pound;269, rather than subsidising the costs, as is usual in the mobile phone industry. With sales falling short of expectations, Apple executives know they have yet to make the same impact with the iPhone that they managed with the iPod.Taking on competitors such as Nokia and BlackBerry in the battle for the lucrative "smartphone" market has proved tough. "They probably did the right thing launching when they did, because the hype bubble had reached the point of bursting," said John Delaney, research director at industry analyst IDC. "If Apple knows about nothing else, it knows how to generate and exploit hype. But having only achieved 6m sales, and most of them in the US, I think they feel a need to light a fire underneath it."Still, Apple's ambitions remain relatively small, with Jobs publicly making a conservative estimate of 10m sales by the end of 2008. The company is already more than halfway there, but such numbers are small fry in a global mobile phone business that is expected to sell more than 1bn handsets this year.Despite relatively low takeup, however, the gadget has grabbed public attention and awards.Apple has had some testy relationships with mobile companies. It had already developed a reputation for hardball negotiations, thanks to its tough approach to dealing with the record labels for its iTunes music store. But the company signalled its intentions to break with mobile industry protocols when it avoided the usual route of offering customers large subsidies. Although the shift has proved profitable - the Californian company takes a significant slice of every monthly contract which is signed - the result was a high ticket price which put off buyers used to discounted handsets.This was controversial with the mobile operators, adding to already fractious relationships with those companies negotiating partnerships with Apple.In Britain, the California company eventually signed O2 as its only network partner, leaving some rivals jilted at the altar. Orange, which now only supplies the phone in France, had a deal worked out and was ready to sign it. At the last minute, however, Apple dumped its potential partner and signed with O2.The reason was simple: money. O2 agreed to hand back a larger slice of revenues than its rival would contemplate, with sources suggesting that the number lies between 30% and 40%.Apple seems to have changed tack, considering different options in other parts of the world, offering deals with several networks simultaneously in some places. "It's obviously designed to stimulate sales," said Delaney. "Apple started off being quite dictatorial and were getting away with it. This shows that they're getting a little more humble."The competitorsThe iPhone's touchscreen has prompted other manufacturers to launch handsets that make extensive use of touch. Korean company LG's Secret is technologically more advanced than the iPhone.Nokia is working with scientists at Cambridge University, using nanotechnology. It hopes within a few years to have a phone that can be rolled out as a keyboard or worn as a bracelet.Some companies are banking on turning the mobile into a single device which, when plugged into other gadgets such as car navigation systems, music players and TVs, will become the centrepiece of personal technology.Several companies are working on handsets made entirely out of recycled materials. Campaigners such as Greenpeace have attacked the industry for being environmentally unfriendly, singling out handsets such as the iPhone.
So anyway, a week or so agoI made my predictionsfor what would be in the iPhone 2.0. They were:With that all in mind, let's get to the meat. What can we therefore expect in iPhone 2.0? My calculations, based on all the noise going on, are:· a three-megapixel camera. Cheap upgrade, people will herald its "50% better" picture quality.Reality:No. (Wrong.)· video. Easy, because it can already do this.Reality:No. (Wrong.)· possibly, just possibly, WiMax. A few places have this, and it's just the kind of out-there technology that might find a use. But I'd put the chances at about 5%.Reality:No. (Wrong.)· 3G connectivity. Cheap, obvious, essential for its Far Eastern launch coming later this year.Reality:Yes. (Correct.)· better Bluetooth profiles. Obvious incremental upgrade.Reality:No. (Wrong.)· voice and speed dialling. Easy, incremental upgrades based on phone software. Apple's had more than a year to work on this.Reality:No. (Wrong.)What won't be there:· SMS forwarding. Americans don't understand SMS, and aren't about to start now.Reality:No. (Correct.)· GPS. Expensive, sucks power, imprecise, and isn't standard on the vast majority of phones, so Apple isn't losing by not using it.Reality:Yes. (Wrong.)· a cheap one.Reality:Yes and no - we don't know the UK pricing, though it's $199 for the 8GB model and $399 for the 16GB model in the US (though with no word on pricing plans there). (Score draw?)I make that two correct out of nine. Not much good, eh? And the things that are wrong are on theupgrades- things like the camera, Bluetooth profiles, video calls or messages, voice and speed dialling.Is that missing list indicative of stuff that Apple can't do? Seems unlikely. Is it perhaps then indicative of stuff that Apple has found people don't actually use? Do we not care about a 3 megapixel camera, or video calls, or voice and speed dialling? I know that I would be pushed to tell the difference between a 2MP and a 3MP pic (and it'll use up 50% more storage space). Bluetooth profiles would be useful - maybe it's tricky? Video calls - nobody makes those. (Come on, seriously.) Video messages? Don't get much of that, I don't think. Voice dialling? I've used it, and it's very useful. Speed dialling? Lots of people in the US use that. Can't see the rationale behind leaving that out.Then again, GPS? Nice for some things, but it was noticeable that in his speech Jobs put up a slide about battery life with audio, video, phone calls; then took it down and started talking about GPS. Because it's a battery-sucker. (Thanks,Andy Ihnatko.)As for "Mobile Me" - which is.Mac, rebranded- it hasn't been a great seller in its current form (6 million iPhones sold, Jobs said; I'll bet there aren't 6m .Mac accounts, though possibly on current form I shouldn't bet a large amount). What's going to be compelling now?So apart from aiming to thoroughly arse up my forecast, what do you think is Apple's rationale for what it has and hasn't done in the new iPhone?
Screw 3G - the new handset gets an improved version of Super Monkey Ball with 110 levels!
The next generation iPhone will include faster internet access, satellite navigation – and a drastic drop in price.Speaking on stage at Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference Steve Jobs, the chief executive of iPod maker Apple, unveiled the new iPhone 3G – a cheaper, more powerful replacement for the handset launched a year ago.Internet speculation had been rife about the new features that might be included on the high-end touchscreen handset, but in the end some of the rumours – such as built-in video calling - proved wide of the mark.As reported in the Guardian, the new model will include GPS satellite navigation as well as faster 3G internet connection and a suite of software improvements.But the biggest news was the sharp drop in the headline price of the phone itself. The iPhone 3G will cost just $199 (£100) – half the current $399 retail price in US shops.The iPhone currently costs £269 in the UK, and although an Apple spokeswoman said British prices would be announced at a later date, it is understood that the phone is likely to be available for a variety of different prices depending on which tariff customers sign up to."We did figure out what our next challenges are – the next mountain we have to climb," said Jobs at the end of a two-hour event in San Francisco. "The number one reason people didn't buy the iPhone was that they couldn't afford it, so we need to make the iPhone more affordable."The news was welcomed by industry observers, who are keen for the gadget to fulfil the hype generated over the past 18 months. But the changes reveal some of the difficulties that Apple – which has been flying high for the best part of a decade on the success of its iPod music player – has found with moving into the phone industry."If Apple knows about nothing else, it knows how to generate and exploit hype. But to make a better version available for European consumers makes sense," said John Delaney, an analyst with IDC. "Having only achieved six million sales – and most of them in the US – I think they feel a need to light a fire underneath it."
You heard it here last... Yep, Namco has announced a new character for Soul Calibur IV and it's yet another Star Wars refugee. Darth Vader's Secret Apprentice from Force Unleashed is the incoming pugilist, joining Vader himself as well as pint-sized sentence-mangler, Yoda. "The Secret Apprentice is a great fit for Soulcalibur," said someone from the Force Unleashed camp, whose originality chip was clearly malfunctioning. How did the phrase 'great fit' become obligatory when describing any kind of 'franchise crossover'?In a related story, rumours started hitting US games sites on Friday evening that LucasArts was laying off development staff,perhaps as many as 100. There was speculation that the company had plans to close its internal studio altogether, but this has beenrefuted by spokesperson, Margaret Grohne. Kotaku suggested 80% of staff in Production Services, "which includes QA and Compliance", were made redundant, with those positions allegedly set to be outsourced.What's the story then? Grohne has claimed that the lay-offs, "had to do with where we are in our product life cycles." But most studios go through peaks and troughs of development without cutting swathes through the workforce. There are suggestons that LucasArts makes more money out of licensing its brands to third-party devs than creating the games themselves, prompting the 'internal review'.Alternatively, with outsourcing becoming a mainstay of the Western industry, it wouldn't be a surprise if this proved the stimulus behind the move. Indeed, LucasFilm has a digital animation studio in Singapore which could well be drafted in to provide videogame art - although it sounds like the majority of cuts may have been in non-development roles.Indeed, responding to a Shacknews story on the job losses,someone claiming to be a coder at LucasArts, suggests the company is, in fact,still hiringand that several games are in the pipeline.The mystery deepens.
Apple's second generation iPhone will include a satellite positioning system, the Guardian has learned.Speculation about the gadget has reached fever pitch ahead of tonight's announcement, but one source who claims to have seen the new iPhone told the Guardian today that the device will include a higher speed 3G connection and GPS unit.Such a development would allow the iPhone to be used as a satellite navigation tool, as well as more accurately pinpointing a user's location for applications such as maps and internet search.Most rumours about GPS have been dismissed in the past because it – along with 3G – is a voracious consumer of energy. In an attempt to offset this, the source claimed, Apple has improved battery life on the handset, although using satellite positioning remains a heavy drain on its system.The source also said that the handset will not be smaller than the current iPhone, as previously reported. However, tthe current generation's metallic back will be replaced with a plain black look.Other well-placed sources have said that the company is prepared to relent on allowing mobile phone networks to subsidise the handset in an attempt to encourage more sales, particularly in Europe."To make a better version available for European consumers makes sense," said John Delaney, research director with industry analyst IDC. "It's impressive to go from zero to 6 million sales in a year, but that's a drop in the ocean compared to the entire market. I think they feel a need to light a fire underneath it."Interest over the new iPhone's features has grown ahead of today's expected launch by Apple chief executive Steve Jobs. The speech at the Worldwide Developers Conference in San Francisco will begin at 6pm British Summer Time (10am Pacific Daylight Time).
Each January I make a pilgrimage to San Francisco for Macworld, and the annual Steve Jobs keynote - it's where many of Apple's biggest announcements are made. In the past the company's summer powwow, the Worldwide Developer Conference (WWDC) has been restricted to some of the heavier, developer stuff (hence the name) such as operating systems, browser stuff and backend magic.The company's started doing more large events, however - there's usually an iPod announcement in September, for example, and last year I watched Jobs launch the silver iMac line at the Apple offices in Cupertino, California. But this time around I've decided to restrain my carbon footprint for a change and follow things from London.With a few minutes until El Jobso takes the stage, it's all gone a bit quiet out there on the web - perhaps they're all iPhoned out, given the insane amount of coverage recently. Or perhaps they think they know it all.I've beentalking to my sourcesabout what we're going to see today, andhere's what they've led me to expect. A black version 2 iPhone with 3G capability and built-in GPS; subsidies that will make the phone much more affordable for mere mortals and perhaps a better camera. No word yet on storage.Let's get rrreeeaaaddddyyyy toooooo ruuuuuummmmbbbbllleee.18.02:Of course, there will be plenty of operating system stuff here today - rumours of a new release of OS X with the naff monicker 'Snow Leopard' abound.John Gruberhas said what he thinks it'll involve... I'm no expert, but Gizmodo is showing a picturethere are two iMacs on stage. Surelytwomeans something.18.10:Oh god, itiscalled Snow Leopard. What about all the other felines who haven't been graced with their operating systems? Lovely Manx? Fugly puma?Fortunately, Jobs has promised to do the iPhone stuff first. Unfortunately, he's started by talking about how businesses use it.18.18:Some talk aimed at developers, discussing how the new software development kit is based on exactly the same stuff that Apple itself uses. Handy, that. Interestingly, I note thatTechcrunch's live blogappears to be down.18.23:Apparently, according to Twitter user Seoulbrother, the Moscone West - a , where the big stage is upstairs,"smells like nerds". Thank goodness I'm many miles away in the confines of the Guardian offices - it just smells like sweaty armpits here.18.28:They've done a bunch of SDK demos, some testimonials and suchlike. I don't think you're missing much. Oh, and my previous comment was really an answer to commenter WilliamT, by the way - there's no BBC beamback this time (or if there is, I wasn't invited) and so I'm plugged into my international network of informants, attendees and on-the-scene reporters (ok, yes, I'm looking on the internet). I thought this might be an interesting exercise in trying to inform and - hopefully - entertain... and point out how little news actually happens at one of these keynotes.18.32:Sega are demoing a version of Super Monkey Ball they built in four weeks and will sell for $9.99 through iTunes. Engadgetdescribes itwith its usual vocabulary panache: "Crap, these graphics look unbelievable compared to anything we've seen on a cellphone before".18.37:Neil Turner's right - there's been a OS X Puma before. But has there been afugly puma? I think not. Personally, I'd have liked "OS X GIANT SABRE TOOTHED CATRAWWR", but I realise there's only a slim chance. Oh, and a housekeeping note:Twitterappears to be down, depriving me of the chance to steal witty lines from text message addicts locked inside WWDC. It's just you and me now, people: I apologise in advance.18.42:Apparently Apple are keen to demonstrate Every. Single. App. that will be in the store at launch. (Associated Press, some games, Typepad, eBay and others). I'm not going to put you through this pain.18.45:Commenter Popgunbang asks whether "crap" is good or bad. I couldn't say; the last time I was down with the kids I almost ended up being arrested. Ooh, it's a British web developer - Mark Terry, ofMooCowMusiciBand, who's got a smart little music-playing application called Band.18.55:Yet More Apps. The clock's ticking, and no end in sight for these bits and bobs (which are all well and good, but come on). Apparently the Snow Leopard stuff isgoing to wait until another session later on.19.05Jobs is back on stage, and telling us about some new stuff on iPhone: contact search, plus support for Numbers, Keynote and MS Office documents. Bulk deletion of messages, save images, that sort of stuff that seemed obvious. More in the SDK: language support, parental controls.19.09:He's talking about the Apps store - developers keep 70% of the price - but the longer this preamble goes on, the less I'm thinking theactualiPhone will be upgraded. Oh noes!19.14:Phil Schiller is on stage demoing Mobile Me - the over-the-air synchronisation tool that we've been expecting, hosted atme.com. Apple's share price is dropping with each minute this goes on - it's down 3.3% as I write.19.27:Mobileme replaces .Mac, costs $99 year. Available in early July. It does stuff, meh.19.40:My prayers have been answered (ie, I don't look like a fool). The iPhone 3G is coming soon to countries all over the world, with a sleeker look, 3G connectivity and GPS. No word on price yet, but Jobs says it will be more affordable.19.44:The iPhone 3G is going to sell for - $199. Wow, that's just a £100 at current rates. Actually, there's no word on British pricing yet, according to an Apple spokeswoman, which means we could see it at a number of different prices.19.57:Please excuse me for a moment - I'm writing this all up and trying to pin someone down for more details!20.00:Snarky readers: you're welcome - and I'm delighted to have you on board. The stream I was listening to crashed my browser, as well as a timing snafu which meant I was trying to file a news story for tomorrow's newspaper, liveblog and write a news story for the website at the same time. Yes, yes, I know: they should clone me or something.Anyway, I do have some real information for you - apparently an announcement on British pricing will be made tomorrow morning.20.10:I see one commenter, StupidGreatLump, has jumped to my defence. Don't worry, I'm a big boy. And Mum, I told you to stop commenting on these threads.20.16:So, what did we learn today? Well, aside from being introduced to some of our more passive-agressive commenters, that Apple's desperate to pump up sales. $199 is almost certainly massively subsidised (whether by Apple or the phone networks) and that's not including the inclusion of 3G and GPS.That certainly makes it more competitive with the other handsets in this class, and it's got that great interface too. I like me a Nokia, HTC and so on, but they're bloody hard to use: at this price, iPhone is a lot more enticing (I might even buy one, if they ditch O2 at some point).Astonishingly, perhaps (given the wildness of most Apple speculation)our sourceswerepretty accurate.Tomorrow we'll find out whether our information on probably pricing - free with a £75/month contract, other prices depending on how much you splurge - was correct.And with that, my friends, I bid you adieu.
Three picturesacquired (don't ask, don't tell, don't know) by The Unofficial Apple Weblog, which last week suggested that the next version of OS X will be dubbed "Snow Leopard" (I'm disappointed: I was hoping for the more zeigeist-y "Lolcat"), suggest that Apple is going to release some new hardware today called the "Fusion".The machine looks like a flatter version of the Mac Mini, with what is clearly an optical slot in the front. Below it is the text:Bridge the gap.(Apple OS logo, Windows logo, Linux logo)Leave Windows behind. Build your Apps for OS X.Building your applications for the Mac has never been easier. Mac Fusion was designed exclusively for new developers wishing to port their existing programs to the Mac, without breaking the bank. Mac Fusion allows you to explore the power and stability of Mac OS X while keeping the ability to run alternate operating systems, such as Windows or Linux, via Boot Camp.Powerful processor. Small space. (Core 2 Duo pic.)Inside every Mac Fusion is a super-fast Intel Core 2 Duo chip. This gives you quick performance in any operating system environment, even if running in a virtual machine. (blah blah marketing blurb)Certainly the Mac Mini has suffered from slow updating; theMacrumors Buyers Guidesays it's been307 days since it was upgraded- that's about ten months in old money - and the model presently in the UK Apple Store still chugs along, at the bottom end, with a 1.83GHz Core 2 Duo chip, 1GB memory and 80GB drive, for £399. Could do better - and the Fusion looks like it is better. Await takeoff in four hours or so..
Britain undoubtedly has a fantastic heritage, supported by a strong heritage industry. And while many museums, art galleries and other tourist attractions have their own websites, the24 Hour National Virtual Museumis a great place to start. It's particularly useful if you want to visit one of its Top 10 cities, from Brighton to Newcastle upon Tyne, either physically or virtually.The 24 Hour Museum portal is funded by several government bodies including the Museums, Libraries and Archives council, Arts Council England, and Visit Britain. It is produced by a small team of journalists at Culture24 in Brighton, plus volunteers who are usually student journalists. They know it's not enough to offer boring lists of exhibitions and museum opening times: you have to engage people with interesting stories.Current topics include an exhibition of work by fashion designer Vivienne Westwood in Sheffield, Discover London Trails (which encourages people to visit London's smaller museums and galleries), a Top 10 of art college degree shows, and children building a spaceship at an art gallery in Leicester.The Imperial War Museum in London has an Ian Fleming exhibition, so there's a James Bond trail on the site. It includes the bus stop on Waterloo Bridge where dissident Georgi Markov was stabbed in the leg with a poison-tipped umbrella.The site's audience includes parents looking for outings for their children, and there's a special site for the kids themselves calledShow Me.Another highlight is a set of city guides commissioned by the Department of Culture, Media and Sport. There are guides for Birmingham, Brighton, Bristol, Leeds, Leicester, Liverpool, Manchester, Newcastle, Norwich and, of course, London. It would be even better if the selection included Bradford and York – both are home to great national museums – plus other places of interest such as Oxford, Cambridge, Bath and Nottingham. The list doesn't include British cities outside England, though the 24 Hour Museum does have a Welsh homepage.If you're looking for somewhere to go close to home, you can try searching the What's On database over a range of dates. It's no doubt incomplete, but 24 Hour Museum offers a direct entry service, so museums and galleries can input their own data.How long the 24 Hour Museum will stay open is another matter – though it will be more than 24 hours. Last year, the organisation that runs it changed its name toCulture24, and said it would relaunch at www.culture24.org.uk this summer. It does, after all, cover much more than museums, and the old name might put people off.Culture24 has not said what it's planning, but almost everywhere in the UK has some sort of cultural connection, so there's no shortage of material. The site could do far more to get people to contribute their own pictures and stories. It could also use more creative ways to display things, including interactive timelines and Google maps. The 24 Hour Museum is good, but Culture24 could be so much better.
There is, as usual, a swirl of speculation this morning as Steve Jobs prepares to make his announcements at Apple's WWDC in San Francisco tonight. As Richard Wray and I reported this morning, our sources are filling us in onwhat the expected iPhone 2.0 will look like: they say it's going to be smaller, cheaper through a subsidy, most likely 3G (thoughproblems have been reported) and probably available in this country next month.Charles has already made his predictions, and we'll be keeping track of it and pondering what it all means here on the blog later tonight, but in the meantime there's plenty of weirdness to keep things going.Among the many chin-scratching reports on Apple, the iPhone and What It All Means is this little number from Dow Jones, which looks intopatent applications from Cupertino.Except - asMartin Stabepointed it out briefly on his blog - it all goes a bit weird.Just how will Apple meet expectations? Using the patent application as a guide, Apple appears to be making room on the iPhone for flash memory, which means an end to Apple's standoff with Adobe (ADBE) that's kept iPhones from easily viewing a plethora of Internet videos.Apple has said that Adobe's flash media player, which is on hundreds of other phones, doesn't perform up to Apple's standards for the iPhone.Flash memory? Adobe? Right now I can't find the patent application in question, but hopefully I don't need to explain why that's seven shades of wrong and back again. It seems everyone's head goes a bit squiffy when they start writing about Apple... let the juggernaut roll onwards...
AtWikigame HQ, our design ethos has undoubtedly been informed by the processes practiced by Interactive Fiction authorEmily Short(read her blog here). Heraward-winning text adventures(Galatea,Metamorphoses,Savoir-FaireandFloatpoint, among others) are the stuff of IF legend, and we've been very lucky to have her around pledginghersupport.As we continue along the path of game development, I asked Emily for her thoughts on games, design and storytelling, and for a few words of encouragement. Read on for sage advice which addresses issues that crop up across the game development spectrum.Where do you think IF sits in the spectrum of computer games?At the edge, near graphical adventures but also near Ren'Py and hypertext and short fiction. Some IF is really not a game at all. The medium allows for different kinds of player/reader involvement.How did you get involved with IF?I played interactive fiction as a kid -- my parents had some Infocom games, and I played a lot of those, especially Zork and Deadline. A little later on, they also got me a few by Scott Adams. I never finished those, but I thought they were fantastic and always wanted to create my own. It wasn't until college that I got access to programming tools to let me do that, though.Which IF are you most proud of?Usually whichever one I'm working on next. My feelings about any given game go through a cycle of extreme enthusiasm (which you need to get through a project) followed by weariness (inevitable in the testing stage) and general hatred (after the game is released and you see all the things about it that still aren't quite perfectly the way you want them to be). Sometimes after a while the hatred wears off again and I start to like my stuff again, in a more detached fashion. But I'm not sure there's really one best that I'm happiest with. I was trying to do different things with different games.What are the key things to think about in developing IF and what are the common pitfalls? How should we avoid them?Your best bet is to look at reviews and articles and making-of posts, especially by the authors of games that are similar to the one you're planning to write. (By similar, I mean more in form than in content -- if you're writing a long puzzle game, then the useful information will be different than if you're writing a short story-oriented piece.)Some places to get started, though:IF Gemsis a collection of quotes from reviews, organized by subject. This is a great place to find out about specific pitfalls, from puzzle design to writing."Past RAIF topics" is an indexed collection of usenet discussions about specific issues. If you find that you're having trouble -- whether trouble with implementing a challenging object, or with coming up with a plot that functions, or whatever -- you may be able to find some past discussions on the topic. The format may not be the most congenial, but there's a large amount of collected community wisdom to be found here.A variety of articlesonIF writing and design-- the latter are older, but many still make good reading.How do you develop your puzzles?That depends very much on what kind of game it is. One of my favorite approaches for a puzzle-based game is to design some kind of interesting new physical or magical law for the game world, and then brainstorm up a lot of puzzles that explore the ramifications of that idea. Then I rank them in terms of how difficult they are, as though I were arranging exercises in a textbook, and I organize the game so that the player encounters them in rough order of challenge. This is really pretty standard puzzle design practice, I think, for many kinds of games.A completely, totally different approach: make the puzzles turn on the player showing that he has figured out or found certain information, and then provide lots of different ways in the game to get that information. Now the game is more about exploring and following leads and doing research (and possibly talking to characters) than it is about manipulating the environment. In this kind of design, pacing is an issue, because you want to make sure that things never go slack - that the player always knowswhathe's supposed to be investigating next.And those are just two approaches; there are others. Whatever direction you go on, though, consistency is key. One of the big challenges is to get the player to trust the game enough that he keeps working on the puzzles instead of going to a walkthrough - and you establish that trust by having your early puzzles be fair and well-clued, making sure reasonable attempts at a solution all have some kind of response even if they don't solve the puzzle, etc.; and then making your later puzzles seem to build on the samekindsof thinking.Why is IF experiencing a renaissance?I think the renaissance happened about 15 years ago, during the mid-90s, when much better design systems for IF were suddenly available and a community coalesced devoted to writing IF seriously, if non-commercially. There's been plenty of development since then: lots of new techniques and new ideas about how to tell a good story, how to write a good puzzle, how to maximize enjoyment and minimize the un-fun kinds of frustration. But from the perspective of people inside the hobby, rightnowis not the beginning or even a rebirth.I do see IF getting a little bit more attention from the outside world, from people who haven't been following it this whole time. I think that's largely because growing attention to independent gaming as a whole. The past couple of years have seen a huge growth in the number of websites devoted to following gamesnotproduced by a big studio, and that means that there are new ways to get attention for IF. It also means a change in prejudices. There are now more people who are willing to look at and try a new game format even if it doesn't come from a commercial studio.There's also a growing concern within the gaming industry (as far as I can observe it) about how conventional game design is not producing enough good stories, enough strong characters, enough innovation. So there's more interest in turning to indie and hobbyist communities to see what we've been doing and whether there's any valuable technique here that would be applicable on a larger scale. I like to think that we do, in fact, have something to offer.Another encouraging sign is that IF tools have become more diverse. I see you're using Inform 6, and it used to be that that was the norm for an IF programming language - an object-oriented language with a fairly compact world model that the author can extend. Over recent years, though, we've seen several other options emerge:TADS 3, which is traditionally object-oriented but has a very large world model designed to cover all sorts of possible physical interactions; andInform 7, which offers a more writerly environment and source that resembles natural language.This broader variety of tools now means that, for any given style of interactive storytelling, there is more likely to be a tool that the author feels comfortable using.What are the next revolutions in IF?Different people would give you different answers on this one, but I'll tell you what it looks like to me: the next revolution is going to be in the emotional power and plot richness of the stories we can tell in IF.We've worked a little - and other media have worked a little - with highly procedural approaches to managing storytelling and character interaction, and those first experiments haven't been that promising. There'sFacade, for instance, which is daring and ambitious but largely fails to deliver on the promise of a genuinely interactive dramatic experience - this isn't parser-based IF in form, but itisan attempt to do something that the IF community was very interested in for a long time.So what I see now is people backing off a little bit from the assumption, which was prevalent for a while, that if we got goodenoughprocedures, and a largeenoughbody of content, we could get the computer to construct and tell a good story. There are still some people working on that (and outside parser-based IF, Chris Crawford is pursuing his own version of it).But I think a lot of the IF community's attention recently has shifted towards the idea that we need to look more at the quality of the writing, and the possibilities that interactivity opens up for storytelling, and make the most of those: that the ideal piece of interactive fiction is ideal not because it's infinitely fluid and allows the player to do anything he wants, but because it makes the player's options clear and important and powerful. How do we use interactivity to explore moral choice? to explore the constraints binding the protagonist? to offer the player the freedom to shape his own character within a fictional world?There are already games, especially RPGs, that touch on this kind of thing, but I think many of them tend to be confined to pretty simplistic distinctions. You can pick this moral philosophy or that one; you can follow the good or the evil path; that sort of thing. IF has the potential to make more nuanced stories that play with these kinds of interactivity.People are working on these ideas, and partly what needs to happen is just more experimentation, more discussion, more chances to discuss what does and does not work. There are also some technical advances that could help, though. I think we want easier and more natural and fluid ways of composing character dialogue, because I think that's going to become more important as IF continues in this direction. I think we could use better tools - or else a better understanding of the tools we do have - for managing exposition.There are an assortment of major projects in the works, so I look forward to seeing what the next year or two brings.You can read more from Emily in her column about games and storytelling, 'Homer in Silicon', onGameSetWatch. And if you'd like to contribute toSpaceship!, the gamesblog's own IF development project, you can find ushere.
Representatives from the government, the regulator Ofcom and industry will hold a crisis summit today to discuss how to prevent the UK slipping down the global broadband league.The government's independent advisory body, the Broadband Stakeholders Group (BSG), will tell the meeting that the long-term benefits to the UK economy of having the next generation of super-fast networks will outweigh the estimated &pound;16bn it will cost to introduce them over the coming years.Last year, the government said that Britain risks being left behind if industry fails to invest in networks capable of delivering speeds of 50 to 100 megabits a second. The current average residential broadband speed is about five megabits a second. The need to invest has become more acute over the past few months with the success of services providing video over the internet, such as the BBC iPlayer.Some internet companies have warned that their networks are struggling under the weight of such services and with others due to be launched over the next few years, bottlenecks are appearing across the country.BT and Virgin Media are already experimenting with faster networks, but the economic case has yet to be made for rolling out fast access to everyone in the UK.The BSG believes public investment will be needed in some areas to ensure everyone can enjoy the sort of super-fast services already available in countries such as Korea and Japan.The meeting, which coincides with the publication of the BSG's latest report into so-called next-generation access networks, comes as former Cable &amp; Wireless chief executive Francesco Caio carries out an investigation on behalf of the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform. Caio will update the industry on his progress at the event.Surprisingly, the BSG believes that the industry does not have to start investing in next-generation networks immediately. According to the group, getting a coordinated approach is much more important."We're talking about a really big change in the industry," said Antony Walker, chief executive of the BSG. "Next-generation broadband has the potential to transform the way we do things. It is tempting to jump in feet first, but it matters more to do this right than to do it now."But he did stress: "On the other hand, the UK cannot wait too long. If widespread network deployment didn't happen in the medium term - perhaps three to five years - then ... the UK could be losing out."The BSG's report suggests businesses would reap a number of benefits from faster networks, such as increased productivity, the potential to decrease congestion by flexible working and employment opportunities in rural areasWalker said: "There's a lot we can learn from around the world, then doing it right rather than being early and getting it wrong," he said. "We're reasonably confident that there is between 18 months and two years to make a decision."
Apple is preparing to slash the price of its iPhone handset in an attempt to convince millions more customers to get on board.The iPod-maker is due to launch an improved version of its much-vaunted touchscreen mobile phone today. Although the announcement is being closely guarded, sources have confirmed a number of details to the Guardian.The handset will offer faster connections to the internet, using the 3G phone networks prevalent across Britain, and will be smaller than the current model.The second-generation iPhone will go on sale immediately in the US, with British customers due to get their hands on it next month. It will also be available to pre-pay customers. And crucially, the handset will be offered at lower prices - or even for free. Those who sign up for a contract costing &pound;75 a month will be offered the handset for no extra charge, breaking with Apple's earlier attempts to avoid the large subsidies common in the rest of the industry. Elsewhere, the gadget is likely to be subsidised to lower the price, which could drop from &pound;269 to as little as &pound;100.While the iPhone has proved a hit in America, where the majority of its sales have taken place, it has managed only a moderate level of success in Europe. Many customers have complained about the lack of higher-speed 3G connections, and it has been hampered by a general impression of high price.Apple will be attempting to shift those perceptions in San Francisco today, where chief executive Steve Jobs will take the stage to lay out his plans. He will also be hoping that the new iPhone will give a fillip to the sales figures. A study by the industry analyst IDC last week claimed the iPhone's share of the American smartphone market fell from 26% at Christmas to just over 19% in the first three months of 2008.
The phrase "gap year", to me, has always been a euphemism for a period of time in which people too bone idle to go to college doss around the world in sandals and headbands, listening to hideous rackets purporting to be "music", in fields that they have irrigated with the contents of their own bladders. Did anyone taking a gap year ever discover the meaning of life? Did they ever go on to win a Nobel prize? Did they heck. Before they knew it, their gap year had changed into gap years, soon to become a gap lifetime.The television company Endemol is very good at paying lazy people to do nothing, as yet another Big Brother (the ninth) bears witness. The world is never short of volunteers to drop out of normal life in the pursuit of fame, and now, in conjunction with the website Bebo, the company has found yet another vehicle featuring people being paid not to work.The Gap Year, which launched on May 21 on Bebo, has given six young people from different countries an all-expenses-paid, six-month trip to pastures new. Although dubbed "explorers" on the website, think less Ranulph Fiennes and more the EastEnders planning a trip up west for the night. There are photos, blogs and videos on the individual profile pages, and already a substantial fan-base is building.So, who are these "explorers"? The site calls them "intrepid", which, according to the thesaurus, means adventurous, bodacious, bold, brave, daring, doughty, fearless, gallant, game, gutsy, heroic, nervy, resolute, vigilant. Let's be honest, they can't and won't be: not least, because you can't be any of those things when there is a camera crew constantly at your heels and a production manager insisting that everyone stick to the terms of the insurance. The drama, therefore, has to be imposed from without, under very controlled circumstances, and as a result is, so far, rather dull.Cara Cloni is the one you most want to slap. An American, for her, the trip is "awesome" and, as a woman whose profile states that she likes all things Disney, she must really mean it. Cara is loud. Very loud. Just when you thought she was at her loudest when being greeted by a goat called Satan, she was taken shark diving and screamed even more. Fearless? Gutsy? Not really. Seen it all before. Got the T-shirt.That is The Gap Year's real problem: most things, so far, we have seen thousands of times before. The footage is bog-standard travel stuff - cars streaming up a hot street, sharks under water, miles of salt flats - and the six characters do not deliver enough to add a new dimension to the familiar material.The under-reaction of most of the six is indicative of a world in which the young can have pretty much anything they want and go anywhere they choose; hence, there is precious little feeling of adventure or excitement as this mob set about their travels. Andre Tardiff was distinctly low-key about the considerable attention he was getting from girls in a Bangkok bar, and no amount of prompting from what I presume was the cameraman was going to drag the slightest sense of wonder out of him. He did nothing, he said, because "I'm Canadian". "What does that mean?" asked the cameraman. "We're pure. With integrity." Bloody hell, he's going to be great TV.I was hoping for something more from Australian Amy O'Connor, who we see touching snow for the first time. Describing herself as "vivacious, ambitious, fun", she said her time in Iceland was "a beautiful experience", "awesome", "amazing". Clearly auditions for The Gap Year were not quite as rigorous as those for Big Brother.There are a couple of shining lights in among the tedium, in particular 18-year-old Londoner David Brett, who has a natural ease in front of the camera and is a born entertainer. The film where his locker is broken into in Vancouver, resulting in his losing all of his belongings, owes much to his contribution, but is also a beautifully made, exquisitely edited story, capturing the spirit of each moment of his trauma as he seeks to get a new passport.And check out Lewis Whaltiri's hilarious visit to what I can only describe as small people wrestling in national dress. I haven't seen that since St David's Day in primary school.
Here online we can find space for full text of the letters and blog pingbacks that we don't have space for inprint. This week people were mostly worked up about ecohackers and MMO, government websites and spam phoning...ECOHACKERSCan the ecohackers save us? Umm - that would be a "no", then? Graeme Kerr, Walthamstow&gt;&gt; We're quite worried that some attempts at ecohacking will be undertaken -- either by governments or by well-meaning vigilante billionaires -- but that the system dynamics, secondary impacts, and possible side-effects of whatever methods they choose may not be fully understood. The earth's climate is massively complex, with long, slow functions that ebb and flow, while simultaneously being subject to sudden, rapid cascades of change. If we try to mess with all that unadvisedly, we may be very sorry.crnano.typepad.com/crnblog&gt;&gt; If those ideas [in the article] are infeasible then the ones about putting shit into orbit are the product of minds which resemble large bags of mixed fruit and nuts. FYI, it costs a little over £3000 per kilogram to put an object into low earth orbit and several times that for geostationary. And that was before oil reached $135 a barrel. My point is that dream-uber-techno-solutions simply aren't practical or workable. The only solution is George [Monbiot]'s: Reduce emissions now and pump all that money into expanding renewable generation capacity.punkscientist.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; What I would like to know of course is who is funding these studies? I think we are beginning to see the first signs of the misappropriations of funds that has been started by our good pal Al Gore in diverting money that could be more WISELY spent on REAL issues.wobblingworld.wordpress.com&gt;&gt; I'd really prefer we were a bit more certain of the causes of problems before we presumed to meddle with possible cures.junkk.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; Freaky? I think so. But perhaps not as freaky as the alternative. Let's hope it doesn't come to that.linsdownunder.blogspot.comPOWER STRUGGLESThe impression given is one of great current difficulties for data centre operators, yet considerable new capacity is now coming on line to meet the burgeoning demand for high quality data centre capacity in London. For example: TelecityGroup has just opened a new 25 megawatt, 5,000 sq metre site called Powergate in East Acton; Interxion has recently extending their London city site by 1,250 sq metres (the site is already supplied with 13 megawatts of power and has room for further expansion); Equinix opened a new 10,000 sq metre site in Slough in December 2007; Telehouse recently announced the first phase of a considerable expansion of their Docklands site. The London Internet Exchange is in the process of building new points of presence in these sites, emphasising their importance as carrier neutral data centres (a point your author seems to have missed completely). All these new sites and new capacity are offering state of the art facilities, with high power to rack availability (anything up to 5kW per cabinet and 20kW in high density zones.) This presents a much more positive picture, and although it is acknowledged that sourcing power capacity in London is not an easy matter, it is by no means the impossible situation that your article portrayed. Greg McCulloch, Managing Director, Interxion UK; John Souter, CEO, London Internet Exchange Ltd; Michael Winterson, VP Sales &amp; Marketing, Equinix; Mike Tobin, CEO, TelecityGroup&gt;&gt; the way that data centre growth is increasing means that with current solutions we're facing a losing battle. The last estimates I saw (from the US) was that data centre power was doubling every 5 years and the figures for the City are only marginally slower. Yet the reports of data centre gains tend to talk about one-off 15-30% power reductions. Clearly these sorts of solutions wont solve the problem in the long run (or even the medium term) - we need more and better answers (such as using the waste heat to warm buildings).thegreenitreview.comBOOKSANDBOOKPEOPLESo Aleks [Krotoski] thinks that "static media [e.g. books written by a single author] is (sic) on its way to becoming a curiosity"? Hmmm, funny that Victor Keegan comments in the same edition on the ever increasing sales of books. I think the thing is that books and the whole social web blog thing have different strengths and agendas. If you want a virtually real-time melting pot of ideas, opinions and discussion (regardless of the fact that a substantial proportion spew uncensored from the brains of talentless, sycophantic, self-referential halfwits) then go for 'social media' (whatever that means). If you want to immerse yourself in someone else's fully realised and integrated vision of 'something' then you could pick up a book. And the beauty of the situation is that a single author could construct a believable world about the 'social media', for example, including the overwhelming diversity of voices that typifies this medium. I have my suspicions as to whether collaborative works could consistently produce unquestionably convincing worlds that people want to revisit time and time again. I'm not against the idea of collaborative work, not by a long chalk, I'm just against the idea that because a medium is new it must be a Good Thing, and all previous media are fuddy-duddy and soon to be superseded by the New. Anyway, books are crammed full of diverse voices all coexisting and conflicting; you could argue that at the core of the novel is heteroglossia itself. The linguist Mikhail Bakhtin defines heteroglossia as "another's speech in another's language, serving to express authorial intentions but in a refracted way". Blimey...sounds like social media... Matt Flanagan, Hebden Bridge&gt;&gt; Nice to see a story [Vic Keegan] suggesting that everything isn't going to the dogs.iaplay.comMMO POPULATIONSInteresting article, but nothing really new. One small reference to SWG, which SoE ruined when they converted it to FPS-style targeting, took away the Jedi Initiate village system (and pissed off a whole bunch of both old-school Jedi - like myself, as well as a whole bunch of neo-Jedi who were a few months away from gaining their lightsabers). The questing and need for teaming to become a Jedi made sense, both in lore and game dynamic terms. If SoE had not made these changes, but had instead invested in graphics upgrades and content, SWG would still be going strong. My daughter's character was an old-school Twi' dancer, and thats all she did. She got taken on raids to dance, she made huge sums of credits in the canteens dancing in general or by special request. When the initiate village system began, she embarked on the Jedi path, respec-ing to Bounty Hunter so she could XP effectively. The end of that system and the new style of play and instant-Jedi status turned her off as well. So it's not just that WoW is so good (it has so many failings I can't count them all, and between me and my daughter, we have 5 level 70 characters, and years of experience), but also that other publishers have either had a possible hit and make brain-dead decisions, or brought out fatally flawed games which never had a chance. Take Vanguard for example. I championed this game to my Everquest guild, and got into early beta. I realized right away it would take more than my 4GB memory SLI 8800 GTX O/C water-cooled 3.8GHZ P4 1T Raid0 computer to make it run right. Thought I admit it looks quite stunning on that computer, nobody else I know can run anywhere near 10fps or better unless they dumb down the graphics to where they look terrible. And we aren't even talking about the dumb game design issues yet. Basically, this is another example of something which was going to be an important game which was destroyed by SoE. John and Anjelika (no post town given)&gt;&gt; While other media either have a sort of "gosh, we'd better explain what an MMO is, and isn't it cute how dwarves run around with giant axes" kind of pie-eyed sensibility (and usually get it all wrong), and others are either deeply cynical or cynically shallow, the Guardian has been a source of good MMO coverage.dusanwriter.comICANN AND CANNOTThe argument is made that a compromise is being reached and that the IGF can meaningfully address issues. Nowhere in the article is their mention of the following critical issues: - that IGF is a non-binding multi-stakeholder body with no decision making powers; - that greater clarity is required from the Mr. Desai on the UN Secretary General's process of enhanced cooperation amongst member states; Civil Society has repeatedly criticised the Composition of the Multistakeholder Advisory Group (MAG) that mainly sets the agenda for the IGF meetings; -and, finally (and most) critically, the current governance arrangements of the Internet (with unilateral US Department of Commerce control) is illegitimate and unaccountable. On the latter it gives the distinct impression that strides are being made to improve the legitimacy of Icann, which may be true, but belies its illegitimacy. Is this a case of the UK pandering to the US line uncritically, again? Riaz Tayob, Polokwane, South AfricaFUEL CONT'DI have owned a Prius for just over a year now. I bought it to replace an excellent Eco Astra diesel. I did this for environmental reasons – the Prius has a much lower emissions figure and, I decided, better pollution credentials because of the danger from diesel particulates. In the Astra I never dropped below an annual average consumption figure of 60+ mpg, compared with Vauxhall's claimed 65 combined; in the Prius, despite Toyota claims for 65.7 mpg combined, my first year's average has been 51.11 mpg, which is disappointing. The car is fully maintained according to the Toyota schedule, with particular attention to tyre pressures and both my wife and I drive "ecologically". No doubt a Prius would be advantageous compared with an Espace. It seems to be less attractive in terms of fuel consumption even than Professor Hawley suggests, compared with a diesel. Whether its lower emissions and fewer particulates compensate for that is a matter of opinion. It is certainly a more comfortable and roomy car than the Astra. Tony Mitchell, BedfordLETTERS...Tracyanne Barlow (Technology Guardian Letters, May 29) seems almost willfully to miss the point of your Shuttleworth interview ("Linux is a platform for people, not just specialists", May 22). Latching onto the mention that Canonical (Shuttleworth's Ubuntu service company) is still far short of breaking even, she trumpets that other companies have already made profits from Linux-related services. Shuttleworth, however, has been there, done that and got the space-suit. As your article mentioned, he sold his first company, Thawte, for $500m+ - which is why he can afford the global sharing of Ubuntu. If Barlow re-reads the article (or even just its headline), she may understand that the Ubuntu project aims not at profit but at giving the mass of humanity the option of doing without the currently monopolist operating system. Michael Graaf, TotnesPlease advise your correspondent Tim Lidbetter that he doesn't live in Kingston-on-Thames but Kingston upon Thames. I only hope his e-mailing addresses are more accurate! John McCarthy, SurbitonGOVERNMENT WEBSITESI've been really trying to use the HMRC website. I first complained in December 2006 that it didn't retain any data that I input, when I logged off and logged on again the figures were no longer there. That fault still exists, but I can no longer be bothered to complain about it. I have only one employee, and it's much more convenient for me to manage her tax and national insurance online, but only if the site works. This year I managed to file my end-of-year return during a brief period when the site worked, but the P60 statement of earnings it produced was completely wrong, as it has been in previous years, too. I can't imagine I'm the only person having these problems. All I want is to issue my employee with her P60 statement of earnings, in line with my statutory duty. I've been passed around various helplines, but no actual help is forthcoming. It's particularly dispiriting as I could easily just give my employee cash in hand, but both she and I want to do the right thing, and HMRC is making it really difficult for us. Is there a potential story for you in the uselessness of the site and what lies behind it, I wonder? They're clearly not going to fix anything because I ask them to, but a newspaper article might shame them into action. Thalia Griffiths, HastingsSPAM PHONINGI've been receiving loads of calls in the last couple of years, I usually just put the phone down and let the 'computerised' voice carry on until they hang up. Recently I tried to talk to them to waste their time even more and press the '5' button but it immediately hangs up. Did your research ever show that pressing a button actually makes a charge or bill on your line ? Brian Duncan, Fife
Looking forward to Monday's announcement of the second-generation iPhone? Wondering, though, quite what the rabbit is that Steve Jobs will pull out of his hat? Well, use this guide, put together by Wired's Cult of Mac blog, using Dipity.The neat thing is that a number of the items include links to YouTube clips of the relevant items.So, give us your insight: what's going to be the "one more thing" on Monday?
Struggling search engine almost copies Guardian Unlimited styleGoogle must have had some feedback about its dull and horribly weak-looking new favicon, which is no doubt appearing in a browser tab very near you. TheOfficial google Bloghas put up a not-very-spirited defense. This points out that they hadn't changed it in 8.5 years -- yeah, that's a really good reason for making something worse.Google also says: "The design process we went through was rigorous and interesting". In other words, "we screwed it up, but a lot of people did a lot of work to make sure we screwed it up really thoroughly." This is known in the industry as "the Microsoft defence".Another good excuse is: "we wanted to develop a set of icons that would scale better to some new platforms like the iPhone". So trying to look good on a couple of million phones is a good reason for looking terrible on a billion desktops and notebooks? Would you like to take a vote on that?The clincher is that the blog shows a whole panel of variations, which just goes to show that a monkey could have picked a better favicon with a pin.Still, I shouldn't really complain about Google using a lower case g as a favicon, because the Guardianalready usesa lower case g as a favicon. I should be grateful that they have made their's look worse than ours ;-)Coming next week: Google changes its name to Giggle and puts small ads all over its front page. "We hadn't changed it in 8.5 years!!!"
If the Ford Focus were an author, it would have to be John Grisham. Not in the sense that you would buy a Focus in a slightly choice-paralysed way, in an airport bookshop on your way to a holiday, then leave it behind when you came back. But in terms of its ubiquity, its relentless presence in the bestseller charts and the sheer opposition-crushing weight of its sales figures, Ford's market-storming hatchback and its various derivatives have much in common with the former attorney from Arkansas.Read the numbers and weep. The latest version of the Focus arrives in time to celebrate the car's 10th birthday, and in every one of its full years of production so far it has been the UK's top-selling car. In that period, five million people around the world have bought one, and more than a fifth of those people (1.2 million) have been British. Accordingly, Focuses now account for one in 20 of the cars sold in Britain. One in 20. They're taking over. If they ever get together in the same place at the same time and start plotting, we're all in trouble.OK, so Grisham has sold more than 230m worldwide. But Grishams don't cost upwards of &pound;11,000 - not even the first edition signed ones - so the Ford's returns are still comparatively boggling.Put it this way: statistically, you have less chance of winning the Lottery than you have of getting knocked down by a bus, but far more likely than either of those things happening is that you will get knocked down by a Ford Focus. A Ford Focus driven by a John Grisham-reader, in all likelihood. (I may be fudging the maths slightly here, but you take my point.)So, here comes the new Focus hatchback, and reversing the sales trend doesn't seem to be on its agenda. It's the same well-received plot, basically, with a couple of new twists. It costs &pound;250 more than the outgoing model, but is better equipped. Ford's Electronic Stability Programme, which means the car panics on your behalf when you fling it incautiously through corners and silently amends the worst of your driving, now comes as standard. As does the rear spoiler, which gives the back end its moderately cool, lazy-eye look. And no more fiddling with plastic screw-tops thanks to the "Easyfuel capless refuelling system" - a stroke of genius in which the hinged flap in the bodywork is the only thing you need to open to fill the car with fuel.What are you saying by choosing a car as universal as the Focus? You're not dressing to stand out, that's for sure. It's the polo shirt and relaxed-fit chinos of the automobile world - properly popular, but unassumingly stylish if worn right.It's not a fantastically exciting car, but then neither is John Grisham a fantastically exciting author. The pivotal development in The Firm, I dimly recall, involved a long session at a photocopier. Did the toner run out? I don't remember, and I would have to go back to France - where I left the book - to find out. Anyway, excitement may be the most overrated commodity. We say we want it, but do we? We don't seem to want it in our legal thrillers, and we certainly don't want it in our cars, which have important jobs. Long may the Focus continue to publish.Ford Focus 1.4 DuratecPrice£11,945Top speed102mphAcceleration0-62 in 14.1 secondsAverage consumption32.5mpgCO2 emissions157g/kmEco rating7/10At the wheelDenis van OutenBound forWithamIn a wordEverywhere
I'm thinking philosophically. I'm wondering, at the conceptual level, about gadgets. And it occurs to me that my life can be divided into two  time periods: without stuff and with stuff. In the without-stuff period, things were things. If something new came into the house, such as a chair or even a vase, it got noticed. The arrival of a television was like a visit from the Queen. We weren't well off and the stuff we wanted was either too expensive or hadn't been invented.All that changed with the dawning of the with-stuff era. These days, I've got so much stuff, I don't really know how much stuff I've got. Most of it useless.But out of all the crap, I can point to four gadgets from the past two decades that I value for their indispensable brilliance, and the first is the mobile phone. I once wrote that it will never be cool to talk on the mobile phone, and I still believe that. But, as a device, it is genius. It works virtually everywhere, can cost relatively little and is smaller than your average chocolate bar. About two years ago I was having a dark Wednesday of the soul in a small town in southern Poland. It was late, wet, cold. I pulled out my phone, pushed one button, and in a couple of seconds I was talking to my wife. We were thousands of miles apart and connected by nothing other than excited atoms. Define the word miracle in a way that excludes the mobile phone, if you can.Item two is the MP3 player - an iPod, in my case. I don't listen to music on headphones - feels like migraine. And I love my vinyl to the point of fetishism. But I travel a lot and vinyl is heavy, and did you ever try playing an LP in the car? Ten thousand songs on something smaller than a cassette. Put that in the miracle basket as well.Item three: the debit card. Internationally accepted, near-weightless, super-convenient, largely idiot-proof. And cheque books. Yes, we have fraud and banking errors and all the rest of it, but then we used to have robbery.Last, there's the satnav. As a geography graduate, I eschewed (first time I've ever used that word, won't happen again) the satnav on all kinds of ideological grounds. I like maps, I'm "spatially aware", I want to comprehend where I am, not just be given the coordinates by a voice-print. I thought satnav would compromise all those things, and maybe it has done, but who cares, because it's made life easier. Sure, it makes mistakes, sends articulated lorries into farmyards, etc, but it makes far fewer mistakes than I do. A couple of weeks ago it took me from one school in deepest Shropshire to another, through a ford and down a cart-track, but it got me there without fuss and without having the map in one hand and only one eye on the road. Phone, card, iPod, satnav - I'm good to go.Most of the stuff that doesn't work is to be found at the back of our kitchen cupboards. No matter how many arms or pulleys or grippers are added, the basic corkscrew cannot be improved upon. Basters, broilers, ice-cream makers, melon ballers, juicers, zesters, corers, peelers, steamers, mixers, kneaders - the list is endless. Most come under the title "labour-saving" - a beautiful contradiction, because, when it comes to getting them out and setting them up and rinsing them out and putting them back, who can be bothered?But the epitome of pointlessness, and the device for which I reserve the most scorn, is Volkswagen's electronic handbrake. Since when was it a problem to pull up the handbrake? The handbrake, that most reassuring and necessary of driver aides, reduced to a button on the right-hand side (ie the wrong side) of the steering wheel, a button that basically doesn't workIn the post-stuff era, when civilisation fragments and society collapses through weakness of mind and feebleness of body, the designer of VW's electronic handbrake must be hauled in front of the rioting mob and held accountable for their crime.&#183;Stephen Fry will return in July.
There are a number of portable solar chargers available with plugs for phones, MP3 players and so on - but which is the best?Portable solar chargers have come on in recent years, but still require strong, direct sunlight: not ideal for our patchy weather. Solio is one of the biggest names and its three-panel designs, such as the Solio Classic (around &pound;50), are well-regarded. The Freeloader may be cheaper (&pound;25-&pound;30), but many users say it doesn't give enough consistency to go permanently off the grid. Both gizmos will generally need between four and six hours of strong sunlight to charge the average mobile phone.For better performance, try the Voltaic backpack (&pound;190) or Reware Juice Bag (around &pound;200). Both have built-in solar panels, which are useful if you're out walking, and offer higher output. Another alternative is the Soldius 1, a little book-like charger that doesn't have a built-in battery, which means it can't store energy to dish out at a later point, but it does result in a lower environmental footprint. It seems to have faster charging times (two to three hours for a mobile phone, for example). I've struggled to find a supplier in the UK, but you can pick one up on eBay for around &pound;40 plus postage.&#183;Email your problems togadget.clinic@guardian.co.uk
MondayLucasarts bringing classic adventures to DS?Sci-Fi channel mixes TV show with MMOTuesdayMore on sex in gamesMake your brain fit onlineFar Cry 2 the highlight of UbidaysWednesdayWikigame: Spaceship! foundations are setPS3 becomes ad platformGetaway and Eight Days cannedThursdayFames on TV: the channel owner speaksBourne leads reviewsAre we creatures of habit in game worlds?FridayGame Pitch: The Sky RemainsAge of Conan hits one million
Funcom have announced that recently launched MMOAge of Conanhas already shipped 1 million units."Sales data shows that Age of Conan is the biggest MMO launch since World of Warcraft," says Funcom Vice President of Sales and Marketing, Morten Larssen. "The numbers are very promising, and we are very proud to be one of the fastest selling PC games ever in a launch month and the biggest simultaneous Europe/US MMO launch in history."I always mention WoW when interviewing MMO developers. In reply they invariably spin the PR line that Blizzard's classic game is a market-opening opportunity rather than a competitive threat. These figures prove they may have been right. Would Conan have done so well in the pre-WoW days of say 2003? How many of these 1 million - or thereabouts - players are high level WoW players taking a break from Azeroth?Of course, shipping a million units is one thing, getting players to subscribe for more than a month or two is the real success metric. I've been playing Conan for a couple of weeks now and while the more involved combat and character physicality are welcome MMO innovations I won't be subscribing just yet. For a start my laptop - a decent ram-packed high-end one bought about a year ago - may have finally met its match with Conan. Unlike WoW, which could probably run on an Atari ST* Age of Conan demands the latest hardware to play smoothly at any kind of decent resolution. More importantly Conan is full of zoning. These loading screens between areas, buildings and cities are hugely annoying immersion-breakers. WoW, and the increasingly impressive Lord of the Rings Online, restrict zoning to a minimum, and so create the feeling of being in a coherent world. Despite this Conan has a stack of promise. It looks great - assuming you have a sexy PC - and has had a relatively smooth launch. I will definitely be back. Anyone here playing?*Ok, maybe an Amiga
What's it worth to come and put a mobile phone mast in my backyard? Not very much, I expect. Mobile phone operators have covered the country and while there are plenty of farmers and schools or office blocks that have cashed in on the perceived need to be able to make a breathless call from almost anywhere, that time has past.OK, then; what's it worth for an energy generating company to come and put a wind turbine in my backyard?It's a serious question. I've just spent an evening contemplating a few things in my rural fastness (like most of the population, I don't live in London): the price of electricity keeps going up; and I've got some space that could be used for generation. But also, the payback time for a wind turbine if I buy it myself is longer than my comparatively new mortgage.If you're interested, you can see the British Wind Energy Association'swindspeed calculator, which lets you figure out your location and then bounces you to the government's official windspeed calculator.Ours was disappointing, suggesting that the wind won't get above 6 metres per second, even with a turbine 25m high. Even so, I'd like a turbine, please.The thought was prompted by the announcement of plans for ahuge new set of wind farms off the coastable to generate 25 gigawatts, which would take the total new wind generation planned up to 33GW – a quarter of our present electricity demand.Well, it's a start. But evenpower bosses have now recognisedthat we need to get generation technology decentralised. Remember at the end of last month, when Scottish and Southern Energy (SSE) said in a statement that "The days of meeting an unchecked demand for energy through monolithic carbon-intensive power stations are coming to an end ... Increasingly the emphasis will be on energy efficiency, renewables, cleaned-up fossil fuel plants and microgeneration."That really does mean decentralising the power grid. Making it a bit more like the internet, in fact – all the clever stuff (well, the generation) happening at the edges, and the middle just routing stuff to where it's required.I know thatI've backed nuclear power previously; I'm not changing my stance on that, but the speed with which things are changing – look at the rise in the price of oil in the past two years – means that there's little time to stand around. The government's slow, slow realisation that the oil underneath the North Sea isn't going to last forever and delays in getting round to commissioning more nuclear stations is like someone who tells you they're going to build some snowmen – but tells you in mid-summer, so you have to sit around and wait. And wait. And wait.We can't wait, though. It's not as though building a huge wind turbine is going to get cheaper. It takes a lot of energy: you have to make steel, shape the steel, dig trenches, mix concrete, pour, balance, tune, get it all together. The energy input part of the process isn't going to get cheaper as oil and gas and coal become less available. And then there's the labour to install it at the site solidly enough to make sure it'll stay there.So put it all together. We need more renewable energy. Wind turbines are a way to do it. But they're too expensive for the average person to afford. But average people have lots of places to site turbines, just as farmers did for mobile phone masts.The secret sauce that's needed: the generation companies have to accept that it'll be cheaper, in the long term, for them to put their generating capacity in little places all over the country, outside their exact control, trusting people to look after it. The companies will have to transform themselves into an industry that makes its money by coordinating a huge network. Which means they have to pay some of the installation costs, because if they don't someone else will come in and do it instead, creating a microgeneration network whose output will be distributed over the grid.I don't mind – give me a discount on the electricity, or pay me a rental, and you can stick a big turbine in the field. Or if you'd like to build a nuclear plant down the road, that's fine by me - so long as you give me free electricity as long as I live here. It's a fair trade. The generating companies get something they want: places to generate. I get something I want: access to a valuable utility.Hmm, moving from a centralised to a decentralised organisation, running a community ... it sounds like the sort of challenge that has faced many organisations as the internet has come along. It's coming to the energy grid. It's unavoidable. I wonder, though, if they'll try to resist in the way that other century-old organisations have.
Amy Winehouse and Mark Ronson at the Brit Awards. If you're really bad, they'll send her round your place.Some time back - April 24 to be precise - weforecast what the real outcomeof the BPI's "deadline" to internet service providers over people illicitly sharing music files over their networks would be: a letter.A reminder of what we said:The trouble though is that the law is silent on precisely what constitutes "taking action". Does it mean (as the BPI is urging ISPs to interpret it) "tell people who are using file-sharing networks to download copyrighted music to stop or they'll get kicked off the system in a three-strikes-and-you're-out model"? Or does it mean - as one ISP suggested to us it does, at least to their legal department - writing a letter to every subscriber reminding them that downloading copyrighted material and not paying for it is illegal?Today comes news that the BPI and Virgin have figured out what to do:Virgin Media and the BPI today announced a new education campaign to help Virgin Media's broadband customers safely download music from the internet and avoid the risk of legal action.As part of the campaign, customers whose accounts appear to have been used to distribute music in breach of copyright will receive informative letters, one from Virgin Media and one from the BPI. Accounts will be identified to Virgin Media on the basis of information supplied by the BPI. Both letters will be distributed by Virgin Media, without the need to disclose customer names and addresses to the BPI.See? A letter.Research [by Jupiter Research - CA] suggests that across the UK, over six and a half million consumers' broadband accounts are used to access music without permission using peer-to-peer services. The BPI and Virgin Media believe that, in many cases, customers may not be aware that their account is being used in this way. The new campaign will provide practical advice on how to prevent account misuse, links to legitimate sources of on-line music and information about the potential dangers of downloading files from unauthorised sources, including increased threats from viruses and spyware.So all can say that they're very satisfied with the result. The BPI gets action from one of the biggest ISPs; the ISP fulfils its duties under the 1988 Copyright, Designs and Patents Act.Next question: what will Carphone Warehouse, which sent the BPI off with a flea in its ear, do?Somehow though I can't feel that a letter is going to change the behaviour of people who choose to grab music instead of paying for it.
"An internal British Telecom report on a secret trial of an ISP eavesdropping and advertising technology found that the system crashed some unsuspecting users' browsers, and a small percentage of the 18,000 broadband customers under surveillance believed they'd been infected with adware," saysWired blogs. It's commenting on a January 2007 report atWikileaks(PDF) which looks like a photocopy of a BT Retail Technology memo. (Its authenticity remains unconfirmed.)Of 10,000 trial users, "at least 15-20 separate users did detect the presence of the system as evidenced from message board posts," says the memo. That's not many, but it would imply more than 1,300 in the first two weeks of full-scale operation.The memo also warns:Any deployment of PageSense will clearly require the user based to be informed. Despite the fact that the system is intended to improve the relevance of advertisements through anonymous collation of browsing histories, communications regarding advertisement systems and information collection could lead to negative perception if not carefully handled.I think we can agree they got that bit right....Note: Click the Privacy label on the left for many previous posts about Phorm, or do aGoogle search.
Google has announced Gmail Labs, which will let users try a baker's dozen new features. Gmail has stagnated or even got worse over the past couple of years, and Google's solution has been to open the development to staff who can add features in their personal (20%) time. TheOfficial blogsays:The result of this loosely-directed chaos is 13 Labs features, with more on the way. Some of them we've found really useful, like Quick Links, which lets you save searches and any other views in Gmail. Kai and Julie wrote Superstars, which gives you different types of stars. Dave wrote Old Snakey, which lets you play an old school style computer game when you press "&amp;". I'm just going to go out and say it: Old Snakey is probably a bad idea. But Dave wanted to do it, so Dave did it and anyone who uses Gmail can use it. And now you can help decide whether it's a good idea. That's the kind of thing that makes a project fun to work on.If you have it, it will be under the Settings menu. (I don't, yet.) However, the Labs feature should soon be available to US and UK users.It's not clear whether Gmail Labs will do much more than add flowery bits of icing to the cake. The most obvious and most dramatic improvement would come by adding folders (well, Gmail has folders, but users are not allowed to create them) and search-within-folders. For serious email users, labels just don't cut it.If any Google programmers are stuck for an idea, here's one I'd like. A decent email client should allow multiple signatures (sig files). I need about eight sig files, because I use them as form letters. My sig2, for example, doesn't just have contact details, it says: "Thanks for the invitation, I'm sorry I can't make it...." (etc).Obviously you have to be able to put the sig at the top of the email, and the Lab includes a "sig tweak" that lets you put the sig above the quoted text in Gmail. Enabling multiple sigs has therefore become a worthwhile enhancement. (Let me know when you've done that: I have more.)
Intel had a big hit with Conroe, the Core 2 Duo processor, and two years on, it seems it has another in Nehalem, according to unofficial benchmarks atAnandtech. The site says:We've been told to expect a 20 - 30% overall advantage over Penryn and it looks like Intel is on track to delivering just that in Q4. At 2.66GHz, Nehalem is already faster than the fastest 3.2GHz Penryns on the market today. At 3.2GHz, I'd feel comfortable calling it babySkulltrailin all but the most heavily threaded benchmarks. This thing is fast and this is on a very early platform, keep in mind that Nehalem doesn't launch until Q4 of this year.The hyperthreading chip shows up as 8 processors in Windows Vista.Intel is shipping early Nehalem chips to motherboard designers etc. It will probably be next year before they appear in affordable notebook and desktop PCs.
Senior industry figures are calling for the new code of practice for advertising broadband services to be extended to mobile internet providers.More than 30 fixed-line internet service providers have already signed up to the voluntary code, which was announced yesterday by media regulator Ofcom. Under the terms of the code, companies agree to adhere to a set of common standards and practices aimed at eliminating customer confusion arising from broadband advertising.But with the increasing take-up of mobile broadband services – which allow computers to access high-speed internet services via 3G phone networks instead of fixed telephone lines – some say the code's reach should be extended."We welcome the voluntary code for fixed-line broadband," said Kevin Russell, chief executive of mobile network 3 UK. "However, thousands sign up each week to enjoy the advantages of mobile broadband. The same principles of clear and accurate advertising should apply."Mobile broadband is being heavily promoted by the phone networks for customer convenience, with many providers now offering dongles that connect a laptop or home computer directly into the mobile phone system. As a result, the takeup of such services has rocketed, providing the networks with a way to use up the 3G bandwidth that they paid more than £22bn in licences to use.The growth of the market has brought similar problems to the traditional broadband arena, however. Earlier this year, 3 lodged a complaint about advertising from Vodafone, which it claimed misrepresented the possibilities of mobile broadband.Calls to extend the code of practice to mobile broadband were echoed yesterday by the Internet Service Providers' Association, which represents fixed-line internet companies around the UK."ISPA would like to see the code of practice extended to include wireless mobile operators that provide broadband over their networks, as well as fixed-line broadband providers, to ensure minimal confusion to customers," said the association in a statement.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
What's your favourite piece of technology?My iPod – it's wonderful, and I bless it every day. I play it on shuffle, all the time. I never thought I'd do that, but it's remarkable. It makes me really pleased with the music I've got – it's mainly jazz, classical music, a bit of rock'n'roll – and the other thing is that putting it on shuffle makes you re-listen to all your old favourites.How has it improved your life?The fact that I can re-listen to all my old favourite music so easily, and carry it around with me, is wonderful. It's got me back in to listening to music freshly, not just getting new music, new CDs. I haven't got into downloads yet; I've got too many CDs that I'm still trying to get down on the iPod.When was the last time you used it?Yesterday, when I was in the shower.What additional features would you add if you could?I'd like an instant delete button, some sort of remote control where I could just lean out from the shower and say: "Now that is a track I don't want to hear any more," and just delete it from the library.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I'm sure something will replace it. It will get smaller and the capacity will get bigger. It will be totally wireless and we won't need docks or anything.What one tip would you give to non-iPod users?Get a life before you get it, because otherwise it will take over your whole life! And just really listen to it. I would recommend shuffle any time. I love the surprise of not knowing what's coming up, and the strange juxtapositions you get – you know, Prince one moment and a piece of Beethoven the next.Do you consider yourself a Luddite or a nerd?Neither – a technophobe. I try [to love technology] but I don't try very hard because I'd rather be outside.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I think it was a lovely old Merc sports car I had a few years ago –an SLC 450. I don't talk about cars or football, by the way. I get cars for the look of them, and the comfort.Mac or PC?Oh Mac, always. We've had a Mac from way back, since it wasthat little cube. I love the design aspect of them. It doesn't mean that I'm any good at it.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?It's probably Bill Withers' Ain't No Sunshine at the moment.Will robots rule the world?I don't think so, because we'd have to get much better at computers, wouldn't we? They're always crashing, something always goes wrong with them – it could be disastrous if it was a robot!What piece of technology would you most like to own?I thought first of all I'd just like something that could beam me up – so you'd just go, "Beam me up, Scotty". Then I thought, perhaps something that could turn all the guns in the world into jelly babies.Paul Freemanplayed villain Rene Belloq inRaiders of the Lost Ark. His character has been revived for theLEGO Indiana Jones: Original Adventuresvideogame, which is out today
Hazel Grian and Jon Williams are part of the very small but incredibly prolific Alternate Reality Games movement. Hazel, whose background includes screenwriting on KateModern for Bebo with the developers of LonelyGirl_15 joined us at Guardian Towers to share the good news about her new game, the futuristic detective storyThe Sky Remains.Explain your game to my mum in 140 words.The Sky Remains is a web site for a 'sixth dimension detective agency'. You're a detective solving a mystery on the web and in the real world. It'll make you laugh as well as fox your brain. You sign up online and follow a story about a Somerset woman who has found a strange man appearing in her family photos. This story appears in video, radio drama, letters from the characters and really hard puzzles. You solve the puzzles to get the next part of the story. You don't have to do it on your own, you get together with other people on the web site. There are also clues hidden in boxes around the real world. Everyone playing the game is working together to find these real boxes. Then you can put your own stories and puzzles on the web site for other people to solve.How do players control the game?You can stop and start playing the game whenever you want. The game remembers your progress. There's also three mscapes for you to download and get extra clues. Our mscapes are GPS games that you play outdoors wherever you like. The Sky Remains is a social network site as well as an ARG. The game we've made is just the first part, people can add their own games to it whenever they like.What is your background?The LonleyGirl15 guys hired me because of my ARG experience and I was the writer for season one of KateModern (the Bebo drama with Ralf Little). My background is in film, theatre, radio and stand up comedy. All of which are useful in making and running Alternate Reality Games. I made The Sky Remains with Jonathan Williams who's been developing games with me since he graduated two years ago. Jon did all the programming and digital designing as well as coming up with the concept.Name your competitors.Jane McGonigal (World Without Oil) Steve Peters (42 Entertainment), Dan and Adrian Hon (SixToStart). We all met up at SXSW Interactive in Austin this year, I looked around the table and thought 'F*** me! This is cool!'How many players do you have now and what's your target in 12 months time?Who knows what the numbers will be a year from now, the site is certainly built to handle large numbers of users but this isn't about large amounts of traffic, it's about measuring the quality of the immersive experience for the players. With our last ARG 'MeiGeist' we had 30,000 separate IP addresses lurking from every part of the globe and around 500 a day totally dedicated people.What is your biggest challenge?Producing an ARG on a low budget is a massive challenge in itself especially as there are only two of us! To then run the game as a live event for 8 weeks as we did with 'MeiGeist' is a full time job - it's extremely rewarding but incredibly hard work. This time our brief from HP was to build an ARG that could run itself for a year so that they could have some good player research. We have a personal almost one to one relationship with our most dedicated players so our greatest challenge has been to allow more people to become immersed in the world of the game without them feeling that it's too automated. We hope they're not disappointed, it's very experimental.What's the weirdest development experience you've had thus far?Running round an empty car park in the centre of Bristol with an actor, recording the audio drama of a riot 30 years in the future. Then hiding it on cassette tapes in little boxes all over the world. Watching a video online made by a player of him finding one of the boxes in a forest and taking out my little cassette tape. Weird equals deep joy in my world.What's your distribution/publishing plan?The Sky Remains is a research project for the HP Pervasive Computing Lab. We let the ARG community know with in-game emails, the word spreads from there. ARGs are subscription-free and usually either commissioned by advertisers or totally grass-roots. Our two ARGs to date have been funded as arts and research projects. There's currently no culture of micro-payment revenue from ARGs. My future revenue plans are in the separate directions of MMOGs and ticketed live events with innovative technology.Are indie games the latest killer app?Don't like the sound of that.Are you the next big thing?I'm part of a new really cool games and mobile experiment centre based in Bristol called the Pervasive Media Studio. It was recently opened by the Chancellor Alistair Darling and I was invited to a very cosy luncheon with him... apparently I'm a highly successful representative of the burgeoning creative industries...he asked me a question about broadband and all I heard was 'muh muh muh muh broadband?' like the teacher from Charlie Brown...the look on my face was enough for him to say...'you don't have to answer that'...the salmon was nice though.
Child protection experts have called for greater efforts to patrol child abuse websites after a study revealed that it takes a month on average to take them down from the internet.Research conducted by computer security experts at the University of Cambridge found the average time it takes for illegal websites to be blocked varied wildly, with child abuse images often staying online for many weeks.Under "notice and takedown" schemes, which compel internet companies to remove unlawful material hosted on their systems, child abuse sites remained online for an average of 30 days after being first reported.In stark contrast, financial scam websites hosted on hacked computers were taken down in a mean time of just 3.5 hours.The removal of child abuse websites in Britain is overseen by the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), an independent body that works in conjunction with law enforcement and internet companies around the world.The paper's authors, Tyler Moore and Richard Clayton, said the figures proved that current methods for removing illegal images from the internet were not working. "Our conclusion is that how long things stay available on the internet is based on how persistent you are, rather than how wicked they are," Clayton said. "The figures show that the IWF, in handing over the takedown to other organisations, is failing to deliver a service."Children's charities said that although progress had been made, particularly in the UK, the example set by the financial industry showed that there was still a lot of work to be done."It's really unacceptable that there's such a difference in how long it takes - it's shocking," said Zoe Hilton, a policy adviser to the NSPCC. "I think everyone needs to pull their finger out, but we could be doing much more to lead on an international level."A spokeswoman for the IWF said that while banks and other financial institutions take an international role in closing down illegal websites which could harm their customers, there were often difficulties getting law enforcement in other countries to act on child abuse websites."Some of these sites hop servers or move outside of the jurisdiction of the investigating forces," the spokeswoman said. "That's why we are calling for an international body that can track these sites all around the world."Although illegal material posted on British websites is often removed quickly, the situation elsewhere is different. In 2006, the organisation said 2% of commercial child pornography sites worldwide were still active a year after being identified.This is despite an international consensus that, while internet hosting companies are not liable for sites on their systems, they usually are obliged to remove or block illegal information once they have been notified of it.Some sites use technical subterfuge or rely on the relative inaction of local agencies to remain in business.
More than 30 broadband providers including BT, Virgin Media and TalkTalk have signed up to a voluntary code of conduct designed to prevent consumers being mis-sold high-speed internet access packages.Broadband advertising has become increasingly controversial because internet service providers (ISPs) often promote the theoretical maximum speeds achievable on their networks rather than the speed most customers can actually get.A recent survey by the comparison website Broadband Expert found that actual speeds were often less than half those advertised, leading Ofcom to warn that it was prepared to enforce regulation if the industry did not fall into line. Just this week a further study found that there are also big discrepancies between speeds in large cities and rural areas.Under the code, ISPs will have to give customers an accurate measure of the speed of their broadband service, offer a lower-speed package if those estimates are inaccurate and help resolve any technical issues slowing down connections. They will also need to give clear information about the limits of services and tell customers if they breach those limits.Ofcom is also planning a comprehensive survey of broadband speeds as part of an attempt to determine the accuracy of advertising.The chairwoman of Ofcom's consumer panel, Anna Bradley, welcomed the code, adding that the panel would scrutinise the results of the Ofcom study. "If they show that ISPs are not in compliance, it will clearly be time to call for a mandatory code of practice," she said.
Steve Jobsoriginally unveiled Keynote, Apple's presentation software (now costs £79 in theiWork bundlewith its page layout program Pages and spreadsheet Numbers) back in January 2003, after beta-testing it in secret in public for a year.Now a team - whoseem to be ex-Apple- have created aweb-based Keynote clonewhich has the same look and feel asKeynote, though it doesn't have the "guidelines" which will tell you whether you've aligned an element (such as a shape or headline) with other elements. You can though add in media elements such as video.Obviously, you'll only be able to use it when you're online, but equally there's the benefit that you can have shared editing, and/or download it for when you're offline. (There isn't though any upload facility.)Why do I say it's like Keynote and not Powerpoint? Because it has the rounded look of Keynote rather than the abrupt squared-off look of Powerpoint. (You may disagree.)As Chris Heilmann notes in the blog post above,The most amazing thing about this is happening under the hood: the developer wrote a library that abstracts browser rendering engines using Canvas, SVG and Flash (on a per-need basis) into a unified language – Objective J which is – as the name suggests – a mapping from Objective C to JavaScript.Objective J may be more interesting than any twiddles with presentation software. If that can be expanded, then it has potentially huge applications to all sorts of tasks. Go away, ActiveX: Objective J is here.So: would you use web-based presentation software if it looked like this?
You may have seenthe news todayabout a group of researchers from Northeastern University in Boston, Massachusetts, who recently tracked the movements of 100,000 people using mobile phone signals. Writing in science publicationNature, the team revealed:Human trajectories show a high degree of temporal and spatial regularity, each individual being characterised by a time-independent characteristic travel distance and a significant probability to return to a few highly frequented locations.In other words, we get up, go to work and go home again. And we do that a lot: the experiment ran for six months and in that time 75% of the anonymous test subjects remained within a 20 mile radius of their home.I wondered if people are like this in game worlds...Not in linear mission-based titles, of course - you sort ofhaveto go with the flow in those. I mean in open environments, in MMORPGs, strategy titles, and sandbox games like GTA and Burnout Paradise. Do we extended our territorial habits to the digital realm?I certainly do - and always have. In the formative space trading game, Elite, I stuck within a small cluster of planets in the second galaxy - it was a decent mix of industrial and rural markets, I could get away with the odd illegal trade, but there were probably dozens of better areas. I just never looked. On almost every map in Battlefield 1942, there were areas I'd use regularly and areas I hardly ever explored. In GTA IV there are parts of Liberty City I always head to.It would be interesting, within a realm like WoW or Second Life, or even one of the larger CoD IV maps, to track player movement and match this data to the real-life research. I think there would be correlations. People often make the mistake of thinking games are aboutcompleteescapism, but they're not. As Arnie is informed in Total Recall, the one thing that's the same about every holiday you've ever been on is yourself. Whatever virtual kingdom I head into, however alien or outlandish, I'm there. That's unavoidable.I think only a small percentage of people go into games with the intent to do the opposite of what they do in real-life - and I mean on a fundamental moral level. That is why some people enjoy Manhunter. But, god, the amount of times I set out to be a murdering rampaging tyrant in Civilization II, only to give up a few turns in and almost unconsciously return to my preferred mix or erstwhile scientific research married with a systematic campaign of ostensibly defensive military violence.When Sony famously referred to PS2 as The Third Place, it meant something mysterious but yet also strangely familiar and comforting. There is no escape from the fact that a majority of us are bound into routines and rhythms of which we are only partially conscious. The same psycho-geography may well exist in games.Wherever we're going, in some weird unspoken way, we want it to be home.
Today's reviews cover Rock Band, Mass Effect (PC) andBourne Conspiracy. The latter gets a surprising four star score. Surprising to me anyway, as I thought the demo was very average. No surprise withMass Effectthough. The PC version of the sci-fi classic is arguably better than the 360 original, with the mouse n' keyboard control making the occasionally clunky combat far smoother. Sadly the flaws of the original - the side missions essentially - remain but big budget PC games are increasingly rare and this is well worth getting if you don't have a 360. Last up isRock Band. Fun game, shame about the price is the general gist, and who can argue with that?
Ofcom is trying to get "clarity" over broadband speeds by asking ISPs to sign up for a Code of Practice, and implement it within six months. The code involves:* providing customers at the point of sale with an accurate estimate of the maximum speed that the line can support, whether it is in the shop, over the internet or on the phone; * resolving technical issues to improve speed and offering customers the choice to move onto a lower speed package when estimates given are inaccurate; * ensuring all sales and promotion staff have a proper understanding of the products they are selling so they can explain to their customers the meaning of the estimates provided at the point of sale; and * providing consumers with information on usage limits and alerting customers when they have breached them.It's a voluntary code that will be tested using "mystery shoppers," but there's always the threat of regulation if that doesn't work. Some 32 ISPs covering 90% of the market have already signed up, from AOL to Zen.Whether ISPs can actually provide accurate speed estimates, or find sales staff who know what they are talking about, is another matter. At least the code could make them try harder.Ofcom is also going to investigate real broadband speeds around the country. It says:The survey will use a representative sample of over 2,000 residential broadband connections attached to specialised monitoring equipment over a six month period and involve tens of millions of speed tests, thereby enabling the most comprehensive survey of actual performance across the UK to date.One thing not mentioned is throttling. For example, an ISP could give an accurate speed estimate then deliver a lower speed due to contention or deliberate speed throttling in response to file sharing. The fact that your DSL2 connection can do 7Mbps doesn't mean you're going to get that speed all day every day.
Broadband providers are being asked to sign up to a new code of conduct in order to prevent consumers being missold high-speed internet packages.Media regulator Ofcom announced today that it would be introducing a new voluntary code of practice for ISPs in an attempt to prevent confusion over high-speed connections.Broadband advertising has been controversial because ISPs often promote the theoretical maximum speeds achievable, rather than the typical speeds most customers can reach.The code will introduce a number of measures to help customers, including better information on realistic speeds, support for those who discover that advertised speeds are not available in their area and wish to move to a lower speed package, and better training for sales staff.Earlier this yeara survey by the website Broadband Expertfound that actual speeds were often less than half those advertised,leading Ofcom to warn that it was prepared to enforce regulationif the industry did not fall into line."Broadband is a thriving market in the UK," said Ed Richards, Ofcom's chief executive. "We want to encourage real clarity for consumers about the actual broadband speeds they can receive. This voluntary code is a significant step in this direction."More than 30 ISPs have already signed up to the code, which was drafted in conjunction with the industry body the ISPA.In a statement the organisation said that it would "support the principle" behind the code, but reiterated its argument that measuring internet speeds remained problematic."Consumers must also understand that every single broadband connection's speed will be different," it said. "Even neighbouring houses supplied by the same provider can receive different speeds."The regulator is also set to undertake a comprehensive survey of broadband speeds across Britain as part of an attempt to determine how accurate advertising has been. Asurvey earlier this weekfound that there were large discrepancies between speeds in large cities such as London and other parts of the country.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Last night the House of Commonsdebated the possibility of regulation on the internet- one of the topics de nos jours.The motion, put forward by Glasgow MP John Robertson, was thatsomebodyshould at least be responsible for looking at internet content (media regulator Ofcom has steered clear of this area, and theByron reviewwas fairly hands off about this topic).It's the kind of argument that will get a lot of airing, which I think is only fair. But hidden in the mix of opinions was one that immediately drew my attention: the speaker was Madeleine Moon, the Labour MP for Bridgend in Wales, andthis is what she said:Does my hon. Friend agree that some of the sites about suicide are truly evil? They not only encourage, urge, assist and facilitate people to take their lives, but distract especially youngsters from finding the help, advice and guidance that would enable them to live full and productive lives. We must find some way of monitoring and closing them.Whether or not you think there should be a ban on access to pro-suicide websites is one thing - but there's a dangerous assumption underlying her comments. Moon represents Bridgend, the area where a rash of youngsters havecommitted suicide in succession.Early speculation suggested that there may have been a website spreading pro-suicide propaganda around the town: in fact, the police said theywere not targeting any websites in the course of their investigationand it seemed merely that many of those who died (like most British teens) had an account on Bebo.So where that leaves Moon's assertion, I'm not sure. She has previouslyrailed against the mediafor its coverage of Bridgend, but then insists on spreading irrational fear based on an ill-informed rumour. You can't discuss the possibilities of regulation seriously if you're going to churn out nonsense like that in front of policy makers and ignore the information given out by the police and the coroner involved.One day our politicians will get the internet, but it looks like it's still a very, very long way off.
Clean the house for a high scoreIf you had a Roomba - you know, a robot vacuum cleaner - then it would make sense to put LEDs on it so you could turn the lights out and pretend it was a Pac-Man. Wouldn't it?Have you got ball waiting?Three-way Pong - surely what the makers of the iPhone dreamt of achieving during their darker moments as they struggled to get the damn thing finished on time. We wonder: if the players stand further apart, does the ball take longer to reach each phone screen?Easier hiking with the armyBrighten up, soldier! This gizmo enhances your body strength and carries heavy loads! Can Sigourney Weaver and a marine-chomping alien be far behind?
