What's your favourite piece of technology?I'm a die-hard Apple user and I've recently got an iPod Touch which is really cool. I'm just getting going on my directing stuff and it's great for storing photos and music and all sorts of stuff.How has it improved your life?It's probably made me more anti-social. Because it's widescreen, it's perfect for filmmaking. The best thing about it is that format. When you store photos on it, it's great, it's the right ratio.When was the last time you used it, and what for?It was yesterday looking at film-related photographs: locations and things for my next film, Dark Blue Rising.What additional features would you add if you could?At the moment – and maybe this is because I've only just started using it – I'm struggling to download QuickTime movies onto it. Maybe that's just the way I'm doing it, maybe it's because I've only just got it. I know you can store video onto it but I'd make that easier.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Yeah, probably. Apple are pretty good at revamping things and making their own products obsolete.What one tip would you give to non-iPod Touch users?I jumped in early. The iPhone is now out, so my advice would probably be get an iPhone instead.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm very firmly with one leg in each camp. Sometimes, there are certain things I'm rubbish at. There's the classic, the setting of the video recorder, I'm rubbish at that and I'm very slow on the computer. I'm quick at the applications I use a lot but I'm very slow picking things up.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably my video camera, a Panasonic DVX100, with a Leica lens.Mac or PC?Mac. I'm a Mac user. I think it depends on how you were brought up and I was introduced to Apple quite early. They're certainly the best for visual stuff and film-directing.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?I couldn't tell you which track, but album-wise it's Tom Waits, Real Gone.Will robots rule the world?Don't they already? There's a good argument that that's the case.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Fictional or non-fictional? If I can do fictional, I really would love to try space travel, so I'd like a spaceship. Or some means of traveling through space.
After the criticism piled on Facebook about its new Beacon advertising program (see our story'Facebook is accused of spoiling Christmas spirit') the company last night sent out a missive to journalists about some changes in direction.The problem, if you didn't keep up with the snowball, was that Beacon - a third-party website advertising system - was invading people's privacy. If you were on a Beacon site and did some kind of action (say, buying a DVD) that site would try and feed back the information to the Facebook news feed (so your friends would see a message saying "Bobbie just bought Rome Season 2 from Amazon"). A pop-up would appear on your screen giving you the chance to optoutof having your actions made public - and if you didn't tell it not to broadcast your movements, it would assume you had optedin.Now, after a groundswell of anger - not least fromMoveOn.org- the Facebook gang have decided to relent... at least a little. The new approach, they say, mans that "no stories will be published without users proactively consenting".Users will have clear options in ongoing notifications to either delete or publish. No stories will be published if users navigate away from their home page. If they delay in making this decision, the notification will hide and they can make a decision at a later time.If a user does nothing with the initial notification on Facebook, it will hide after some duration without a story being published. When a user takes a future action on a Beacon site, it will reappear and display all the potential stories along with the opportunity to click "OK" to publish or click "remove" to not publish.Sounds good, right? Well, it's a move in the right direction at least. Of course - asDavid Weinberger pointed out- Facebook was never going to drop Beacon completely: the site needs to work out more ways of making money if it's going to live up to that insanely huge $15bn valuation everyone keeps talking about.And, crucially, there's no "sorry" in the announcement: just a taciturn piece of politics: "We appreciate feedback from all Facebook users".Now watch while everyone tries to claim credit for getting Mark Zuckerberg and friends to change their minds.
With Christmas fast approaching, Sony is desperate to get some more momentum in its fight for the next generation console market.Last week our colleagues on MediaGuardian reported that the Japanese giant planned asubstantial new advertising campaign- but this week, under the headline "TV blitz to lift PS3", games industry magMCVpoints out that Sony is spending millions on its attempt to grab the imagination:The company is spending in the region of £3m on TV campiagns for its flagship first-party releases: Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, Ratchet and Clank: Tools of Destruction and SingStar - earmarking £1m for each product.A new dedicated hardware TV campaign will run alongside the software ads - and MCV understands that a similar £1m budget has been allocated.Of course, Sony isn't the only one splashing out on advertising to try and boost awareness. I've seen plenty of TV ads for the Nintendo DS recently, but the figures here are interesting because ofSony's financial situation. Splurging another £4m on TV advertising might not seem like a lot in the grand scheme of things (Sony's revenue last year was about $70bn) but it is the equivalent of about 9,500 sales of the PS3. That's pretty big by British standards.And the ads themselves? Not sure they'd make me want to buy one.
Long-term readers of the gamesblog willrecognisethat I am partial to a bit of environmentalism. Surely it goes with The Guardian territory. So when MCV reported on this year's Greenpeace Guide to Greener Electronics, I turned my eye from my compost heap to the rankings of the major console manufacturers.And lo ifNintendodidn't come out on bottom! From the article:Nintendo scored zero out of 10 points on its first time out in the listings - the first company to ever perform so badly. The platform holder was attacked across the board in areas such as chemical management, PVC use, electric waste and product return policies.Meanwhile, Microsoft, manufacturers of the notoriously power-hungry Xbox, received a low score, but performed better than Nintendo overall. Grasping the lead, then, is Sony.These are pretty surprising figures. Both Sony and Microsoft have a much larger library of electronic goods than Nintendo. Perhaps it was their policies on those items that pushed them further up the ranks.
Of course it is. I can't remember a time - specifically the last 3-4 months - when there have been so many genuinely must-play games released. Bioshock, Halo 3 (though I rarely bother these days), Mario Galaxy (saving till nearer Christmas), Call of Duty 4, Assassin's Creed (simply the most gorgeous gaming world ever coded), Mass Effect (still hooked), The Orange Box, Phantom Hourglass, Ratchet &amp; Clank etc etc. The astonishingly gorgeous Uncharted: Drakes Fortune, out on PS3 next Friday, completes a stellar gaming line-up. Case closed then? Maybe not. Next Gen have beenstat crunchingreview aggregates and discovered that 2007 has had the second worst review scores since 2001 - only 2006 has fared worse.Thankfully they realise that review scores are only one barometer of success with harder stats like sales - up 50% over 2006 - ultimately more important. But could the recent glut of high profile games be having an impact on review scores? If Assassin's Creed had come out in say, March, would it have fared better when reviewers didn't have a pile of other games to work through? Not that it reviewed badly of course, but games like Creed and Mass Effect are slow burners, best appreciated over time rather than Halo et al which can be fully dissected in a day or two. And with a new must-have literally arriving every week are reviewers - and gamers - overly critical, knowing that the next big hitter is just round the corner? Putting it simply - are we getting spoilt by the embarrassment of gaming riches currently available?
During the period of postwar redevelopment under Sir Robin Darwin, talented students, including Bernard Myers, flourished at the Royal College of Art (RCA). Myers, who has died after a series of strokes aged 82, went on to become senior tutor and professor at the college from 1961 to 1980 and forged many connections as artist, designer, teacher and author. An early advocate of the relationship between art and science, he recognised the crucial importance of, as well as the ingenuity invested in, the development and use of technology.The eldest son of Nathan, a barber, and Letty, a hairdresser, Myers was educated at Skinner's school in Tunbridge Wells, where a school report commented: "Could be good if he didn't dream so much." With his appetite for knowledge and understanding, far from dreaming, he was thoughtfully considering what was being taught.After leaving school, Myers volunteered for the RAF and trained as a gunner. His boyish looks caused one of his commanding officers to remark: "Don't ever let the Germans take you prisoner. They'll think we're using children." Awaiting demobilisation in Yorkshire, he attended a local art school, where a tutor suggested he pursue a career in drawing and painting.On returning to London, he studied at St Martin's and Camberwell colleges, followed by the RCA, where his article for the student magazine Ark on Victorian locomotive design demonstrated what became a lifelong fascination. At an end of term party and dressed as a monkey, he first met and then married Pamela, a journalist with Time and Tide, and granddaughter of the Victorian painter Sir Luke Fildes.After graduating in 1954, Myers taught at various art schools as well as the Architectural Association, where his exceptional ability was recognised by Misha Black, founding partner of the design research unit consultancy and professor of industrial design (engineering) at the RCA. Black recruited Myers to teach in his department in 1963.He practised as an artist and designer while teaching and writing. His work is to be found in many national collections: Arts Council, BP, British Transport Commission, Carlisle City Art Gallery, the Contemporary Arts Society, Economist Newspapers, Graves Art Gallery, King Edward VII Fund for Hospitals, the National Maritime Museum, Tate Gallery and various county education departments. His books were published by Studio Vista, Hamlyn, Macdonald Macmillan, World Publications Chicago and Architectural Press.Myers inspired students at the RCA. His enthusiasm, love of life, warmth of personality, insight into other people and sense of fun gained respect across many departments, particularly those of industrial design and general studies as well as in the design education unit. Entrepreneur James Dyson, a former student, recalls Myers' insistence that to design anything, "you must remember what your design is for".In 1968 he was invited to become a visiting professor at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), New Delhi, and initiated a design course for civil engineers. A scheme was devised to enable RCA graduates to design scientific and educational equipment in the multidisciplinary instrument design development centre at IIT.Myers loved India, its vibrancy and colour being vividly reflected in a series of pictures produced at the time and exhibited at the Kurika-Chemould gallery, New Delhi, and the New Art Centre, London. These luminous oil pastels were finished by burnishing with an agate tool, resulting in a tempera-like quality to their surface.Location became a more important factor in Myers' work, and at a new studio overlooking the Thames in Hammersmith, he painted the river and sky in their ever-changing moods. A series of strokes over the last seven years affected his vision and the right side of his body. With courage and determination, he learned to adapt and continued to paint, leading to what was to be his last exhibition, at the New Grafton gallery, in 2006.Myers left the design education unit in 1980 to take the new chair of craft, design and technology at Brunel University, but the move was uneasy and he retired in 1985.In the late 1980s the Inner London Education Authority decided that the future of its specialist art and design colleges lay in the founding of the London Institute. Myers became a member of the formation committee and later a college and institute governor. In 2004 the institute became the University of the Arts, London, and his contribution was honoured through the naming of a hall of residence after him. With characteristic modesty, Myers was touched by this and donated paintings for the hall.The dreamer at Skinner's school was in reality a visionary who influenced a generation of young artists, designers and educators in a positive and selfless way. Pamela survives him.&#183;Bernard Louis Myers, artist, designer, writer and teacher, born April 22 1925; died September 30 2007
Graphic: The relative strength of known public health threats"Violence depicted on television, in films and video games raises the risk of aggressive behavior in adults and young viewers and poses a serious threat to public health, according to a new study" (full text) in the Journal of Adolescent Health reported byReuters.The claim is based on a review of more than 50 years of research on the impact of violence in the media by two academincs.L Rowell Huesmannsays in astatement:"Exposure to violent electronic media has a larger effect than all but one other well known threat to public health. The only effect slightly larger than the effect of media violence on aggression is that of cigarette smoking on lung cancer."The "media violence" includes TV programmes, films and video games.Huesmann is director or the Aggression Research Program in the Research Center for Group Dynamics at the University of Michigan and editor of the Aggressive Behavior journal.He was also lead author of anearlier study, Childhood Exposure To Media Violence Predicts Young Adult Aggressive Behavior, According To A New 15-Year Study, published by the American Psychological Association in 2003. This was about TV violence, and said: "Some examples of shows rated as very violent wereStarsky and Hutch,The Six Million Dollar ManandRoadrunnercartoons."Results show that men who were high TV-violence viewers as children were significantly more likely to have pushed, grabbed or shoved their spouses, to have responded to an insult by shoving a person, to have been convicted of a crime and to have committed a moving traffic violation. Such men, for example, had been convicted of crimes at over three times the rate of other men.In other words, it'snot just games. However, according toanother report:"Because players of violent video games are not just observers but also 'active' participants in violent actions and are generally reinforced for using violence to gain desired goals, the effects on stimulating long-term increases in violent behavior should be even greater for video games than for TV, movies or Internet displays of violence," Huesmann wrote in the study.AtArs Technica, John Timmer disputes the paper, which appears to reach a different conclusion from one he reported last year:Meta-analysis uncovers no real link between violence and gaming
So I've been working in San Francisco for the last few weeks, and in between eating giant hamburgers and enjoying Thanksgiving turkey, I've also had the very exciting opportunity to play around with the latest revolution inBemanigaming experiences,Rock Band. Yes Europeans, the Yanks get the multiplayer rock n' roll simulation a full five months ahead of us. Byall accountsit's already doing well. It just ain't fair.But I've had the delightful opportunity to observe and poke at the electronic drum kit, the bass and rhythm guitar and even the vocals. And in two words: Holy Cow.First up, the game itself is enormous. I mean that in both the physical and the ethereal sense. If I'm to actually purchase this game for myself, I'm going to have to buy a new house. I'll need a bigger teevee for starters, and then a larger living room to hold the screen, the drum kit, the guitars and the ego of the front (wo)man. This was not built for a bedsit. If you invite Rock Band into your home, it will become your way of life.The ethereal enormity comes from the absolutely vast options available to gamers. In the past, I used to rate games on their replayability - how many times would I pick it up after I'd reached the inevitable conclusion? Well, imagine a game that goes from start to finish at least eight times: once for each instrument in solo play and once for each in multiplayer. Seriously, when it comes to investing in an interactive entertainment product, this game will provide again and again and again and again.But what about the gameplay? Well, the tools are excellent, just as we've come to expect from Rock Band's award winning creatorsHarmonix. Following the typical bemani scrolling style, each player hits/slaps/sings when the indicator reaches its mark. I had been concerned about the responsiveness of the drums, but the reality is beautifully executed.Tunes wise, I believe the game will be released with different songs in Europe (I'm sure someone will tell me if I'm wrong, of course). There's a dearth of anything other than heavy beats and metal. Then again, it's not called Folk Band. But why not a little bit of Prog?According to the lucky owner, the whole kit costs $180 mail order here (approximately 90 quid), and I wonder how useful the peripherals will be beyond the inevitable sequels. Then again, I recall giving myself ananeurysmplaying Track and Field with a Dreamcast Dance Dance Revolution Controller once upon a time, and RSI playing one of the GTAs with the fishing rod controller....Rock Band, in another word, rocks. I'll be hogging it from my workmates for the remaining 9 days I'll be here.
First, they becameSteve Jobs' biggest eco-critics. Now,Greenpeace's most recent reportgives Nintendo it's worst score ever, 0 out of 10, and doesn't have much nice to say about Microsoft of Philips either.While supportive of the goal of greener tech, some people in the tech community have been critical of Greenpeace's research calling it 'lazy' and 'flawed'. But there is a way to go green with your gear, especially if you do DIY with your computer. Read on.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:environment,Greenpeace,toxicstechnorati tags endGreenpeace has been evaluating companies on their use of toxics including vinyl plastics (PVC) and brominated flame retardants as well as their take-back programmes. They have monitored the programmes of mobile phone makers and reduced the score of companies such as Nokia because those programmes aren't as robust as the company says in some markets. Greenpeace says that it monitors the use of toxics because of the increase in e-waste in countries such as India and China.But people in technology circles are questioning Greenpeace's methodology. John Timmer on Ars Technica took a closer look at how Greenpeace came up with its ratings andfound the research wanting. Timmer questioned whether Greenpeace ranked companies based on analysis of the devices or simply on publicly available corporate information.The research in general appears lazy. Nintendo's failing grade appears to be based entirely on thisentry in the corporate FAQ, which briefly summarizes some of the steps the company has taken to protect the environment. Anything that's not covered there is simply rated "No Information." Similarly, all of the information on Microsoft originates from press materials and corporate statements on the company's web site. Clearly, Greenpeace did not perform an exhaustive evaluation of chemical use through the manufacturing pipeline.Overall, Timmer hopes that pressure from Greenpeace encourages companies to recycle and eliminate hazardous chemicals from production but says in the final analysis that it's hard to take the report as a serious indication of companies' efforts to become greener.Joel Johnson on popular tech site Boing Boing hadsimilar mixed feelings about the report:But Greenpeace's decision to label Nintendo's "Chemicals Management" score as "Bad," giving no points on their scale, instead of "Partially Bad," seems to be an attempt to single out a popular company to better publicize their report as a whole. Public shaming is a useful tool, but not at the expense of fairness.How can you find greener gadgets?Personally, I'm a big fan of the reuse part of the reduce-recycle-reuse maxim. I use and re-use technology until it's about fall over. I buy a lot of old gear on eBay although I tend to stay away from re-furbished hard drives. You can always go theFreecycleroute, or there is a site that will buyyour old, dead kit.Recently, I put an older computer back into service as a home server. It's more than adequate for our needs, and if we grow out of it, we can always keep the case and most likely the power supply and simply add a new mother board and processor. Most people keep their computers just an average of three years, but you can extend the life of your computer in a number of ways. And I've found that Linux really gives old equipment a new lease on life.Greenpeace may not measure power consumption in its raitings, but I think it's worth considering. (UPDATE: Martin Lloyd says on the Greenpeace blog that they will beincluding energy consumptionin the next edition of the guide.) The folks at Extreme Tech took a break from building the fastest computer and tried tobuild the greenest. As they point out, a maxed out gaming rig built to run the latest games can consume as much electricity as a refrigerator. Their tips are:Look for an80 Pluspower supply, which uses only the power it needs instead of running full out all of the time.Use new SATA hard drives because they use less power than older IDE drives (and they're faster)Unlike a few years ago, the newest processors from Intel and AMD use much less power than previous models, in the case of Intel's Core processors,40% less energy. The new Core 2 processors only use 3 watts in hibernate.Use a smaller motherboard like a microATX.There are lots of options to geek out and be green. If you've got green geek tips, let us know in the comments.
We all have a tendency to envy those with pretty cool jobs. I, for example, am highly envious of my friendJan Chipchase, who does design research for Nokia and gets to work out what people might be doing with mobiles 10 years into the future.I also spend time dreaming about doing space research, writing novels or being a chocolate tester.But this week I have found myself a new dream job, after discovering the website ofMark Coleran, a visual designer based in London whocreates fictional interfaces.That's right: he designs and builds mockups of interfaces that don't exist, mainly for the movies. Up there you can see some of his work on The Island - a rather tawdry cloning thriller featuring Ewan McJedi and Scarlett Johanssen that I remember watching on a transatlantic flight a while back. But forget the film criticism: Coleran's work asks the question "what do we imagine futuristic technology might actually look like?" and then tries to build something that follows the vision.Interestingly, the end result in the Island (a desk with interactive elements) is a little like theMicrosoft Surfacedemos I've seen - except a zillion times better.(viaRussell Davies)
Getting caught short in the centre of London is no fun. Trying to persuade a sympathetic restaurant manager into letting you use his conveniences will often result in the short shrift: "Toilets are for paying customers only."So a new text service, which promises to tell you where the nearest public toilet is in the City of Westminster, should be well received.The council's authority covers 8.5 square miles and encompasses nearly every popular shopping and socialising district of the capital.So whether you're drinking after work in Soho, or splashing the Christmas cash in Knightsbridge, a quick text message to 80097 with the word 'toilet' will prompt a quick-response text back with details of the nearest facilities and their opening times.The only problem is that you have to spend more than a penny to make use of the service.The 'SatLav' mobile phone service costs 25p for each text, with Westminster city council paying a further 9p to cover the cost.The service locates the sender of the text message and automatically finds the nearest public toilets to them.Unfortunately for Guardian Unlimited, the service can only recommend its nearest Westminster convenience – at the Strand, some 1.4 miles and 25-minute walk from its Clerkenwell offices.But within the council's boundary the service includes details of 40 council-run and leased toilets plus those run by the GLA, London Underground and some department stores.Westminster council said its aim was to make a "substantial impact on reducing street urination".The council claims "45,460 litres of urine is at risk of ending up in the city's streets and alleyways through irresponsible and anti-social behaviour."The figure is the amount collected from city urinals every year.Westminster cabinet member for street environment councillor Alan Bradley said: "From today onwards nobody should ever get caught short again, and we understand how important that is, be it for a young mum with children in tow, older people or friends on a shopping trip or night out."The SatLav service was the brainchild of 26-year-old student Gail Knight, from Clapham Junction, who won a Westminster city council innovation competition.
Google Experimentalis currently running an experiment that allows some selected users to "influence [the] search experience by adding, moving, and removing search results," notesGooglified.But don't get too excited. As Google's page says: "Note that this is an experimental feature and may be available for only a few weeks."
That'saccording to the Mirrorand lots ofothersources, which leap on news that England has slumped from third to 15th place in an international league table of reading skills. TheProgress in International Reading Literacy Studyapparently also asserts:The 37 per cent of children in England who reported playing computer or video games for more than three hours a day constitutes one of the highest proportions among participating countries. Spending this amount of time playing computer and video games is associated with low attainment.It's clear the Mirror is happy to put the blame with games, it's headline in today's paper declaring, "Wii are failing" (did Nintendo ever suspect that its unothodox console name would be such a gift to headline writers?). Education Secretary Ed Balls was happy to concur. He's quoted in The Times as suggesting, "Across the country we should be getting our kids to play computer games a bit less and to read a bit more." A remark that faintly recalls anotherhackneyed, condescending soundbitefrom a flailing government.However, the Mirror article quotes two sources from teaching unions - you know, the people who have actual hands-on experience in education. They provide alternative explanations. Steve Sinnott, of the National Union of Teachers, suggests, "Our overloaded curriculum and testing system is sapping young people's enthusiasm of reading for pleasure."Chris Keates, of the NASUWT union, adds, "It is too easy to blame the distractions of computer games, mobile phones and children's access to TV. The simple fact is that too many children view reading as a chore rather than a pleasure."Education, education, education, the government once intoned. But education, it has found, is a complicated issue. Better to put the blame with computers and video games. Better not to look into the robotic production line that schools have become.
On the Burton Group'sApplication Platform Strategies Blog, Richard Monson-Haefel reckons the Softies should be "popping the cork on a huge bottle of champagne the day Android is released. It's the best thing that could have happened to Microsoft's mobile platform."The basic point is that "Android as it is currently defined is aforkof the Java ME platform," and "nor is it compliant with Java SE". Although it uses the Java programming language, it's not really Java.The effect of Android's success will therefore be to undermine the attempt to drive Java SE as a cross-platform solution. He reckons that Android "tells the industry that Java is not consistent across computing platforms and that using the Java language, but not the APIs or virtual machine is just fine as long as the end result is a workable solution."This should benefit Microsoft.net and the Compact Framework, which is Java's mainchallenger, by balkanising the opposition. And .Net's growing success in the enterprise market is worth dramatically more than any losses in the mobile phone market.Monson-Haefel quotes an observation by Maureen O'Gara atJava Developer's Journal:"The sweet irony is that this greatest threat to Java since Microsoft should come from Google CEO Eric Schmidt, the guy who originally led Java development at Sun and signed the contract with Microsoft, leading to the Java wars."An all-out war between Google and Sun would obviously be fun, but doesn't seem particularly likely: Sun got the benefit of the doubt when it attacked Microsoft, but attacking Google over IP issues would make Sun look Evil. Also, there aren't as many Java cranks around (to whom Java was the ultimate answer toLife, the Universe and Everything) as there used to be.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
...but that shouldn't stop you trying out the brilliant Dickensian platformer,Orphan Feast, in which you control a nefarious ruffian named Creaky Tom as he prowls the streets of London, bashing orphan kids and throwing them into his sack - you find out why later. Like other Flash games on theAdultSwimsite (AdultSwim is an adult-orientated sister channel to Cartoon Network) the visual style is wonderful. It's Oliver Twist, filtered through From Hell then spat back out by Tim Burton.(ViaPlaythisthing)
Physicist Neil Greenham would like his work to lead to 'something that's going to generate some useful power'Physicist Neil Greenham of Cambridge University's Cavendish Laboratory likes turning a good idea on its head. His PhD involved researching polymer light emitting diodes, since used for displays in some televisions, MP3 players and mobile phones. But then he joined a research group trying to use similar polymers to generate electricity from light. Now, more than a decade of pioneering work has resulted in an organic solar cell that doesn't use expensive silicon.Conventional photovoltaic (PV) solar cells are made from a thin slice (around 200 microns) of silicon that is doped with chemicals to form a bilayer structure called a p-n junction. When photons of light are absorbed by the silicon, electrons flow, creating a small electric current. An organic solar cell takes a similar approach but uses an ultra-thin (100 nanometre) film mixture of two semiconducting polymers instead.The prototype organic solar cell - the size of Greenham's hand - produces enough power to run an electronic calculator. The idea of a purple-coloured polymer as a conductor seems odd when plastics are normally considered excellent insulators. But mounted on glass, this solar cell uses the same class of materials as the polymer light-emitting diodes: long-chain plastics with double bonds which permit electron flow."My interest is in understanding how these things work from a physics point of view. The fact they may turn out to be helpful to the environment is certainly a bonus," Greenham says.Taking the organic solar cell from laboratory to rooftop is a trade off between efficiency and cost. Greenham says the world record for silicon solar cell efficiency - the conversion of light energy to electricity - is more than 40%, but standard cells are between 10% and 15%. While organic cells fall well short of that, they're much cheaper to make. Will the prototype organic solar cell really deliver?"It's less efficient than the solar cells you might have in your calculator by a factor of three or four," Greeham says. "But we know how to make it 5% efficient."Greenham is now working on a £5m project funded by the Carbon Trust to deliver solar energy at radically lower cost.  Led by the University of Cambridge's Cavendish Laboratory with The Technology Partnership, there's a huge target: deploy more than one gigawatt of organic PV by 2017 to make carbon dioxide savings of more than 1m tonnes per year.Just to add to this challenge, the scientists want to "print" solar cells with an ultra-thin mix of two semiconducting polymers on a flexible plastic backing up to one metre wide. Unlike high-energy silicon manufacture, this will be a cheap low-temperature process for a small carbon footprint."The first type of products might be solar cells in consumer electronics, maybe built into the top of your PDA, laptop or iPod," Greenham says. "But we'd like to get something that's going to generate some useful power and make a bit of an impact."Is organic solar likely to replace silicon, then? Even though the more efficient silicon has an obvious cost penalty, Greenham doesn't think so: "There's going to have to be a lot more PV of all kinds. We want to make it cheap enough to really expand the market."That view is shared by Professor Paul O'Brien at the University of Manchester. He's been involved with solar cells for more than 20 years, especially those that don't use silicon. "Silicon is made in a foundry and the technology is the same as we use to make silicon chips. That, of course, is far too expensive," says O'Brien, who reckons that solar cells need be no more pricey than high-performance self-cleaning glass. "Get the cost down, and the whole thing becomes viable."Led by O'Brien and Professor Jenny Nelson at Imperial College London, a £1.5m Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council project is trying to do just that. Its target is a mass-produced hybrid solar cell with energy conversion efficiencies approaching 10%. The first laboratory prototype will be assembled next year."We're very interested in solar cells where we take an organic layer that's printable or sprayable containing an inorganic material like lead sulphide which will actually do the photon capture," O'Brien says. Photons knock out loose electrons, which then flow through the cell to produce electricity.Lead sulphide (PbS) adds a new twist to silicon-free solar cells by using nanotechnology. The lead sulphide will be in the form of nanorods, 100 or so nanometres long and 20 by 20 nanometres in section. (One micron is 1,000nm.) When  photons hit the rods distributed within a semiconducting polymer, electrons are released. Researchers also plan to use equally small "quantum dots" to achieve the same photovoltaic effect."The big driver for me is always cost reduction, not efficiency," O'Brien says. Despite falling short of silicon's efficiency, the benefit will be huge cost reductions. If all goes well, O'Brien reckons the new solar cell technology may be one hundredth of the cost of a silicon cell when in mass production - promising a solar energy revolution. "The world needs to look at alternatives to fossil fuels," O'Brien says.The idea of solar cell research at UK universities delivering electricity as cheaply as fossil fuels do today is exciting. But waiting around for the science to become technology isn't an option, says Martyn Williams, senior parliamentary campaigner at Friends of the Earth. "We are aware of moves to find new ways to generate electricity from solar power. We have to move faster than that because every tonne of carbon we pump out is adding to the problem."Six years ago, he installed solar PV on his Victorian terraced house when it needed a new roof. "It produced about £250 of electricity a year," says Williams, who received a £10,000 (50%) grant from the government.Over the seasons, the silicon-based panels have provided 75% of his household's electricity needs, with any surplus sold back to the national grid. However, even allowing for the new roof, he calculated his payback period at 20 years.Williams has since moved home - leaving the PV panels behind - and installed "fantastically efficient" solar thermal panels to heat water with a payback time of five to eight years. Modest grants for householder projects involving renewable energy are periodically available from the government's Low Carbon Buildings Programme. For example, the maximum grant for solar PV or thermal is now £2,500."Government grants have proved completely inadequate for demand. The whole purpose of them - to stimulate the setting up of a new industry of solar fitters - has also been seriously hampered by the stop-start nature," says Williams, who prefers an innovative German scheme which guarantees payments for surplus electricity exported to the grid. "Germany has been far more successful. They are streets ahead of us in delivering solar roofs, and it would be good if ministers had a serious look at which policy has worked best."Powering up the numbers£5m:The amount of funding that the project has received from the Carbon Trust2017:The year by which the team aims to deploy more than 1GW of organic PV40%:The amount of light energy converted to electricity using silicon solar cells
Microsoft has issued an amusingly ebullient press release this morning claiming that the Xbox 360 release list this year represents, "simply the greatest portfolio of video games ever seen". Here are the games mentioned:Blue Dragon Project Gotham Racing 4 Naruto: Rise of a Ninja Viva Piñata: Party Animals Ace Combat 6: Fires of Liberation Scene It? Lights, Camera, Action BioShock Mass Effect The Orange Box Halo 3Okay, so Naruto, Scene It and Blue Dragon are the weak links here, and Ace Combat 6 is rather an acquired taste, but you can't argue with the other titles. So what do you think? Is thisreallythe best ever release list for a single year on one platform? I'm going to have to dig out my Edge collection to check.UpdateJust off the top of my head, there was PlayStation 2 2005: God of War, Shadow of the Colossus, Guitar Hero, Gran Turismo 4 and Resident Evil 4...
YouChoose is the place for great technology videos. Got some to suggest? Tell us below. Here's this week's...But can it show 'end of lecture'?This computer has inveigled itself somehow in between the whiteboard and the projector, and understands the physics of drawings there. Great if your lecture is on Tonka Toy design.Then again, it's cheaper than an iPhone...Catty but witty, here's a take on what might happen if Microsoft decided to make a phone that was also a Zune. The best thing? The flashing "12:00" time. And the rotary dial. And the music.Not quite infinity, just beyondPresident John F Kennedy's inspiring 1962 speech, setting a deadline to reach the moon during that decade. They did. (Go on then, someone find a link to George W Bush's speech about Mars, we'll use that next week.)Got a great video about technology more people should know about? Let us know below.
Nearly a quarter of a million people have registered an electronic plea that the Red Arrows aerobatic team be allowed to open the 2012 Olympics. It's the most popular campaign running at the Downing Street e-petitions site, which celebrates its first birthday this month.The Red Arrows petition has one flaw. The story that the team has been banned as "too British" for the Olympics originated in The Sun - and, the government says, is complete tosh.That's the trouble with e-democracy. Citizens make up their own minds whom to believe, and it's not necessarily the government. For the past year, Number 10's e-petitions team has been trying to define the point at which tosh becomes unacceptable tosh. According to a first-year report on the scheme, the answer is: quite often (tinyurl.com/34tqmh). Half the 29,000 petitions submitted have been rejected, principally for "obscenity, potential to cause offence, libel or duplication". The team has had to exclude petitions about individual penal sentences, as well as those linking to websites. Jokes, too, have been reluctantly banned. "We decided it was impossible to justify this use of Civil Service time, or to come up with clear guidelines as to what amounts to good or bad taste." Thus a "Borat for PM" petition languishes in the rejected file.A more important question is what to do about petitions based on dodgy facts. The fear is that simply publishing a rumour on the site will give it credence.  "That is an issue we are still grappling with," the report admits. I suspect a certain amount of tension between the web bods and the political grey suits.For all its limitations, though, I think e-petitioning has been a success. Not because it has changed anything - though it would take political courage not to book the Red Arrows now - but because it has shown that diverse opinions, even quite bonkers ones, can appear on government webspace. We shouldn't underestimate the cultural revolution involved.It's now time to get a bit more daring with e-democracy. By that, I don't mean e-voting - the government's enthusiasm for piloting a fundamentally flawed procedure is baffling - but  e-democracy in the sense of a conversation. And as we are a representative democracy, the place to start this conversation is at the Palace of Westminster.Parliament's website has got a lot better lately. The new home page is distinctly slick - a "come-on" box for the chancellor's response to the child data fiasco could have come straight from the BBC.It's still one-way traffic, however. Parliament generates the content, and we absorb it. While groups like the Hansard Society have led some experimental e-conversations between citizens and members, the general feeling is of caution about change.For good reasons, of course. Dominic Tinley, the website's editor, warns of the danger of engaging people in gimmicky cyber-experiences that don't connect to real parliamentary procedures. That will lead only to cynicism and disillusionment, he told the annual e-democracy conference last month.Fair enough, but that shouldn't stop us taking risks. I don't know what form parliamentary e-democracy will take, but we won't find out unless we try some new ideas. If Downing Street, the most micromanaged corner of government, can publish a few dotty petitions, then Parliament, the uniquely privileged home of free speech, should be proportionately more relaxed. After all, the Palace of Westminster is no stranger to people talking tosh, e-enabled or otherwise.
The sound of two dropped CDs is still echoing around the government's £14bn-a-year IT programme. And the effects are already being felt: last week the NHS IT agency Connecting for Health warned hospitals not to post discs containing unencrypted personal data to the central NHS Tracing Service, run by a private contractor in the Midlands. Media not meeting security standards "will be destroyed upon receipt", it warned. And on Tuesday ministers announced a five-month delay to ContactPoint, a database with details about every child in the UK.Yet while people fret about government departments sharing personal data, another piece of news last week demonstrated that if done correctly it might save lives. Anthony Joseph was jailed for the killing of Richard Whelan, a bus passenger. Joseph had just been released from youth custody in Manchester, but should have been retained because he had an outstanding arrest warrant in Liverpool.However, the prisons computer had no interface with the Police National Computer on which the arrest warrants were held. Data sharing between departments about individuals can have benefits; what is needed is a culture within government where both the power and the responsibility for implementing those benefits is understood throughout.Right now, however, the first priority for IT chiefs is to comply with the prime minister's request for an analysis of "systems and procedures" by December 10. The reports will feed in to a review by Robert Hannigan, the government's intelligence chief. Yet all these efforts make one big assumption: that so long as "systems and procedures" are properly followed, everything can continue as before.There is an alternative, more worrying analysis of the situation: that the child benefit data fiasco was the result of a government overwhelmed by the scale of what it is trying to do with IT. "It's indicative of a lack of expertise," says Helen Margetts, professor of society and the internet at Oxford Internet Institute and the co-author of a study that is devastatingly critical of the government's IT programme.Published last year by Margetts with her colleague, Patrick Dunleavy of the London School of Economics, the study of IT projects in seven leading countries found that governments that place big IT contracts in the hands of a few big contractors are the ones most likely to experience failures. The UK was unique in the extent to which it outsourced projects so that large IT companies had the government over a barrel.The study found that the UK had "the most concentrated government IT market in the world, with a near-monopolistic lead supplier (Electronic Data Systems, or EDS), huge contract sizes, poorly understood use of private finance initiative (PFI) contracts for inappropriate IT projects and virtually no in-house capacity to manage (let alone develop) IT systems."IT contractors "drove a coach and horses" through budgets, the report alleges. "It became expected practice to pitch prices for initially completed tranches of work relatively low, in the confident expectation that later revisions and extensions would create negotiated contracts of between four and six times the initial competed contract price." It's only a short step from there to demanding £5,000 to "strip" sensitive personal information from the child benefit data - a task that, with a properly designed database, would take no extra effort. That HMRC is charged so much extra for elementary tweaks shows how weak the government's grasp of its own IT has become.The subsequent loss of the discs then exposes a culture - not just a one-off error - where unencrypted personal data is regularly sent back and forth between public bodies on physical media, rather than via secure networks. "They just weren't considered important," Margetts says.In theory, the government has been trying to raise its game for more than two years. One of the three central aims of the Transformational Government Strategy, published in November 2005, was to create a new "IT profession in government". Part of this process is to hire people with IT qualifications for the civil service fast stream, where they can expect to rise to the top. Six fast-streamers were hired last year; 15 will shortly be selected for entry next year.In the context of the government's IT programme, this is like opening a hospital before you have put the staff through medical school. The other two strands of Transformational Government create a radically new IT infrastructure, based on public bodies sharing systems, and those systems sharing data on every individual in the country.Last December, the ambition was raised when Sir David Varney, a former chairman of HM Revenue and Customs who is now Gordon Brown's adviser on transforming public services, published further radical plans. They are based on a passionate commitment to sharing data and systems. Today, he says, each citizen has at least five widely used identity numbers. "In future, one accurate and robust registration should underpin all services. I see absolutely no objection to public services sharing basic administrative information like names, numbers, addresses and dates of birth."This vision of transformed government meshes with a barrage of IT-based initiatives aimed at tackling specific political priorities. These include:&middot; the ID card, which will be enabled by linking at least three existing identity databases;&middot; ContactPoint, the newly renamed index of information relating to every child in the country - now delayed for five months;&middot; e-Borders, the immigration system supposed to give immigration officers and airline check-in staff overseas the ability to check passengers' credentials against government records;&middot; the NHS care records service, creating a shared electronic health record for every individual in England (Scotland and Wales have parallel schemes.But there have been repeated warnings that the schemes are unfeasible. Professor Ross Anderson, a security expert at Cambridge University, suggested that the proposed children's database was intrusive and possibly illegal (tinyurl.com/3xd36c); the government brushed it off (tinyurl.com/2n7z2h) - as it did with warnings about internet security and the centralisation of personal health records. Now, the two lost discs have put those dismissals under fresh scrutiny.Over the past decade, the public sector's ability to manage big IT projects has repeatedly been called into question. The usual response is that the government's record is no worse than private industry's, or its counterparts in the rest of the world. However, repeated examples - and the Margetts/Dunleavy study - suggest there is simply too little IT expertise within the government. And yet far from scaling up efforts to meet the challenge of a new IT infrastructure, the government is scaling back IT, Margetts says; one symptom is the changing of the name of the old e-government unit. "It's deprioritising the issue just when it should be prioritising it."The big question now for the government is whether it will be able to reverse its internal culture, where IT expertise is not treated as a "core activity", and yet sweeping policies embracing the population which rely on huge IT projects are. It may be the biggest task it has ever faced.
In 1735 William Hogarth, after a lively public campaign, helped to pass an act giving engravers the rights to their work for 14 years from publication. It was a landmark in the history of copyright as it bestowed on engravers similar legal rights to authors and stopped sellers of prints from creaming off all the profits. Hogarth would be amazed today to find that in the US copyright has been extended to 70 years - not from the date of publication, but from the death of the author. In Britain it was regarded as rather bold of the Gowers report - on which the government will pronounce soon - to suggest that Britain should keep the existing limit of "only" 50 years after death.It is curious that there is so much pressure to extend copyright in an internet age defined by the willingness to share knowledge freely, ranging from Wikipedia to the genome project. The reason? Producer lobbies are far more powerful than difficult-to-organise consumer ones. The most formidable of all, outside farming, is the Copyright Alliance of America, embracing the film and music industries, which is asking presidential candidates to answer such loaded questions as: "How do you feel the rights that have served our economy and spurred creativity in the physical world should apply in the digital world?"The problem is that the debate is dominated by the music and film industries perpetuating the myth that an entire generation of children is being brought up to believe music is free by right through internet downloads. Don't blame the kids, blame the industry. The same kids are paying up to £3 a shot for inferior ringtones. They are only downloading for free where the music industry has failed to provide an affordable payments system free of ridiculous restrictions about only playing a track on one device without copying it, etc. Such constraints make criminals of us all. Where there is a half-decent payments system (eg, Apple's iPhone or Nokia's music system), punters pay.John Tehranian, a law professor at the University of Utah, has totted up all the infringements he could have made in a typical day - from forwarding someone else's email without permission to downloading and distributing a Supreme Court judgment to his pupils (tinyurl.com/2f3926). If others were as diligent as the music industry in suing people, it could have cost him more than $12m (£5.8m) a day in fines or more $4.5bn a year - excluding peer-to-peer downloads. If you multiply that by the number of citizens, then the figure escalates to so many times the GDP that lawyers can only dream about such a paradise.Lynne Brindley, chief executive of the British Library, told a meeting there about intellectual property last week that the debate must move on beyond music to other areas of society affected by IP rights in a digital age. Should architects be liable to be sued if they are inspired by other buildings (bye-bye, post-modernism), should software engineers have to plough through millions of lines of code in case a few lines may have infringed a patent now owned, not by the creator, but by a vulture fund set up to exploit such anomalies? How would the creativity of society be affected if we had to pay for every idea we lifted from Wikipedia or a painting or piece of music to express in a different way? Current laws would have wiped out most of Elizabethan drama at a stroke.At issue is how far society would benefit if we could use others' creativity after a decent interval instead of a ludicrous 50 or 70 years after death, given that most sales of books and music happen a few months after release. Instead of the issue being decided by the most powerful lobby, how would it look if we could compile an independent balance of the benefits arising to society from quicker access against the cost to individuals of losing their rights? Rufus Pollock of Cambridge University has done such a study (tinyurl.com/37g5eo). He told the seminar that the optimal length of copyright came out at 15 years. Hogarth would have been unsurprised.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
A "cyber cold war" is developing as international web espionage and cyber-attacks become the biggest threats to internet security, according to a report.The computer security firm McAfee said governments and government-allied groups were engaging in increasingly sophisticated cyber spying, with many attacks originating from China.Some 120 countries could be developing the capacity for such activities.What started as probes to see what was possible have become well-funded and well-organised operations for political, military, economic and technical espionage, the report said, with perpetrators aiming to cause havoc by disrupting critical national infrastructure systems.Targets include air traffic control, financial markets, government computer networks and utility providers. In September, the Guardian reported that Chinese hackers, including some believed to be from the state military, had been attacking the computer networks of British government departments, including the Foreign Office. China has spelled out in a white paper that "informationised armed forces" are part of its military strategy.McAfee, whose report was compiled with input from Nato, the FBI, and the Serious Organised Crime Agency, said that according to Nato insiders, the wave of cyber attacks that hit Estonia earlier this year, disrupting government, news and bank servers for weeks, was the tip of the iceberg. In May, the Baltic state said that at least 1m computers had been used in the cyber warfare, which saw hundreds of thousands of hits bombarding Estonian websites to jam them and make them unusable. The method used was known as distributed denial of service.The attack coincided with the climax of a dispute between Moscow and Tallinn over a Soviet second world war memorial in the Estonian capital, but officials there backed away from accusing the Kremlin directly. Russian officials have denied any state responsibility.In the past 12 months there have been reports of cyber attacks against government targets in the US, Germany, India, New Zealand and Australia. China has denied any involvement."We have seen attempts by a variety of state and non-state-sponsored organisations to gain unauthorised access to, or otherwise degrade,department of defence information systems," a Pentagon spokesman told researchers.Nato experts said attackers were using trojan horse software to focus on specific government offices, and 99% of cases were probably still undetected. "The complexity and coordination seen during the Estonia attacks was new," a Nato insider said. "There was a series of attacks with careful timing using different techniques and specific targets. The attackers stopped deliberately rather than being shut down."James Mulvenon, an expert on China's military, who is also director of the Centre for Intelligence and Research in Washington, said the Chinese were the first to jump "feet first" into 21st-century cyber-warfare technology.Peter Sommer, a computer crime expert and visiting fellow at the London School of Economics, who contributed to the report, said: "There are signs that intelligence agencies around the world are constantly probing other governments' networks, looking for strengths and weaknesses and developing new ways to gather intelligence."Jeff Green, senior vice-president of McAfee Avert Labs, said: "Cyber crime is now a global issue. It has evolved significantly and is no longer just a threat to industry and individuals but increasingly to national security. We're seeing emerging threats from increasingly sophisticated groups attacking organisations around the world."The report also highlighted new threats to consumers, with cyber criminals targeting internet-based telephone networks in what has become known as "vishing". There is also "phreaking" - or hacking into telephone networks to make long-distance phone calls - and the problem of the growing "white market", where software flaws are bought and sold for tens of thousands of pounds. Users of social networking sites such as Facebook and MySpace are also vulnerable.BackstoryCyber-attackers could cause havoc by disrupting vital infrastructure networks in any area controlled by computers. Water and sewerage systems, electricity, financial markets, payrolls, intensive care units and even traffic lights could all be hit in this way. Hackers turn thousands of computers into "zombies"under their control and link them up into a "botnet" which overwhelms the target's server with simultaneous traffic until it crashes.
Having installed Wi-Fi, I now wish to buy a wireless internet radio, but am unable to find any sites that review models. Any suggestions?Alun RichardsWireless internet radio is a relatively new product category and I have yet to see any comparative group reviews. At the moment, I think your best bet is to look at the Internet Radio category atAmazon.co.uk. This lists 22 products, including five versions of the Tangent Quattro. Some have only one or two customer reviews and some have none, but at least you can see pictures and read the specifications.Products not on the Amazon list include the Freecom MusicPal, Bush TR2015, Morphy Richards Internet Radio (sold by Currys and Argos), Logik IR100 (sold by Dixons), the Tevion Internet Radio and Media Player (sold by Aldi), and the Noxon 2 Internet Radio and Music Station for an iPod. Amazon.co.uk does not yet have theRevo Blik Wi-Fiin stock. There's also theDenon Smart S52 DAB Wi-Fitabletop radio on the way, but it's expected to cost around £500.Many products have multiple functions, and may include DAB and FM or FM/AM radios or even Digital Radio Mondiale. Some connect to MP3 players such as the Apple iPod. At least one - the Imp Adapt - also connects to a hi-fi system. Some can run on batteries. They come in many different shapes and sizes, and most are offered by different suppliers at different prices. The market is still in development, so you can expect many products to come and go before it settles down.Before you take the plunge, read Reciva.com'sinternet radio Knowledgebasefor answers to most questions.Also bear in mind that if an internet radio station broadcasts at 128kpbs, it is going to consume about 55MB per hour. That's likely to blow a hole in any capped broadband service.
I run my home wireless network from a D-Link DI-624 wireless router, and access is restricted by passwords and MAC address filtering. I'm the only one who knows the passwords. However, I keep seeing new addresses appearing on the list of allowed MAC addresses. I have removed them from the list, but they come back. I assume that this means someone is bypassing my security, and that they must be fairly serious if they are getting through all those security measures.Ian SudberyMost internet, Wi-Fi and Bluetooth devices have a Media Access Control (MAC) address, which starts with something that identifies the manufacturer. You can paste these characters into the Vendor/Ethernet MAC Address Lookup and Search site at coffer.com/mac_find/ and see if you recognise what comes up. One might be your router, or whatever. Your PCs may have two: one for built-in Ethernet and one for a wireless card.However, these universally administered addresses can be overridden by locally administered addresses -- ones you have assigned. MAC filtering isn't secure because if you can change them, so can the hacker.If identifying the devices doesn't solve the problem, then you may have to upgrade from WEP (Wired Equivalent Privacy), which isn't secure, to WPA2 (Wi-Fi Protected Access), which was added to the standard this year.You will probably need to download a software update for your operating system -- perhaps the one forWindows XP SP2-- plus new drivers for wireless cards. Many routers will also need firmware updates. There's one for the DI-624, but make sure you download it from your localD-Link country siteand install it via a cable connection.
Games such as EverQuest II (above) need more mystery and uncertainty to keep players coming backIf one were to venture far enough with friends into the Laboratory of Lord Vyemm, an area (or "zone") in Sony Online Entertainment's prominent online role-playing game, EverQuest II, one would meet the titular lord. A dragon so fearsome that it can only be slain by EQII's most seasoned adventurers, Lord Vyemm yields both virtual bounty and an unimaginable agglomeration of experience points (the unit of character development). It's an electrifying battle.The only problem? It's been done hundreds of times before. Thousands, even. EQII is a persistent-world game, which means that it provides an expansive, detailed virtual world for more than 1.5 million characters spread across 25 servers to adventure, kill increasingly powerful enemies, socialise, roleplay and amass virtual fortunes. However, the world is unchanging. When the aforementioned dragon is killed by players, a timer is set and the beast reappears after five days and 20 hours.Every other facet of Norrath (EQII's world) works on this principle, and, one has to wonder: could things not be a little more exciting and spontaneous?Mystery is one of the most significant themes in culture. One of the most appealing aspects of the fantasy media and mythologies that inspire and inform games like EQII is the sense of uncertain, and most likely perilous, adventure. But in EQII and its peers, however, the unknown, basically, doesn't exist.In this instance, it would be easy to blame the players, who have created countless sites devoted to divulging and explaining every aspect of the game for fledgling adventurers. But the reality is a little more complex. Balance is paramount for these games to work properly. Any loophole or imbalance can lead to players exploiting the system.The price of such security is a mathematical world. EQII zones are, for the most part, tailored to player-characters within a certain level-range - that is, players who have accrued a certain amount of experience points (through combat and game-given missions) can venture into certain areas. A level-15 player has no business (and no chance of survival) wandering into a level-70 raid zone. There are minor workarounds - in EQII, experienced players can mentor younger ones, and are thus able to make revisiting lower-level areas worthwhile - but none really solve the problem that, despite the size and detail of these games' worlds, progression is linear and predictable.Single-player games aren't immune from these issues, either, albeit for entirely different reasons. The need to "know the unknown" in offline games undoubtedly stems from a commercial perspective: developers spend a lot of money creating assets for their games, and justifiably want players to see everything they've done. Valve Software chief executive Gabe Newell believes that money spent on content players might never see is money wasted. And his lean approach to game development has paid dividends: Valve's Half-Life first-person shooter games are some of the most commercially and critically successful titles in the industry's history; most praise is directed at the focused, cinematic experiences the games afford.Even the often more freeform RPG genre appears to be aligning itself with Newell's philosophy. The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, the most successful RPG in recent memory, pivots on a scaling system, whereby everything a player sees, fights, buys from and converses with in the virtual world is scaled to his or her level. The player can push through the game's main storyline fairly quickly as a result, but they won't fight a Minotaur, say, until they reach the right level.Systems like the one used in Oblivion exist to make vast, technologically complex virtual worlds streamlined and manageable. Forego any kind of balancing system, and you may end up with a bug-ridden, inconsistent game - one of the quickest ways to earn seriously bad press. There are several studios, though, that are trying to prove that surprises and functionality aren't mutually exclusive. 2K Boston (formerly Irrational Games) is probably the most prominent: BioShock  was released in August to unanimous praise and commercial success. And it's a completely open-plan experience.BioShock is all about mystery. The player doesn't get much of a sense of who or where they are until they start progressing through the storyline. Rules are never made clear; the consequences of the player's decisions aren't obvious before they face them. Even the enemies encountered vary in their behaviours, locations and abilities; in BioShock there are very few set-pieces.2K Boston's past titles offer a similar level of unpredictability: SWAT 4 randomised the positions of perpetrators and innocents in each area so players could never become familiar enough with a certain level to dampen the intensity of the experience. Similarly, System Shock 2, BioShock's key inspiration, featured wandering, intelligent enemies, and a plot so ambiguous that players were never really given any sense of safety or security.These games are decidedly first- person shooters, but they actually resemble Origin's Ultima games much more than anything in that lineage. In one Ultima title, the player could wander off and find meaningful and detailed, but most importantly unexpected and often dangerous, places in the world.Richard Garriott, the man behind Ultima, is taking his dynamic, unpredictable gameplay online with Tabula Rasa. The game promises balanced and consistent gameplay, but an experience that's far more mutable than what's available now. In the game, the player will find themselves on the human side of an inter-planetary war. The AI-controlled alien enemies, the Bane, will work against both player and computer-driven humans to capture towns, military bases and cities. Sometimes they'll succeed. Players will never really be certain of which areas are safe and which are overrun, as the battle constantly waxes and wanes - with or without player input. Furthermore, the enemies the player will encounter can be defeated even if they're significantly more powerful than the player, provided a little care and ingenuity are used.More conventional online games are catching up. EQII, for one, compensates for its rigidity by regularly issuing new content including new zones, cities, monsters and hard-to-find instanced areas in frequent, free updates to the game. And given that these updates - not to mention annual purchasable expansion packs - often drastically affect both the virtual world and the gameplay, a Tabula Rasa-esque dynamic battlefield may not be too far away.Will online games ever offer the surprises that something like BioShock provides? Moreover, will single-player games catch up with their more emergent peers? The American film critic Roger Ebert (in)famously declared videogames an inherently inferior artform to film; if games can't produce the kind of suspense, uncertainty, and doubt intrinsic to any good story and that film creates so easily, he may well be right.
The DNLA may sound like one of those splinter terrorist organisations - the sort that wants to end the oppression of peoples and the bourgeois insertion of nutty clusters in chocolate boxes - but its initials actually stand for "Digital Living Network Alliance" (dlna.org), whose dozens of member companies want you to listen and watch things stored on one piece of equipment in your home in another part of your home via your network. It's all very home of the fut-chah, white heat of technology, etc.DLNA members offer media "streamers" and digital media players (DMPs), which use DLNA-approved software to link to any other DLNA-approved products with the minimum of fuss; it's intended to be plug-and-play. (About the only thing they can't play back is DRM-protected music or video from Apple's iTunes Store.)Enter Solwise, which is keen on the home network field, with its own DMP - the book-sized 1120w, costing £83.30 (inc VAT). This comes in the now-standard white plastic that Chinese factories must use by the tonne. No doubt by next year they'll all switch to black, apeing the iPhone and iPod Touch.Here's the weakness of an ecosystem, though: the race to the bottom on price. DLNA products all use Linux (yay!), but the user interface engineers get paid nothing, meaning the menus and navigation on your TV are clunky and the typefaces ugly (boo!). Comparing, say, the Nintendo Wii's beautiful, restful typography with that on the Solwise menus, you realise that fonts affect the entire user experience. The remote control, too, is so light it feels cheap; pricey things need heft. And ignore the manual, some of which is written in Babelfish.But, you ask, how well does it work? Really well, mostly. The wireless networking is flawless. My media server (a hard drive attached to my router) turned up at once. AAC and MP3 audio files, and DVD .vob, AVI and MPEG-2 files, plus photo albums, all played and previewed without problem. And unlike many media streamers, the Solwise has slots for CF and other storage cards, which are read directly.There's only a disappointing range of web sources, though: only Flickr and Radiotime, and I couldn't make the latter work. Given a browser, why not give us the whole web?The only real problem I had was that some video files wouldn't fast-forward or rewind, though this might though be a quirk of my disk and server, rather than Solwise's product. That's the other problem with the DLNA: it hasn't quite got all its members in line, so there's still some disagreement in the ranks. No matter. DMPs are the way forward; get one and you'll wonder why you ever used your computer as a TV or music centre.Pros:easy setup; small and stylish; neat media previewingCons:cheap-looking typefaces; clunky navigation; limited web contentsolwise.co.uk
But can it show 'end of lecture'?This computer has inveigled itself somehow in between the whiteboard and the projector, and understands the physics of drawings there. Great if your lecture is on Tonka toy design.tinyurl.com/2zwxwhIt's cheaper than an iPhone ...Catty but witty, here's a take on what might happen if Microsoft decided to make a phone that was also a Zune. The best thing? The flashing "12:00" time. And the rotary dial. And the music.tinyurl.com/22t3d5Not quite infinity, just beyondPresident John F Kennedy's inspiring 1962 speech, setting a deadline to reach the moon during that decade. They did.tinyurl.com/yw65z7Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Alex Smith, 20, won $25,000 for a proof described as 'a thoroughly nice piece of work,' though others claim it contains 'a fallacy'Alex Smith might not have to worry about his student loan for a while: the 20-year old electronic engineering undergraduate at the University of Birmingham has just won a $25,000 (£12,100) prize from Wolfram Research, a company based in Illinois, for a proof of how to design a computer.That might sound absurd; don't we already have computers? But Smith's 40-page proof is a conceptual one which shows how one absurdly simple mathematical machine is still powerful enough to perform any computational task.The machine itself was first proposed in 2002 by Wolfram's chief executive, Stephen Wolfram, whose controversial Principle of Computational Equivalence, or PCE (tinyurl.com/2jqxf7) is bolstered by the new result.PCE is controversial because it suggests a different way of doing what we already do. Modern computers are heroically flexible machines, happily running whatever software we feed them, and equally capable of balancing a spreadsheet or editing a home video. But that flexibility comes at a price. Desktop processors each contain up to half a billion transistors crammed into staggeringly complex designs that are fiddly and expensive to make. But could we reboot computer design by starting from scratch and thinking simple? What would the simplest possible computer look like? For more than 50 years, computer scientists have been trying to find out.Wolfram's PCE claims that complex behaviour is possible without complex design. That could be good news for nanotechnologists: "It might be possible to create simple computers out of organic molecules that work in a similar way to this one, rather than having to simulate the more complicated logic found in electronic computers today," Smith says.This "complicated logic" in the hardware of modern computers is constructed from individually simple and well-understood transistor-based building blocks, repeated and rearranged millions of times to create modular processor designs.But these precisely engineered systems inevitably reflect the intentions of their human designers rather than the fundamental character of computation itself. Thus it might be possible to achieve the same end result - the same output - with designs whose construction is simpler but which are much less well-understood in their operation, like the many natural undesigned biological systems. Wolfram's machine is one example of a very simple design that has turned out to be both unexpectedly powerful and fiendishly hard to understand.Wolfram branded Smith's proof "a thoroughly nice piece of work" on his blog (tinyurl.com/3cosu8); Smith should receive his prize within the next few months in a ceremony at Bletchley Park, where the mathematician and codebreaker Alan Turing worked during the second world war.It was Turing who first came up with the fundamental ideas behind digital computers in 1936, years before any were actually built. His so-called Turing machine (tinyurl.com/dkntl) was an early attempt to imagine the simplest possible computer: a device that could move back and forth along a paper tape, reading and writing symbols according to a set of unchanging, predetermined rules contained in the device's circuitry.Any particular set of rules produced a machine hard-coded to perform only one task, such as adding up all the numbers written on the tape, but Turing managed to design a complicated collection of rules that produced a machine capable of actually reading new instructions from the tape itself. This "universal" Turing machine (tinyurl.com/2o82v5) could perform any task, given a tape containing an appropriate program. This showed it would be possible to build general-purpose computers that could be programmed to do any job. And so software was born.But Turing's rules for his universal machine were complex, and other mathematicians sought simpler designs. In 1962 the American scientist Marvin Minsky produced a simplified 28-rule recipe for a universal machine, and in 2002 Wolfram published an even simpler 10-rule design in his book, A New Kind of Science. Wolfram also described a six-rule machine (tinyurl.com/24sosf) which looked like it might be universal - but couldn't prove mathematically that it was.So in May, Wolfram Research announced the prize for anyone who could produce a proof either way; 47 days later, after working on the problem during his summer holidays, Smith submitted a solution that showed the universality of the tiny machine. His complex argument was peppered with equations and Perl scripts, and had to be refined twice before the judges were convinced. But in late October he got a phone call from Wolfram to tell him he'd won the prize. "It had become more and more obvious that I had won as time went on," Smith says. "There was no sudden moment at which I knew I'd won, it was simply a case of getting more certain. So there was no special surprise or celebration or anything like that, because there was no obvious moment at which it would have happened."Wolfram, a London-born Oxford graduate and former child prodigy, certainly sees cause for celebration. "I thought it was great. It's quite a tour de force - it's very rare that computer scientists produce proofs of this length and complexity. Alex seems," he adds, measuredly, "like a bright fellow."Not everyone shares Wolfram's enthusiasm, partly because some mathematicians view the designing of simple computers as merely a fun hobby with few real applications. The proof itself is controversial, too. Stanford University's Vaughan Pratt claims that it contains "an elementary fallacy" which moves the goalposts of universal computation so far apart that the definition begins to include machines that everyone agrees are too simple to be considered universal computers; his full technical argument is attinyurl.com/324dnsNot so, argues Smith: "The proof itself is fine; I'm pretty certain about that. The problem is determining exactly what it is that I've proved. I suspect the debate about whether I've actually proved the machine to be universal may never end, because it's a debate about the meanings of words rather than mathematically provable facts." Nor does he agree that the mathematics itself has little practical value."The investigation of simple systems is generating resources for people who want to come up with new ways to do computation. There is always the chance that something new and fundamental will be discovered, and some obscure result in the field might turn out to be just what is needed to make a practical computer out of some newly discovered technology that nobody yet imagines."
The Irish government has dipped a toe into the free data market, making a group of datasets for boreholes around the country available online so that professional users - in particular those engaging in major construction or infrastructure planning - will be able to visualise subterranean structures.On its own, that might not sound earth-shattering. But it is an interesting step forward for the Geological Survey of Ireland, which holds the data - and makes a notable contrast with the approach taken by the Environment Agency in England and Wales, which is seeking to impose charges for access to data about "source protection zones" for groundwater (Free groundwater information dries up, May 17).The Irish data (which can be viewed using an interactive viewer attinyurl.com/2rsxmm) are not yet in the sort of form that could be used to build mashups, by connecting to an online web interface that could be queried by someone building, say, a Google, Yahoo! or Live Maps interface. At present, navigating to the borehole locations is a slow process that requires clicking on more and more detailed map views, or searching for known sites or towns.But in principle it is widening the availability of data to anyone on the net, including Ireland's citizens, which must be useful - and the possibility of a web API (applications programming interface) that would let people build their own mashups by querying the GSI's servers in real time must exist.Meanwhile the UK's mapping agency, Ordnance Survey, is due within the next month to launch its OpenSpace project which will - after 13 months' delay - allow web developers to create mashups of data directly from OS maps online.This was the fifth recommendation in the Power of Information report by Tom Steinberg and Ed Mayo, delivered to the Cabinet Office in June. OS has repeatedly said that it will meet the deadline.Elsewhere, the Treasury says that a report on the cost benefits of alternative funding models is only due "by the end of the year" - rather than last week, as the study's terms of reference specified.Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk
Six-year-old Mathilda Hirschfeld tests the OLPC machine in Potsdam, GermanyNot as well as those behind the programme to supply children in the developing world with a cheap, robust computer would like. The OLPC programme, despite plenty of goodwill and positive press coverage, has got off to a rocky start.Nicholas Negroponte, the founder of the project, hoped to make the devices by the millions to benefit from economies of scale and to get them out to the children he thinks need them. However, the ingenious battery-powered laptop, which sports an AMD processor and doesn't sport Windows, has run into problems. One snag is that it has failed to win orders in its core market, the developing world. Speaking to the BBC, Nigeria's education minister, Dr Igwe Aja-Nwachuku, made the not unreasonable point that there are more pressing needs in Nigeria's impoverished schools: "What is the sense of introducing One Laptop Per Child when they don't have seats to sit down and learn; when they don't have uniforms to go to school in; where they don't have facilities?"Nigeria had initially pledged to buy 1m laptops, but has since failed to honour that commitment - not least because they now cost more than $100 (£48): it now costs $188, plus shipping. The first production run is just 300,000 units - and of those, many (well, about half) are destined not for children in the developing world, but for well-heeled homes in North America.This is the result of the Give One, Get One programme in the US and Canada, which launched on November 12 - a reversal of the initial pledge that the machine wouldn't be available in developed nations. Under the scheme, a punter pays $399, which buys two machines: one for the buyer and one for a child in countries such as Rwanda, Afghanistan, Cambodia, Haiti and Mongolia. Earlier this week that scheme was extended to run through the Christmas period until December 31.The project has also aroused the competitive spirit of two of the biggest beasts in the computing jungle: Intel and Microsoft. Intel, which is not exactly known for its forays into the hardware sector, has stormed into the market for low-cost laptops with its own Classmate, which runs Windows. At between $230 and $300, the Classmate, which sports a similarly cute, rugged and kid-friendly design to the OLPC, is likely to appeal in developing world markets, where Microsoft runs initiatives to sell stripped-down, cheap versions of Windows.Intel is to give 3,000 Classmates to Nigeria (to sit on, perhaps?) and Libya is to buy 150,000 of the machines, saying: "The Intel machine is a lot better than the OLPC." Some accuse Intel of cynically muscling in on what could be a lucrative market if the demand for cheap machines is indeed in the millions. Someone is going to do well out of this: whether it will be the OLPC project or Intel remains to be seen.
Guitar Hero III: Step into the shoes of your favourite guitaristGuitar Hero IIIXbox 360/PS3/Wii/PS2, £74.99 (with guitar), cert 12, Neversoft/Activision, 4/5 starsThe massively popular party game is back, with a snazzier-than-ever guitar modelled on the Gibson Les Paul and a new developer. Which, wisely, hasn't messed with the formula, but has added some interesting tweaks, such as boss-battles in which you earn power-ups and use them to hamper your rival's efforts by triggering broken strings, overloading amps and so on. This adds difficulty to a game which already requires serious practice before you achieve proficiency, but also ups the adrenalin levels. You can also play through Career mode co-operatively and, incredibly given that precise timing is the key to Guitar Hero III, you can play against others over the internet. The playlist is better than ever, including far more original recordings (the Sex Pistols even re-recorded two tracks for it) as opposed to what sound like tribute-band versions. It's the same riotous party ice-breaker as before - but with everything cranked up to 11 this time.Steve BoxerMass EffectXbox 360, &pound;49.99, cert 15+, Bioware/Microsoft, 5/5Mass Effect mixes the space travel of Elite, the plot-twisting of Knights of the Old Republic and the music from Blade Runner to create something very special. But it takes a while to get going. Excessive alien chit-chat and initially confusing combat are not an ideal start. But when it clicks you'll get sucked into a highly addictive mix of action, conversation and gear lust, plus great character graphics. The rest of the game isn't bad looking either, with numerous other-worldly locales convincingly depicted. The game occasionally struggles to keep up, though, with graphical slowdown more noticeable in battle scenes than it should have been. As well as the main mission, players are free to explore the wider reaches of the galaxy, though exploration feels a little undercooked. But the core of the game - role-playing mixed with third person combat - is hugely enjoyable, even if it's not quite the paradigm-shifter that previews suggested it would be.Greg HowsonCrysisPC, &pound;34.99, cert 16+, Crytek/EA, 5/5Far Cry came from nowhere to redefine freeform shoot-em-ups. Three years later, the developers are back and they're still improving. As before, we start in a lush jungle setting, swarming with grunts of the smartest kind. Pretty soon there are aliens and more to deal with. Then there's the full gamut of weaponry, from tasty sniper rivals to tuned-up tanks - this time with a proper multiplayer element. If you wanted to quibble, it's a bit short and you'll need a ninja PC to appreciate it. However, this is a brilliantly paced shoot-em-up with graphics to die for. Don't miss it.Mike Anderiesz
The "discgate" scandal is an example of how IT can give government more power over us while at the same time making it less efficient. But it is not just the efficiency of government that is affected in this way. There is a reasonable argument that IT has damaged democracy without giving us any corresponding benefits. This is only partly in the increased surveillance that it makes possible, though that is certainly part of the problem. But I don't think that electronic surveillance alone makes a totalitarian regime possible or likely. For that you need a government that is actively malevolent, whereas ours is merely incompetent. It is quite capable of interfering with the innocent without inconveniencing the guilty. Most of the dangers to democracy come from the information that is in the hands of pressure groups.It may look like pure contrariness to assert that IT and the internet are bad for democracy. After all, one of the things we agree on is that the internet works to soften up dictatorships and to bring the message of freedom under the government's radar. But China shows that even this minimal achievement may be illusory. It looks as if the Great Firewall does a good job of cutting off the masses from the outside world. And even when democracy comes through, the sort that we get is damaged by the tendencies inherent in electronic communications and the powers that IT gives.The most egregious example of this is confined, as far as I know, to the US, where computer-assisted gerrymandering is an important political tool: the idea being to draw constituency boundaries so that all the enemy's voters are concentrated in a few districts, while your side has small but reliable majorities in many districts. This is only possible through the analysis of voting and purchasing habits that computers make possible.It might seem ludicrous to regardupmystreet.comas a threat to democracy, but anything that makes it easier to market a product makes it easier to lie in ways tailored for a particular audience. Without IT behind them, focus groups could not be used as they are; nor could the kind of automated push-polling now common in US elections, where propaganda is put in the form of misleading questions, so that the Republican voters in New Hampshire are liable to be rung up by robots asking if it would change their opinion of Governor Romney to know he was a Mormon who believed various crazy things, and whether they would think better of Senator McCain if they knew he were a good Christian.That looks like artificial intelligence. But artificial stupidity is also one of products of IT. The completely "on message" robot MP is kept on message by their pager - or, nowadays, BlackBerry. This is understandable as a defence mechanism; no politician today dares say anything unconsidered for fear that it will end up on YouTube. Boris Johnson didn't even need to say anything for that sort of ridicule. His opponents in the London mayoral race are gleefully circulating a clip of him behaving like a psychopathic twit on the football field.Blogs, and reader comments generally, tend also to reduce the quality of political debate more often than they elevate it. This isn't just the echo chamber effect, though that matters: because there are more and more blogs that will agree with you, no matter how crazy your opinions, it is easy to live completely unaware that anyone might have good reasons for disagreeing with you.On sites where disagreement is encouraged, bad comment tends to drive out good. No one is going to take the time to compose a thoughtful and well-informed comment if the responses will be stupid and abusive. Most of these networks serve merely to disseminate lies more quickly.Is there anything we can do to change this? The net isn't going to go away; and so long as political parties and pressure groups benefit from wickedness, they will continue to practise it. The only suggestion I have is that we should try not make things worse. Don't tolerate being treated like an idiot. Try to leave conversations better than you found them.thewormbook.com/helmintholog
Internet radioHaving installed Wi-Fi, I now wish to buy a wireless internet radio, but am unable to find any sites that review models. Any suggestions?Alun RichardsJS:Wireless internet radio is a relatively new product category and I have yet to see any comparative group reviews. At the moment, I think your best bet is to look at the Internet Radio category at Amazon.co.uk (tinyurl.com/yvd55e?). This lists 22 products, including five versions of the Tangent Quattro. Some have only one or two customer reviews and some have none, but at least you can see pictures and read the specifications. Products not on the Amazon list include the Freecom MusicPal, Bush TR2015, Morphy Richards Internet Radio (sold by Currys and Argos), Logik IR100 (sold by Dixons), the Tevion Internet Radio and Media Player (sold by Aldi), and the Noxon 2 Internet Radio and Music Station for an iPod. Amazon.co.uk does not yet have the Revo Blik Wi-Fi in stock. There's also the Denon Smart S52 DAB Wi-Fi tabletop radio on the way, but it's expected to cost around £500.Many products have multiple functions, and may include DAB and FM or FM/AM radios or even Digital Radio Mondiale. Some connect to MP3  players such as the Apple iPod. At least one - the Imp Adapt - also connects to a hi-fi system. Some can run on batteries. They come in many different shapes and sizes, and most are offered by different suppliers at different prices. The market is still in development, so you can expect many products to come and go before it settles down. Before you take the plunge, read Reciva.com's internet radio knowledge base (tinyurl.com/3dpgsg) for answers to most questions. Also bear in mind that if an internet radio station broadcasts at 128kpbs, it is going to consume about 55MB per hour. That's likely to blow a hole in any capped broadband service.MAC invadersI run my home wireless network from a D-Link DI-624 wireless router, and access is restricted by passwords and MAC address filtering. I'm the only one who knows the passwords. However, I keep seeing new addresses appearing on the list of allowed MAC addresses. I have removed them from the list, but they come back. I assume that this means someone is bypassing my security, and that they must be fairly serious if they are getting through all those security measures.Ian SudberyJS:Most internet, Wi-Fi and Bluetooth devices have a Media Access Control (MAC) address, which starts with something that identifies the manufacturer. You can paste these characters into the Vendor/Ethernet MAC Address Lookup and Search site at coffer.com/mac_find/ and see if you recognise what comes up. One might be your router, or whatever. Your PCs may have two: one for built-in Ethernet and one for a wireless card. However, these universally administered addresses can be overridden by locally administered addresses - ones you have assigned. MAC filtering isn't secure because if you can change them, so can the hacker. If identifying the devices doesn't solve the problem, then you may have to upgrade from WEP (Wired Equivalent Privacy), which isn't secure, to WPA2 (Wi-Fi Protected Access), which was added to the standard this year. You will probably need to download a software update for your operating system - perhaps the one for Windows XP SP2 (tinyurl.com/3xvk78) - plus new drivers for wireless cards. Many routers will also need firmware updates. There's one for the DI-624, but make sure you download it from your local country site (tinyurl.com/32th38) and install it via a cable connection.Sorry Darling!How much information can be in each record if there are 25m child benefit records on two CDs?David BaxterJS:A standard CD-R will hold 703MB of data - about 737m characters - so two discs will hold 1.474bn. That would only be 59 characters per record. However, it seems there are only 7.25m records, each record being a family with one or more children. That would provide 203 characters of data per family, which is enough to include names and dates of birth, an address and bank details. The simplest way to put a single database on to two CDs is to zip it using an archiving program such as WinZip. This would allow password protection, and would also compress the data. Text can easily be compressed into less than half the space, allowing more data to be stored on the discs. In this case, it could provide from 300 to 400 characters per family.Vanishing buttonI have used Outlook Express for more than 10 years. I have got used to the Send button in the top left of the screen. Now, when mailing three websites, the button has disappeared.Chris SimpsonJS:I've never heard of this before, but a search of the Microsoft Knowledge Base suggests article 306098 (tinyurl.com/yo8klr). With Windows, buttons and menus are more likely to disappear because the system has run out of resources and needs a restart.Backchat&middot; Paul Mann asked for help with Linux, particularly software installation, and advice flooded in. Joe Casey says: "ComputerActive has brought out a supplement, Ultimate Guide to Linux for Beginners (£5.99), which includes a CD" (tinyurl.com/388ddh). Joe Lamb suggests contacting a local Lug or Linux user group. Rev Kenneth Chambers says his problem was solved by "Applications - Add/Remove" in Ubuntu 7.10, and Chris Gilbert added a useful address:www.tinyurl.com/yrgyyn. Martin Loftus suggested Ubuntu and Rickford Grant's book, Ubuntu Linux for Non-Geeks.Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor, atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Greenpeace gores NintendoNintendo is the first company ever to score zero out of 10 for greenness in the latest Greenpeace electronics ranking.tinyurl.com/2lswnrTwendy one (sic) todayScientists from Waseda University in Japan have unveiled Twendy-One, a more lifelike 1.5m robot. But its batteries only last 15 minutes.twendyone.comAgainst virtual violenceFour US senators including Hillary Clinton have complained to the US ratings board for giving Rockstar's Manhunt 2 an M (Mature) rating instead of banning it. Rockstar is appealing the UK ban.tinyurl.com/yskwmhIBM patents DVD adsIBM has applied for a US patent on a way of showing adverts while you are watching a DVD.tinyurl.com/2kobbyACAP arrivesACAP, the Automated Content Access Protocol devised by publishers to distribute copyright-protected content on the web, is being launched today.the-acap.orgBlack box backupDrobo is launching its automated "storage robot" - an external USB system - in the UK on December 10.drobo.comSee hereThe Tiresias screen font, designed by a team led by Dr John Gill at the RNIB, is now available as a free download.tinyurl.com/2zy7ubRussian viewBlognation has added Russian tech news and reviews, expanding its coverage to 14 countries.ru.blognation.com
New reader, old modelDespite some interesting features, it's the same old "lock 'em in" model at work here, with the unique twist that the content will be updated using embedded mobile phone technology (Paperback to the future, November 22). The business model here is that users pay not for the data transfer, but for a "reasonable" subscription for whatever digital book, magazine or newspaper feeds are participating in Amazon's scheme.auricle.orgIt might be worth considering though now that everyone's going green - environmentalists will love this product. I'm not sure ebooks will fly as well. They haven't really stood out as a replacement for the real tangible book. And I doubt they ever will.iwannapublish.blogspot.comA showcase of computersJack Schofield's article (Cracking the case for a museum of computing, November 22) on the fantastic work of Bletchley Park and their desire to set up a National Computer Museum ignores the work that museums are already doing in this area.If museums did just present "disembodied chunks of old machines" without trying to preserve working systems or the historical context of computer use, it would undeniably be tragic. Luckily this is not the case. The Science Museum holds world-class collections in the history of computing, including manuals, software and in some cases films to support our understanding of the objects. Our forward plan includes a gallery to showcase these collections in an environment that enthuses our 2.4 million visitors annually in the development of computing technology.Dr Tilly Blyth,Science Museum, LondonEar, hearPop audiences have no ear for tonality.High disco and car audio MP3 decibels having already impaired their hearing, their opinions on tone quality are no more useful than those of a donkey on fine varieties of strawberries (Letters and blogs, November 22). It is sad that Radio 3 and FM Radio are taking advantage of the disabled in this way.John Tyldesley,PrestonA burning issueI've been demanding it for years and finally they're making some progress! (Next-gen smoke detectors, November 22). Yes, the smoke detector that ignores burning toast! That's got to be the best invention for ages. Why can't they invent more proper stuff like that? A television that pauses itself when you look away or lose focus for too long, that's got to be on the list.scatterkeir.blogspot.comDon't free our dataFree our data? What have you wrought? Some basic questions about the missing CDs: are the personal and financial details of our political leaders and their children on them?Does Alistair Darling know what he is talking about when he says the data is "password protected" but not "encrypted"? Do the people at the NAO know what these terms mean?Darling said he hoped that the CDs might yet be recovered, as if that might itself be cause for relief, if not celebration. If they are recovered, and considering the world now knows the value of the data, how will anyone be able to tell if they have been copied? The physical state of the envelope?Will the government urgently pass a law against institutions cold-calling me, then asking me upfront a "security question" to "confirm my identity" before, presumably, trying to make me upgrade some service? I've had two such calls in the past three months - I still don't know if they were genuinely from the institutions they purported to come from, since the caller refused to answer questions from me such as "What is your name?". Millions of people are at risk of being asked security questions by fraudsters under the guise of, say, a bank wanting to discuss security matters.Laurence Penney,BristolRead all this week's letters and blogs atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technologyWrite to: Letters, TechnologyGuardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London, EC1R 3ER
When scriptwriter William Goldman opened his book Adventures in the Screen Trade with the immortal line, "Nobody knows anything", he was of course referring to the vagaries of the movie industry - the fact that utter stinkers often make millions, while beautifully crafted masterpieces sometimes sink like Antarctic cruise ships. His succinct assertion on the randomness of public taste can easily be applied to videogames, too.For example, you'd think that in sectors where games are cheaper - say, on mobile phones or Xbox Live Arcade - consumers would be more adventurous in their purchases. Far from it. In both, the download charts are dominated by mundane conversions of old arcade games. It seems as though digital distribution has created a gaming equivalent of the middle-aged music fan, who buys new versions of the same old albums every time a different format arrives.This has certainly not gone unnoticed by developers. Earlier this year, cult programmer Jeff Minter - a sort of videogame industry version of David Lynch - released the beautiful, idiosyncratic game Space Giraffe into the Xbox online marketplace. The game has not been selling well and Minter has flipped out. Last week the exasperated coder wrote on his blog: "[I'm] not seeing a lot of reason to continue even trying to make games, at this point, when a remake of Frogger, one of the worst games in the history of old arcade games, can outsell Space Giraffe that we put so much love and effort into, by more than 10 to one, in one week." Heartbreaking stuff.Microsoft has at least stumbled on a reasonably reliable method of getting consumers to try new stuff - make it free. The problem is, the company is choosing the wrong merchandise. The stupefying board game conversion Carcassonne was recently given away to celebrate five years of Xbox Live, while a new offer of 10 free Arcade games for any gamer who successfully recommends Xbox 360 to a mate features an array of coin-op conversions and conversions of casual PC titles.There is one positive note in all of this. The cult Xbox title Psychonauts is due to arrive on Xbox Live Arcade next month. This neglected classic, created by Tim Schafer of Monkey Island fame, was the Space Giraffe of its day - weird, difficult but brilliant. If Arcade succeeds in giving this game an audience after all these years, it will go some way toward restoring the karmic balance. Nobody knows anything in this business, but at least the era of digital downloads gives them the chance to know nothing all over again.
I have used Outlook Express for more than 10 years. I have got used to the Send button in the top left of the screen. Now, when mailing three websites, the button has disappeared.Chris SimpsonI've never heard of this before, but a search of the Microsoft Knowledge Base suggestsarticle 306098. With Windows, buttons and menus are more likely to disappear because the system has run out of resources and needs a restart.
If you're in New York over the next few days, head straight for theBlip Festivalat the Eyebeam Gallery in Chelsea. It's a four day music and multimedia event, featuring 40 performers from around the world who use hacked vintage games hardware to make delicious chiptunes. Commodore 64, Atari 2600, NES and Game Boy will all figure and there are presentations and workshops for interested newbies.The New York Times has a shortfeatureon the event:...in an era of microgenres and techno-enthusiasts, it should come as no surprise that there is a worldwide audience for music played on a Commodore 64. Last year Mr. Johnson, who performs under the name Nullsleep, and his fellow chiptune artist Joshua Davis, a k a Bit Shifter, went on a month-and-a-half-long, 20-stop world tour. And starting tomorrow they will welcome hundreds of expected fans to kick off the second annual Blip Festival, billed as the planet's largest gathering of chiptune aficionados.Of course, you don't have to go all the way to North America to check out the chiptune scene. You can see the likes of theZX Spectrum Orchestra,The Lost LevelsandSabrepulsein the UK. Also, as Imentioned recently, Cory Arcangel, who hacks old arcade games to create new art installations, is exhibiting at the Spacex gallery in Exeter from December 15 to February 23.
Online gaming is (generally) great. Competing with or against other people almost always beats solo play, especially for sports games. Challenging a mate to a game of Pro Evolution Soccer - or Madden, since I rediscovered the NFL after the recent Wembley game - is not only a laugh but also a social necessity when most of your friends have young families/no time. But anyone who has played PES 2008 online will know "laugh" isn't exactly the right word to use. "Shambolic" and "laggy" are just two printable ways to describe the mess that is PES 2008 online. So the news that the publishers Konami have finally released a patch is welcome, if overdue. I haven't a chance to test it yet but if anyone has do let me know if it makes any difference.After another disappearing ball/reappearing defender PES moment the other night I did the previously unthinkable and stuck FIFA 2008 on. Not as much as fun to play - too bloody slow - but they've nailed the online. And that could swing it for me. Alternatively I may just wait for Sensible Soccer on Xbox Live Arcade - now confirmed for the 19th Dec. Decisions, decisions.
Google hasunveiled an ambitious planto fund renewable energies and find breakthrough technologies that will make them cheaper to use than coal, one of the principal contributors to global warming (through its use for energy generation).As David Adam, our environment correspondent, notes:Google will focus initially on solar thermal power, wind power, geothermal systems and other "potential breakthrough" technologies. It wants to find cheaper, less polluting ways to supply its own demand for energy, as well as accelerate the replacement of fossil fuels for worldwide electricity generation.Google plans to put hundreds of millions of its carbon repositories - sorry, dollars - into the projects.Google already uses a fair bit of hydroelectric power at its new data centre in Pryor, Oklahoma (whose choice wasshrouded in secrecy)). So it's a bit green. But in line with Dell's "Plant a Tree For Me" scheme (even if it has hadlimp takeup- must chase up those numbers), it shows that the IT industry is starting to take notice, as anyone must amidst the double whammy of rising energy prices and increasing concern about global warming's short- and long-term effects, of how it's sourcing and using energy. It might only be the start, but it's a good road to head down.The initiative is called RE!C - but replace the ! with a less than sign. (We can't, because it will likely break the site - thinking it's an HTML markup - and lead to a meltdown of the interwebnet. Which would be bad.)Update:theDaily Green points outthat by comparison, the US Department of Energy spent about $1.16bn on energy efficiency and renewable energy in 2006, and requested $1.24bn for 2008. So Google isn't going to make an overwhelming difference - but it may provide a useful flagpole to rally around.depending on how quickly Google spends its intended $100m, it will be spending more than the US federal government on renewables, where the Department of Energy spent $65m on research and development into biomass, wind and solar energy in 2006..
Ken Kutaragi, former President and CEO of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc, has been named as the recipient of the 'coveted' 2008 Lifetime Achievement Award, bestowed by theAcademy of Interactive Arts &amp; Sciences. From the press release:Recognized internationally as the "Father of PlayStation," Kutaragi will be honored for revolutionizing the global in-home entertainment market with the creation and monstrous success of the PlayStation computer entertainment systems. The launch of the original PlayStation which was launched in 1994 and the PlayStation 2 which launched in 2000 went on to become the most popular gaming system of the era, resulting in combined shipments of more than 230 million units worldwide.It's best if, for now, you try to forget the disaster-strewn gestation of PS3 (the writers of this press release obviously have - the machine is mentioned just once). Remember instead that Kutaragi was a guiding force on PlayStation way back when it was being touted as a CD ROM drive for the SNES. He took part in Sony's meetings with developers during the early nineties, when the company was humble enough to seek the guidance and approval of the development community. Such a long time ago.The award will be presented during the 11th annual Interactive Achievement Awards held on February 7 next year in Las Vegas as part of the2008 D.I.C.E. Summit.
"In an unprecedented move, Google Inc has agreed to supply the IP address of an Israeli blogger who used 'Google Blogger' for a blog in which he slandered Shaarei Tikva council members running for reelection. The election is being held today," reports Israel'sGlobes Onlinenewspaper.For more than a year, the anonymous blogger slandered three Shaarei Tikva councilmen: local council chairman Gideon Idan, Shaarei Tikva director general Haim Blumenfeld and council member Avi Yokobovich. The blogger accused the men of criminal acts, such as pretending to be handicapped in order to receive discounts on local property taxes, receiving bribes from a contractor, and having ties to criminal gangs.The councilmen eventually sued the blogger and "also asked for a court order ordering Google to disclose the blogger's IP address". Judge Oren Schwartz said that the blog's content raised suspicions of criminal conduct. The paper says:Google initially said that disclosing the blogger's identity violated rulings on the balance between freedom of expression and a person's right to his reputation.In other words, freedom of speech does not include the right to slander.....There's a discussion atSlashdot.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Hamilton: "lalala, I'm not listening"Well, only if you're a top formula one driver, anyway.An invitation came through to me last night from Vodafone for an event that's being held next week:Lewis Hamilton - star of the Vodafone McLaren Mercedes team - and members of the Vodafone McLaren Mercedes team will be receiving their Christmas present from Vodafone at an exclusive event in Central London on 3rd December.Lewis and his crew will receive the new Samsung F700 phone, complete with stereo headphones, meaning its ideal for making the most of Vodafone's music services.There's more guff of course, about the phone's incredible features yadda yadda - but WAIT! Aren't they spoiling Christmas by letting Lewis know exactly what they're giving him? I mean, they could have at least added a bit of suspense. And he's still only a young 'un - imagine the damage this could cause to his Yuletide cheer.It's like that geek joke where Darth Vader tells Luke that he knows what gifts he's getting...
You may or may not know that the BBC uses speech-to-text systems to produce the incredible amount of stuff on its website. What, you thought that as well as making the short films (which are often then also used, without pictures, on the radio) that the hacks all sat down and typed out their stories? Uh-uh.But though we're sure that real humans also look over the stuff before it goes out, one rule that sub-editors tend to stick to, diligently, is not to change things in quotes. Even if someone says something ridiculous, you leave it alone, because they said it.Not always, though. Take the case of the BBC website article about the One Laptop Per Child project in Nigeria, whence Rory Cellan-Jones has just done a ton of reporting.An early version of the interview with the Nigerian education minister appeared on the BBC website thus:Dr Igwe Aja-Nwachuku said: ""What is the essence of introducing One Laptop per Child when they don't have seats to sit down and learn; when they don't have uniforms to go to school in, where they don't have facilities?""The quote was widely repeated: here's the Google search on "essence laptop per child": 371,000 results (give or take 300,000, probably).Yes, you think, what is the essence of introducing them? Except.. isn't that a strange thing for someone to say?Essence?Wouldn't it be more natural if he said... sense? He's educated, he's a minister, he speaks English - it's not as if he wouldn't know the difference betweeen "essence" and "sense".After failing to find an audio version of the interview, we queried this quote last night with Rory C-J, who replied that he thought that must be right. And lo and behold, therevised BBC storysays:Dr Igwe Aja-Nwachuku said: "What is the sense of introducing One Laptop per Child...(Clearly, the BBC goes in for "invisible mending", which wealmost never doat the Guardian.)It's an interesting lesson in the way that speech recognition software can sometimes stumble on different diction patterns: if you try reading the quote in a west African accent, you can see how it happened.Meanwhile, in related news, we have (through our American office) ordered one - well, two, obviously - OLPCs, and we're now waiting eagerly to see what it's like. They look like a lot of fun, to be honest: the true computer-as-appliance. And, we should reiterate, if you want to play at having your own XO, you can do it byemulation- though you may struggle to get something like its high-quality 1200x900 display.And, finally, there's aterrific audio slideshowat the BBC. Nice work, Rory.
British shoppers are being misled when buying high-definition TV sets, regulators have warned.A study by media watchdog Ofcom found that large numbers of people are given incorrect information when buying expensive HDTV sets.Large flat-screen HDTVs marked "HD Ready" allow people to watch images with a higher resolution than the ordinary TV signal can muster. But HD pictures are only available if used in combination with a compatible set-top box or a hi-def DVD player.According to the survey, however, there were significant errors in the information given to customers by many retailers.Four in 10 people who took part in the survey were given potentially misleading information, such as being told that the TV sets "can receive high-definition programmes" - without being told that they would be required to buy an extra set-top box in order to do so.Ordinary channelsSome 10% of shoppers were incorrectly told that there were a number of HD channels available without subscription using Freeview, while others were even told that buying an HD-ready set would improve the quality of ordinary television channels."Taking into account everything they had been told, one in eight in-store shoppers were left with the impression that an HDTV set would allow them to view basic – ie. analogue – terrestrial channels in high definition," said the report.The survey was based on work by "mystery shoppers", who spoke to 174 retail outlets around Britain during August.Sales of HD-ready sets have rocketed in the past year, and although the technology is still far from widespread, it is estimated that around 600,000 households subscribe to high-definition services from Sky and Virgin Media. Forecasts by industry analysts Screen Digest suggest that the new TV sets will be in the majority across Europe by 2011.Even in the US – where HDTV is already available in a quarter of households – viewers seem equally confused. A recent study by the Leichtman Research Group found that 20% of American shoppers who thought they were watching HD programming were, in fact, receiving an ordinary television signal.
Got a Wii? Bored waiting for Wii Orchestra (demo'd more than a year ago but still not delivered) to appear? Hie yourselves over tothis pageand you can discover the motherlode - software that you can put on your Bluetooth-enabled computer and play drums and guitar*using your Wii remote.And you'll like the price: free. And you'll like the platform: Windows, Mac and Linux. Why, there's even a YouTube video - as below - though obviously we do advise you to get a better haircut than this guy.*: not both at the same time, obviously.By the way, has anyone seen Wii Orchestra? Apart from those videos for the Wii in games shops?
In a recent podcast, Ashley Highfield, director of Future Media and Technology for the BBC, remarked on the difficulty of creating an "open source Digital Rights Management system". This is a system of software locks that prevents unauthorised copying, while still being "open" in the sense of allowing users the freedom to take it apart, understand it and improve upon it.Highfield is right: you can't make a free and open DRM system. That's because DRMs (which some like to call "Digital Restrictions Management") treat their users as untrusted parties who have to be policed lest they transgress and make naughty copies. DRMs are designed to resist user modification and "tampering" because users might just open them up and remove the prohibitions they impose. For example, the BBC's iPlayer DRM prevents you from watching a show more than 28 days after you downloaded it. By contrast, shows that you record on your VCR or PC can be watched forever.You might decide, hell, I'm a paid-up licence-payer, why shouldn't I use iPlayer to store up several months' worth of the kids' favorite cartoons for them to watch in an all-day marathon on New Year's day - while I sleep off New Year's Eve? You might just reach into the guts of your iPlayer and change the line of code that says, "Delete my shows after 28 days" to "Delete my shows after 28,000 years".Shed-tinkerersIf you did you'd be part of a grand old tradition of shed-tinkerers. A few years back I attended a DRM meeting in Edinburgh. We were wrangling over a DRM for DVB, the digital video standard that is used throughout Europe, Asia, Latin America and Australia. It was nearly Christmas, and one engineer slipped off at the break to buy his son an electronics kit at John Lewis. When he showed it around, all the engineers in the room immediately broke into nostalgic recollections of "building crystal sets with grandad in the shed" when they were growing up. These were the formative experiences that made engineers out of these gents, and yet there they were, busily designing a broadcast system that would prohibit user modification.The freedom to modify your own tools is critical to being a fully fledged citizen of the technological age. The story of the PC and the internet is the story of the configurable tool, the story of the device that anyone could hack improvements for and share with their neighbours. The open PC platform turned a legion of garage tinkerers into wealthy, famous creators - from the makers of Chucky Egg to Rockstar Studios, whose Grand Theft Auto ranks as one of Britain's most successful exports to the US market.Some 25 years ago, the BBC was pumping out BBC Micros to help Britain become a nation of technological literates. Today, Auntie is locking up online "broadcasts" with nonfunctional anti-copying technology that not only takes away the freedom we enjoy with over-the-air broadcasts, but also the freedom to understand, modify, improve and share our tools.They tell us that they have to do this - that the holders of the rights and the BBC trustees won't let them do otherwise. But we're the licence payers. It's our BBC. What business does the Beeb have telling us that PACT (the body that represents the interests of film and TV companies) won't accept our terms? Why aren't they telling PACT that we refuse to enter the 21st century with online TV that is less functional than the TV we enjoyed in the 20th?The BBC could be delivering the raw material with which the next generation of British entrepreneurs will invent the future. Instead, they are selling out British industry for a bunch of hollow promises about a copy-proof internet that will never materialise.&middot;Cory Doctorow is a digital activist, science fiction author and co-editor of the popular blogBoing Boing
"Worldwide sales of mobile phones to end users in the third quarter of 2007 reached 289 million units, a 15% increase from the same period last year," saysGartner, Inc.Nokia's mobile phone sales to end users totalled 110.2 million units reaching a market share of 38.1% in the third quarter of 2007. This quarter, Nokia not only exhibited the highest year-on-year market share increase, but also raised operating margins thanks to effective cost management and global distribution strategy. This was achieved despite the average price of its phones falling from €90 to €82.Other points to note are the success of the Korean manufacturers, Samsung and LG, and the sad decline of America's Motorola. Gartner says:Motorola's sales into the channel remained weak and, with limited surplus stock, sales to end users were not enough to maintain its No. 2 position. Motorola's market share dropped 7.6 percentage points from the third quarter of 2006, relegating the vendor to the No. 3 position. "Motorola today is a pale version of the company it was a year ago," [Carolina Milanesi, research director for mobile devices research at Gartner] added. Although the Razr2 was well received and accounted for 900,000 of the overall sales, Motorola needs a much stronger portfolio to return to its former market share.Gartner reckons sales of mobile phones in Western Europe reached 47.2 million units, with 45m sold in North America, 24.5m in India and 13.1m in Japan. Average penetration in Western Europe is 115%: everywhere except France, there are more mobile phones than people.
