As the second-biggest videogame-based media franchise in the world – topped only by Nintendo's Mario series – Pokémon has become more than just a game. Celebrating its 15th birthday this year, developer Game Freak is bringing over new titlesPokémon Black VersionandWhite Versionto the west and hoping a fresh start can encourage a new generation to, as the game's motto suggests, "catch 'em all".As with the creatures that inhabit its world, the series has evolved slowly over the years. The formula, which sees a young trainer set out on an adventure to befriend and battle with the eponymous "pocket monsters" hasn't changed a great deal since the series' inception, even as the menagerie has swelled rapidly in size, with a whopping 493 different varieties to be collected. Yet, unlike many turn-based role-playing games from Japan, the game has found favour overseas, winning over a worldwide audience with a traditional approach allied to some genuinely forward-thinking ideas.Even so, its creators have decided it's time for a new beginning. There's a more dynamic and expansive world to explore, reworked graphics and, most important, a fresh batch of Pokémon, with any old creatures seemingly consigned to the dustbin of history. "In order to surprise players, we need to have something different," explains designer and composer Junichi Masuda. "That's why there are 156 new&nbsp;Pokémon."Not that those who've spent hundreds of hours amassing their collection will be forgotten. After the credits roll, monsters from the previous games can be traded across and picked up from newly unlocked areas, as players attempt to reach the new tally of 649. There are Pokémon exclusive to each version, which is not only a useful – some would say cynical – moneyspinner for the publisher, but encourages player trading; a feature that has been simplified with local infra-red connectivity, as well as more&nbsp;comprehensive and transparent online options.Yet the compulsive collector isn't the only kind of Pokémon player. The series' accessible but deep battling system has grown into a digital sport, with the annual Pokémon Video Game Championships drawing ever-larger numbers. Though the cartoon series and cuddly merchandise might suggest to many that Pokémon is a game for children, it would hardly be the success it is today without a sizable adult audience. While younger gamers&nbsp;enjoy the simple thrill of encountering new monsters, older players pore over the complex numbers game that lies behind the kid-friendly exterior, breeding creatures to improve their team's statistics – and their chances in&nbsp;combat.Attempting to appeal to such a wide audience is a tricky balancing act, but the Japanese sales would suggest Game Freak has struck gold once again:BlackandWhitewere the country's biggest-selling games of last year, reaching a combined 5 million sales in January, the fastest titles to do so. Masuda is confident that his game can appeal to both experienced players and newcomers, insisting that the latter group is his primary concern when making a new Pokémon title. "I wasn't considering existing Pokémon users too much," he admits. "The process was more like tearing apart all the ideas we had from the past and building [them] up again."That the sales of Pokémon games now match the number of albums sold by the Rolling Stones (around 200 million) is a statistic that would please music lover Masuda, who still composes the games' catchy battle themes, although his influences would seem to lean towards electronica – it doesn't take a translator to understand his enthusiasm for "Euro techno". "I wanted to capture the sensation of being on a rollercoaster," he says of his compositions. "I introduced more complex elements to the music so it would not become repetitive."Elsewhere, the story is one of quiet refinement rather than noisy revolution.BlackandWhitewalk a tightrope between tradition and innovation, settling into a rhythm that, like Masuda's themes, quickens unexpectedly in places. Elements from earlier titles have been streamlined for the sake of player convenience and the faster pace of combat coupled with the shifting camera and improved animations make for more stimulating battle sequences. In short, it feels like a Pokémon game with much of the fat trimmed away, even though there remains a handful of distractions from the main quest for those who like to busy themselves with such fripperies.Masuda is a little reluctant to comment on the franchise's future, suggesting his current "mission" is "to have players enjoy these newBlackandWhiteversions in Europe and the US". With Nintendo's 3DS just around the corner, it's difficult to imagine that a new 3D-enhanced Pokémon game isn't in the works. But for the time being, Masuda is happy that his latest game will "continue to surprise new players". Anyone who picks up either of this pair of superbly crafted games will likely agree that, in this regard at least, it's mission accomplished.
I'm away the rest of this week so what little gaming time I had this weekend was spent on the PS3. Killzone 3 took up most of the time here and was - in the main - solid rather than truly spectacular. Maybe it hits the heights later in the game? What about you though? How was your weekend gaming?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Let's get something out of the way first, and then we can get into the review proper. Ready?Better than the iPhone 4. That's my review in a nutshell: the basic version of the Google Nexus S is better than the basic version of Apple's iPhone 4, assuming both are on a data contract - and that you have a Google account, which is pretty much essential to use an Android phone. That's based on nearly two months' use of the Nexus S, enough to have prodded around all its little foibles and either gotten used to them or remained frustrated by them, and comparing it for some time in parallel to an iPhone 4 (generously loaned by 3) and the rest of the time to an iPod Touch.Unlock: keys to the kingdomHome screen: make yourself at..Battery life: it's got someButtons: a standard layout at last?Web display: functionally betterPhone: it's meant to do this tooPress-and-hold: the key to the contextNotifications: another improvement on iOSKeyboard: Houston, we have a prrebjslAutocorrect: this may be a failingMarket: or car boot sale?Video: tooMultitasking: all togetherVoice input: perhapsNFC: nifty, if...Overall: the verdictThat isn't to say that there aren't areas where the iPhone 4 is better than the Nexus S; there are. For instance, camera picture quality, keyboard autocorrection, keyboard, unified mailbox view, inbuilt ability to forward contacts via MMS, trustability of the app store, stability of apps.But for me, using the Nexus S as a phone and a connectivity device with a Google account, the flexibility of the Android 2.3 "Gingerbread" operating system puts it ahead of the iPhone 4.2.1 in a number of areas: notably, the ability to pin phone numbers to screens, contextual settings, webpage display for reading, notification system, and - noticeably - battery life.Let's begin then with the basics. The Google Nexus S is available via the Carphone Warehouse, and is Google's second venture into "own-branded" handsets (the first being the Google Nexus One about a year ago). It's actually made by Samsung. It has a slightly curved shape which fits well to the face. My biggest gripe there is that it is featureless - no physical buttons on the front face - that I found it difficult on pulling it from a pocket to know which way up I was holding it.UnlockingOne feature of Android that I've always liked is its unlock system: rather than a PIN, it lets you swipe a pattern covering at least six points on a 3x3 grid to unlock it. (This is the system used within Google itself.) This seems to me the best match of easy to remember by the owner, yet hard to crack by others; and you can do it with one hand if you need to. A PIN system (like that offered by Apple, and Android as an alternative) is typically only four numbers, and harder to do one-handed because you have to lift your thumb from the screen.Home screenYou get five screens, each able to hold 16 (4x4) apps; the constant element in each is an icon menu which goes to the phone interface, the full apps folder, and the browser. By default the main home screen is empty - a perplexing choice, since you would at the very least want your contacts, email, text/MMS messaging and calendar apps there.It's easy enough to add apps from the main folder, but forcing you to do it seems perverse. There's minimal, and then there's hands-off. This is the latter. Compare the iPhone, and Symbian, where the home screen comes pre-populated.Battery lifeWorth mentioning this early. It's excellent - I could easily get two days from a full charge with constant 3G data access and Wi-Fi use. (Other people have reported different experiences, but this was Nokia-class, ie very good.) It's better than the iPhone 4, which starts looking peaky after a day of heavy use.ButtonsThis being Google's design, the choice of button ordering on the bottom of the screen should be optimal, shouldn't it? (It's an OLED screen, and the buttons are virtual rather than physical.) Thehuge variation in Android phone button order has been rightly criticised, and Microsoft's decision to standardise it in Windows Phone 7 rightly praised. Here, it's Back / Contextual menu / Contextual search / Home. (On WP7 it's Back / Home / Search.) If Android phone manufacturers standardised around this layout, it would make it easier for Android users to switch phones without upsetting muscle memory. Then again, perhaps the manufacturers view that upset as a useful barrier.The buttons did cause me problems sometimes. For example, in the official Twitter app, the "reply to this tweet" icon is on the bottom left of the screen - scant millimetres above the hard-coded back button, which takes you back to whatever you were just doing (which might or might not be reading Twitter). Many, many times I hit the "all back" rather than "reply" button - and remember that this was over the course of two months, so it wasn't a novice mistake. I simply could not adapt to it. My fingers never got smarter, and the screen certainly wasn't going to get larger.Web displayThe iPhone moved web display along dramatically through its use of the MobileSafari browser, which could give you an accurate rendition of a standard web page. Gingerbread goes one further, though: double-tap on a page and the text reflows so that you get the text, and any inset pictures (say that take half a column) are pushed aside. That makes it an excellent browser for reading the web; the typeface used is very legible.As a phoneThe phone app is neat enough, breaking it down into a straight phone interface, call log (showing incoming, outgoing and missed, but not subdivided), contacts and favourites. It's good enough, butonly as good as Windows Phone 7, which I didn't think was optimal.The function is actually done better on the iPhone, which shows you "All" and "Missed" calls, and also has a tab to connect directly to voicemail. (With visual voicemail, it would be even better.) But of all the major platforms,Nokiaactually does this best, with the Symbian interface showing you incoming, outgoing and missed calls. (Get it while you can -only 150m left.)What's best is the ability to take a specific phone number and pin it directly to a home screen - so if you have a number (your home, office, spouse etc) that you want to be able to call with a single touch, you can pick it from a full contacts entry (eg if there are three or four numbers for your spouse, you can pick one). That's really excellent functionality which you can't get on Windows Phone 7 or the iPhone.Press-and-holdTo add one of those numbers to a home screen - and indeed to do a lot of things on Android - the essential action is "press and hold" (also known as the "long press") - either on an element such as a phone number or contact or URL. This brings up a contextual menu which adds all sorts of functionality - share a URL on Twiter, say, email link, and so on. Press-and-hold the Home button and you get the list of the eight most recently used active applications, and you can then switch by touching any of them.Context is all: press-and-hold on a contact on the Google Nexus S running Gingerbread shows a contextual menu"Press and hold" ("long press") is such a useful functionality that when I was using the iPhone I found myself holding down icons and names uselessly and wondering briefly why nothing was happening. If Apple is smart it will find a way to add this function to future iOS releases.Yet - and here's the surprise - Google has apparently ruled out press-and-hold from future OS releases (it isn't in Honeycomb, the tablet OS; that has a dedicated multitasking button), apparently because it thinks that the functionality isn't discoverable enough - as in, people don't realise it's there. If that's correct, it's a surprise: it's a simple way of adding lots more functionality to a button and screen.NotificationsNotifications in Gingerbread on the Google Nexus S: informativeAnother thing that Gingerbread handles miles better than the iPhone: telling you when something has changed - email comes in, Twitter mentions, voicemail, whatever. The iPhone either throws up a dialogue that interrupts you (for example if a Wi-Fi network hoves into its view, or a calendar appointment comes due), or makes a noise.You can pull down the 'Notifications' tab to find out what's been updatedOn Gingerbread, by contrast, the top bar (where the phone and battery strength are always visible -are you listening, Windows Phone 7?) is also given over to "notifications" about Wi-Fi strength, phone diverts, Twitter mentions and messages, voicemails, downloads, installs and so on. You can then pull these down to examine them, and navigate straight to them from there, or clear them. You can also get a chime for texts.Apparently Apple is overhauling notifications for an upcoming iOS release - not before time. Android runs over it on this one.KeyboardThere's been a lot of excitement on some forums among users of earlier versions of Android about the "Gingerbread" keyboard (you can even download an independent developer's version for free from the Market).iPhone 4 and Google Nexus S keyboards: identical sizes. So far so good...Personally, after a long time of use and effort, I didn't like it. I found it difficult to be accurate over any length of time or at any meaningful speed. That's despite the fact that I used it every day for two months (a fact I keep emphasising because I know that otherwise people will say I haven't made the effort).Beginning to type 'thid' on an iPhone and the Nexus S: the iPhone will autocorrect to 'this' when a space is hit; the Nexus mightAnd it's also despite the fact that the keyboard isexactlythe same size as the iPhone keyboard, which I've also used regularly (on an iPod Touch). In theory there shouldn't be any difference in typing on them, should there? But there is.AutocorrectI think the cause of the problem is down to Gingerbread's autocorrect. The Gingerbread system offers spelling corrections as you go along in a strip below the display area: what you've typed appears in white on the left, and the "best pick" word choice beside it in bold orange, and other choices appearing as you keep typing.If you're mistyping and see the word you meant in that strip below, then you touch it and it's substituted. This does work. But often I found that because the strip in which the words appear is narrow, it's easy to hit a key instead, or something in the display area, either of which completely disrupts what you're doing and makes the problem worse.An alternative correction system is to hit the space bar, which will again substitute the first pick; but the problemthereis that the space bar is (again) scant millimetres from both the "context" and "search" buttons, so in mid-flow you can suddenly find yourself thrown off into picking a URL or a picture. That's confusing, but a natural consequence of the multiple functions being squeezed into a small space. I lost count of the number of times I swore at the keyboard as it put up that giant hurdle to productivity.The autocorrecting algorithm isn't that good either. The reason why I can type better with the iPhone/iPod Touch keyboard is, i think, because it's better at working out what I'm (mis)typing.Trying to type the same sentence on the iPhone 4 and the Nexus S (without looking at the screen in either case): the result isn't good for the Nexus.Indeed, the keyboard interface remains the one - very significant - element that makes me wary of the Nexus S. The iPhone interface doesn't offer those additional contexts. Arguably, that's a defect in the iPhone, because you have to be more organised in how you collect data (say, if you want to tweet a URL or picture), but multitasking is available on either phone, so you can swap between apps, copy a URL and paste it in. I'd rather be able to type accurately.At this point seasoned Android users will be saying "How stupid - you should just download a different keyboard from the Market!" (Swypewas mentioned by some people, but it's not available on the Market, only from the site itself via beta.) Two thoughts on that: most people won't (just as -shock!- the vast majority of people won't root their phone) and second, this is meant to be Google's showcase phone and its showcase smartphone OS version. We're comparing defaults here. Swype may be very fine, but it's not installed. Yes, there are free keyboards on the Market which you can download and install. Pragmatically, though, defaults rule the world.And: I did trySwiftkey. No difference, I'm afraid - the keyboard is the same size, which meant I kept making mistakes. My advice would be: try the keyboard carefully before buying.MarketWhich takes us logically to the Market. Like the iPhone App Store, there's living proof ofSturgeon's Lawthere, but without the reassurance that Apple offers that Google is standing behind it. I did download a number of apps - including one which adds the (to me essential, yet omitted from Gingerbread) capability to forward contact details by text message. (With most of the world still on featurephones, this is still a common task, Google.) Plus an app for taking notes. Yup, note-taking should be in the next Android version, Google.The improvement to the Market by putting itonto the weband letting apps download there is a big step forward, but all the app stores now face a crucial problem. Unlike the web, they don't have reputation and linking. There is noPageRank algorithm. The difference between the Market and the App Store feels to me like the difference between a bazaar (or perhaps a car boot sale) and a bank. You can get fantastic stuff in a car boot sale; you can also get royally ripped off. And banks can get broken into. But on balance, your money is safer in the bank. This seems like a crucial difference; until that gap is closed, there can't be a really successful paid-for ecosystem revolving around the Market.Take one example: Cineworld, the national cinema chain. There's an iPhone app from within which you can book and buy a ticket anywhere in the country. On the Market, there are two unofficial apps which will show you what's playing where. No book, no buy. Arguably Cineworld is the one that's missing out here, given the popularity of Android phones in the UK. These things are chicken-and-egg, though; what does it take to get big organisations like that to think of writing Android apps?Yet possibly Google actuallylikesit that way. After all, ad-funded apps give it more chances to sell ads; it gets nothing from developers' payments.VideoEveryone wants to know about video performance, as if we lived our lives watching video on our phones. It's good. YouTube plays well. I'm afraid I didn't try Farmville. So sue me.MultitaskingThe Nexus S handles this well (though apps seem to be suspended, rather than running concurrently). One annoyance is that various apps, including system apps, sometimes crash (or halt permanently). The phone itself did the same a couple of times, for no obvious reason, though never during a phone call.Voice inputThis is reckoned (by Google) to be its triumph: you can use voice input for all sorts of things, such as writing texts or searching. It even has a dedicated button on the keyboard. Is it good? It's serviceable (and needs a good data connection - it's not done locally on the phone), but in lots of cases you don't want to be mumbling to your phone. Voice is potentially the biggest step forward in smartphone control; the iPhone and Windows Phone 7 both offer it to varying extents.NFCThe Nexus S includesNear-Field Communicationscapability, which could be useful if we ever get mobile payments worked out properly in this country. (They're coming on Visa cards, but their advent to phones is slower.) Useful, at some point.OverallPros:excellent functionality in operating system; press-and-hold ("long press") adds contextual elements; very good integration with Google services; future-proofed if NFC becomes effective.Cons:keyboard can be extremely frustrating; Market still lacks apps from many big organisations; lack of markings on phone makes it hard to figure out which way you've got it up.Basically, Gingerbread is arguably the best smartphone operating system you can get at the moment - if you can live with the keyboard. (If we had a more subtle star system, I'd give it 9/10.)You can get itSIM-free at Amazon for £480. Or at Carphone Warehouse and other outlets.You can alsocompare alternative deals via Top10.com- around £25 per month gets you 500MB and a free phone which looks like the best at the moment, but of coursecaveat emptor.Further reading/reviews:Engadget;TechRadar(4/5);TechCrunch;Pocket Lint(9/10);CNet UK(9/10).Have you tried it? Have you compared it? Let us know.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple adds SSD TRIM support to Mac OS X 10.7 Lion beta &gt;&gt; AppleInsider"Apple has added limited TRIM support to the latest developer release of Mac OS X 10.7 Lion, which should enhance the long term performance of Solid State Drives."Number Crunchers: Who Lost In Google's 'Farmer' Algorithm Change? &gt;&gt; Search Engine Land"If you were expecting these figures to show Demand Media's eHow site to have been harmed – surprise! Two studies show eHow actually gained. I'm still crunching through some of the figures, but the biggest 'content farm' type brand that seems to have suffered are Associated Content."Thanks for the Open Letter to RIM Developer Relations &gt;&gt; BlackBerry Developer's Blog"While we've come a long way for a pre-release product, we know that we have a lot of work left to do to ensure that our developers can build and distribute apps without any hindering costs or painful download processes."You Win, RIM! (An Open Letter To RIM's Developer Relations) &gt;&gt; Jamie Murai"You win. I concede defeat. I no longer want to attempt developing an app for the Playbook. Are you happy now? Surely you must be. Considering how terribly designed the entire process is, from the registration right through to loading an app into the simulator, I can only assume that you are trying to drive developers away by inconveniencing them as much as humanly possible. Just in case you've forgotten, let me give you a little recap of the process you've put together."Over 40,000 Does Dismissed In Copyright Troll Cases &gt;&gt; Electronic Frontier FoundationRemind you of anything? (See ACS:Law and speculative invoicing): "Thousands of unnamed 'John Does' in P2P file sharing lawsuits filed in California, Washington DC, Texas, and West Virginia have been severed, effectively dismissing over 40,000 defendants. The plaintiffs in these cases must now re-file against almost all of the Does individually rather than suing them en mass. These rulings may have a significant impact on the copyright trolls' business model, which relies on being able to sue thousands of Does at once with a minimum of administrative expense."How Sun almost bought Apple in 1996 &gt;&gt; eWeek"'Back in late 1995 early '96, when we were at our peak, we were literally hours away from buying Apple for about $5 to $6 a share,' said Zander, who had built Sun's software business into a powerhouse and was rewarded with promotion to CEO by his mentor, McNealy. "'Honest to gosh, I was at an analysts' meeting in San Diego on a Tuesday morning and was getting ready to announce that we were going to buy Apple. I don't know what we were going to do with it, but we were going to buy it. (Apple) had no CEO at the time, Steve (Jobs) wasn't there, but we didn't get it. Why didn't we buy it?' "'We wanted to do it,' McNealy said. 'There was an investment banker on the Apple side, an absolute disaster, and he basically blocked it. He put so many terms into the deal that we couldn't afford to go do it.' '"Just think, that if that night had been different, I don't know what would have happened,' Zander said." Here's a guess: the same as happened to Sun. A vanishing.Finding more high-quality sites in search &gt;&gt; Official Google Blog"Our goal is simple: to give people the most relevant answers to their queries as quickly as possible. This requires constant tuning of our algorithms, as new content – both good and bad – comes online all the time. "Many of the changes we make are so subtle that very few people notice them. But in the last day or so we launched a pretty big algorithmic improvement to our ranking – a change that noticeably impacts 11.8% of our queries – and we wanted to let people know what's going on. This update is designed to reduce rankings for low-quality sites – sites which are low-value add for users, copy content from other websites or sites that are just not very useful. At the same time, it will provide better rankings for high-quality sites – sites with original content and information such as research, in-depth reports, thoughtful analysis and so on." So Google News results won't show up so high anymore?Thunderbolt: Introducing a new way to hack Macs &gt;&gt; Errata Security"Apple and Intel have introduced a new notebook connection technology called Thunderbolt that will hopefully replace all the other cables coming out of your laptop. However, it appears to share the same security flaw as some of these older technologies: attaching a hostile device can break into your computer. A hacker can walk up to your laptop while you are not looking, connect a device for a few seconds, disconnect it and walk away with your data (such as passwords). This works even when your laptop is "locked" with the password screen."Why Google Cloud Connect is a Trojan Horse attacking Microsoft Office &gt;&gt; Computerworld Blogs"Google hasn't made much headway in its attempt to get people to switch from Microsoft Office to Google Docs, but its new free tool, Google Cloud Connect, could prove to be a Trojan Horse to get people to eventually make the switch. "I've given Google Cloud Connect a run-through, and found it a nifty add-in for Office 2003, 2007, and 2010. It works from directly in Office, and serves a dual purpose, depending on how you plan to use it. If you're using it by yourself, it's a great way to save your Office documents to Google Docs, while also saving them to your local PC. That way, they're automatically backed up for you. In addition, you'll be able to access them from anywhere, on any Internet-connected PC. You'll be able to edit them, as well as read them, using Google Docs." Very dangerous for Microsoft if this gets traction: it offers the collaboration of Office 10 but without the cost.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Self-publishing has traditionally been a surefire route to obscurity and dismal sales. Now a British thriller writer who sells his novels as ebooks for as little as 70p is proving the naysayers wrong.Not only does Stephen Leather, Britain's leading "independent" writer, estimate he has occupied the number one spot on Amazon.co.uk's Kindle ebook bestseller lists for "90% of the last three months", he is also selling "somewhere in the region" of 2,000 ebooks a day – and making big profits in the process.Leather, who  celebrated his seventh consecutive week at the top of the Amazon chart with his novellaThe Basement, about a serial killer in New York, also occupies fourth place withHard Landing, another thriller, and 11th place withOnce Bitten, a vampire novel.He is one of many authors increasingly turning to ebooks as an alternative way to the top. Capitalising on the popularity of e-readers such as the Kindle, a new generation of writers is bypassing agents and publishers and using the flexible pricing model of ebooks to offer their work directly to the public at rock-bottom prices. Some, like Leather, are achieving huge sales, which, not surprisingly, is striking fear into publishers.Leather enjoys a successful parallel career writing "big international thrillers" for Hodder &amp; Stoughton. But last August, when Amazon.co.uk opened its Kindle store, he saw an opportunity: "I was lucky, in that I had three novellas Hodder had turned down because they were in a different genre from my other books and too short to work as conventional paperbacks. But I realised they might work for the Kindle."Leather realised the Kindle was going to be "pretty much the most popular Christmas present ever. It occurred to me that on Christmas morning, when people got their Kindle, the first thing they would do would be to buy the books they'd always wanted –The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo, the new Grisham. But they're relatively expensive. After that, people would start looking for cheaper books. I figured that if I could get several of my books in the top 10 or top 20, then when people started looking around for bargains I'd be perfectly placed."To maximise sales, he priced his books at Amazon's minimum for independent writers – about 70p (the equivalent of 99 cents). At this level, authors receive a cut of only 35% of the price; under Amazon's pricing structure, this rises to 70% if they price their books above the equivalent of $2.99. He then went on various forums to drum up awareness. Within a couple of weeks, all three titles were in the top 20 and "by November I'd knocked Stieg Larsson off the top spot"."I knew the wave was going to break on Christmas Day. I got myself in position to take advantage, I got on and I've been riding it ever since."Yet while he is making significant sums just through ebook sales – "up to £11,000 a month" – he still only sees it as a sideline to his main writing career. "I never went into this to make money. I went into it as a way of widening my readership. My hope was that readers would read my book on Kindle, say, 'I really enjoyed that', then when my new thriller came out with Hodder, they'd remember it and buy that too."Leather's achievements are dwarfed when set against the scale of independent publishing in the US, where ebooks are estimated to be 20% of the total market. The most spectacular example of an author striking gold through ebooks is 26-year-old former care assistant Amanda Hocking, a Minneapolis-based writer of paranormal romances. She had completed eight novels but had failed to acquire an agent when, last April, she decided to publish them herself via the Kindle store."I sold 50 books the first month. It picked up over the summer, then really took off in November," she said. Hocking is now the world's bestselling ebook author, selling more than 450,000 titles last month alone.Hocking admits that failing to get published by the conventional route worked to her advantage. "It allowed me to put a lot of books on the market quickly, so if people liked them, they could immediately buy another." Her bestsellingSwitched, the first of a trilogy, has sold nearly a million copies. "I didn't expect it to be anything like this. I was hoping for around 10% of where I am now."Faced with this deluge of ultra-cheap ebooks, there have been apocalyptic murmurings about the end of publishing, but Toby Mundy, managing director of Atlantic Books, remains cautiously upbeat. "A new ecosystem is emerging where it will certainly suit lots of authors to publish themselves, but it won't suit all or indeed most of them," he says. He points out that for many authors it would "be too stressful to become marketers and distribution experts and copywriters as well as writing the actual books".The real test is whether the self-publishing model becomes attractive to the "global megastars – authors such as James Patterson, for example".Such a development, he says, would be a bit like Hollywood stars going into film production in the 1990s. "It didn't bring down the studio system, but it certainly changed it. The real question is, can the established houses continue to create the incentives for the big stars to stay?"
According to his business card, John Wang is a wizard. Chief innovation wizard to be precise. He certainly seems to be working his magic at HTC, the Taiwanese firm where he oversees new products at a company that is rapidly becoming one of the hottest brands in tech.This week is set to be another Apple week – the second generation of the iPad is expected to be unveiled on Wednesday. But in the UK the biggest-selling launch is likely to be HTC's.  The hyperbolically named HTC Incredible S is Wang's latest smartphone and has received glowing reviews so far in the tech press.Later this year HTC will launch its iPad rival, the Flyer. With tech firms churning out more tablets than ancient Mesopotamia, Wang says the Flyer will not be another "me-too" device. "Whatever we do has to be quietly brilliant," he says.He says the Flyer was designed to weigh the same as the average paperback book (420 grammes), about half the weight of an iPad, and will be far smaller. And while it will be a touch-screen device, Wang says it won't be defined by touch – users will be able to draw and write notes on any part of the device. The aim, he says, is to produce something different, something that produces "moments of delight".In order to get to these moments HTC has a "magic lab" where ideas are worked through. One idea from the lab is a technology that makes its smartphones ring loudly in a bag or pocket, but softly when picked up.Wang started the lab five years ago and its engineers work through ideas to make their devices as simple and user-friendly as possible. The Incredible S, for example, has buttons that change their orientation depending on which way the phone is held. "When people use the word innovation they are often referring to the 1.5ghz, the 4.4in display, megapixels," he says. "But it's often the details, not the specifications that make customers think 'that is so right'."The strategy seems to be paying off. According to technology analysts Gartner, HTC sold 3m smartphones in the UK last year, compared with Apple's 5m. In the last quarter of the year HTC sold 1.1m, close to Apple's 1.4m. Overall, the company made a net profit of $500m (£310m) for the last quarter of 2010, a leap of 160% from 2009's final quarter. Sales surged 153% from a year ago.The firm, formerly known as High Tech Corporation, started life in 1997 making notebook computers. It has been building a position in smartphones for years, but Gartner analyst Carolina Milanesi says the turning point for HTC was the launch of Google's Android mobile operating system in 2007. The success of Android and HTC's close co-operation with Google gave the firm a new lease of life in mobile.Google and HTC are close partners: the search giant's team used HTC phones when they were developing Android. Initially Android looked like a dud, but it now outsells all its competitors combined in the US. Next up is the tablet, where Google is also keen to make its mark. "I think we are just at the beginning for innovation in the tablet market," says Wang.Graham Stapleton, chief commercial officer for Carphone Warehouse and Best Buy, said the retailer had seen enormous growth in HTC sales in recent months. "Their customer traditionally has been more of a business/professional user. In the last 12-18 months they've targeted more of the pioneering customers, people who want the latest technology."He said HTC was becoming a brand people asked for unprompted. "That's a huge change. They've done an incredible job over the last 18 months."It hasn't gone unnoticed. HTC and Apple are now locked in a patent spat, with each side accusing the other of ripping it off. Milanesi says that's the price of success. "Can Apple go after Google? No, they don't make phones. They will go after who they can go after," she says.It's probably the biggest compliment Apple is ever likely to pay them.
Where does your web journey start? Chances are often at google.com, where the page now attempts to suggest search results even before you've finished typing. But however doggedly Google pursues its mission to organise the world's information, there are among the growing band of website pioneers new, innovative and increasingly influential companies pushing alternative ways to find what you're looking for.Type a question into Google these days and, particularly if it's related to the technology business, you're increasingly likely to be served results fromQuora.com. A simple Q&amp;A site with well-executed rating features and social media integration, Quora has become the darling of Silicon Valley's elite and has provided easy pickings for quote-hunting technology journalists since it was launched in January 2010.This week, the latest bubble-expanding rumours claimed that Quora turned down investment funds that valued the firm at $1bn (£620m). Hot on the heels of Facebook's latest astonishing valuation of $60bn, Twitter at $10bn and social-games company Zynga at $9bn, Quora's perceived value can be taken as another indicator of an inflated and unrealistic internet market. But it is also incontrovertible evidence that the online Q&amp;A business is on a steep upward curve.Use your Facebook or Twitter login to join, enter your question and tech insiders and pundits rush to prove their credibility and expertise by providing a knowledgeable – and literate – answer.Quora's sudden surge in popularity has been helped by several factors. It was founded by two ex-Facebookers, former engineer Charlie Cheever and chief technology officer Adam D'Angelo – another startup by Facebook alumni who benefit from the cachet of their former employer.Cheever and D'Angelo used their social media expertise to develop Quora as a more intelligent, sophisticated Q&amp;A site, but also helped generate enough buzz that some Silicon Valley heavyweights began contributing.Entrepreneur Mark Cuban, Craigslist founder Craig Newmark and part-time tech entrepreneur Ashton Kutcher have all contributed to Quora. In response to the question "What does Dustin Moskovitz think of the Facebook movie?", it was Facebook co-founder Moskovitz himself who replied. "I'm not exactly sure how or why lots of 'big name Valley types' started using the site early on," Cheever wrote on Quora. "But we did think it was really cool to learn from what they had to share. There is a general culture in Silicon Valley of wanting to try out new things, which probably helped everything get started."If winning high-profile users was not enough, last month Quora managed to tempt financier Marc Bodnick, co-founder of Bono's private equity firm Elevation Partners, to leave the company and join Quora as its new head of marketing and business operations.For now, Quora is riding the new wave of anticipation over the next phase of the social internet: taking discovery, and personalised information away from pure search to more intelligent information systems. Its success can also be attributed to answers that are well optimised and therefore highly visible among search results, but are also cleverly woven into users' social accounts, sharing answers and inviting exchanges between people we know.Radio technology executive James Cridland, managing director of Media UK and regular Quora user, said he was attracted to the site by the calibre of users."On Yahoo Answers, you get a well-meaning 13-year-old answering questions, badly, in return for points," he said. "On Quora, it's not unusual for a question about a digital business to be answered by the CEO of that business. It's particularly good at highlighting the qualification of the user to answer a particular question, and as a specialist in my field it is clearly a great marketing opportunity to show off my knowledge."Cridland acknowledges that the site's early users will demand new innovations to maintain their interest: "There is also the small thing that it has no visible means of earning any revenue whatsoever. How they crack that will be interesting to watch."In trying to build revenue streams into the site, Quora faces similar challenges to Twitter in having to devise unobtrusive and sensitive ways for brands to engage with its audience, such as sponsorship of certain topics. Recruitment is another area with potential, as users already demonstrate their expertise, profile and experience through the answers they contribute.Stack Overflow, a larger and more serious contender in the Q&amp;A space, is a business already focused on making money through recruitment. "Our organic way to monetise is going to be with a large network of highly engaged users who are experts in a topic," co-founder Joel Spolsky told the Business Insider website. "Experts are in demand. Just having that network means there will be ways to help those experts get jobs and help people find experts that can solve their problems." Spolsky said the site's strategy was to expand only in areas where they can cultivate a core of several hundred experts.Confirming the popularity of different Q&amp;A sites for different audiences,Yahoo Answershad 48&nbsp;million monthly US users in January, according to digital marketing analysts comScore, but is filled with chat and barely literate questions that include "why are hotdogs called hotdogs and not hotpigs?".Editorially focusedMahalohad 4.2m US users,Answerbag– also dismissed as shallow and low-quality by some – had 11.2&nbsp;million, while flirting teen favouriteFormspring.mehad 5.4&nbsp;million. Slick, socially focused Aardvark (which has a slogan reading "Tap the people in your network!") is still too small to show up.Israeli siteAnswers.comis being sold to investment firm AFCV Holdings for $127m, a price its shareholders said was too low for an estimated monthly user base of 55&nbsp;million, according to comScore. Quora was too small to be picked up by comScore's measurement tools until it started being hyped by the tech community in December 2010, when it had 164,000 US users. However, by January 2011 it saw that audience drop to 147,000. Each visitor viewed one page on average and spent just two minutes on the site.To develop, Quora is focusing on algorithms to determine quality – working on encouraging more users to rate content and improving the introduction to the site for new users. It also plans to expand significantly across new subject areas."In five years, I hope there will be great coverage on the site of almost every topic anyone is interested in," said Cheever, writing on Quora. "Right now, there is great coverage of some areas and many more are growing, like life in the military, parenting, farming, etc. I think this will keep happening. For information that isn't new, there's a very good answer in place for almost every question, so you can just look things up on Quora instead of posting new questions."Quora's investors feel that the site is developing with the same steady and thoughtful strategy that saw Facebook's exponential growth into the mainstream. Its combined strategies mean Quora will overlap – and present at least some competition – to curated information sites such as Wikipedia; to the accessible information mission of Google and the social sharing of Facebook.That is a fearsome set of rivals and, while Quora currently has the attention of California's tech heads, it may lose much of its charm as it attempts to scale up for the mainstream.Investors are falling over themselves to buy a piece of what they think the future of the internet could look like. A worrying sign for the stability of this market is the interest of non-technical investors who want in on the action. Goldman Sachs had to abort a private placement scheme last month that offered clients a stake in Facebook for a minimum investment of $2m; the scheme was so over-subscribed and heavily reported that it risked breaching regulations.As seasoned venture capitalist and dotcom survivor Fred Wilson noted in December: "When celebrities start popping up in deals and wanting to meet me, I know we are about to hit the wall."The real test for Quora will come if it survives the impending bursting bubble of the inflated web technology market, which will see the bluff and bluster and unrealistic, over-hyped startups evaporate. Those left behind will require real revenues, real business models and, at last, will show what the future for the social web really looks like.
Do you miss Number 10?When I was younger our family moved around a lot from Buckinghamshire to Fife to Tanzania and back to England, with stops in Harlow and Cambridge before settling in London, so I've always been adaptable and only ever miss people, rather than places. So I miss not seeing some familiar faces every day, but so many of the staff and former aides are still in touch and everybody was very sweet around Gordon's birthday last weekend.You'll be speaking at TEDx. What motivated you to get involved in theWhite Ribbon Alliance's Global Maternal Mortality Campaign?It is not just that it is crucial for the women we are helping and the children that they raise; I know in my bones it is a fight we can win. I'm a very practical person and like to do things that make a measurable impact and you can see just how much of a difference this campaign is making. Just a few years ago, maternal mortality was listed at the heart of the UN's Millennium Development Goal target to reduce global poverty, yet was not even on the agenda at international summits, and every year well over 500,000 mothers lost their lives in pregnancy or childbirth. Today it is top of the international political agenda, and Tanzania's president Jakaya Kikwete and Canada's prime minister Stephen Harper are leading a new commission at the World Health Organisation. The latest statistics tell us that annual deaths have fallen to around 350,000 women – an improvement, but a fair way to go to reach our goals.Is there a danger that there are too many charities? There seem so many with similar aspirations. Doesn't this dilute their voices?The charities that make the most impact are those with the most strategic partnerships. When judging theGuardiansmall charity awards and through our work at PiggyBankKids, I am brought into contact with a lot of smaller charities and see how the best can magnify and multiply their impact by hooking up with others – not just other charities, by the way. People are always suggesting charities should merge with one another, but actually the most modern coalitions are being formed between charities and businesses, or charities and faith groups and so on.Is it easier to be a working mum for you than for your mum?My mum just got a PhD in her 70s. I don't think she has ever let any sort of obstacle get in her way, even though it can be pretty tough trying to do everything at once. I'm sure that having her as a role model has given me self-belief – that just because there is a glass ceiling does not mean you should believe you will always be trapped beneath it. I also believe passionately that it is not possible to judge a woman by looking at her at any single point in her life. A woman's life is lived on a continuum where different priorities come to the fore at different times, whether relationships and family, or education and work, and even just fun.Your own tragic experience of losing a child means you have a direct connection to the women you campaign for. How do you think you changed after Jennifer's death?I don't know exactly, and perhaps am still finding out. I live with the good memories of Jennifer, even though our time with her was very short. I know that when I hear stories from other women or men who have suffered similar loss that I listen carefully and can hear what they are going through, and I know, too, that they recognise I understand that loss. It certainly makes you very aware of how precious each minute is, and I think that is one of the reasons both Gordon and I are inclined to take on too much.What was the proudest moment for you when your husband was the prime minister?On a policy level, I was proud during the G20 London summit, of course. But actually the thing that mattered was that he was there when the boys each had their first day at nursery, and that no matter what else was going on he always had the time for them to clamber up on his knee to talk about their day.What was the worst aspect of life at Number 10?It is hard living watching lies and distortions being told about people you love.Do you think your husband was misunderstood? What did people fail to understand about him? Does he have any faults and if so, what?I actually think the public got Gordon more than the press did. They could see that he was working 24/7 to save their homes and jobs during the recession, but the papers never wanted to write about that. His faults, like most people, are the flip side of the good bits about him. He works very hard himself and can be very hard on people if he thinks they aren't making enough effort or doing the right thing.Would you encourage your children to go into politics?We will encourage them to do whatever makes them happy. At the moment that looks like we will have two small palaeontologists on our hands, judging by the dinosaur factor.This month you were voted number one tweeter in Britain. Who is your number one tweeter? Why do you love Twitter – and can you sum yourself up in 140 characters?My favourite tweeter has to be @marthalanefox because she was the person who got me started. She is also totally committed to get all of Britain signed up to the web with her Race Online. To sum myself up? My Twitter tagline is: "Mum, campaigner, writer: enthusiastic chirper, believer in good things."What would most improve the lot of a prime minister's spouse?A proper job description!Did anyone give you advice? What advice would you give a successor?I had lots of practical advice on setting up the office and I thank those people in my book. More generally the best advice I got – and the best I can give – is from Gordon's school motto which he quoted on the day he entered Number 10 as prime minister: "I will try my utmost."Behind the Black Door by Sarah Brown (Ebury, £18.99) is published on Thursday
"The novelties of one generation," said George Bernard Shaw, "are only the resuscitated fashions of the generation before last." An excellent illustration is provided by the computing industry, which – despite its high-tech exterior –  is as prone to fashion swings as the next business. Witness the current excitement about the news that, on 2&nbsp;March, Apple is due to announce details of the new iPad, the latest incarnation of what theRegisterdisrespectfully calls an "uber-popular fondle slab". Yves Saint Laurent would have killed for that kind of excitement about a forthcoming collection.To put the hysteria into some kind of context, however, consider how we got into this mess. Once upon a time, computers were huge mainframes, tended by white-coated priesthoods and accessible only via "dumb terminals", ie screens with attached keyboards. Then the mainframes shrank to the size of domestic refrigerators, but they were still shared resources accessed by those same dumb terminals. By the early 1980s, Apple and IBM had created the "personal" computer – a standalone device you could have all to yourself. Then someone had the idea of hooking up these stand-alone devices so that they could share expensive laser printers; after that came the internet and the PCs were hooked up to that, too. Then came broadband and webmail and, after a while, people wondered why they needed to have all that complex software and flaky hard drives and anti-virus stuff on their PCs, and wouldn't it be less messy if everything was done by Google, Yahoo, Amazon, eBay and Microsoft, on their server farms?And thus was born "cloud computing", whereby most of the computing services we use are provided by remote servers and we access them via expensive, largely dumb terminals called, er, fondle slabs. And we call that progress.In some ways, it is. But there is an under-discussed downside: in our headlong rush into this brave new world, we have unwittingly turned ourselves into the clients and/or sharecroppers of a small number of US-owned corporations which now hold most of our digital assets, monitor our every online move and exploit our personal data in ways that most of us would find unacceptable if we knew about it. For example, Google's software reads every email sent or received by Gmail users, while Facebook's software probably knows that two people are about to embark on an affair before they do, because obsessive checking of someone's Facebook page is, apparently, a good guide to what happens next. And software is very good at picking up those kinds of patterns.In asobering lecturedelivered a year ago, Columbia law professor Eben Moglen described our new cloud-computing world as "the architecture of the catastrophe". Since then, the treatment of WikiLeaks by Amazon and other internet companies and the ways in which Egypt and Libya shut down internet access have reinforced his message that freedoms can be seriously curtailed by the deadly embrace of governments and&nbsp;corporations.In his lecture, Professor Moglen argued that it doesn't have to be this way. "We need a really good web server you can put in your pocket and plug in any place," he said. "In other words, it shouldn't be any larger than the charger for your cell phone, and you should be able to plug it in to any power jack in the world, and any wire near it, or sync it up to any Wi-Fi router that happens to be in its neighbourhood. It should have a couple of USB ports that attach it to things. It should know how to bring itself up. It should know how to start its web server, how to collect all your stuff out of the social networking places where you've got it. It should know how to send an encrypted backup of everything to your friends' servers."Sounds too technical for mainstream use, doesn't it? But having read Moglen's lecture, I started to look around. I bought something called aPogoplug, hooked it up to my router and plugged a one-terabyte hard drive (about £50 on the high street) into it and – bingo! – I suddenly had my own "cloud" storage, accessible from anywhere on the web. Then one of my mates showed me aGuruPlughe'd just bought for about £100. It's basically a Linux server in an enclosure the size of a three-way power adaptor.So the components needed for a new, user-controlled architecture are beginning to fall into place. It's still a bit geeky, but all it needs is a human-friendly front end. And, guess what: last week, Professor Moglen set up theFreedom Box Foundationto organise that. Stay tuned...
Younger readers may be unaware of this, but adventure games were hugely popular in olden times (aka the 1990s). And in those days of yore, the undisputed queen of point-and-click was Jane Jensen, celebrated author of the Gabriel Knight trilogy. So the fact that she has returned with a new tale of interactive intrigue is news indeed.Gray Matterhas some pretty big boots to fill.Jensen's forte was, and still is, storytelling. This is a ripping yarn with an excellent balance of emotion, suspense and sinister goings-on, and the way the adventure is split between the two main characters is deftly handled. These are Samantha Everett, a wandering, sassy, American street magician and former goth, and the absurdly mysterious neurobiologist, Dr David Styles.The eight chapters of puzzles and ever-tightening threads are wonderful, if somewhat less challenging than Gabriel Knight used to be, and the atmospheric soundtrack is pretty good too (despite some moments of excruciating folk-pop). However, the interface on the Xbox 360 is a letdown. Lumpen, counter-intuitive and odd in a way that you never completely get used to, it presents by far the biggest puzzle in the early stages of the game, along with the decision to render cut scenes as the airbrushed artwork of a swooning adolescent.So whileGray Matterwould be an absolutely fantastic game on the Nintendo DS, where the addition of a stylus would make pointing and clicking rather simpler, all but the biggest Jensen fans should approach it with caution on the 360.
My understanding of the word mini is that it is comes from miniature, meaning much smaller than normal. I'm thinking of skirts (as usual), bars (ditto) and the cute little carAlec Issigonisdesigned in 1959.When the Bavarians at BMW created the new Mini (can it really be 10 years ago?), they showed a lack of understanding, or perhaps a lack of respect for our language, because it was quite big. It's obvious how they came up with the design: they heated up the old car to a&nbsp;temperature that allows metal to expand, then they attached a&nbsp;powerful compressor to the exhaust pipe and simply pumped it up. Voila, or whatever the German is for voila, the new Mini.It was still just about recognisable, sharing some DNA with the original, and isn't a totally unlikable car. Well, it wasn't until the estate agents took a fancy to it: who wants to drive around looking like a fox from Twatstons? (Something went wrong there but you know what I mean.)For the Countryman, they've gone back to their compressor and pumped it up even more. A lot more. It's gigantic and has absolutely no right to be called a&nbsp;Mini. I&nbsp;parked next to an old one in Sainsbury's car park; never mind Bavaria, it looked as if we'd come straight fromBrobdingnag. My girlfriend wanted me to ask the little man in his little car what he thought of our monster, but to be honest I was too embarrassed. He might think it was mine, and obviously he'd hate it.I hate it, too. This is a really stupid car. Yes, it drives well. I'm trying the top-of-the-rangeCooper S All4. It really is a 4x4, though you need only to look at it to realise it's not meant to go anywhere very wild, just as you wouldn't wear your limited edition metallic trainers for farming. And it's too big for the city. Too big for this car park anyway – if we weren't parked next to a tiny old Mini, I wouldn't be able to get out. And I'm on a diet. Yet the model I've got has only two seats in the back, so&nbsp;it carries exactly the same number of people as the tiny car next door. It's like the opposite of a&nbsp;Tardis.OK, so it's well done inside, with some nice Mini details like the big dial speedometer, which is actually in totally the wrong place to be useful so there's another one in the right place. A gimmick, in other words. It&nbsp;all is – one massive great gimmick. Oh, and the price is massive, too, especially if you go for this one. Twenty two and half grand. For a&nbsp;Mini! That's just bloody ridiculous.Mini Countryman 1.6T Cooper S All4Price£22,495Top speed130mphAcceleration0-60mph in 7.9 secondsAverage consumption42.2mpgCO2 emissions157g/kmEco rating5/10In a wordMons
Nokia CEO Stephen Elop described the smartphone market as a "three-horse race" at the Mobile World Congress, with those horses being iPhone, Android and Windows Phone 7.His omission of BlackBerry seemed strange, with Research In Motion's handsets still selling like hot cakes to companies, but also teenagers, for whom the BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) service remains the key reason to own a smartphone in the first place.Even so, Elop's snub reflects a wider tendency in the mobile industry to talk down or ignore RIM's significance as a smartphone force going forwards.A number of developers I spoke to at the Mobile World Congress thought that tendency is unfair, but many admitted that against increasingly fierce competition from Apple, Google and now Microsoft/Nokia, RIM cannot afford to rest on its laurels.Few suggested that the company should take off its blinkers and hitch its saddle to one of the frontrunners in the smartphone race, but it seems that could be on the cards. Could BlackBerry's riposte to Elop be a partnership with the platform he spurned: Android?Mobile startup ShopSavvy suggests so.In a blog post, the company explains that its barcode-scanning app is not available for BlackBerry, yet its analytics software has unearthed some fascinating data."According to ShopSavvy's flurry logs someone in Waterloo, Ontario (Canada for the geographically challenged oh and BTW it's where RIM is based) has been running ShopSavvy for Android on various BlackBerry devices," the post explains.The app has been run twice on a BlackBerry 8600, and once each on a BlackBerry 8300 and 8520 since the start of January. ShopSavvy's news followsspeculation earlier this monththat RIM's upcoming BlackBerry PlayBook tablet will be able to run Android apps."This makes sense since BlackBerry OS can support Java Virtual Machines&nbsp;and it would be pretty easy to compile Android in one of the them," explains ShopSavvy's post. BlackBerry handsets running Android apps? It may be technically possible, but is it a stroke of genius or an act of folly for RIM?At a stroke, it would vastly increase the catalogue of apps available to BlackBerry users. RIM's own BlackBerry App World recently passed the 20,000 apps milestone, but Google's Android Market has more than 200,000.The risk, though, is that it might give many developers a new reason not to develop native BlackBerry apps, and focus instead on iOS, Android and Windows Phone, in the knowledge that the Android versions may work on BlackBerry devices too.A strange move for RIM, whose developer relations team has been making sustained efforts to persuade developers to make 'Super Apps' that integrate tightly into the BlackBerry OS. Perhaps the plan would be a premium tier of Super Apps, supported by a wide base of Android apps.For now, ShopSavvy's analytics only show that RIM may be exploring the idea, rather than providing conclusive proof that the company will go ahead with it. What do you think – could Android apps make BlackBerry the fourth horse in the smartphone race, or would it be a sign that RIM's app ecosystem ambitions are destined for the knacker's yard? Let us know your thoughts.
LinkedIn has become the latest major social network to fall victim to China's renewed crackdown on the internet, as the ruling Communist party stifles online calls for a pro-democracy uprising.The networking site for business professionals – which has more than 1 million users in China – was blocked for the first time in the country on Thursday. Internet searches on the Chinese Twitter equivalent are also being heavily censored.Authorities have tightened control of the internet in recent days in the wake of the political uprising sweeping the Middle East. Activists havedescribed the situationas "one of the worst crackdowns on the mainland's activists in recent years".Hani Durzy, a spokesman for LinkedIn, said on Friday: "We can confirm that access to LinkedIn is being blocked for some in China."This appears to be part of a broader effort in China going on right now, involving other sites as well."LinkedIn has been allowed to grow largely unhindered in China, unlike more popular Western social networks such as Twitter, Facebookand YouTube which remain blocked.A LinkedIn user named Jasmine Z set up a "Jasmine Voice" discussion group on the network on Wednesday, claiming to be "becoming a critical dissent dying for democracy, freedom and justice in my homeland".Authorities have also blocked searches for the Chinese name of the US ambassador, Jon Huntsman, after a video was published of him near a pro-democracy gathering in Beijing.Searches for "Egypt", "jasmine", "jasmine revolution" and "Hillary Clinton" were also censored on the popular Chinese internet portal Sina.com.A number of activists have been arrested in the country over the past week, charged with "endangering state security" asfresh calls for demonstrationswere posted on the overseas website Boxun.China's tight grip on the internet is thought to involve one of the world's most sophisticated online censorship systems.But the creator of "The Great Firewall", Dr Fang Binxing,recently admittedthat it could be subverted by using technology called virtual private networks (VPNs). "So far, the GFW [Great Firewall] is lagging behind and still needs improvement," he told a Chinese newspaper.
Google is making a "pretty big" change that will demote "low-quality" or "shallow" websites from online search engine results, in a move designed to tackle so-called "content farms".The change, which will affect around 12% of Google search queries in the US, follows pressure from the media industry and many of its users.Although Google did not specify which sites would be affected, the search engine hascome under firefor allowing content farm sites like Demand Media – whichproduces thousands of articles a daybased on popular search terms – to "pollute" its results."This update is designed to reduce rankings for low-quality sites – sites which are low-value add for users, copy content from other websites or sites that are just not very useful," said Amit Singhal, a Google fellow, and Matt Cutts, head of the company's spam-fighting team, wrote ina blog post late on Thursday."At the same time, it will provide better rankings for high-quality sites — sites with original content and information such as research, in-depth reports, thoughtful analysis and so on."The move is Google's biggest yet in responding to growing criticism over the relevancy of the world's most popular search engine. Itvowed to addressthe concerns in January.Last week Googlelaunched an extension to its Chrome web browserallowing users to set up a "personal blacklist" of sites that would no longer appear in their search results. Google said 83% of the "top dozen or so" sites which most often featured on the blacklist were demoted with its algorithm change.Responding to Google's announcement, Demand Media's executive vice president, Larry Fitzgibbon,said: "As might be expected, a content library as diverse as ours saw some content go up and some go down in Google search results."This is consistent with what Google discussed on their blog post. It's impossible to speculate how these or any changes made by Google impact any online business in the long term – but at this point in time, we haven't seen a material net impact on our content and media business."The move will also be seen as part of Google's wider attempt to woo news organisations and other "high-quality" content producers. Some publishers' content had slipped down Google search results as content farms rose in prominence.Last week Google unveiled plans for itsOne Pass online charging service for newspapers and magazines, just a day afterApple unveiled a rival internet payment offering for publishers.
Twenty-odd years ago point and click adventure games offered some of the most enthralling cerebral gaming experiences you could get on the PC (or Amiga). Monkey Island, Beneath a Steel Sky and the rest offered a compelling mix of puzzles, narrative and, in some cases, humour. The late nineties saw the genre submerged as 3D hit the PC and the consoles. Helped by touch screen devices and a growing download market – ie less financially risky for publishers – the genre has seen a resurgence in recent years. Full-price console releases remain a rarity though so Gray Matter certainly has a clear run. The involvement of Jane Jensen – creator of vintage adventure series Gabriel Knight – is another plus point for fans of the genre.Unfortunately much of this goodwill is lost when you get to play – at least on the 360 version. Things start off promising. The plot is entertaining enough – mysterious house, magic and the like — though it lacks the humorous touch found in the likes of Monkey Island. Players get to control both the main character leads, Dr David Styles and Samantha Everett. Despite Jensen's involvement the latter still retains the busty design prominence often seen on female gaming characters.The main problem though is the controls. The lack of a mouse or touchscreen means the interface is clunky. For example you need to hold down a trigger before using the joypad stick to flick through available interactive items. This list varies depending on where you are standing but the controls are a long way from the simplicity of point and click. They do, however, reduce the age-old frustration of scanning the screen for hotspots.Simplifying some of the genres conventions is a running theme of Gray Matter, with puzzles generally straightforward. There is very little of the "stick pen in pineapple to create a hovercraft" here. Some puzzles can be solved by simply using an object from your inventory with an item. More interestingly there is the chance to flex your magical muscle and use tricks you have learned.There are other issues too with the 360 version displaying its PC heritage. For example the font is small and would likely be unreadable on a standard definition TV.Generally though compared to something like Sony's Heavy Rain – in many ways the natural progression for the genre – Gray Matter feels clunky and dated. However, despite all this there is something warmly nostalgic about Gray Matter. Once you get used to the controls and start working through the story you do start to get intrigued – if not gripped – about what may happen next.Predicting how your average Call of Duty fan will react to the languid pace and dated visuals on offer here is easy enough. But the 360 needs the change of pace offered by games like Gray Matter and if you can ignore the flaws you may well appreciate it too.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Bulletstorm is, without doubt, one of the most eagerly awaited titles of the year – and would be even if it wasn't February. With its promise of gore, ultra-violence and swearing, it's got gamers champing at the bit and campaigners frothing at the mouth.It features all of the above at levels few games dare. You certainly wouldn't want it falling into the hands of an eight-year old. But it also features jokes – the script is by Marvel writer Rick Remender – and a plot, and some fantastically creative twists that make it utterly, and shamelessly enjoyable. It will take a very seasoned gamer not to whoop uncontrollably at least twice during the main game.You play the mercenary Grayson Hunt – think Wolverine, only chunkier – who, as part of the Dead Echo team has been protecting the sinister General Sarrano and carrying out Sarrano's dirty work. When Dead Echo realise that Sarrano isn't what he first appeared, and question the legitimacy of their activities, they find themselves labelled "namby pamby cocksucks", exiled to the edges of the galaxy, as one character memorably puts it, "stroking one hell of a revenge boner."This is all revealed in an entertaining prologue that teaches the basic controls. Then the story proper kicks in and all hell breaks loose. It should be repetitive and overly familiar: you're running around alien environments, attempting to complete objectives – get there, fix that, rescue her, meet up with them, etc – while blowing the bad guys off the face of the planet(s). You have, undoubtedly, been here before.You've also used these game mechanics. Kills earn you points, points earn you upgrades. Dispatch the enemy in more varied ways – for example, "voodoo doll", where you snap out with your leash (a fine and flexible piece of weaponry) catch them and pull them onto a handy nearby spike. The more elaborate the death, the greater the points scored under the Skill Shot system. The greater the points, the more extras you can download. Bulletstorm calls that "The Circle of Awesome", which says quite a lot about this game.It's the creative weaponry – as well as the often hilarious script and twisted storyline – that makes Bulletstorm stand out from the rest. The sniper rifle – with steerable, slow-motion bullets – certainly takes some beating. The first time you manage to negotiate fallen debris, a door frame and bank the bullet around a corner into their ugly backside, be prepared for involuntary whoops.With Casualty levels of gore, Itchy and Scratchy levels of violent humour and many, many hours of multi-player testosterone-fuelled fun, if Bulletstorm's not a classic in the making, it's not far off.• Game reviewed on XBOX
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
A government-led working group is to be formed to try to find a "plan B" to avoid potential litigation arising from the blocking of websites accused of illegal filesharing.The working group, which will comprise rights holders, internet service providers and search engines, is being formed after culture secretary Jeremy Huntreferred the Digital Economy Act's section 17 on website blockingto Ofcom for review. The issue of site blocking has been one of the most contentious elements of the DEA and the referral further raised the temperature of the debate, with some rights holders concerned it was a move tokick the measure into the long grass.At a government meeting on Thursday, Hunt and Ed Vaizey, the communications and creative industries minister, held a roundtable bringing together parties including BT, Universal Music, the BPI, Google and TalkTalk to "facilitate talks" on topics including site blocking.On the latter issue it was decided to form a working group to look at ways of making the proposed system more palatable. Following a court order obtained by rights holders, ISPs are concerned about issues including legal action from websites they block."It is agreed that what is needed is a plan B, or at least a plan that works alongside section 17 which would be the legal backstop," said one attendee at the meeting. "We want to look at how ISPs and rights holders can work together."One idea is that rights holders might look to indemnify ISPs against being sued by websites that take action over being blocked in order to give confidence that they will not face large payouts. The onus would then be on the rights holders to prove incontrovertibly that a site was illegal before getting ISPs to block them.Google, which also attended the meeting, is understood to have again mentionedplans first raised in Decemberto police digital piracy searches and promote legal sources of film and music content."The nature of the internet means the creative industries, internet service providers and others such as Google and Yahoo are completely interlinked," said Vaizey earlier this week. "They need each other for sustainable future success."• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?Heard:I could not live without my iPhone – and specifically, my iPod [app] in my iPhone. I use it for everything from directions to recipes to music. And for me, music is such a big part of my life that I can't get in the car or on the plane without having music playing.Fichtner:My iPhone – my favourite and least favourite, all rolled into one. Favourite because there's an immediacy. Least favourite because somebody can get to you at any time. Before cellphones, you didn't text message – you wrote things. Now, it's the internet, it's leaving voice messages – it's all shorthand. I resisted getting [an iPhone] until father's day a year and a half ago, when my wife insisted on getting me one from our kids. Do I like the iPhone? Yeah – every app that comes on an iPhone is kinda cool.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Heard:Five minutes ago, to show someone a picture of my car – I've got a '68 Mustang.Fichtner:Today, sitting around here in between doing a bunch of radio interviews – I just started playing a bunch of songs that I really like.What additional features would you add if you could?Heard:A battery that never runs out.Fichtner:Right now? There are so many things to add to it, but I don't want to know what they are because I don't want to spend so much time on this freaking thing.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Heard:Only if cool is obsolete in 10 years.Fichtner:Yeah, maybe – how can you say no? By the time this came out, they had already thought of something betterWhat always frustrates you about technology in general?Heard:That it can be impersonal.Fichtner:The fact that I don't know technology like my kids know it.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?Heard:I don't know if I've owned a piece of technology that I hated – I don't think I would have owned it then. Modern cars I don't like so much. It's like the difference between listening to a record or a CD – it's not quite the same when you listen to it on CD as it is on vinyl. It's lost a texture, a certain well-made quality that you felt someone else's hands had something to do with. I feel like my Mustang was built with hands and can be restored with hands. I have a new roadster in the garage and I lifted  the hood once and it was just a big computer – that's the difference.Fichtner:I try not to hate anything in my life, but I would say the tiny little computer thing in my 1991 Mitsubishi Montero back home. Every time it breaks – they don't make them any more, because the car is 20 years old – it costs me $1,000 to replace. I can't stand the technology in that thing, because it's old.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Heard:To not have to rely on it.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Heard:The fact that I don't even know what [luddite] means is probably the answer to your question.Fichtner:Nerd.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Heard:My computer – I have a Mac.Fichtner:It's gotta be my Mac iBook.Mac or PC, and why?Heard:Mac, because I'm familiar with them. I don't know how they would compare to PCs so much, but I have always used a Mac and I love my Mac, so why change?Fichtner:Mac. It used to be PC for years, until [Eric] Bana said to me, "What's wrong with you, Fichtner – would you just get a Mac please?" So finally I went the Mac way, and once you get a Mac I don't think you can go in any other direction – no offence to the rest of the computer world.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download?Heard:I buy records – vinyl. I have a record player at home. I buy movies on DVD.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Heard:It sounds like an awesome idea, because you start with robot butlers one day, the next you have robot housekeepers and then you move up to robot mechanics. I see a world of potential there.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Heard:I would love to own a cyber-stylist – one that I did not have to pay, preferably.Fichtner:I could take a personal one-seater jet – that would be great. Travelling and airports and that just sucks. The idea of going anywhere you want, at any time, without any hassle whatsoever would be heaven.•Drive Angry 3D is now showing across the UK
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team4.5 Million Media Tablets Shipped in 3Q-2010 &gt;&gt; ABI Research"The shipment, price and revenue data for media tablets, eBook readers and netbooks are in for the third quarter of 2010. Published in ABI Research's 'Netbooks, MIDs, Media Tablets, and Mobile CE Market Data,' they show that media tablets were indeed the 'promising new talent' they appeared to be: some 4.5 million of the fashionable devices shipped during the quarter. "Of those, about 93% were Apple iPads. Senior practice director Jeff Orr notes that, 'Over time, Apple's first-to-market iPad advantage will inevitably erode to some extent.'" In other words, about 300,000 non-iPad "media tablets" shipped (note: not sold) in the third quarter. Mostly, at a guess, Samsung's.More answers about our first software update &gt;&gt; Windows Phone Blog"90 percent of people who've received an update notification have installed the new software patch successfully. (So when your turn to download it arrives, chances are good this will be a non-event.) "Of the 10 percent who did experience a problem, nearly half failed for two basic reasons – a bad Internet connection or insufficient computer storage space. Luckily, both are easy to fix."Apple Updates The MacBook Pro Line With Sandy Bridge Intel CPUs, AMD GPUs, FaceTime HD, and Thunderbolt &gt;&gt; CrunchGear"Gone are Nvidia graphics as the latest MBP models feature Sandy Bridge Intel CPUs paired with switchable graphics between an integrated Intel chip or a discrete AMD GPU. (The 13-inch only has integrated graphics) The mini DisplayPort interface now shares its port with Appleâ€™s impentation of Intel's Light Peak technology re-dubbed Thunderbolt. Base RAM levels remained the same, although 1333MHz chips are used rather than the 1066MHz type used in the previous generation. Besides the SD slot now supporting SDXC, the rest of the connectivity options are a carryover from the previous crop."Android activations visualized &gt;&gt; CNN Fortune TechOoooh. See launch of Samsung Galaxy S.Chart: The Utter Collapse Of MySpace &gt;&gt; Business InsiderThis chart doesn't go back far enough – I'd like to see its heyday in 2007/08.Discussion on: Microsoft's Windows Phone 7: When bad things happen to good phones &gt;&gt; ZDNet"Microsoft, via its Twitter support feed, is directing users in my position to return phones to carriers for replacement. When I spoke to my carrier, T-Mobile UK, they pointedly refused a replacement, saying it's "not our software", and referred me to Microsoft, as it was Microsoft's update that killed the phone.'  "The staff I spoke to at Microsoft for the best part of an hour were sympathetic, but claimed they were unable to assist, as there was literally nothing they could do other than sympathise - they don't have replacement phones to send out, and they don't have an in-house repair centre for end-user devices, so they referred me again to either my carrier or to the manufacturer, Samsung.'  "When I spoke to Samsung, they also gave me the "it wasn't our software update" line, before accepting that the phone could be repaired under warranty - but they refused to guarantee a replacement handset if a repair wasn't possible... this seems less than satisfactory."Installing and troubleshooting problems during the software update for Windows Phone 7 &gt;&gt; MicrosoftNot included: "Your phone is totally bricked. Call your carrier." Some people have found that the "hard reset" option does not un-brick their phone; the only option is a handset exchange.Despite 861.5 Percent Growth, Android Market Revenues Remain Puny &gt;&gt; TechCrunch"You read the headline 'Android Market grows a staggering 861.5 per cent', and you think, 'Wow, Android is really on a tear.' But then you look at the fine print, and you realize that Android Market revenues are still barely registering, and that the only reason they grew so much in 2010 was because in 2009 they were nearly non-existent. "According to a chart making the rounds from UK-based research firm IHS, Android Market revenues in 2010 came in at an estimated $102 million, up from $11 million the year before. "And how did that compare to revenues from Apple's App Store? Apple App Store revenues came in at an estimated $1.7 billion in 2010, almost 20 times bigger than Android. And Apple App Store revenue grew at a not-too-shabby 131.9 percent rate. More importantly, Apple accounts for 83 percent of the total estimated app store revenues." BlackBerry App World comes ahead of Nokia's Ovi Store. How's that for a platform, Mr Elop?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
I read the profile of Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales (Saturday interview, 19 February) with interest and would like to clarify a point which Mr Wales raised. In the article Mr Wales is quoted as saying that Britannica had "got it wrong" with regards to providing accurate information concerning his birthday (currently dated as 7 August 1966). In the Britannica entry for Mr Wales our editor notes: "There is some confusion over the date of Jimmy Wales's birth. A number of sources – including Current Biography and Who's Who in America as well as a marriage licence filed in Monroe County, Florida—give his birth date as August 7 1966."In June 2007 Mr Wales notified Britannica that this date was incorrect. However, Mr Wales would provide Britannica with the correct date and appropriate documentation only if it was agreed that his date of birth would not be published, which runs contrary to Britannica's policies. Given that the majority of sources report August 7, 1966, and without documentation that disproves this date, Britannica has decided to stick with August 7 1966.Ian GrantManaging director,Encyclopædia Britannica (UK)
Oblivion is one of my all-time favourites so it's no surprise that the sequel – Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim – is at the top of my 2011 must-have list. The newly released trailer has only made the wait till autumn more painful.Yes, for the first time we get a look at in-game footage, complete with flyovers of snowy vistas and green grassy forests. Oh, and some combat too. Some slightly odd water effects aside, the game looks marvellous. The perfect game for a cold winter's evening. Let's hope the facial visuals and voice acting are better than Oblivion but this little glimpse into the Skyrim is hugely promising.That's just me though. What do you think?
Most music recommendation services are very polite, working on the 'if you like that, you might like this' principle to suggest new songs. New iPhone app Pocket Hipster takes a different approach entirely.It's the result of a partnership between two music technology startups, The Echo Nest and We Are Hunted, and is now available on the App Store for 59p.Service with a smile? This is more about service with a sneer. The app includes two virtual hipsters – one male, one female – whose role in life is to be as rude as possible about songs stored on your iPhone, and then recommend other tracks you should listen to instead, complete with song streams and iTunes buy links.Pocket Hipster"If your taste in music was an animal, it would be a one-winged pigeon with a gammy leg," is one of the milder insults, while the hipster on my phone seems particularly fond of telling me their ears have been "totally offended" or "violated".Some of Pocket Hipster's recommendations can seem quirky, for example when it served up scuzzy indie rock in response to a Chemical Brothers track. However, in a couple of days' use, I've already discovered three or four interesting bands through it.It's a fun idea, but it's just the start of The Echo Nest and We Are Hunted's partnership, with the two startups promising more apps in the coming months. Both are active participants in theMusic Hack Dayinitiative, which encourages developers to mash together different music services' APIs to create interesting apps and websites.Pocket Hipster is proof that these hacks can be turned into commercial apps which may find a following outside the developer community.
This year is a fun – and challenging – time to be a book publisher. Ebooks are growing fast, bringing digital distribution opportunities, but also arguments about revenue shares and business models.A parallel trend, too, is the increasing popularity of book apps, distributed through app stores rather than ebook retailers. Two new iOS releases this week highlight the potential when publishers look to experiment with the possibilities of apps.First up is The Lost Journal, published on Apple's App Store by Garrett Books. The iPad app costs £2.99, and is based on author Susie Cornfield's Dekaydence novels, acting as a prequel to the series.Cornfield herself has written the story, which is accompanied by animated illustration and music.ConjureDigital made the app for Garrett Books. Importantly, the app is not just a marketing wheeze for a physical book – the next title in the series is not due out until spring 2012. It's a story in its own right, which explains the decision to charge for it.The second book app worth noting this week is Shadow Ranch, an iPhone and iPad app based on US teen detective Nancy Drew. Developed by Her Interactive, it styles itself as a "story-based gamebook".That translates to scattering puzzles, hidden-object hunts and other mini-games around the storyline, while encouraging readers (or should we say players?) to explore the mystery however they want. This, too, is a standalone product, costing £1.79 on the App Store. It even ties into Apple's Game Center gaming community.In contrast to ebooks, which simply serve up the text, book apps are expected to offer a decent degree of animation and interactivity. The two revenue streams should be complementary for publishers, although finding the right developer partners will be crucial to ensure the interactive elements aren't shoddy.
As a sporting spectacle, this is one event that is unlikely to set pulses racing. Which is just as well, because none of the runners lining up for the marathon in Japan this morning even has a pulse.The event is the world's first robot marathon, which began in the western Japanese city of Osaka on Thursday.The five battery-charged runners, each between 30cm and 44cm in height, will compete on arguably the least picturesque marathon course in the world: a room in Osaka's Asia-Pacific trade centre.Organisers of the Robo Mara Full say the race will test the robots' durability and manoeuvrability to the limit as they attempt to complete 422 laps of the 100-metre track to make up the 26.2-mile marathon distance.The event is being organised by Vstone, a Japanese robot maker, and funded by the municipal government of Osaka, a city that once depended on heavy industry but is now trying to position itself as a centre of robot innovation.While the bipedal robots won't have to worry about pulling a muscle or hitting the "wall" in the final stages, they still performed knee-bends and other warm-up exercises before lining up.Vstone's entryis broadcasting the entire race on Ustreamvia a video camera installed in its head.Japan hasan impressive recordof marrying cutting-edge robot technology and athletic achievement. It hosted the firstrobot football World Cupin Nagoya in 1997, and again in 2005, in Osaka. Last year's tournament in Singapore drew 500 teams from 40 countries.The universities and companies taking part in the Osaka marathon are permitted to change their robots' batteries and carry out running repairs, but the machines must run unassisted.The winner is expected to complete the course on Sunday, four days after the race began. Sammy Wanjiru, the reigning men's Olympic marathon champion, is unlikely to lose any sleep.
I have installed Norton Security and the computer is whirring away continuously like it's about to have a nervous breakdown. It's very annoying. Does it matter? Can I get rid of it?Richard MatthewA home PC will normally spend most of its time idling along, without using much of the processor's power or accessing the hard drive. It shouldn't "whirr away" for very long, unless it's working hard. Unexplained whirring is usually due to excessive use of the central processing unit (CPU), which creates heat and noise, and slows down or even stops any programs that you actually want to run. It's therefore a good idea to find the cause and eliminate it. To do this yourself means delving into Windows' internal processes, but it's useful to know how. You can use the same approach with any program, not just Norton. Otherwise, if this answer seems hard going, skip to the last paragraph.Of course, you should expect Norton to make heavy demands on your system when it is checking your hard drive for malware, but it shouldn't be doing that while you're around. Recent versions of Norton Internet Security (from about 2009 onwards) are only supposed to kick into action during "system idle time", when your PC is not in use. You can adjust this value in Norton by clicking on CPU usage, so you could try setting a longer time interval, but I wouldn't expect this to solve the problem.Before we start, however, you should get your PC up-to-date, because you may be trying to solve a problem that has already been fixed. Go to the Windows Update site (there's a link near the top of the Start menu) and make sure you have all the critical updates installed. Next, open Norton, click on Support, and select New Version Check. Install the 2011 version if you don't have it, plus any updates, then run a virus check using the latest signatures. Finally, reboot your PC to see if the whirring has gone away. If not, you'll at least be starting with a fresh system.To find a CPU hog, download two free tools written by SysInternals:; Process ExplorerandProcess Monitor. Microsoft liked SysInternals' tools so much it bought the company, so they are now available from Microsoft's site. Both downloads need to be unzipped but neither needs to be installed: you can run them from anywhere you like. It's a good idea to put copies of them along with HiJackThis, Malwarebytes and other useful tools on a "rescue" USB stick.Process Explorer does the same job as the Windows Task Manager, but it's more advanced. Run it and it will list all the processes that are running in your PC. Look in the third column under CPU and it will tell you what's hogging the processor. It won't be hard to spot because almost all the other entries will be blank apart from System Idle Process. This should normally be at around 95% to 99%, which is what you want. If Norton is the culprit, it could be a process called ccsvchst.exe. Either way, each process should have an entry in the Company Name column.In Process Explorer, click on View and then select Columns to bring up a tabbed properties sheet. You should be at the Process Image tab. Put a tick in the box next to the entry for Command Line and click OK. You will now have a column that tells you where to find the code for the malfunctioning process ("C:\Program files\" etc), so you can check its size and date stamp. If you search for the file name online, numerous websites will tell you if your file has the correct size and date, and some will hazard a guess as to whether it's likely to have a virus infection. Some virus writers like to disguise files by giving them the same names as system files, but they may be a different size or in a different directory. Either way, you can upload any file toSymantecor another other anti-virus site to get it checked.Sometimes you may find two or more processes hogging the CPU. This can happen if two programs are operating at a low level, which is why it's not recommended to run two anti-virus programs at the same time. You might be running a child safety program or other monitoring software that Norton might reasonably suspect is doing malware-type things. You might have a program that kicks in to check mail in the background, and so on. The Microsoft Outlook Connector sometimes used to give Norton problems. See if you can update, reinstall or entirely remove whichever program appears to be causing the problem. This includes Norton.To log any problem that you have found using Process Explorer, go to the File menu, select Save As, and save the text file (call the first one procexp.exe-01.txt) to your download directory or desktop. If you need to go to an online support forum or have any contact with Norton, it will be much easier to paste in all or part of this file than to try to remember or describe it.Having found the process that is hogging the processor, you can now run Process Monitor to find out exactly what it's doing. I don't have a copy of Norton, but I did have a similar problem with MsMpEng.exe, which is the "engine" that drives the Microsoft Security Essentials anti-virus program. It was using 50% of my CPU, and might have used more if MSE had not been set to use a maximum of 50%. (The setting is at the bottom under the Settings tab.) I ran Process Monitor (Procmon.exe), then used the drop-down selections to create a filter where "Process Name" is "MsMpEng.exe". This told me what that process was doing.As it turned out, MsMpEng.exe appeared to be obsessed with the entirely harmless psialog.txt file – the log kept by Secunia's free Personal Software Inspector 2.0. My quick-and-dirty solution was to open MSE, go to Settings, click "Excluded files &amp; locations" and exclude the Secunia directory (C:\Program Files\Secunia) from "real-time protection". MsMpEng.exe's processor use promptly dropped to zero, the fan turned off, and the whirring stopped.You might not be able to find such a simple solution to your PC's problem. However, you will have enough information to post a smart query on theNorton community support site. It's easier to answer a query that asks why ccsvchst.exe has a conflict with SpyBuddy, or whatever, than "why is my computer whirring?"Finally, for those who find Process Explorer and Process Monitor induces brain-freeze, there is a simple Softonic program that "does what it says on the tin":What's my computer doing?This provides a continuous read-out of the three or four processes that are actively doing something – which includes accessing the hard drive – without listing the thousands that aren't. Clicking on any process gives you a good read-out of its details, including Known Problems with links to external solutions in, for example, Microsoft support documents. Even people who don't have a PC problem may find the readout of interest.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft's Windows Phone 7: When bad things happen to good phones &gt;&gt; ZDNet"Microsoft really needed to hit a home run with WP7 to make a comeback in smartphones. So far, I'd say they've fallen short of what's needed."Apple beats off calls to reveal Steve Jobs succession plan &gt;&gt; The GuardianSo, we got nothing.A Sleeping OS X Lion Stirs &gt;&gt; TechCrunchExpect more on OS X Lion on 2 Wednesday, when TechCrunch's internal OS stats will presumably reach an all-time high.Cisco Pulls Plug on Web Email &gt;&gt; WSJDOA this one: "Cisco Systems is pulling the plug on its Web-based email service for businesses a little over a year after the networking giant first introduced the product in November 2009, the company announced in a blog post Tuesday evening."IPOs by LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter and others could alter venture capital landscape &gt;&gt; SiliconValley.com"This anticipated IPO flurry comes at a time when Silicon Valley's once high-flying club of venture capitalists has been rattled and cut down in size. As deals dried up over recent years, the National Venture Capital Association said the number of VC firms dropped from about 1,000 in 2007 to about 400 today, with more firms winding down. And the VC industry, whose funds typically have a 10-year contractual life, saw its long-term returns turn negative in 2010 after years of stellar returns, due to the full impact of the dot-com bust."Help Me Investigate code now available &gt;&gt; The Help Me Investigate blog"The code behind Help Me Investigate is now available on GitHub: take a look at https://github.com/helpmeinvestigate/help_me_investigate We are still looking for someone to help monitor development of the code and approve any additions etc."Everything that can go wrong with Windows Phone 7 update does &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"This is a monumental cock-up. Failing to install properly is bad. Corrupting firmware and needing recovery is terrible. Bricking handsets altogether is inexecusable. Who on earth wants to schlep into a store to get a new handset just because Microsoft and Samsung screwed something up? In spite of the handsets being available for four months now, in spite of having a month or more to test the update, it doesn't actually work. I don't know how many different firmware variants Samsung has – probably one per telco branding or more – but it's not going to be thousands. Testing all the different variants was certainly something Microsoft could have done, but apparently has not. I'm sure that Samsung has some blame here too – the problems thus far appear to be limited to its handsets – but if Samsung has screwed something up, Microsoft should have noticed this and forced them to fix it before shipping the phones to end users." How many different Windows Phone models does Nokia plan to ship?Exclusive: Apple Halves Minimum iAd Buy &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"Apple set the bar high for its debut in the mobile advertising business, demanding a minimum spend of $1 million from advertisers looking to hawk their wares from its iAd platform. It was a daunting premium for a nascent system, and one that limited its appeal to big-name companies. Now with the first run of iAd campaigns ended, Apple is lowering its minimum spend to appeal to smaller-scale advertisers that originally couldn't afford the platform. It's cutting it in half."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Apple has fought off investor demands that the company outline succession plans for its ailing founder Steve Jobs, on medical leave with cancer. Shareholders seeking to force the company to lay out a clear post-Jobs strategy for Apple lost a vote on the issue at the technology firm's annual meeting in San Francisco.Jobs has created one of the world's most powerful companies and is a hands-on manager who has overseen the launch of hit after hit for Apple, from the iMac to the iPod and iPad. Jobs, who turns 56 on 24 February, was diagnosed with a rare type of pancreatic cancer in 2004 and has had health issues ever since.This month the influentialInstitutional Shareholder Services(ISS), which advises pension fund investors, backed a shareholder proposal to require Apple to disclose a succession plan for Jobs.Jobs is so closely tied to the company's image and products that Apple's share price reacts to every fresh rumour about his health. Apple has avoided talking publicly about its plans for when Jobs leaves the company."ISS believes that shareholders would benefit by having a report on the company's succession plans disclosed annually," ISS said in a statement. "Such a report would enable shareholders to judge the board on its readiness and willingness to meet the demands of succession planning based on the circumstances at that time."The meeting was led byTim Cook, Jobs's second in command. Cook was elevated from chief operating officer to acting CEO in January when Jobs took medical leave. Cook and Apple's board lost a vote suggested by shareholders that board directors must be elected by majority vote.This year is the first that shareholders have been able to request that succession plans be made public. The change was made after unexpected high-profile departures at drugs groupPfizerand computer firmHewlett-Packard.Since Jobs announced he was going on medical leave, stories have emerged about his continued involvement with Apple and its product developments. He has been seen around Silicon Valley and last week attended a dinner for top tech executives held by the US president, Barack Obama.The fight for greater disclosure is being led by a construction workers' pension fund based in Illinois, which owns Apple shares worth £2.5m. It follows investor anger over the handling of Jobs's medical leave in 2008/2009. Jobs was absent for six months, butthe news that he had had a liver transplantcame after Apple dodged questions about his health and a week after the increasingly gaunt chief executive had said his recent weight loss was caused by a treatable hormone deficiency."Disclosure is necessary, particularly in a public company where the leadership is obviously so important to investors," said Charles Elson, chair of theJohn L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governanceat the University of Delaware. Jobs's status had become "a drama", said Elson. "Is he there? Is he not there? He's out with Obama. He's sick. It's too much. I'm all for board discretion but in this case it's too much and investors need clarity."The battle over disclosure comes as Apple prepares to launch the second generation of its hitiPad. The company has so far sold 15m iPads, creating a new category of touchscreen tablet computers, but is now facing stiff competition.Cook is expected to unveil a new generation of thinner, faster iPadsat an event in San Francisco on 2 March.
The final title in the Gears of War series will hit shelves on 20 September, Microsoft announced today. Gears of War 3 once again follows super soldier Marcus Fenix and his comrades as they attempt to save the last remnants of the Human race from the giant insect-like Locust alien hordes.In the conclusion of the bloody blast-'em-up trilogy, which has sold more than 12m copies worldwide since 2006, Fenix will be aiming his array of gigantic space weaponry at a new evolution of the Lambent, a mutant version of the Locust race. The game's design director, Cliff Bleszinski told Associated Press:They burst out of the ground in these veiny, treelike stalks that transport them throughout the world. It's like an embryonic sac. It's nasty stuff. You fight those guys for about a third of the experience, then for the rest of the game you deal with the latest evolution of – or should I say the devolving – Locust.Along with the single-player campaign, the title will once again feature four-player co-op as well as a five vs five multiplayer competitive option. Developer Epic Games is also adding a new Beast mode, in which you control the Locust Hordes as they attack a human outpost – an inversion of the  series' excellent Horde mode.The press release also mentions an armoury of new weapons:The Bayonet Charge, The Retro Lancer, The Sawed-off Shotgun, The OneShot – a heavy sniper rifle that shoots through shields or cover for a surprise one shot kill, The Incendiary Grenade, The Digger Launcher and a few subtle tweaks to old favourites Hammerburst and The Classic Lancer.A new public multiplayer beta is also expected in the spring.So, for anyone who wasn't sure before, Gears – like Mass Effect – is bowing out as a trilogy. Check back here very soon for some hands-on impressions of the final portion ...
At Gamesblog Live, we sat down with Crytek's Nathan Camarillo, executive producer of Crysis 2. Although based in Germany, Camarillo is American. He proved fascinating on the processes involved in turning an acclaimed engine into a coherent and ambitious game, creating an urban jungle and how to use 3D as an adjunct of gameplay rather than a mere gimmick.Crytek has always had a reputation for being at the cutting edge of games technology, but how does Crysis 2 differ from its predecessor as a game?There has been a mentality change within Crytek. We are known for a really great engine and visuals, but we want to compete with all the best games out there, regardless of whether or not they are shooters. So with Crysis 2, we're stepping up our game in all areas to deliver at the same quality levels that we expect of ourselves on visuals.We're really pushing not only through the tools such as sandbox, which lets us iterate really quickly on all the levels to improve the quality, but it's also about our attempts to get other content in the game and really sculpt the narrative. People who play Crysis 2 will be very pleasantly surprised by the overall increase in production quality. We've got things such as loading screen movies that are informative and tell you about the story. The 3D is amazing, and we've made a gallery that tells you all about the Nanosuit – that's all in 3D too.In your talk, you described how even though Crysis 2 is set in a New York invaded by aliens, you've made it jungle-like, harking back to the setting of the original Crysis. How did that work?We used a lot of the visual language that we had from Crysis. Things like rocks that you can take cover behind, jungle canopies creating dappled lighting, and natural-feeling water-flows like rivers and streams. We found a way to recreate those in an urban setting. Because it's an alien invasion, you can have the city destroyed or ravaged in some way – there's some seismic activity as well, so the streets are cracked and uneven.So it feels more like terrain than urban asphalt. It's the same with how we tell you where you can and can't go. If we want to block off a street, sometimes there's a collapsed structure in the way; you learn which buildings you can and can't go into, because the ones you can have damaged facades. Once you're inside, they're very dishevelled and organic. So we take a city that still has the angles and hard surfaces, but simultaneously give it a more organic flow.But you still rigorously took loads of photos around New York and modelled the city. Then, it sounds like you went and messed it up.Yes, basically that's what we did. We made the base models, but a lot of the sets we made in the level editor started off as a rough version – let's say the clean version. Then we made a messed-up version, and when we did our art passes on the levels, we raised the quality of those assets. Thankfully, we didn't have to build the city twice – building New York once is enough for anybody.Another key aspect of the game is the Nanosuit, which is designed to let people play the game however they want. Games have claimed to allow that in the past but few have achieved it: what's different in that respect for Crysis 2?The Nanosuit is your way to experience the game world – your interaction with the world beyond your weapon. If you think about it, in most shoot-em-up games, you're a soldier, you have a gun and you fire at things. So your connection to the game world is the gun. But for us, the Nanosuit is in between you and the gun, even, because it allows you to interact with the world in a certain way.We want you to feel the power of the Nanosuit in the same way that you feel the power of the weapon in a normal first-person shooter. We spent a lot of time developing that, not only through the gameplay-design features like being able to ledge-grab, slide, sprint or turn on the core powers of cloaking and armour, but it's also about the presentation of that. So, you hear your footsteps differently if you're walking, running or sprinting through the power of the Nanosuit on different material types – I can feel the suit running when I play the game. It's the same with the amount of bob on the head or the HUD – it feels like it's part of the suit that you're experiencing.Then there's the fact that you can grab things and throw them – even the ledge grabs where you jump to get to a higher place, and you see the hands grab the ledge and interact with the world. You feel like you're in the suit interacting with the whole world.  If you're cloaked and you reload your gun, there's an entirely different reload animation that happens, because you're trying to be sneaky. Then if you're in armour, it's a quicker and more violent reload, because you're probably in combat.How does the Nanosuit work in multiplayer? There will be an associated learning curve, won't there, because the Nanosuit progression is different for the single-player and multiplayer elements of the game?Yes. In single player, you collect nano-catalysts that the suit converts into new programs or modules that you can then activate and use. In multiplayer, based on experience, you earn tokens that you spend how you want, so you can unlock the modules you want in the order in which you want to buy them. You will probably make your decisions based on the style of play that you like. In Crysis 2, we catered more for opportunities of play-style, asking ourselves questions like: "How would a stealthy player play this space?" We played the spaces over and over based on different styles of play – we also have assassins and people who lay traps.People find new ways to invent with this kind of sandbox gameplay. We give people a game world, but they create the game themselves when they're within the space. Likewise the artificial intelligence has to react to the decisions that you've made and the way you chose to interact with the world, so we had to have really smart systems in place that will challenge you while you're playing and force you to change your tactics. If you stealthily kill a guy, someone might notice that they're missing, call on the radio and move to your position. You still have to manage the energy of the suit like you did in Crysis, so you're only ever invisible, say, for a few seconds. So if you're going to play cat and mouse, you'll have to constantly hide, then pounce on people.And you can get a module which shows bullet trails for when you're being sniped, offering a counter-balance to that gameplay style?Yes, there are a lot of counter balances, especially in the multiplayer setup. We've called them classes – you're effectively picking which class you want to play. And it's a true load out: you're picking your modules and weapons, plus weapon attachments. Because people have their own styles, there is no right way to play the game. People will counteract what you're doing, then it's up to you to change.Few developers have the courage and ambition to make a sandbox-style shooter. Does it become easier, the more iterations you make?No it doesn't. You start to see other games taking on sandbox gameplay, so you not only want to stay ahead of those people, but you want to invent new opportunities for players to interact with the game world. Coming up with those is difficult, and because everything in our game world interacts with everything else, you always run into the problem that when you introduce something, it breaks something else.You said Crysis 2 has been designed from the start to work in 3D, and you've kept the three dimensionality behind the level of the TV screen. Why is that?We want the television to be the window into the world of Crysis. So, as you're sitting on your couch looking into the game world, you're experiencing it from there forwards. This makes it a deep 3D experience – we call it concave 3D, as it's inside the TV. It's an easier experience on your eyes than 3D that comes out of the TV, particularly if you sit too close to the TV. The visor of the Nanosuit sits just inside the screen, and then the gun sits just past that, then the hands and the rest of the world.Can you talk us through the multiplayer modes?We have Deathmatch, which is a classic – we call it Instant Action. Then there's Team Instant action, which is team Deathmatch. Then there's Capture The Relay (which is Capture The Flag). Then we have Crash Site, which is like King of the Hill, but what makes it a little different for us is that before the alien pod develops into the crash-site, a ship flies around the map to where it will pop up, before the action is under way, so it always causes a convergence on the map.Then we have Assault, which is an asymmetrical mode. This is a really awesome game mode, where you have normal soldiers, without Nanosuits, who have machine-guns, versus guys in Nanosuits, but they only have pistols. It's team-based, and there are multiple locations throughout the map that the guys in Nanosuits are trying to hack into. While they're sitting there using the terminal, they could be shot. And it's a one-life mode, so it gets really intense.It probably takes people three rounds to figure out what is going on – if it's early in their experience of the Nanosuit, they might not get it. But for our players who have played a lot internally, that's kind of their graduation mode – it's really hardcore. The last mode is Extraction, where one side is trying to take canisters to an extraction point.
Mobile social games are increasingly big business in 2011. Today, 11 of the 20 Top Grossing Games on Apple's UK App Store are freemium social games. Tap Zoo is making more money than Angry Birds, and Smurfs' Village is out-earning Fifa 11, for example.As in-app payments come to Android and BlackBerry, these kinds of games will quickly spread to those platforms too. This growth will be fuelled by new research from mobile analytics firm Flurry, which digs into the demographics of mobile social gamers.The company's tools are used by developers to track usage of their apps across various smartphones. Flurry says it identifies 26 million unique daily users spending 25 minutes a day playing social mobile games. It has used a sample of 60,000 iOS and Android social gamers to draw up its report.According to the research, 64% of mobile social gamers are in the US, with 30% in Europe, 4% in Asia and 2% in the rest of the world – remember, this data is drawn only from iOS and Android games using Flurry's analytics: in countries like Japan, there are millions of people playing mobile social games on other kinds of phones, who would not be covered by this research.Flurry says the average age of a mobile social gamer is 28, and that the male-female split is 47:53. It compares this to figures from the US Electronic Software Association (ESA) claiming that for "traditional" gamers, the numbers are 34 years old and 60:40 respectively."It's clear that mobile social gaming is attracting a much stronger female base, as well as a younger average user,"writes Flurry's Peter Farago in a blog post. "Among mobile social gaming, there is also greater density in the 18-49-year-old bracket, which indicates that iOS and Android devices are attracting users during their earning years versus, in particular, their teenage years, where they likely cannot afford more expensive mobile devices."Flurry has also mapped data on US users in its sample group against US Census Bureau data, claiming that the average mobile social gamer earns 50% more than the average American, and is more than twice as likely to have earned a college degree.The thrust of the study is that mobile social games deserve more attention from brands and marketing agencies. "The Mobile Social Gamer segment is highly engaged, younger, made up of more females, more educated and more affluent," writes Farago."In terms of usage behaviour, they use social games far more often than they watch prime-time television shows, and using for 25 minutes per day, are heavy users of this interactive content.  Mobile social gamers are the new mass-market powerhouse."However, if mobile social games are to capitalise on this, they need more reach than just iOS devices, which is one reason why it's important for their developers to launch the games on Android and other smartphones as soon as in-app payments are available.
Aleks Krotoski and Jemima Kiss talk through this week's biggest tech headlines, discussing the buoyant future for the digital scene.Twitter's heavy-handed action against the developers of the UberTwitter and Twidroyd apps suggests a shakedown from the top of the pile, as the company transforms from one service among many into a platform courted by Facebook and Google.Social games company Zynga is on the verge of a big investment deal, suggesting that their diversification model – from games to merchandise, to virtual goods to advertising – is the next evolution of companies eager to surf the Web 2.0 bubble. And Apple and Google battle it out for the most robust subscription service that doesn't alienate consumers, stifle the fertile apps market or – most importantly – ostracise developers.Charles Arthur rounds up the coverage from Mobile World Congress, including a chat with Stan Mo from MeeGo, intel's and Nokia's open operating system that had been the shining light, until Nokia announced last week that it was only packaging one piece of kit with it in the next financial year.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
No Mario or Zelda at launch then. Yes, Nintendo has announced the 3DS launch titles for the US. Stateside gamers will have 18 titles to choose from on day one (ok 16 really as two "games" are included are preloaded).The picks at this early stage would appear to be Nintendo's Pilotwings Resort and Lucasarts' Lego Star Wars III. Pro Evo and Madden look promising too. On paper though there doesn't seem to be an absolute must-have title. Zelda or Mario would have made this launch day list feel more substantial.  Anyway, the full US list is:Pilotwings ResortNintendogs + catsSteel DiverPro Evolution Soccer 2011 3D (Konami)Asphalt 3D (Ubisoft)Bust-A-Move Universe (Square-Enix)Combat of Giants: Dinosaurs 3D (Ubisoft)Lego Star Wars III: The Clone Wars (Lucasarts)Madden NFL Football (EA Sports)Rayman 3D (Ubisoft)Ridge Racer 3D (Namco Bandai Games)Samurai Warriors: Chronicles (Tecmo Koei)Super Monkey Ball 3D (Sega)Super Street Fighter IV 3D Edition (Capcom)The Sims 3 (EA)Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Shadow Wars (Ubisoft)Face Raiders (preloaded on 3DS)Mii Maker (preloaded on 3DS)What do you think then? Will it – assuming the list is replicated in Europe – tempt you to get a 3DS? If not, why not?
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamChinese workers appeal to Apple over health worries &gt;&gt; Reuters"Chinese workers at a factory making touch screens on contract for Apple have urged the U.S. company to help address their grievances over a chemical poisoning they said could still harm their health."Nokia: Culture will out &gt;&gt; Adam Greenfield's Speedbird"Nokia's problem is not, and has never been, that it lacks for creative, thoughtful, talented people, or the resources to turn their ideas into shipping product. It's that the company is fundamentally, and has always been, organized to trade in commodities. Whether those commodities were stands of timber, reams of paper, reels of cable, pairs of boots, or cheap televisions for deployment in hotel chains, much the same basic logic applied: acquire, or manufacture, great quantities of a physical product for the lowest achievable cost, and sell for whatever the market will bear."Apple to Unveil IPad 2 on March 2 in San Francisco &gt;&gt; AllThingsDSwisher has the date at March 2. We won't hold our breath for an Apple confirmation at tomorrow's (23 February) annual shareholders meeting.China launches new state-run search engine &gt;&gt; CNET News"China has unveiled a new government-run search engine that will square off against market leader Baidu."Windows 8 roadmap: A picture is worth a thousand build numbers | ZDNet"What's interesting to me is how closely this roadmap snippet seems to be mirroring the timelines and build information from a few sites and sources claiming access to leaked Win 8 builds. On February 21, there were reports that Microsoft was just about done with Win 8 Milestone 2. On the roadmap above, final M2 build candidate is slated to arrive on February 23. And according to the roadmap above, the coding for Milestone 3 (M3) is due to start a week from today, on February 28."Steve Jobs Email Suggests In-App Subscriptions Don't Apply to 'Software As a Service'? &gt;&gt; Mac Rumors"On the surface, our interpretation of this response is that the new in-app subscription rules simply don't apply to Software-as-a-Service. And, if you review the new guidelines and press materials that Apple has released, all the context is specifically related to publishers of content. Based on that interpretation, apps such as DropBox and even TinyGrab may not be subject to the new rules. Readability's rejection, however, shows there are some borderline cases where the line between publisher and service provider is a bit blurry. Hopefully, Apple will provide more clarity on this issue."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It all seemed so innocent: just two friends united by a mutual love of theme parks, and a total disdain for standard punctuation. "About to go on worlds fastest roller coaster,"tweeted cricketer Shane Warneback in December. "Oooooh,"replied Liz Hurley, "I love scary rides-remember to scream if u want to go faster!" And scream he did: "I screamed so loud,"Warne later reported, "I'm surprised you din not hear me back in the uk !!!"Back in the UK, as Warne correctly deduced, we did not hear him – and neither did many suspect anything more untoward was up. And why should we have? After all, Warney – cricketer; commentator; poker player par excellence – was onholiday in Abu Dhabi. For her part,Hurley – actress; model; purveyor of fine beachwear– was snuggling by the fire in her Gloucestershire farm. What, you might wonder, could be more wholesome?Quite a lot, as it turns out. The next day, a Sunday tabloid splashed with the revelation that Liz and Shane were having an affair. Startling news for naive Twitter followers like me. What we had thought to be no more than a mild, rollercoaster-induced flirtation was evidence of a full-blown, consummated courtship. They were at it, if you'll excuse the pun, while they were @ it.The shock wasn't so much that they were having an affair, but that they were having an affair in such a public fashion. We had previously witnessed relationships unfold before our eyes on reality television; but we'd rarely seen it between celebrities in the real world, and arguably not to this degree. Intentionally or not, Warne and Hurley were using Twitter to lay bare the mechanics of their burgeoning relationship – mechanics, which, outside of reality TV, are usually only revealed involuntarily, at a later stage, and by an invasive paparazzo. This was a public soap opera being performed to us live by the stars themselves, without the mediation of gossip magazines like Heat, orGrazia."That's what was so extraordinary about it – just how open they were in their tweeting," says Fiona McIntosh, the founding editor of Grazia and now a columnist for the Sunday Mirror.It's even more remarkable, she points out, when you juxtapose Warne and Hurley's openness with the ongoing phone-tapping scandal. At a time when other celebrities are increasingly vocal about the infringement of their privacy by tabloid tactics, why were Liz and Shane apparently so nonchalant about what private information they themselves made public?"Maybe they were carried away in the first flash of love," McIntosh suggests. "That's what I'm not sure about – if it was a strategy or not."But if it wasn't a strategy in December, it had surely turned into one by the end of January. Stung by the fallout of their mid-December tweeting, Warne and Hurley maintained silence for over a month. If they were in contact, they were sticking to old-fashioned SMS. But by 27 January, that had changed. In response to a tweet from Hurley about her new parrot, Ping Pong, Warne wrote: "I'm getting jealous of ping pong ! Think it's time you left ping pong alone for a while &amp; come visit me in Australia."The pair's tweeted displays of affection were back – and, if anything, they were more direct and revelatory than before. We learnt – oh so casually – that Hurley was planning a trip to see Warne, and, once she did arrive in Australia last week,we were effectively invited to play a small role in their romance. "Where is the sexiest place to take Elizabeth for lunch ?" Warne asked his 330,000 followers. "And no – not for spaghetti on toast !!!"This time, then, their tweets clearly weren't accidental. By now, Warne and Hurley obviously knew what attention their tweeted exchanges would attract, and so what had begun as something quite ambiguous and haphazard was now being formalised as a media strategy. The question now was: why?After all, Hurley has in the past been more protective of her privacy. In the mid-1990s, at the height of the media storm over her then boyfriend Hugh Grant's encounter with prostitute Divine Brown, Hurley was so withdrawn that the paparazzi stood on ladders outside her garden to catch a glimpse of her. In 2008, meanwhile, she took two picture agencies to court for snapping her, Grant and new husband Arun Nayar while they were on holiday. All of which makes Hurley's decision to go public about her current relationship with Warne surprising.But for publicist Max Clifford, the reason is simple. "It's a way of beating [journalists] at their own game," he says. "By tweeting, you're taking power from the journalist. The biggest bugbear to [celebrities] are stories which are damaging and possibly false. But this way, you eliminate that." If a journalist writes a salacious article about a star, Clifford explains, that star can quickly refute their slurs with a combative tweet.But Twitter acts as more than just a means for celebrities to correct claims made by, say,Heat. Taken to an extreme, could it be a way of circumventing Heat altogether: not just as a source of information, but as a form of entertainment, too.Sam Delaney – Heat's editor until last year – agrees, up to a point. When celebrities reveal intimate details on Twitter, à la Warne and Hurley, "you think: 'This is amazing. We're getting insights into all the dirty laundry our readers want to know about. Oh, but so are our readers.'" As a result, he says, "you're left being an amalgam of stuff that is already out there. Rather like The Week magazine, but for celebrity news." But, all is not lost, he argues. "People will always enjoy seeing a story printed bigger, and delivered with humour and a bit of editorial comment." And, in general, he feels social media makes newsgathering easier. "Before Twitter," he says, "the kind of minutiae that Heat readers are interested in – where they are tonight, who they're flirting with, where they're going on holiday: the staples of the celebrity gossip magazine – wasn't easy information to come by. But now it's just there."In Delaney's experience, Twitter has as many pitfalls for celebrities as it does for journalists. A star who uses Twitter to criticise a story in a magazine might, for instance, just draw more attention to the original piece. "If they've got a million followers, and they're saying, 'This story is actually untrue', then in effect you think, 'Oh that's good, because they're telling their million followers that there's a big story in Heat this week.'"Clifford, meanwhile, says there are legal risks to tweeting. If a celebrity wanted to slap an injunction on a story about their private life, a judge would look less favourably on their request if they regularly revealed private information on Twitter themselves. "The problem is that once you start to go public [on Twitter]," says Clifford, "then obviously if anybody was to come up with anything really devastating about you, [a court] could say, 'Well, hang on – these people are laying their lives bare every day', and so you wouldn't get the same protection from the law."According to Delaney, though, the people in showbiz who really get short-changed by Twitter aren't the celebrities, but their publicists. "The publicist runs around going crazy, trying to control their clients from giving too much away online. But they can't, because celebrities all go out and get drunk and come home and tweet something stupid. When I was at Heat, almost as a daily occurrence, the publicist would tell us one thing, and the celebrity themselves would say another."Liz Hurley's publicist didn't respond to a request for comment, but Mark Thomas, who runsTM Media PR, and represents Big Brother star Chantelle Houghton, concedes Twitter is "a double-edged sword. For publicists, it's good and bad." On the downside, he admits, "you get celebrities who have had one too many glasses of wine at night, get angry with their partner, tweeted it – and regretted it at dawn. Then there's the issue of fake Twitter accounts. Some people impersonate the celebrity involved, and I find myself being called up by national newspapers saying, 'Your client has tweeted this about this person.'" More usefully, though, a good Twitter feed can boost his clients' coffers. "Most sponsors will ask in contracts, 'Oh, will you tweet about us, please?'" he says. "Companies recognise that when you've got that many followers, it's a powerful tool."And perhaps it's Twitter's economic potential that best explains why  people like Liz Hurley and Shane Warne would use it to engage in so public a conversation. It is often said that Twitter enables celebrities to get closer to their fans – but for Hurley and Warne, Twitter's appeal is surely more commercial than social. If you look at the artwork behind each of their accounts, you'll quickly realise they're both trying to sell something. Hurley's flogging her bikinis and organic snacks, Warne's advertising an online poker company: their Twitter presence is about appealing to consumers rather than engaging with fans – and what better way to expand one's consumer base than stage a public soap opera? It has certainly worked: Hurley is back in the zeitgeist, her Twitter following has almost doubled – from 50,000 in December to over 90,000 now – while the newaccount she set up last week for her pet Ping Ponghas already attracted over 3,500 subscribers. Sadly, her relationship with Warne hasn't been so successful. "Happy Valentine's Day!"Hurley tweeted at the end of what turned out to be a disastrous trip to Australia. "Remember, love is like a rollercoaster ride – sometimes it's exhilarating but sometimes u feel sick and want to get off."
Apple is to unveil its second-generation iPad on March 2, according tothe Wall Street Journal's All Things Digital blog.The iPad 2 is likely to be shown off at San Francisco's Yerba Buena Center in little over a week, according to the usually-reliably-informed Kara Swisher. In which case, we expect our invite shortly.Apple could not be reached for comment when contacted by the Guardian (but its likely response would have been: "We don't comment on speculation.")Apple's stock was down almost 3% at last glance, as rumours about a delay to the iPad 2 began to take a foothold.The Taiwanese brokerage firm, Yuanta Securities, said ina leaked notethat the next version of Apple's popular tablet computer would come out in June, two months later than expected, due to a bottleneck in its production. Vincent Chen, the head of downstream tech equities at Yuanta, said in the note: "Our checks suggest new issues are being encountered with the new production process and it is taking time to resolve them."However, Reuters laterreporteda "person familiar with the matter" saying that a delay in production was "simply not true". Apple launched the iPad in April last year.The iPad 2 is expected to be slimmer, lighter, have a better resolution than the first model, and have front- and rear-facing cameras.The optimists in us expect more light to be shed on production schedules at Apple's annual shareholders meeting on Wednesday.Tim Cook, the company's chief operating officer, is expected to take centre stage at the meeting in place of chief executive Steve Jobs, who last month began an indefinite period of medical leave.Cook will likely answer questions on its succession plan, given Jobs's third medical leave of absence in seven years, and there may be something onApple's new cat-among-the-pigeons subscription policy. Apple's execs may also face questions on how it is addressingChinese workers' grievances over chemical poisoning at some of its suppliers.Either way, meet us back here on Wednesday for more.
Google is facing fresh claims that it has abused its market dominance after a French internet search firm accused it of blocking the development of competitors.1plusV offers users thematically clustered search results but claims it has been forced to adopt Google technology to access commercially vital advertising services. The Versailles-based firm is a competitor to Google's thematic — or "vertical" — search facilities. The European commission opened an investigation into the market dominance of Google last November after months of mounting complaints.Accusations include claims that firms offering competitor services to Google have been ranked artificially low down popular searches. As well as 1plusV, firms to have filed objections with the commission include Ciao.de, a German subsidiary of Microsoft, British price comparison site Foundem.co.uk and France's Ejustice.fr.Google has said it is co-operating with the commission's inquiry.
The Metropolitan police has been called in after computer hackers gained access to a London university medical database, sending a string of expletive-laden emails to hundreds of its users.Unidentified hackers sent emails last week pretending that members of the university's executive board were involved in a "recent child pornography sting" and warned the database was "closed due to Aids".The database, which is run by St George's University of London medical school, is an online directory for doctors and nurses across the UK. It does not hold medical records.The Met and the university have launched separate investigations into the attack on the Primary Care Electronic Library [PCEL] database.A spokeswoman for St George's University confirmed to the Guardian that the email list had been "compromised" by hackers and described the emails as "extremely offensive and unfounded"."A number of unsolicited emails were consequently sent to members of the list. We are currently investigating how access was gained to the subscription list," the university said."We would like to assure anyone who received one of these emails that they were not sent by any member of the PCEL team. The content of these emails was extremely offensive and unfounded, and we apologise for any offence caused to those who received these emails."This was an isolated incident, affecting the PCEL server only, which runs independently of the St George's University of London (SGUL) main server. No SGUL data, including confidential details of SGUL staff, students or partners, was compromised as a result of this situation".The first email, which was sent on 15 February and has been seen by the Guardian, said: "Dear PCEL user, if you were ever once a patient of ours, we regret to inform you that the Primary Care Electronic Library is closed due to AIDS. Thank you for your attention."The following day, the hackers sent three more emails to the site's baffled users. The first said: "Dear PCEL user, You're all cunts. Fuck yourself."Moments later, another message appeared to confirm that the database was hacked and asked users to disclose their login details and password.The hackers then sent a final email. It said: "Dear PCEL user, Due to the Administrative Board's involvement in the recent child pornography sting, all PCEL resources and administrative offices will be closing at 24 February, 2011 at 4:00 pm GMT."We advise all members to quickly withdraw their memberships as to avoid unnecessary payments which will be caused by the closing procedures."
The title of a fascinating Clay Shirky presentation has it that"It's not information overload, it's filter failure", and though I rely extensively on filters to make my online life manageable, I find myself wanting to quibble with Shirky.After years of discovering a new information resource, being consumed by it, finding it too much to bear, then getting on top of it, only to find myself being sucked under by another, faster information resource, I've concluded that the real secret to beating information overload isn't better filters: it's cultivating a "probabilistic" frame of mind.The first online resources I used were dial-up bulletin board systems in the 1980s. At one point, I created accounts on every single BBS that I could connect to with a local phone call (in Canada, where I grew up, local calls weren't metered, but long distance calls were charged by the minute).That was because most of my local bulletin board systems were hobbyist systems with one or two phone lines, and most of the time, a connection attempt would be foiled by a busy signal. In order to get my fill of online time, I'd have to create logins on dozens of systems and try to call them all until I found one that was free.Then the number of bulletin board systems increased, as did the number of lines the average BBS sported, and the number of users on bulletin board systems. Many of them joined up with syndication systems such as FIDONet, which imported the online discussions from distant bulletin board systems all over the world.I went from reading every word posted on every BBS to reading just a few choice forums. Then I had to winnow down the list of bulletin board systems I used, and then further winnow the list of groups I read. Finally, I had to content myself with skimming most of these groups and actively participating in a small number of groups that were right up my street.This was a real struggle at first. There is a world of difference between reading every word uttered in a community and reading just a few choice ones. But soon the anxiety gave way to contentment and even delight: it turned out that "overload" has a wonderful corollary: redundancy.Anything really worth seeing wouldn't just appear once and vanish. The really interesting stuff would find its way into other discussions, and early conferencing systems made it easy enough to back my way through the forums I was ignoring or skimming to find the important thing I'd missed.This pattern went on to repeat itself again and again. Once, I could read all the Usenet discussion groups my ISP carried, then only a selection, and then only one or two plus a longer list of groups I'd dip into now and again when time allowed.Once I could read every new website that went online and was posted to Jerry and David's Guide to the World Wide Web (now called Yahoo). Then I could only visit the interesting ones; then I could only visit the last three or four interesting ones, then I had to abandon the project altogether and just discover new sites piecemeal.Again and again, this pattern re-emerges: once I could read all the tweets emitted by everyone I followed on Twitter; now I just skim the last 20 or 30 a few times a day and rely on retweets to bubble the good stuff to the top (I do my bit by retweeting things when I think they deserve it).Once I could read every item in my list of RSS feeds; now I periodically mark them all as read without looking at any of them, just to clear the decks: if there's something good in the missed material, someone will repost it and I'll see it then.This is even true for my email, the most "deterministic" of media for me. Now I've got a mailbox for people I've corresponded with in the past and another that collects mails from previously unseen addresses – the latter gets a lot less attention than the former, but if I miss something and accidentally delete it, the sender often figures it out and resends the message (I keep a list of the people from whom I'm awaiting email replies and give them a nudge every so often, on the assumption that other people probably have similar probabilistic approaches to their mail).There are fascinating implications for a world of probabalistic resource use: for one thing, it points up the importance of "signal amplification" through retweets, reposts, and other recycling of interesting tit-bits – these are critical to the successful use of a medium that can't be consumed by any one person from tip to tail.It also suggests that the most important strategy for coping with information overload is to simply relax and not worry about missing the once-in-a-lifetime opportunity lurking somewhere in one of your inboxes – it'll be around again shortly.
App success stories aren't just about the many millions of downloads seen by Angry Birds, Facebook, Doodle Jump and other big hits.Further down the apps food chain, there are many more stories of developers whose numbers are less headline-hogging, but who are still making a good living, and exploring the creative possibilities of apps.A good example is UK app Rockford's Rock Opera, which started life as an enhancedaudio bookthree years ago, but has since spawned a pair of iPhone apps and notched up more than 30,000 downloads on Apple's App Store.Created by UK couple Elaine and Matthew Sweetapple, working with comedian Steve Punt and a developer Apache Solutions, it is going toe to toe with book apps from big brands such as Disney, Dr Seuss and Star Wars in the upper reaches of the UK App Store's paid-book apps chart."It's genuinely homegrown: it's made at home!" says Sweetapple. "The pictures are done on the kitchen table by my wife Elaine, and the audio is created upstairs. It's not Pixar or Disney, but people can see it's made by people who are in love with what they're doing."The rock opera has an educational and ecological theme, based on an island that is home to extinct animals, who have a message for the world that gets delivered by a boy called Moog and his dog Rockford. The World Wildlife Fund is a supporter of the project, whose audiobook has been downloaded more than 1 million times and been used in more than 15,000 UK schools.The audiobook has been split into four parts for iPhones.The first (free) appwas launched in December 2009,with the second episodefollowing in October 2010 for £2.99. The final two episodes are due out this spring, with Android and iPad versions on the way soon.The Sweetapples have spent nothing on marketing the apps, which have steadily risen up the App Store charts on word of mouth and positive user reviews alone.The first episode has been downloaded more than 25,000 times, while the second has generated more than 5,000 paid downloads, meaning net revenues of more than £10,000 to fund the production of episodes three and four – both Sweetapples have other jobs, so this is not their only income.Matthew says the apps have brought in a new audience for Rockford's Rock Opera. "Rockford is key stage 2, so aimed at six to nine-year-olds, although we've always thought it was absolutely for a family audience," says Sweetapple. "But iPhone has taken it so much younger: people write us emails saying their 18-month-old loves it."He also has strong views on the musical content, contrasting Rockford with some of the cheesier children's apps on the App Store."Parents get driven mad by plinky-plonky music for kids, but it doesn't have to be that way," he says."I loved the Beatles when I was two, and if you look at some of the best songs, they're incredibly simple and almost nursery rhyme-like. There's no reason why music that children can like and sing along to has to be obnoxious to adults."Once all four episodes have been released for iOS and Android, Sweetapple says that he and Elaine will weigh up the merits of other platforms, such as BlackBerry. He seems keener to start making spinoff apps, though."Our intention in the future is to do some apps that make far more use of iPhone's functionality," he says."There's potential for games, or maybe even augmented reality apps for children to interact with these animals in the real world. It's clear that apps are a fantastic way of delivering enhanced audiobook content, but we want to do more."One last thing: how did Punt get involved? It turns out he and Sweetapple went to school together. "We were in a band together at school, and always wanted to do a rock opera – all our songs were mini operas," he says, before pausing and chuckling. "We were a very pretentious band, I suppose!"
There is little that gladdens a geek's heart more than the sound of that first successful post beep from a self-built computer. So when mine finally purred into life, we were doing victory laps around my sitting room.It had taken a long and frustrating time to reach this point. My friend John and I had decided to rebuild my ageing PC, reckoning that it would be a fun project. Plus, you can't really claim true geek cred until you've built a PC. And it's not actually that difficult to do given the standard architecture. It's not like we're back in the days of homebrew, deep in thedawn of computing prehistory– everything just slots together. What could possibly go wrong?I assembled the components, going for high end, as this build was to replace the gaming rig I'd bought fromVoodoo PCwhen it was a boutique builder of high-performance PCs before it became part of HP.So I gathered together anIntel i7 2600K processor, the top of its newSandybridge rangeand an IntelDP67BGmotherboard. As I wanted this to be a fast machine that will last me for a while, I decided to go for solid state drives, ending up with two – one for the OS and apps, and one for the data I access most, which is photographs: I do a lot of processing of images in Photoshop and Lightroom, both of which will gobble up as much speed and processing grunt as you can throw at them.Next up – Ram. With the focus on image processing, 16GB ofDDR3 1333Mhz RamfromKingstonseemed just the ticket. I'm also not averse to a bit of gaming, and as this was swiftly turning into a luxury build, Nvidia'sGTX 580seemed the obvious choice, not least because Nvidia has swapped noisy fans for a vapour cooling.We reckoned my old 700W PSU, which was new only three years ago, would suffice; and I really like the Voodoo case the original build came in: it's big, with plenty of airflow, the fans are quiet and it's got a side panel through which to admire the computer's innards, so there was no reason to replace that. And my DVD burner, a newish SATA one I'd put in recently, would also be fine.Stripping out the old build took a long time – it was, as was fashionable in 2005 – watercooled, so it had to be drained.Watercooling worked well for me at the time, and I had few problems with it bar having to replace the tank once when it started to ooze. And it looked pretty cool through the side panel to see the snaking tubes carrying blue coolant around the system. But times change and we decided not to go for it this time.All the old stuff out of the case, we assembled the new parts within it. Ready for the big switch on, we crossed our fingers and I pushed the button – only to be greeted with an alarming fizzing and popping, with all the lights on the board flashing frantically. That was a bad and scary moment. Out it came, where the same thing happened on my wooden floor. Bits were removed, the symptoms didn't go away.Testing the PSU suggested that the voltage was all over the place, so the decision was taken to order a new one. Disappointing, as it had been fine in the old build, which, with two DX9 GPUs in SLI and a couple of 10,000rpm Raptor HDDs in Raid 0, was a power-hungry beast.We still don't know if the old PSU coincidentally failed, or was tipped over the edge by something shorting inside the case (more on that in a moment), but either way, it was time to ditch the old one in favour of a new one, anOCZ 700W StealthXStream PSU.While we were waiting for this to arrive, news broke ofproblems with Intel's Sandybridge chipsetwhich could affect the transfer rates of serial ATA disks. My SSDs are 3Gbps, but the delay meant we could do some research, discovering that the 6Gbps connectors are not affected by the flaw, so we made a note to plug the three SATA disks – the SSDs and the DVD burner – into the 6Gps connectors.Finally the new PSU arrived, and we reassembled the PC. The moment of the big switch on had arrived (again). We crossed our collective fingers and pushed the button. Nothing. Just a light on the motherboard, which seemed to warn of overheating.Frustrated, we took it out of the case again and tried it on the wooden floor. This time, our hearts leapt when we got a post beep.Back in it went – nothing.We finally arrivedat the answer via Google, discovering that something shorting the board will (obviously) prevent a successful boot. Suggestions ranged from using brass standoffs (which hold the motherboard screws) to putting a rubber sheet between the motherboard and the backing plate. We went for the less obtrusive option of adding rubber spacers – which finally solved the problem.Everything back inside the case (again; next time I'm buying a case where everything snaps in rather than having to be attached using tiny fiddly screws, and one with a removable motherboard backing plate) and finally the long-awaited post beep sounded. It's the geek equivalent of great sex. Or, at least, great chocolate.I haven't started overclocking the CPU yet, but already it's a joy to use – fast and responsive in demanding apps such as Photoshop, and I'm looking forward to trying a really demanding game. The Windows Experience Index, a rough and ready indicator, gives it 7.2 out of a possible 7.9 – the system SSD is the slowest part of the rig. I'll be running proper benchmarks when I've done the overclocking.It's been a learning experience. At times frustrating, at times downright tricky and fiddly. But the moment I first gazed upon my new PC's Bios screen is right up there with the happiest moments of my life.
Spotify is the latest internet company to get swept up in the current dotcom bubble, with the music streaming service reportedly involved in a new funding round that values it at $1bn (£616m).The fledgling digital music site is reported to be seeking around $100m in funding from the Facebook investor Digital Sky Technologies (DST) and Silicon Valley firm Kleiner Perkins, which owns a stake in Twitter and FarmVille-creator Zynga.Loss-making Spotify is building up to its long-awaited launch in the US. The online jukebox hopes to build on its rapid European expansion, where around 10 million people use its advertising-funded service for free. Fewer than 1 million people pay for Spotify's premium service.Spotify and DST declined to comment.Kleiner Perkins, which has led investment rounds for Amazon and Google, isreported to bepaying $50m for just under 5% of Spotify.The high-profile Russian investor DST, which has poured money into daily deals site Groupon among other highly valued internet startups, is also reported to be involved in the funding round – which would be Spotify's largest to date.Five-year-old Spotify's $1bn (£616m) price tag is the latest in a flurry of sky-high valuations of internet companies, which has provoked talk ofa new goldrushsimilar to the dotcom bubble of a decade ago.Facebook sparked the frenzy last month with its$50bn valuation, and in recent weeks Twitter has beensaid to be worth up to $10bn, the social-gaming firmZynga $9bnandGroupon $15bn.Spotify, meanwhile, has had talk of its growth stymied by its long-delayed expansion into the US. The four major music labels – Universal Music Group, Sony, EMI and Warner Music Group – have to date been reluctant to seal distribution deals with the online jukebox due to concerns about its "freemium" business model.Converting one in 10 music lovers into paying customers has so far not convinced all four major labels of Spotify's free streaming charm. Earlier this week it was reported that both EMI and Sony had finalised a US expansion deal with Spotify, but that Universal – which is the world's largest music label – and Warner were still not on board.The most recent audited annual accounts for Spotify, for 2009, show it lost £16.6m in the UK on revenues of £11.3m.
Following his talk at the inaugural Gamesblog Live event, in which he explored "the importance of narrative and storytelling in gaming", we grabbed Dragon age II lead designer Mike Laidlaw for an interview.Articulate and thoughtful, with a background as a writer before he started making video games, Laidlaw would be a good man to put in front of those who persist in maintaining that games are uniformly mindless.After pumping him for further details regarding Dragon Age II's unusual "framed narrative" structure and how that affects gameplay, the conversation progressed to more general observations on the nature of role-playing games (RPGs) and the joys of working for Bioware one of the largest, most cerebral and most successful developers. Finally, Laidlaw offered an impassioned argument in favour of games as a valid art-form.Your theme is narrative and storytelling in games. That's something for which Bioware is famed – how do you take that and build it into a gameplay experience?I think the key is to use story not as a replacement to gameplay but as a flavour of gameplay. And to acknowledge that just having a good story isn't enough if you don't have the flow and pacing that comes out of combat and out of having progression.Those three things are the holy triumvirate, really, of RPGs. I've played games with great stories, but if the combat gets dull after a while, you start to disengage between the story moments. For us as a studio, we basically keep it as a priority – our studio mission is to build the best emotionally engaging games in the world. And a big part of that is a commitment to writing as a craft.We have over 25 writers on staff across all the Bioware studios and five editors, and then many of the senior staff are ex-writers like myself, so that keeps the focus.Talk us through Dragon Age II's framed narrative structure.It's one that has been used before, but the idea of the framed narrative is that one story is telling another story. It really hasn't been done a ton in gaming, although it has shown up occasionally. What we wanted to do was to try and build a game that covered a much longer span of time than normal – a whole decade of history.We have an agenda of wanting to make the Dragon Age franchise stand out as one that evolves over time, so that as you play the games, it feels like a world that is changing. And while that can be a bit of a monumental task, our goal was to deliver an experience that feels like you're playing through the most significant moments in the life of the man or woman you control.That meant we needed a narrative style that would get us from significant moment A to significant moment B, and that's what the framed narrative came out of: the idea of an interrogation that really is dragging forward through time, and the person suffering the interrogation, Varric, wanting to make sure that the interrogator understands the details, not just the high-level information. And that's where the player's experience comes in, because those details are key to that.And the framed structure allows you to add an element of unreliability to the narrative – are there not parts of the game that you replay from different narrative viewpoints?Yes. That's something we're playing with. You have to be very careful in gaming, as a medium, whenever you take away the player's trust. Because if you say: "No, this isn't what you did," then after a while, nothing will matter and for all I know, you'll be telling me it's all a dream at the end of the game, and I'll want to punch you.So, the big goal for us is to ensure that at those moments when we do add some unreliability, they serve a gameplay purpose – whether that be through enriching the story or, as we're doing at the beginning of the game, giving you a taste of what your character will be like at a higher level, what the legendary version of your character is.Through that, you can dive into the game and encounter the combat systems that we've changed nice and fast, then get to see how the story plays out.And you've changed the combat system so it's more responsive compared to Origins, and made the game more action-oriented. Are you worried that will alienate hardcore Dragon Age fans?There's always a danger of alienating the hardcore when you change anything – they wouldn't be the hardcore if they didn't truly love what was already there. But we wanted to make sure that we held onto the elements that made Dragon Age: Origins strong – party-based, tactical – even going so far as to replace spell-combos with cross-class combos so that now, when a mage freezes someone, a mage can't blow up that guy like you could in Origins; now a warrior or rogue has to get involved.So the whole party becomes part of this concert of death, which makes the game even more tactical. But the fact that now, you charge into combat and swing, rather than shuffling awkwardly into position, to me takes care of a convention we could do without. There was even some initial backlash, with people asking: "What, have you made it an action game?" The answer is, frankly, action games have been stealing from RPGs for the past five years – levelling up, and getting a badge so that you can get a new weapon, that's an RPG mechanic.So it's time that we, as a genre, took a look at some of those elements that action games have done exceptionally well and asked what we can learn from them.So is there still a place in the world for turn-based RPGs? The Japanese seem to think there is.Yes, I think there is. There's a place in the world for every genre, in my opinion. The problem is that if a genre doesn't change and evolve, or acknowledge that tastes change over time and entire new generations of gamers have come along, then it runs the risk of being pigeonholed as inherently old-school and not interesting. In a lot of ways, the key is to take classic gameplay on and reimagine it in new ways. Any game that refuses to change "simply because this is the way it's done" runs a significant risk of stagnating in an industry that's all about innovation.Bioware seems to be bidding to take over the world at the moment – with Mass Effect 3, Star Wars: The Old Republic and Dragon Age II in the works, you must be the biggest developer in the world right now. What's it like being a part of that huge mass?It's a carefully managed thing, because I think the greatest danger to us would be hubris – getting lost in our own pride and becoming egotists. But that, luckily, goes back to the founding principles given out by [Bioware founders] Greg Zeschuk and Ray Muzyka, who are still very active in the company.Greg is running the studio for SWTOR, and Ray will come in and play Dragon Age II for 50 hours and give extensive feedback, and he's still very grounded. That trickles down, and we realise what we're doing is creating something that we believe is art, and that we believe is entertaining. But that doesn't make us rock stars. What it does is make us people with one of the best jobs in the world, and one that we desperately don't want to screw up.But people are still reluctant to admit that games are as relevant, artistically, as, say movies or music. What can be done to alter that perception?I think, if anything, time is required – time, and a willingness to support artistic vision. There is a danger of the games industry as a whole becoming this money-making, sequel-pumping cash-cow, but in my experiences of everyone I've met in the games industry, I've yet to meet that soulless guy who just wants to make that quick buck.Certainly there are fiscal responsibilities but, even within that, there's always that gleam in the eye of the developer when they have an idea. To me, any time we can come to an event like this and talk about the emotion of storytelling or, say, the way that they're evolving a type of combat in Crysis 2, that makes me understand that what we're doing is part of an evolving and growing medium. And if that medium evokes a response in people then, to my mind, it's art, in and of itself. But I do think that we're at a point when it's hard to defend games as art because we don't have our own fancy language. While that's coming, it does take time to evolve.Saying, for example, that games can't be art because they don't provide the same experience all the time is like saying that you'd have to invalidate the entirety of theatre as art because somebody might cough, which I consider to be bullshit.Bioware comes across as one of the more intellectual developers – Greg and Ray have academic backgrounds. Is it a company that values the cerebral approach?I think it is. I wouldn't say we're unique in that. But I think a cerebral approach is better appreciated by RPG fans than it would be by, say, shooter fans. Although that carries the risk of it being exclusive and only for nerds, which is exactly the wrong impression.There are so many people playing World of Warcraft, and so many people levelling up in Call of Duty; a lot of people don't even realise that every time they gained a driving point in GTA: San Andreas they were levelling up as if playing an RPG.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
