Elon Musk’s private spaceflight company SpaceX has conceded to pressure to free its images, and released a batch of more than 100 photos under the “copyleft” Creative Commons license.As the first private spaceflight firm to win a contract to resupply the International Space Station, SpaceX is a trailblazer for capitalism in space. While national spaceflight agencies have been subcontracting out work for decades (for instance, the rockets that took man to the moon were built by three different aerospace firms, all of which are now part of Boeing), the missions themselves have largely been operated by government agencies.A side-effect of that historical structure is that, particularly in the US, images taken from space are overwhelmingly in the public domain. For instance, as a US government agency, all photographs taken by Nasa are classed as “US government works”,meaning that anyone may“without restriction … reproduce the work, create derivative works … display the work [or] distribute copies or digitally transfer the work to the public”.Those rules mean that some of the most famous photographs ever taken are free to be used. That includes the Blue Marble, a photograph taken by the Apollo 17 crew as they travelled towards the moon in 1972, the “first selfie in space”, taken by Buzz Aldrin during a spacewalk in 1966, and the Eagle Nebula’s Pillars of Creation, taken by the Hubble Space Telescope, most recently in 2014.The Blue Marble, taken from Apollo 17.Photograph: NasaAs well as those pictures, there’s a great many more mundane photos which are collectively owned by the public, artefacts of our shared history of space exploration.By contrast, pictures taken from SpaceX’s rockets are not clearly a “government work”. The company’s first ever deep-space flight, made in February as it tested its Falcon 9 rocket, was paid for by Nasa, as the main object of the launch was more work on the ISS. But the cameras mounted on the rocket, owned and operated by a private company, weren’t part of what was paid for.“SpaceX is not a government agency, unless the contract says otherwise they own the copyright of anything they create,” IP Lawyer Andrew Rushtold Motherboard’s Jason Koebler. “Just because they’re operating on behalf of Nasa does not necessarily mean the copyright of their images are owned by Nasa or the US government. When SpaceX is operating as a Nasa contractor, generally any of the copyrightable stuff they create is subject to copyright protections.”Buzz Aldrin’s selfie from space.Photograph: Buzz Aldrin/NasaThat fact led many, including Electronic Frontier Foundation activist Parker Higgins, to start campaigning for a change in policy from SpaceX.“A robust and well-documented space program is a major boon for motivating young people to study science,” Higgins wrote. “Images from space haveformed the basis of major social movements, and thetarget of activism campaigns.“All this is to say, society has gotten so much out of media from space being free for all to share, and that shouldn’t end as private companies get access. Please, Elon Musk, commit to releasing photography from SpaceX into the public domain. The future will thank you.”Higgins’s goal has not yet been achieved, but SpaceX has made a big move towards it. The company now operatesan official Flickr feed, where a number of photos – including some of thoseinitially criticised by Higgins for being covered by copyright– are uploaded with a creative commons “CC BY-NC” license on them. This “some rights reserved” license allows the work to be shared and remixed provided the original author is properly attributed, and the use is non-commercial.It is still a long way from public domain, however. The prohibition on commercial use is widely understood to encompass journalistic use – which is why no SpaceX pictures are used to illustrate this article – while the requirement for attribution makes it that much harder to use in situations where attribution may be tricky or impossible.But it is one small step closer.Update, 23 March: And another step againSpaceX’s Falcon 9 rocket delivered the ABS 3A and EUTELSAT 115 West B satellites to a supersynchronous transfer orbit, launching from Space Launch Complex 40 at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Florida on Sunday, March 1, 2015 at 10:50pm ET.Photograph: SpaceX/https://www.flickr.com/photos/spacexphotos/16510243060/SpaceX is listening. In the wake of the mixed reception it received after restricting its photos to non-commercial use only, the company updated its licenses yet again. The photos on its Flickr feed are now licensed CC-BY, the least restrictive license Creative Commons publishes, and just one step away from being fully public domain.The new license frees organisations such as the Guardian to use SpaceX photos without fear of infringing copyright, as well as enabling a whole tranche of commercial uses.But perhaps the most important effect of being free with the license is that the works can be incorporated for the first time into other projects with their own unrestrictive licenses – including, crucially Wikipedia. Images on the world’s largest encyclopaedia must be licensed in such a way that they can be re-used under the same free license that the site itself is licensed. Already, the site’s editors have been hard at workadding the new imagery.
Scientists have created a Terminator 2-inspired 3D printer that lifts objects fully formed from a pool of goo in a matter of minutes.The technique, which could transform 3D printing, works up to 100 times faster than current methods and produces objects that are considerably stronger.And if the machine looks like the product of a science fiction author’s imagination, it may be because its inventors were inspired by the killer robot, T-1000, that rises menacingly from a puddle of molten metal in the film.“We were inspired by the Terminator 2 scene,” said Joseph DeSimone, a professor of chemistry at University of North Carolina and a founder of the company,Carbon3D.“Why couldn’t you have an object rise out of a puddle in real time with essentially no waste?”The new technique, called continuous liquid interface production (Clip), features a moving platform that lifts printed objects gently out of a reservoir of liquid resin. The technique combines pulses of light, which solidify the resin, and oxygen, which prevents it from solidifying, to craft intricate three-dimensional objects.Crucially, it works continually, unlike current printers that construct objects by building layer upon layer.“3D printing is actually a misnomer; it is actually 2D printing over and over again,” DeSimone said. “There are mushrooms that grow faster than 3D printed parts.”In a demonstration, it took the Clip printer seven minutes to produce a hollow geometric ball – a task which would have taken about 10 hours with a conventional 3D printer.A miniature Eiffel Tower is printed from a pool of liquid resin using the new Clip technique, which manipulates light and oxygen to make intricate 3D objects.Photograph: GuimPrinting finished parts at speeds competitive with current manufacturing processes is “a game changer”, said DeSimone.In a study, published on Thursday in the journalScience, DeSimone and colleagues describe how their technique combines the manipulation of oxygen and light.At the base of the liquid resin reservoir, is an oxygen permeable window – similar to a contact lens – which leads to an oxygen rich “dead zone”, less than 1mm thick, at the bottom of the tank.Oxygen stops the resin from solidifying, even when light is projected through it, meaning that the solidification happens just above the dead zone.The precise shape that solidifies is controlled by light projections through the permeable window. Since the liquid layer is always present beneath the slowly-forming object, there is no need to wait for new resin to flow in and the object can be pulled upwards steadily.The continuity of the process also means that Clip produces much stronger objects than the slate-like structure of objects printed in layers, which can be sturdy in one direction, but will shatter under force in the other.The 3D-printed gun may have made the headlines, but it would have been useless at withstanding an explosion in practice.Jonathan Rowley, of Digits2Widgets, a 3D printing company in London, said the strength factor was even more impressive than the new technique’s speed.“At the moment most 3D printers produce crap slowly and I don’t need crap fast.“If you add the speed of this technology to the extra strength it provides it means you could produce parts that start to compete with traditional manufacturing. It’s probably something of a big deal.”
It’s almost impossible to imagine a world before Twitter, a world pre-2006. A world in which MySpace was still a thing, and in which the selfie was in preschool. But exist it did.And today people are discussing what that looked like. One of the highest trending hashtags worldwide is currently #BeforeTwitterI. There’s deep discussion about how the little blue bird has changed our lives – for better and for worse.So here are five things that have been transformed in my life. Before Twitter I…Could leave a conversation when I wanted“Hi, could you possibly loop me out of this, thanks?”, “Hi me again, could you possibly stop @ me? Thanks”, “COULD YOU PLEASE STOP CLOGGING UP MY MENTIONS FFS”.You all know how it goes. You make the mistake of replying or casually contributing to a discussion on Twitter, and then all of a sudden you are caught up in a 40-replies mammoth argument about something you barely, if at all, care about.Had to actually call a company to complainIt used to be that companies could afford to be a bit crap, because which of us was willing to dial a premium phone number, spend 20 minutes on hold being forced to listen to awful 90s trance music, before being accidentally/on purpose cut off?Twitter has democratised customer complaintsTwitter has democratised the customer complaint. Now, if a company messes up, others will know about it. Don’t think we won’t come at you with a “.@”, because we will. And if that doesn’t work, there’s the other weapon in the Twitter arsenal: thesubtweet.Research hasfoundthat companies are quicker to respond to tweeted complaints, andmostworth their salt have brand accounts.One Twitter user even bought a Promoted tweet to make his feelings known.Photograph: TwitterWas relatively articulateIf we’re being positive here, we could say that Twitter’s 140 character limit makes us all more concise and less rambling when it comes to making a point. It might even be the training ground for aspiring advertising execs honing slogans or wannabe speechwriters practicing soundbites.It also, however, has led to the elmntn of vwls, and awkward abbrevs. And don’t even get me started on people dividing their argument into fractions… (1/2)…which is just really annoying, but unfortunately often necessary (2/2).Wasn’t personally insulted and abused for doing my job“Did you get paid to write this?”, “What is this crap?”, “Get back in the kitchen”, “I can’t believe I read that”. Thanks for your valued feedback.I think what we’ve all realised from being on Twitter is that around 15% of humans are amazing, kindly, witty souls – and the other 85% leave a lot to be desired, amirite?Could catch up on TVCatch-up TV – what a great invention! We get to watch programmes on-demand. Fan ofThe Fall? Great! But you can still go to the pub, because Jamie Dornan will be waiting for you the next day in his hoodie, and Gillian Anderson still smouldering in her silk blouses.Twitter, however, has cruelly negated the wonders of catch-up TV. Because don’t think for a second that everybody on your feed won’t be live-tweeting every episode, covering everything in minute detail – shirt colour, texture, buttons and all.Jamie Dornan and Brian Milligan appearing in The Fall.Photograph: Helen Sloan/BBC/The Fall S2/Helen SloanHow has Twitter changed the world for you?
Tag Heuer plans to release a smartwatch in time for the Christmas rush using Google’s Android operating system to compete head-on with the Apple Watch.The company’s chief executive, Jean-Claude Biver, did not give any details about pricing, functionality or design. “We don’t want the competition to know what we are going to do. We want them to be surprised,” he said.However, Biver said that it aimed to launch what would be the first Android luxury smartwatch in the fourth quarter.The watch-maker is the largest of several brands owned by French luxury group LVMH.The Apple Watch is due to go on sale 24 April 24. It will start at £299 in the UK and $350 in the US, with the 18-karat gold version – the model Tag is aiming to compete with - starting at £8,000/$10,000.The Watch is Apple’s first major new product in five years and consumer demand for the device is being closely watched by competitors and investors.It needs an Apple iPhone to work fully, and analysts say the most likely pool of initial buyers will already own one of the company’s smartphones.The announcement was made on Thursday at the Baselworld watch and jewellery fair. Tag is making the smartwatch in conjunction with chip maker Intel.‘Luxury watch of the future’“Silicon Valley and Switzerland are going to conquer the market of the connected watch,” Biver told a press conference.David Singleton, head of engineering for Android Wear at Google, said the companies were ready to “forge a new evolution for the luxury watch of the future”.The Apple Watch goes on sale on 24 AprilPhotograph: Kay Nietfeld/Kay Nietfeld/CorbisMichael Bell, vice-president of Intel’s new devices unit, said: “We believe wearable technology will take off as it represents who you are and how you want to be seen.”Intel already struck partnerships with several consumer goods companies last year to develop smart wearable products, including eyewear brand Oakley, owned by Luxottica, watchmaker Fossil, and US fashion brand Opening Ceremony.“Smartwatches are turning out to be the hottest news coming out of the Baselworld luxury goods show,” Ben Wood, chief of research at CCS Insight, said.“With Apple Watch hitting the market it’s no longer viable for Swiss watchmakers to bury their heads in the sand. Now Tag Heuer has signalled its intention to enter the smartwatch market we are certain others will follow.”TAG Heuer was founded in Saint-Imier, Switzerland in 1860 by Edouard Heuer.The company wasbought by Bernard Arnault’s LVMHin 1999 for £485m.
“The other day, I got an alert saying our Wheels on the Bus compilation was 63rd on YouTube’s all-time chart. I had a look, and number 64 was the theme tune from Frozen.”Derek Holder, who runs theLittle Baby BumYouTube channel with his wife, sounds both amused and baffled as he tells the Guardian about its startling growth. But he’s absolutely right.Disney’sofficial video for Let It Gohas been watched more than 430m times on YouTube since its release in December 2013, butWheels On The Bustrumps it with nearly 440m views since its release in August 2014.Related:YouTube's top 100 channels have more than doubled their views in a yearImpressive work for the channel that the Holders founded in 2011 on a hunch that lots of parents were looking for nursery-rhyme videos on YouTube, and run from the UK. Their hunch, it’s fair to say, proved correct.In 2014, Little Baby Bum was the36th biggest channel on YouTubewith more than 1bn views, but that masks its rocketing growth towards the end of the year: 140m views in September, 189m in October, 221m in November, and 319m in December.By January 2015, Little Baby Bum was thefifth most popular channel on YouTube,and part of a wider surge of viewing for children’s videos on the service. It’s about to pass 2bn lifetime views.“This wasn’t by design, it was by luck – we were in the right place at the right time,” says Holder. “It’s been mindblowing. Staggering. We pinch ourselves every day.”If you don’t have a toddler, Little Baby Bum will have flown well below your radar. The channel houses a collection of animated songs, including nursery rhymes and original songs about numbers, letters and, er, potties.The channel was born in 2011 when Holder was sitting in front of a computer with the couple’s youngest child – nicknamed Little Baby Bum since her earliest days – looking for nursery rhyme videos.“I was a bit stunned by the lack of decent-quality stuff. There were hilarious videos: one was Baa Baa Black Sheep and it was actually a goat. In others the sheep was grey or the lyrics were generally wrong,” he says.“The animation often looked like the animation I grew up on in the 1970s and 80s. I looked at TV channels like CBeebies and the good quality there, then looked at YouTube, and I thought ‘these don’t really tally’. Yet those videos were getting 10 or 20m views.”Derek’s background was in IT and telecoms – including search engine optimisation (SEO) – and he had “pottered around” with music in his spare time, while his wife ran a design agency.“We thought why not combine our efforts and have a go? It can’t be worse than what’s on there already,” says Holder.“There were a lot of what I’d call cynical videos in the under-fives arena made purely for money with no heart or love in it.”Little Baby Bum has plenty of nursery rhymes, but also original songs.They made one video,a 30-second version of Twinkle Twinkle Little Star, which was watched about 15,000 times in the first month after its release in August 2011. A second,Baa Baa Black Sheep, followed in December that year.The channel grew steadily, to the point where, 18 months in, the couple were able to start working with a professional musician in the US on the songs.Derek’s SEO experience was undoubtedly one factor in Little Baby Bum’s ability to attract viewers, but he points to his wife as the channel’s secret weapon.“She’s what sets us apart. She is from a design background, and was born and bred in Hong Kong. She isn’t as ingrained in a lot of these nursery rhymes as I am: she’s coming in fresh, and with a design point of view,” he says.Related:YouTube Kids app launches in the US for Android and iOS“She comes out with all these lovely ideas: Baa Baa flying a spaceship for example. We made a point of keeping the lyrics and music side as traditional as we could, but on the visuals we could go as crazy as we wanted to.”Why did Little Baby Bum grow so fast in the latter half of 2014? Holder says that the genesis was a gathering at YouTube’s headquarters in the spring of that year, and a discussion about the popularity of compilation videos on the service.Little Baby Bum tried a 51-minute compilation of ABC songs, which did fairly well, but it was the 54-minute Wheels On The Bus compilation that took off.“It’s gone absolutely potty: for whatever reason, it’s caught the imagination. I can’t quite say why. Long-form compilations are a sweet spot in our genre though,” says Holder.“From a parental point of view, we know what a pain it is to keep pressing the ‘play’ button. If you’ve got one video that’s 50 or 60 minutes long, you can just press play and leave your child to watch it while you get something done.”However, he says that feedback from parents suggests Little Baby Bum is far more than just a digital distraction for their children. He cites one recent letter from a parent whose 23 month-old son has autism, thanking the channel for the role it has played in his development of communication skills.“She said that he was ABCing and 123ing after watching the videos. It was a beautiful thing to receive. I don’t know if our videos had really done that or if it was a coincidence, but she thought it had,” says Holder.“We try to reply to all emails from parents. It’s a personal thing. If somebody’s taken the bother to email – they’ve gone off YouTube to our website, found the contact page and written an email – they deserve to get something back.”Children’s videos are huge on YouTube, with six of its top 10 channels in January aimed at kids: toy-unboxing channelsFuntoys CollectorandBlu Toys; Minecraft gamerStampy; Little Baby Bum; and two Russian animation channels,Masha and the BearandGetMovies.YouTube is responding to the trend, having recently launched itsYouTube Kids appin the US and revealed that family content is its fastest-growing category.“It took them by surprise, but I’ve noticed by the number of personnel they have coming into the European offices and working there, they’re taking it much more seriously,” says Holder.“They’ve got the Kids app, and a lot more development work going on around that. Google as a company are taking the under-13 mass as a really important next part of their journey.”So what next for Little Baby Bum? The Holders are talking to YouTube about possibly launching a second channel, but that will be “way, way down the line” if it happens.Little Baby Bum’s animation aims to be higher quality than existing nursery-rhyme YouTube channels.The emphasis is more on localisation in the short term, launching new versions of Little Baby Bum for Latin America (in Portuguese for Brazil) and Russia. Holder also says the channel is stepping up its production.“We currently make one video a week, but from around May we’re going to be releasing two a week. It doesn’t sound like a lot, but it’s like when you go from one child to two children – it’s not just doubling your effort, it’s much more than that,” he says.Related:YouTube, apps and Minecraft: digital kids and the future of children’s mediaEstablished TV companies and other children’s brands are also in the picture, although Holder can’t yet talk about any specific deals due to non-disclosure agreements beyond saying that “some very interesting brands are talking about us at board level”.Little Baby Bum is also exploring the potential of getting its content onto connected televisions. It has already signed a deal with a company calledVOD365to be part of its Ketchup TV subscription service alongside brands like Bob the Builder, Thomas and Friends and Pingu.Holder says that the traditional children’s television industry is finally waking up to the brands being built on YouTube.“Some of them are still half asleep, but it’s changing fast,” he says. “I think they should embrace it: YouTube is a lot of eyes and ears on your product, and it’s brilliant exposure.”In the meantime, Little Baby Bum is proceeding cautiously, feeling out potential partners from the traditional media world, while investing in the quality and quantity of its videos to make sure the wheels don’t come off this particular bus.
I want to buy a new laptop for general purpose family use. Should the launch of Windows 10 affect whether I buy now or wait in the hope that vendors sell off older models cheaply? Given that it might be a free upgrade, I’m wondering if this changes what normally happens before a large upgrade.I’m currently using Windows 7 on a five-year-old Toshiba Satellite L500-1WG. Based on how I use my laptop, I think I’d find Windows 8.1 hard to get on with.MichaelI don’t expect this summer’s launch of Windows 10 to have a significant effect on the price of laptops, for two reasons. First, it will be a free upgrade. Second, Windows 10 runs on the same hardware as the current Windows 8.1, only better. Indeed, it could tend to prolong the active life of older laptops by making better use of their processor and memory chips.Traditionally, Microsoft has helped PC manufacturers to maintain sales, and therefore prices, by providing free upgrades for laptops bought within a few months of the launch of a new version of Windows.This wasn’t a perfect solution because buyers still had to obtain and install the new software, which required some effort. However, I expect the upgrade from Windows 8.1 to 10 to be as simple as clicking the install button when it’s offered by Windows Update, just like the upgrade from Windows 8 to 8.1.The small catch is that the Windows 10 update will only apply to Windows 8.1, not to Windows 8. People who want to upgrade from Windows 8 (and earlier) will need to download and install the new operating system from a DVD or perhaps a USB thumbdrive.PC hardware should not be affected. Manufacturers have already made the significant changes needed for Windows 8, most obviously by including touch-sensitive screens as standard.The other important change was to swap the old 1981-vintageBIOSfor theUEFIsystem that enables Windows 8 PCs to be turned on and off with a power button, and wake up from sleep in a second or two, much like a tablet.Your old Windows 7 laptop lacks the touch screen for “modern” (formerly Metro) apps, and the fast start-up. But Windows 8.1 laptops already have both, and won’t need anything new to run Windows 10. There’s no logical reason why suppliers should dump them at low prices.Free Windows 10Not all versions of Windows are equal. Some are innovative and break new ground, while others fix problems and add polish to earlier versions. Historically, Windows 3, Windows NT3.5, Windows 95, Windows 2000, Vista and Windows 8 all introduced fundamental changes to the operating system, while Windows 3.1, NT4.0, 98/SE, XP and Windows 7 mainly refined and polished their predecessors.Sometimes this involved major changes to the user interface – in a car analogy, the engine stayed the same but the dashboard and controls got a makeover.All the refined versions of Windows have been very successful, because most users don’t have a clue about operating systems: they judge them by their interfaces.On this basis, I expect Windows 10 to do well, since it mostly fixes the basic usability problem with Windows 8 – which Windows 8.1 merely ameliorated – while adding other refinements.The usability problem was, of course, that Windows 8 was designed for new touch-screen computers and tablets, and wasn’t as easy to use with old keyboard-and-mouse-based desktops and laptops, ie Windows’ 1.6bn installed base.In fact, Windows 8 addeda whole new secure and sandboxed operating environmentwith different apps, a different programming model, and a completely different user interface. It worked very well on tablets, but it was separate from the desktop environment it inherited from Windows 7.In Windows 10, the two have been melded so that you can run modern apps in windows alongside desktop programs such as Adobe Photoshop and Lightroom, Apple iTunes etc – and they work fine with a keyboard and mouse.Windows 10 will also introduce “universal” apps, which can run on Windows PCs, tablets, Windows Phone and the Xbox One games console. This should create a much bigger market for Windows Store apps – the equivalent of Apple iOS and Android apps – and help to reduce the current “app gap”.Finally, it looks as though Windows 10 will be free to everyone, at least for the first year. This includes people with pirate copies of XP. Terry Myerson, who runs Microsoft’s operating systems unit, announced the plan at theWinHECtechnology conference in Shenzhen, China. ”We are upgrading all qualified PCs, genuine and non-genuine, to Windows 10,” he said ina telephone interview with Reuters.How much it will cost after the first year, if anything, is a mystery. Either way, this marks a shift from Windows as a product to Windows as a service, updated on a more-or-less continuous basis, as Ihinted in 2013.I reckon Microsoft makes (very) roughly $1 a month from a consumer who buys a Windows PC. Can it make more than that from Office 365, Skype, OneDrive, Bing adverts, app sales and other sources, including Surface Pro tablets, Lumia phones, Xbox consoles, mice, pens, and keyboards? We shall see.Upgrade or replace?Your five-year-oldToshiba Satellite L500-1WGshouldn’t have any problems running Windows 10. It has a 2.2GHz IntelPentium T4400dual-core processor, which is roughly as powerful as the Intel Atom Z3795 used in some of today’s cheap 2-in-1 laptops and tablets – though, of course, the T4400 runs hotter and eats batteries.The graphics are weak by today’s standards, but if you swapped out the 320GB hard drive for a cheap SSD (solid state drive) then your Tosh should work better with Windows 10 than it does with Windows 7.Bear in mind that Microsoft has been making Windows much more efficient to the point where it now runs on tablets with only 1GB of memory, and the phone version will run in 512MB. You have 4GB.There are, of course, plenty of reasons to buy a new laptop. You will get the advantages of a touch screen and, if you pay extra, a digitising pen. You will get the “almost-instant on” mentioned above, which removes the chore of waiting for Windows to wake up.You will probably get a thinner, lighter, faster and more versatile machine that uses less power and provides more battery life. And voice control with Cortana.As for timing, in my experience, the best times to buy are in the mini-booms towards the end of March-early April, and in August-September.The first comes when Asian suppliers have sold off stock at the end of their financial year and UK companies are buying new tax-deductible PCs before the end of their financial years.The second comes when students and educational institutions are shopping for new PCs for the start of the academic year. But if you look, there are always bargains to be found.Have you got a question? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
Yahoo has announced the closure of its last office in China in a new cost-cutting move.The closure of its research and development office in Beijing will eliminate 200 to 300 jobs, Bloomberg reported.Yahoo said it told employees about the closure on Wednesday 18 March. The California-based company has cut staff elsewhere as it struggles to keep up with the internet market’s transition from desktop computers to smartphones and tablets.The move follows Yahoo’s announcement in January that it will spin off its stake in Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba, which last year listed on the New York Stock Exchange in a record offer.In 2005, Yahoo bought a 40% stake in Alibaba for $1bn (£680m) and turned over control of its China operations to the group. It stopped offering its services in China in 2013.Yahoo’s profit for the quarter ending in December fell 52% from a year earlier while revenue dipped 1%.
Veteran British game developer Jeff Minter is embroiled in a legal dispute with Atari, over his PlayStation Vita game, TxK.Atari has alleged that the title, which appears to be influenced by the Tempest series of tunnel-based space shooters, is an infringement of its copyright.In a legal letter apparently sent to Minter in June, andposted by him on his website, the company has demanded that Minter withdraw the title from sale. Minter also claims that Atari is blocking future versions of the game planned for PlayStation 4, PC and Android smartphones.The original Tempest was a 1981 Atari arcade game, developed by programmer Dave Theurer. The unconventional shooter had players navigating an endless space tunnel, moving between the angled segments to shoot incoming spaceships.In 1994, Jeff Minter – already a well-known developer for his series of 8bit home computer games, such as Attack of the Mutant Camels – was employed by Atari to create a sequel, Tempest 2000, for the Jaguar home console. Minter has since revisited the concept several times, including his Xbox Live game Space Giraffe and the contended TxK.“This has been going on behind the scenes for a while now,” wrote Minteron his website. “I’d kept it on the down low all this time because I had hoped we could maybe work something out, maybe ‘Atari’ would commission an officially licensed version from us; we made it clear we’d be willing to negotiate about that sort of thing.“I even thought maybe they might be interested in my doing updated versions of some of the other Atari IP. After all I do have a track record of doing decent reworkings of old games like theirs and I’d’ve really enjoyed a crack at some of those old things.“However they never gave an inch and just continued with threats and bullying. Specifically they had their lawyers present a number of legal accusations about a variety of things; we consulted a lawyer who told us that if we wanted to fight against it then it’d be expensive because we’d need to address separately each of the things they were accusing me of.”Minter then emphasised his frustration via a series of tweets,one saying: “It’s achingly sad because I *loved* Atari. Getting to work there, and creating one of their last great games, was such a joy for me.”Ina statement, Atari later clarified its position, claiming that there was currently no lawsuit, but reiterating its copyright claim: “Atari values and protects its intellectual property and expects others to respect its copyrights and trademarks. When Llamasoft launched TxK in early 2014, Atari was surprised and dismayed by the very close similarities between TxK and the Tempest franchise.”Minter has never made any secret of the similarities between TxK and his Tempest 2000 release. The critically acclaimed title was described by many sites as a spiritual successor to that title.However, copyright is a complex legal issue in the video games industry where iteration on innovative ideas and genre staples is a common element. Ideas and game mechanics cannot be copyrighted, only tangible assets such as source code, source artworks and musical composition are liable.Copyright claims like these are common in the industry though, and Atari has been involved in several. In 1981, the company attempted to sue arcade manufacturer Amusement World for its title Meteors, a space shooter clearly influenced by Atari’s classic, Asteroids.It lost however, with the court deciding only the idea, not the tangible assets, was copied.Minter wrote on his site that he cannot afford to fight a lawsuit. “Even just going back and forth a few times with letters responding to their threats ended up running up a couple of grand in legal bills, and there is simply no way on God’s earth I can afford any kind of a legal battle.”Atari has passed through a number of owners since its heyday in the 1970s and 80s. The company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in 2013, in an attempt to extricate itself from its French owner.It later emerged as a specialist in real money gambling games. However, the company has recently announced Asteroids Outpost, an updated version of its 80s classic.“I await with eager anticipation the awesome version of Tempest that ‘Atari’ must have shortly forthcoming to have got so twattish about TxK,” tweeted Minter on Wednesday night.
Angry Birds publisher Rovio’s revenues fell by 9% in 2014, but the key factor was declining sales of licensed merchandise and toys rather than falling income from its games.The Finnish firmreported revenues of €158.3m(£114.3m) for 2014, down from €173.5m the previous year. Within that, the company’s income from games grew by 16.3% to €110.7m, but its consumer products revenues fell 43.4% to €41.4m.Rovio also reported €6.2m of revenues from its media business in 2014: advertising sold within its apps, including the ToonsTV online video network.The company’s earnings before interest and tax fell from €36.5m in 2013 to €10m in 2014, but it has not announced a net profit or loss for the latter year to compare with 2013’s €26.9m net profit.That will be revealed in the company’s financial filing, which has not yet been published. One thing that has changed is the official figure for Rovio’s revenues in 2013: in March 2014,the company said they were €156m that year, but now they have been restated as €173.5m.Rovio’s spokesperson told the Guardian that this is because from 2014, the company started counting app store owners’ share of sales, with 2013’s figure adjusted accordingly.Rovio’s games have now been downloaded 2.6bn times, having added nearly 600m downloads in 2014. The company did not say how many monthly active users (MAUs) it ended the year with, however.Rovio had 263 million MAUs at the end of 2012, but this fell to200 million by September 2014.Rovio’s founding chief executive Mikael Hed stepped down in 2014, with his replacement Pekka Rantala predicting that the company will return to growth in 2015, buoyed by its growing stable of freemium mobile games.“2014 results show that steps in the game portfolio, free to play competency building and advertising are going in the right direction. I am confident that with new simplified organisation and clearer vision, we will be back to the path of growth in 2015,” said Rantala as the latest results were announced.Related:Angry Birds maker Rovio lays off 130 staff and tries to 'reignite growth'Rovio is targeting Asia as a key market for growth this year, including developing a new game called Angry Birds Fight specifically for Japan, and signing partnerships in China and South Korea for the distribution and promotion of its games.Rantala admitted that 2014 was “not a satisfactory year” for Rovio’s consumer products division, which at its peak had more than 200 licensing partners. However, he predicted that the Angry Birds movie in 2016 “will have a positive impact”, while promising new licensing partnerships in the coming months.Angry Birds remains one of the most popular mobile gaming brands in the world in 2015, but Rovio is still making much less money from it than companies like Candy Crush Saga maker King and fellow Finnish firm Supercell, which makes Clash of Clans.For example, while Rovio’s entire catalogue of games made £79.7m of revenues in 2014,Candy Crush Saga alone generated £865.2m of player spendingthat year. Supercell has yet to publish its 2014 financials, but they are expected to show similarly-lucrative income from its games.
The UK uses the most cookies of any EU country,according to a new report. Bad for waistlines if we were talking biscuits, but since we’re talking online trackers, the threat is to web privacy.Cookies are tiny pieces of text that websites leave on your computer, so they know who you are or where you go – most logins and online checkouts use cookies, but so too do behavioural advertising systems.If you’re the sort to follow EU privacy law, it may come as a surprise that the UK is a cookie hotspot, as the information commissioner cracked down in 2012 with a law requiring consent from web users before trackers could be placed on machines.The UK law doesn’t ban cookies, it merely requires sites to alert visitors when such trackers are used, which is often seen via banners at the top of a site the first time you visit. Ironically, that means the site will drop a cookie on your PC to make sure you don’t see the banner the next time you come back.Related:21 tips, tricks and shortcuts to help you stay anonymous onlineA study lead by the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) showed that94% of UK websites feature a banner or some other cookie warning– well above the European average of 74%. However, it also found that British sites place an average of 44 cookies on your first visit, well above the average of 34 across the European countries surveyed.So Britons may be more likely to know what a cookie is – or in the very least to have developed quick clicking skills to dismiss such banners – but we face more trackers than other Europeans.Can we count that as a win? Asked if the ICO sees the cookie law as a success, group manager of technology Simon Rice said it was “encouraging” that so many British websites were informing visitors of tracker use.If raising awareness is the goal, no one has done more to meet it than Civic UK. It designed a “cookie control” plug-in companies could easily embed in their websites to comply with the law, which has been downloaded hundreds of thousands of times – and is used by the ICO’s own website.“I think [the law] makes [users] more aware of the fact that cookies are an item to be considered in any interaction with a web-based system, and it’s very good for raising awareness of the risks,” said Roger Maxfield, director of Civic UK.Useful warnings?Others aren’t so sure anyone is reading the warnings. Asked if the banners strung along the top of webpages or the popups in the corners of sites were useful, web software development firm Silktide’s founder Oliver Emberton said “absolutely not”.“It’s redundant box-ticking,” he said. “Saying you use cookies doesn’t tell you anything, it’s like saying a car uses a road. Everything uses cookies. You’d be incredibly hard-pressed to find anything that doesn’t use cookies. The cookie isn’t the problem, it’s what they do with the information.”Indeed, there are other types of trackers that are more persistent, such as locally stored objects, which do the same role but are harder to purge from PCs.And that subtlety has been lost as the warnings don’t differentiate between cookies used to track or for basic page functionality, said Greg Rouchotas, technical director at Civic UK. “They don’t have to actually think about what cookies are or why they’re used, are they used for a specific purpose the user or does it only benefit the organisation – all that has gone out the window.”The idea behind the law was to protect web users from being tracked online, and by planting a sign out front warning of cookies but continuing to overload pages with them, developers are following the letter of the law – but that’s all.“[Cookies are] a necessity, and you can’t do away with them, but they obviously have been abused, especially in the marketing sphere, where you’re being tracked no matter where you are,” Rouchotas said. “That was the spirit of the law, to prevent that from happening.”Tools like Ghostery let you see what cookies sites are using – including this one.Unworkable law?Emberton suggested the ICO wasn’t all that keen on enforcing its own law – and it’s worth remembering the watchdog was forced to create it to meet an EU directive.The regulator’s own stats show it’s received few reports about cookies – only 43 in the last quarter of last year, versus more than 43,000 complaints for spam and cold callers. Because of this, and rather understandably so, for the most part the watchdog’s enforcement has been limited to sending warning letters.“I don’t know the people [at the ICO], but I don’t believe they have any appetite to enforce this law,” Emberton said. “They’re obligated to make gestures in that direction. I think they fully appreciate how completely unworkable it is... I think there is a noble idea there somewhere, they just dropped the ball on how they implemented it.”Related:When the cookies crumbled, so did your web anonymityIndeed, the law may run out before the cookies on your PC do: Emberton said there’s talk in European circles that Brussels “made gestures” at the end of last year that suggest it may overhaul the rules to make them “softer”.“They have suggested they’ve taken on feedback that the law was perhaps a bit of an exaggerated response to a smaller problem than they realised, and they may want to tone it down a bit – we’ll see,” Emberton said.“That’s the nature of laws. You create a law and if it’s unworkable, it usually gets kind of silently ignored for a bit until it catches up with reality. It’ll start being policed when it starts making sense.”Should you care?The cookie focus is rather ironic in the post-Snowden era. “The government is telling us we need to mind the privacy of users and it looks a little bit hypocritical,” Emberton said.“They’re like, you’ve got to be careful about counting the number of visitors on your site, but someone else might be spying on everything you do on your mobile or computer.”Indeed, with NSA surveillance, criminal hacking and all the other threats facing people online, it may be tough to see cookies as a serious privacy invasion.Todd Ruback, chief privacy officer at Ghostery, pointed out that cookies aren’t inherently evil – they’re just a way to gather information. “The overwhelming majority of cookies don’t collect personal data such as who you are, or where you live, but rather capture behavioural data that in the aggregate can be used to make certain deductions about a person’s interest,” he said.Still, users of his cookie-blocking tool (see below) seem to disagree: it’s been downloaded 40m times, he said. “The sheer number and accelerating rate of downloads by consumers is strong evidence that consumers care about their digital privacy and are taking direct action to control their digital selves, something I can get behind.”Despite the mixed messages of the existing law – and small number of reports to the ICO about them – cookies are a concern, countered Cooper Quintin, staff technologist at the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF).“Even if you aren’t worried about NSA spying, these third-party trackers are building up databases with an incredible [amount of] information about you and your browsing habits,” he said.“This could include things that are potentially very private or embarrassing … like private medical information, sexual preferences, or controversial opinions. People should have the right to keep their reading habits private if they so choose.” And if that’s not bad enough, security agencies such as the NSA areusing cookiestoaid their tracking programmes.Check your browser preferences.How to deal with cookiesThere’s three ways to address cookies and other trackers. First, you can flip a switch in your browser to tell advertising networks not to follow you – this is the “Do Not Track” system.To turn it on in Chrome, head to Settings, scroll down to Advanced Settings, and tick the appropriate box under Privacy. In Safari on Macs or iOS devices, go to Preferences, and then Privacy. Do Not Track is on by default in Mozilla’s Firefox, but you can check by going to Tools, Options and then Privacy.Internet Explorer has an extra step: go to Settings and Privacy, then click Tracking Protection and click to Add Tracking Protection Lists – you’ll have to choose which one you want to install.You can also register with the Internet Advertising Bureau UK to ask behavioural advertisers not to track you – sort of like a do-not-call list for the internet. To do so, go toYour Online Choices.Both tactics are very simple and give you a base level of protection, but the main flaw is Do Not Track and the IABUK system are merely polite requests – there’s no mechanism to block cookies from being dropped on your device by a site that chooses to ignore either.Related:Third of Americans take precautions to protect web presence, Pew report findsIndeed, the ICO’s Simon Rice noted that browser controls only blocked about 70% of cookies. “While this is encouraging, this result still shows that people can’t rely solely on browser settings to ensure no non-essential cookies are placed on their device,” he added.For that reason, there’s add-ons and extensions. These are tools or widgets you can install, normally for free, into your browser to take a harder line against trackers.Ghostery, for example, will show you what cookies or trackers are on each page, what they do, and let you quickly block them; similar options include Disconnect and Adblock Plus.Ghostery’s breakdown by purpose is handy, as it means you can block tracking beacons but still let websites – such as the Guardian–capture analytics or embed widgets, such as to display Twitter feeds.“We find that most people who take action actually do so with particular companies and not at a global level, more proof that consumers want education so they can make an informed decision that is best for themselves,” said Ruback.The EFF didn’t think the existing third-party blockers were good enough, and its version, dubbedPrivacy Badger, “is focused specifically on blocking things that are non-consensual”. Available for Chrome and Firefox, it blocks trackers by default, or lets you approve them one by one.“The other thing that makes [Privacy Badger] different is that it determines what is a tracker by watching the behaviour of third party domains as you browse, instead of using a black list like most other add-ons,” said Copper. “This lets Privacy Badger be more nimble and respond to new trackers more quickly.”If only the law were so nimble.
Lesbian dating app Dattch is no more: the plaid shirt is hung up andThe L Wordbox-set back on the shelf.IntroducingHER, a “lesbian social app” – born after the company behindDattchrelocated from London to San Francisco, changed its name and secured more than $1m (£630,000) in funding.The app has been completely revamped, evolving into a much more social experience with expanded content including queer-themed news and blogs, event notices and an improved matching algorithm.Founder and chief executive Robyn Exton writes: “HER is about creating a space where lesbian, bi, queer, curious,flexisexual, pansexual and not-so-straight women can meet and find out what’s going on in their lesbian world.“Dattch taught us a huge amount and you’ll see the best parts of it in HER, along with a whole new experience incorporating everything our community kept asking us for. More social, less dating.”The HER website asks: “If 90% of lesbian parties are cringey, how do you find out about about the 10%?”The app’s answer is the new Feed section, which lists upcoming queer and lesbian events.The new HER app has been redesigned.Photograph: HER appHER promises to introduce women to “a lesbian that hasn’t slept with any of your friends” (lesbians the world over nod their heads in recognition of this perennial problem).The app will also have a blog section that will offer journalism on “LBGT rights or cat gifs reacting to Piper and Alex” (characters from the Netflix showOrange is the New Black).Other improvements to the app include a cleaner filtering and preferences system and chat and “like” functions.One of Dattch’s most popular features – therequirementof gender verification upon signup via Facebook or Skype to prevent men masquerading as women, or to “keep out the straight men looking for threesomes” – is retained.The app has also kept its visually strong look, focusing on large images andPinterest-style boards for user profiles.Predecessor Dattch was launched in 2013, competing with other lesbian dating apps, a market which now includesWapaandScissr.Investors in HER include Alexis Ohanian, the founder and chair of Reddit; Michael Birch, the Bebo founder; and Andy McLoughlin, the founder of Huddle.The app is already available to download on Apple’s iOS in the UK, Ireland and five US cities, and will be available on Android soon.Spike Jonze, Joaquin Phoenix and Scarlett Johansson have been contacted for comment.• Scissr dating app: the new Tinder for lesbians?
Twitter could be an important tool for political parties to persuade young voters ahead of the general election, research from the social media site suggests. Of the Twitter users aged 18 to 34 surveyed, 45% said they had become interested in or joined a political or social cause that they learned about through the site, and 37% said they used the site to actively look for information about politics or the UK general election.One in three 18- to 34-year-old users had changed their vote from one party to another, 47% had reconsidered their views on a specific issue based on what they’d seen on the site, and 20% said they were still undecided about how they planned to vote.There are more than 15 million Twitter users in the UK, but the power of social media over voting intentions has always been disputed. During the campaigning for Scotland’s independence referendum, the yes campaign was winning on social media from the start, something that didn’t appear to translate into votes.The study of 3,000 people showed that young users were less likely to vote than users as a whole, with 74% of those polled saying they would vote in the next election, compared with 83% generally. UK voter turnout in the 2010 election was around 65%.Twitter’s global head of news, government and elections, Adam Sharp, said: “With more than three-quarters [78%] of MPs already on the platform, along with every major news outlet and political party in the country, we know Twitter is where the live conversation about the election is happening.”Of the users surveyed, 70% said they use Twitter to get information in a “simple to understand way”; 66% use it to “get a more honest and unpolished perspective on politics”; and 44% said they thought Twitter provided genuinely unbiased coverage.The research comes the day after Douglas Alexander, the head of the Labour party’s election strategy, said it was getting harder for politicians to campaign in elections because of conspiracy theories on social media. Speaking at a conference in central London organised by LabourList, the shadow foreign secretary said voters were increasingly getting their information from the “echo chamber” of Facebook and Twitter.“We are used to a politics where we share facts, but diverge on opinion,” he said. “We are confronting increasingly, because of the rise of social media, a politics where people’s social media feeds can be an echo chamber for, at best, their own opinions and, at worst, their own prejudices. And that’s a tough challenge for all democratic politicians in every party of the UK, and more broadly.”
Broadband internet would become a basic legal right under proposals set out in the budget to create a universal service obligation for online access.Running an online business from home – or binge-watching the latest series of House of Cards via an internet streaming service – could soon become possible for even the most remote rural households under measures published on Wednesday.The government wants to give consumers powers to compel telecoms companies to install a broadband line no slower than 5 megabits per second (Mbps) – a quarter of the current national average – to their home or workplace. The idea was put forward in the government’sdigital communications infrastructure strategy, published alongside the budget.The chancellor, George Osborne, also outlined an ambition for a national minimum broadband speed of 100Mbps, £600m to help clear new spectrum for mobile internet, funding for wifi in public libraries, and grants to install satellite broadband in remote rural areas.“We’re committing to a new national ambition to bring ultrafast broadband of at least 100 Mbps to nearly all homes in the country, so Britain is out in front,” said Osborne. It was a pledge which the government’s own strategy paper described as “challenging”. Ultrafast broadband allows a high-quality two-hour film to be downloaded in about two minutes, while an album takes just 8 seconds.No timeframes have been given for introducing ultrafast broadband for all or a universal service obligation, but the promises were welcomed by rural campaigners who have argued remote households are cut off from business, education and entertainment by having to rely on dial-up internet.“Especially for those rural communities that have not been connected so far, it’s a light [at the end] of the tunnel for them,” said Sarah Lee, Countryside Alliance head of policy. “But what we want is delivery. Rural communities have been overpromised, and transparency of delivery has really failed them. We are very supportive of a universal service obligation, but research shows for everyday uses 10Mbps is the optimum level.”The mooted 5Mbps is enough to guarantee a good experience when using video streaming services like Netflix and the BBC iPlayer, but more is needed because the growing number of tablets, smartphones and laptops mean two or more people per household are often using high bandwidth services simultaneously.Shows such as House of Cards now rival those beamed out on traditional broadcast television in popularity, but the series, made by Netflix, is available only to those with a good internet connection.Other blockbuster shows are also moving online: this month, Apple signed a deal with Game of Thrones producer HBO to make its back catalogue and new shows available to owners of the Apple TV set-top box.“The government is committed to ensuring that every single household in the UK has access to the basic broadband needed to live and work in the modern world,” the strategy paper stated. “So we will look to raise the universal service obligation [USO] – the legal entitlement to a basic service – from dial-up speeds to 5Mbps broadband.“This commitment to all goes further than any other country in Europe. Once in place, a USO would mean that consumers gain a legal right to request installation of 5Mbps-capable services at an affordable price.”Average national speeds are now approaching 20Mbps but the chancellor’s pledge is a minimum service five times that fast.BT’s current retail fibre service offers speeds of only up to 80Mbps, with many homes receiving less than the headline speed. But BT has begun trials of a technology calledG.fast, where fibre is brought a little closer to homes using a “node” installed in the street cabinet or on telegraph poles.G.fast deployment will begin across the UK during the next financial year, with most homes told to expect speeds of up to 500Mbps, and a premium option of 1,000Mbps. The speed of a line will depend on the length of the copper wire connecting a home to the node. The project is expected to take a decade to complete.Government funded work by BT is due to bring superfast broadband to 95% of UK premises by 2017, and plans announced in the budget will bring coverage to a further 1% of homes using satellite. According to the strategy paper: “We will act now to help households and businesses in the hardest to reach areas. Starting with premises experiencing the lowest speed broadband, the government will launch a scheme with local bodies across the UK this year to subsidise the costs of installing superfast capable satellite services.”
The administrators of a top deep-web marketplace have disappeared with over $12m worth of the cryptocurrency Bitcoin, it emerged last night, in what appears to have been an “exit scam”.On the website Reddit, a user called NSWGreat, who identified him- or herself as a moderator for the site, raised the first red flag in apostto the DarkNetMarkets subreddit marked “EVOLUTION EXIT SCAM”.Bitcoin made simple – video animation“I hate to be the bearer of bad news, but I’ve been suspicious the past few days,” the user wrote.“I have admin access to see parts of the back end, the admins are preparing to exit scam with all the funds. Not a single withdrawal has gone through in almost a week.”NSWGreat said that he or she personally had $20,000 in Bitcoin currently in escrow at the site, and had confronted Evolution’s administrators – who go by the aliases Verto and Kimble – on Tuesday night. They then confirmed the scam, according to NSWGreat.“I am so sorry, but Verto and Kimble have fucked us all,” NSWGreat wrote.Less than an hour later, the site had vanished.In an update, NSWGreat said: “Servers have gone down, including back up server for staff. I’m sorry for everyone’s losses, I’m gutted and speechless. I feel so betrayed.”Evolution Marketplace was one of the largest of a number of deep-web sites which grew up after the collapse of the Silk Road, which was shut down after its administrator,Ross Ulbricht– who went by the alias Dread Pirate Roberts – was arrested in 2013.But while Ulbricht’s Silk Road, and many of the sites that followed in its footsteps, had a quixotic if libertarian bent, Evolution was always known as more anarchic and less scrupulous.One vendor on Evolution, speaking anonymously to the Guardian, said they had been on the site for two years. “Now it’s gone; I just lost my career,” they said, adding that they had lost around $5,000 in the scam.Related:Bitcoin: will 2015 be a make-or-break year?Another vendor, also speaking to the Guardian anonymously, said that they had lost $50,000 worth of Bitcoin and felt “absolutely terrible”.“I have lost everything I had worked for over the past year. That was my retirement fund,” the user said.On Tuesday night, hundreds of users took to Reddit to vent their frustrations at the scam, some even talking about hiring hit-men to murder Verto and Kimble. “After you kill them, fuck them. Fuck them in the ear,” one userwrote.Others were more philosophical. One user – who told the Guardian that they had lost money they had in escrow for a deal on a hackedXfinitycable account and some “liquid shrooms” – said it “sucks for the people that lost thousands”.“Peeps are screwed,” the user said, “but all part of the game I guess.”The plot thickened as the evening went on. One user who goes by DeepThroattoldVerto and Kimble on Reddit that they had 24 hours until he would start giving their identities to other users so that they could take revenge.DeepThroat posted a screenshot purporting to be from the thieves, offering $5,000 in exchange for silence, which was posted to Reddit with the reply: “Fuck you.”Revealing identities – a process known as “doxxing” – is utterly taboo in deep-web circles. However, DeepThroat implied in posts that the situation called for extreme measures. “Doxxing is forbidden and crossing that line is I don’t even know what. But in this case pressure has to be applied for them to realise they can’t walk away from this unscathed,” DeepThroat wrote.“If the consensus is for me to fuck off let it be, OK then. I don’t think it’s fair for people to be robbed like this.”The Guardian has contacted DeepThroat to verify the claims, but has not yet received a response.• This article was amended on 23 March 2015 to remove a statement from a Reddit user that was found to be false.
Marissa Mayer has just one year to turn Yahoo into a thriving, growing prospect - or else the venerable business will become an acquisition target.That’s the thinking of Nicholas Carlson, a journalist whose bookMarissa Mayer and the Fight to Save Yahoo!explores the company’s struggle under its charismatic new chief executive, appointed in 2012 to try to turn around a business that seemed to be sinking into despond.The risk to Yahoo, now in its 20th year, is that once its shareholding in China’s Alibaba is subtracted from its overall capitalisation, you’re left with zero, or even negative, net value. Obviously that is not quite the case - the company is profitable and generates cash, but it indicates that Mayer faces an ongoing uphill struggle.Mobile futureAdam Cahan, Yahoo’s vice-president of mobile and emerging, was already there when Mayer arrived following the acquisition of his companyIntoNowin 2011. Mayer faced two intertwined problems: Yahoo’s relevance was dwindling because it was still stuck in a desktop age, showing big banner ads to people checking their email, even while the world had gone mobile. Further, its internal culture was too inward-looking.According to Cahan, Mayer shifted the focus to mobile, and on the people who were doing it - Yahoo’s users. “She talked about where she saw a platform shift - very specifically, that users were going to mobile and Yahoo was underinvested in mobile. She took time to say how many people are focused on mobile - which was 50 out of between 12,000 and 13,000 staff.”As Cahan describes it, Yahoo was essentially dithering over mobile in 2012. “There was the worry about cannibalisation - it took away desktop ad revenues, but nobody was going to make money in mobile because the display ads were too small; even Facebook didn’t advertise on mobile then. There just wasn’t a business model on mobile. And secondly, there was the technical debate: should we build in HTML5, or native apps? Not a lot of progress was being made.”“Marissa came in and was incredibly insightful,” Cahan says. “She focused on the users. She said ‘look, the users are going there [to mobile], so we have to go there and monetise it later’. And as for the arguments about technology - if you cut through it, it boiled down to HTML5 being a benefit for developers, but native apps were the highest-performing. Marissa said ‘focus on the users. We aren’t here to solve developers’ problems’.”Yahoo mobile boss Adam CahanMayer is Cahan’s direct manager and he says she brings three qualities to the work: “A tremendous amount of user empathy - so, for example, she’d say ‘why do you have pull-to-refresh? Why not just refresh automatically?’ And she has this pattern recognition - so she’s not just data-driven, there’s testing plus intuitive insight. Finally, she has tremendous decisiveness.”Mayer created a new group called mobile and emerging products, oversaw the acquisition of Tumblr for $1.15bn, and drove the development and release of new mobile-focused apps for Android and iOS.She also focused the company on new fast-growth and potential high revenue sectors - mobile, video, native apps and social, which were shoehorned into the acronym “MaVeNS”. Mayer makes much of the “Mavens”: presenting Yahoo’s most recent quarterly results in January, she insisted that the 4% decline in display ad revenues will eventually be offset by “the strong growth in our Mavens business” and that those businesses are “not cannibalistic” to traditional PC advertising (on the desktop).Yahoo’s identity crisis: media, or tech?Cahan says that Mayer also changed the culture. Before she arrived, “Yahoo was very inwardly focused. Marissa, by focussing on the users, made it externally focused. And that shifted the nature of the culture and really amplified some of the cultural elements that were there. Yahoo has a tremendous culture of collaboration and joy and fun, which maybe comes from our name.”To anyone who has followed Yahoo’s travails over the past few years, Cahan’s suggestion that the halls rang with collaboration, joy and fun will sound odd. Yahoo had been manifestly dysfunctional for years, getting through five chief executives between 2009 and 2012 - partly because it had always struggled with the question of whether it was a technology or a media company.Begun in March 1995 by Jerry Yang and David Filo, Yahoo was initially just a directory for the nascent web: it would tell you what the “cool site of the day” was, and let you find existing sites via a tree-structure directory. In a time before search engines, when you could enumerate the number of new sites per day, that was feasible.That quickly became unfeasible, and Yahoo shifted to being a portal for news, weather, and (from 1997) email. In fact email remains the principal reason for people to visit Yahoo; there are around 280m accounts. Once there, users ads and are led towards other parts of the site.But was Yahoo about selling ads, or about cutting-edge tech? Its purchase in 2005 of the photo-sharing service Flickr and link-sharing service Delicious suggested it was about user-generated content - a technology site. Yet it focused on display ads and TV-style services, hiring former Warner Brothers chair Terry Semel in 2001 in a move that seemed to say Yahoo was competing with Google by distinguishing its media credentials.As Tom Foremskipoints out, being a technology company means that a single programmer’s work can boost the company’s profit for years. In a media company, one person’s work gets noticed perhaps for a day, and then vanishes in the stream of fresh news.The difference in emphasis had had its clearest expression a few years earlier, when Larry Page and Sergey Brin visited Jerry Yang to demonstrate their search technology in the hope that Yahoo would buy it. They showed Yang how “Backrub”, as it was then called, could find the desired search result in the first page.Former Yahoo chief executive Jerry Yang at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas in January 2008.Photograph: Paul Sakuma/APYang turned them away: “We make our money from people being shown ads, so we want them to click through a couple of pages,” he explained. Page and Brin sought seed capital instead; the rest is Google history. Yahoo has also missed out on chances to buy Facebook (it tried to lower the price), YouTube, Twitter and LinkedIn.“In the beginning, Yahoo was the user-friendly interface to the web,” Carlson told me. “It was a Disney-like friendly brand that provided things people wanted, all in one place - from calendars to file-sharing to shopping for flowers.“But over time, people began to trust companies that did one thing well: eBay for auctions, Google for search, and so on. When she came in, Mayer said ‘let’s get Yahoo back to the future’. Make products that people want to use to do everything on the web, which I think is a big mistake,” Carlson says.Mayer made Yahoo’s apps good, but who for?The author thinks that her aim to “ride the paradigm shift” to mobile in 2012 was misplaced. “Apple and Google had been doing that for longer already. This is a different world where people trust no-name brands to do something - Uber, Snapchat, Meerkat. I don’t think it’s working extremely well [for Yahoo]. When [Mayer] got there, they didn’t have any good [mobile] apps, and she spotted that even those they did have were extremely poor. She made them good and up to industry standard. But on ads and usage - people don’t use them.”So what are Cahan’s milestones for the next five years? “One metric is growth - returning this iconic company to growth,” he says. “The Mavens are seeing 100% year-on-year growth. The question is when will we see the growth businesses, which are growing at 20% annually, exceeding the traditional legacy business, where the display ad business is seeing 1% to 2% growth.”In 2008, Microsoft made an unsolicited $44bn bid for the company. Yang, then chief executive, rejected it despite it being worth almost two thirds more than the company’s market value. He defended the move to the board on the basis of internal projections that suggested the company would be worth far more quite soon. Instead, the global crash came and Yahoo’s value plummeted.Staff now trust managementYang was fired and replaced by Carol Bartz, an experienced and blunt outsider who cut costs and tussled with the board, and was then replaced in 2011 as the board rifled through Tim Morse, Scott Thompson and interim chief executive Ross Levinsohn before the surprise appointment of Mayer in July 2012.Former Yahoo chief executive Carol Bartz speaking in March 2010.Photograph: Robert Galbraith/ReutersVeteran journalist Kara Swisher had a string of stories so insightful on Yahoo’s internal ructions it sometimes seemed she had been inside the boardroom. Since Mayer joined, the big stories have dried up, largely due, she says, to Yahoo being less interesting, doing few innovative products yet having improved morale among developers.Cahan says before Mayer, the company wasn’t “transparent” - that changes weren’t communicated through the company, and it was hard to get information from executives. That, he suggests, is why journalists like Swisher had a field day: people whispered and leaked to see the reaction, and find out more from counter-leaks.Mayer, though, installed a number of former Googlers in senior positions. Every Friday afternoon there is an “FYI” session where she and other executives can be quizzed by staff - a replica of the Friday canteen sessions that Page and Brin used to run before Google floated.The culture of leaking has been replaced by one of trust, Cahan says. “If you’re in a company where you don’t trust the leadership, then often you don’t feel proud of being at the heart of it. And people respond by leaking.”After Alibaba and Yahoo Japan, is there any other revenue?Yahoo’s key problem is true of many media companies - its desktop-based display business is wilting, but the mobile side of the business isn’t growing fast enough. But Yahoo is buoyed by a stake in Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce company that recently floated in New York and is worth more than $200bn (Yahoo is worh $40bn). Selling its stake in Alibaba will generate a windfall of almost $200m by September 2015 - about 20% of Yahoo’s predicted annual profits.One-off sales and licensing of patents and intellectual property in Yahoo Japan, of which Yahoo owns 35%, will make up another large chunk of revenues. In factEric Jackson, at Forbes, calculatesthat leaving those numbers off, Yahoo will only make an operating profit of $590m from its core business - in its website and apps - this year.That erosion of profitability - obscured by its stake in Alibaba - has many on Wall Street worried. One activist investor, Starboard, has been pressing for a merger with tech/media company AOL.Mayer might be forced into a marriage because she has not taken radical action to cut costs. Marc Andreessen publicly told her in 2012 that she should cut the headcount by about 10,000 to get costs under control and focus the company.She did not take his advice. “Mayer forewent that plan, and introduced ‘quality performance reviews’ which are close to stack ranking [as used disastrously at Microsoft], to try to control costs,” says Carlson. (Stack ranking assigns a rank to the performance of each employee in a group; the lowest-performing are usually let go.)“Now Yahoo has as many employees as it ever did, though probably fewer overseas. The cost per employee is still very high.”He says Mayer is instead taking the wrong approach - “messy morale-draining layoffs where a few go every week. If you’d asked me six months ago … I’d have said morale was much higher, and the products better than when she joined. Now I would say the products are better, even if they’re not popular, but I get the feeling morale is being drained … they aren’t communicating with employees about these cuts.”“She has to tell a story that Wall St believes within the next few quarters, or Yahoo will be a tasty acquisition target.” It generates $1bn in cash every year, Carlson points out: “a strong legacy business”. That could be one reason why its shares have risen by 10% over the past 12 months.Yahoo’s logo in July 2006.Photograph: Don Ryan /Associated PressWill Yahoo get the Apple search deal?Meanwhile Mayer has notably increased Yahoo’s visibility, and revenue, throughits deal with Mozillato make it the default search on Firefox in the US. Another enticing prospect lies ahead: that she will persuade Apple to make Yahoo the default search engine on the iPhone, replacing Google, which has been there since the iPhone’s inception in 2007. The contract is up for renewal in the summer. Apple has already dropped Google Maps and YouTube as default services; might Yahoo get the gig?Swisher comments: “If she gets something like an Apple search deal, she will have done a Hail Mary” - the phrase for a desperate long-range pass in American football to win the game. Sources inside Apple do not sound encouraging. But then, it didn’t look likely that Yahoo would outbid Google for Firefox either.Carlson, however, thinks hopes of a sudden revival are probably overplayed. “Everybody wonders why it can’t turn around like Apple did back in 1997. But the thing is, Steve Jobs did what Mayer didn’t do. He cut products back to four, and he cut the workforce, and controlled costs, in one big swoop. She hasn’t scrapped products, hasn’t controlled costs, hasn’t improved morale long-term and hasn’t done drastic cuts that are needed long-term.”His pessimistic view is that Yahoo will be undervalued by Wall Street, and then grabbed by a private equity company - as Dell was a couple of years ago - for its cash-generating capability. “It could be that nobody can fix Yahoo,” he says. “She may have just walked into a meat grinder.”But why? “Yahoo solved a problem of the early web being confusing. But the web outgrew that solution, and people tried new things.” Carlson pauses, and adds: “It doesn’t solve a problem better than anybody else solves it today.”Review: Marissa Mayer and the Fight to Save Yahoo
You are travelling by plane to see your newborn grandchild. As you board the aircraft, the cabin crew address you by name and congratulate you on the arrival of a bouncing baby boy. On your seat, you find a gift-wrapped blue rattle with a note from the airline.In Twitter data strategy chief Chris Moody’s vision of the future, companies surprising their customers like this could become an everyday occurrence – made possible because Twitter is listening.Computer systems are already aggregating trillions of tweets from the microblogging site, sorting and sifting through countless conversations, following the banter and blustering, ideas and opinions of its 288 million users in search of commercial opportunities.It is not only commercial interests that are mining the data. Academics are using it to gauge the mood in a football crowd, and trying to shed light on whether Premier League players such as Manchester United’s Radamel Falcao are overpaid – with a team of researchers from Reading, Dundee and Cambridge universities testing whether top-flight footballers’ salaries are related purely to performance on the pitch or can be boosted by popularity on social media.Selling data is as yet a small part of Twitter’s overall income – $70m out of a total of $1.3bn last year, with the lion’s share of cash coming from advertising, but the social network has big plans to increase that. Its acquisition of Chris Moody’s analytics company Gnip for $130m last April is a sign of that intent.Google and Facebook have built their businesses around sharing data, but their control of our private and public information has become a source of huge controversy.Moody acknowledges it is an area fraught with ethical and reputational risk: “One of the questions we get asked is: how do we ensure that we are not being creepy?” Context, he believes, is the key.“Twitter gives this fascinating ability to understand people in context like we’ve never been able to do before. It’s not ‘I know that Chris Moody is a 48-year-old male’ – which is how we’ve thought about marketing in the past – but ‘I understand that Chris Moody is dealing with the death of a parent because he’s talking about it on this public platform’,” he said, adding that a Twitter user has in effect said: “I’ve stepped up to the microphone and I’ve said I want the world to know that this thing is happening in my life.”Moody is the man with his hands on what is called Twitter’s “firehose”, the relentless datastream of half-a-billion posts produced each day. His mission is to market this torrent to companies such as IBM, Oracle and Salesforce.com, and marketing specialists like Klout, who will repackage and sell the data on to other companies to help them market to and manage their customers.But do all Twitter users imagine they are addressing the world, or the corporations that want to listen in to their conversations?For many, their audience is their followers – the online community that shares their interests and opinions. Twitter account holders cannot choose who follows them, but they can shape their following by blocking or muting nuisance or abusive users.Using a hashtag, or addressing another user directly through via Twitter handle can be seen as, respectively, signals that the writer of a tweet intended it for a wider audience, or wanted direct contact with an individual or organisation. Should Twitter take these subtleties into account when distributing its data?One possible use for Twitter data could be using geolocation and language algorithms to gauge the mood of a crowd at a football match.Photograph: Andrew Matthews/PAMoody thinks not. “Most people realise they can’t control their followers. Ours is the conversation of an individual to the world. We are very fortunate in that way: many social platforms don’t have that.”Twitter can match its users to a company’s database of customers to provide targeted advertising. Profiles are matched, for example, by using emails. An insurance company that knows your home cover is about to expire might then use Twitter to send a direct advertisement, for example. It also resells data for other social networks, including photo-sharing site Tumblr and local directory Foursquare.“You bring your data to us and we will ensure that your customers, if they exist on Twitter – we can provide advertisements to them. It’s done in a completely anonymised fashion, so we are not sharing private information.”When Apple unveils the next iPhone later this year, Moody suggests Samsung could listen in to Twitter to help it single out customers who are thinking of ditching Apple and switching brands. It could also identify the phone features that most attract them, and use that information to design and target real-time advertising.Research that could benefit the public sector has been made easierby a data grants programme, launched last February, that gives academics free access to the data “firehose”. As well as the UK study on footballers, other examples include Harvard University using it to track down the sources of food poisoning. The University of Wollongong is using it to track flooding in Indonesia and tweet information about the best routes out of affected areas.Moody’s says geolocation and programs that scan for aggressive or negative reactions could be used to monitor football crowds. In this way, tweets could help gauge the reaction of fans during and after a match, helping police decide where to deploy resources in combating domestic violence or public disturbance. He is careful to stress that the information is about the crowd – not a means for police to target individual fans.Twitter does not share the content of direct messages (DMs), which are hidden from everyone except the sender and recipient. But readers of Twitter’sprivacy policyshould be left in no doubt that the company considers all their other musings entirely public property. It warns: “What you say on Twitter may be viewed all around the world instantly.”
I want to print your hand – and your head, torso, arms, legs and feet too … Sir Paul McCartney has joined the 3D printing bandwagon by releasing a file that fans can use to print 3D figurines of their idol.The file waspublished on his official website, and is based on a scan of McCartney taken for his recent Hope For The Future music video.“One of the technologies we’ve been excited by in recent years is 3D printing, named by some as the ‘Third Industrial Revolution’,” explained a blogpost on the site.“The thinking here is that in the coming years we will all begin to see 3D printed objects appearing in our daily lives creating items such as machine parts, bone and limb replacements, clothing and even food.”Or,if you believe fellow musician Will.i.am: people.Watch a 3D Paul statue emerge.McCartney teased the release of his 3D-printable mini-me during the promotional campaign for his single in November, but the 50MB file is now available to fans as a free download.His relationship with 3D printing is certainly more positive than that of Katy Perry, whoselawyers sent a stern cease-and-desist letter to a Florida-based companyin February when it started selling a model based on one of the dancing sharks from her Super Bowl half-time show.Related:Paul McCartney collaborations: the good, the bad and the stadium rock dubstepMcCartney isn’t the first artist to explore the world of 3D printed figurines. In 2014, rock bandLinkin Park got themselves scanned, then sold 1:20 scale models of each band member for $295, although fans could pay more for larger figurines.Cut Copy also distributed 3D-printable filesof the computer-animated characters in their 2014 release We Are Explorers, and invited fans to print them out and then recreate their own scenes from the music video.McCartney has his fingers in other technology pies, too. In November heembraced virtual reality with a 360-degree recording of one of his concerts, distributed through an app for Android smartphones and the Google Cardboard VR goggles.
French police have raided the Paris offices of the taxi app firm Uber as part of ongoing investigations into its UberPOP peer-to-peer ride-sharing service.The investigation, at the behest of Paris’ prosecutors office, comes after France’s interior ministryvowedto ban the app from 1 January 2015.The UberPOP service, unlike other models of service on the app, connects non-professional drivers with users at a lower price. In France, the base rate (minimum fare) is set at just 1€ (72p).The service uses non-professional drivers who may not be licensed or insured, raising safety concerns. Some have poor local knowledge so potentially offer a poor customer experience.Uber France boss Thibaud Simphal called the raid a “disproportionate action carried out on a very fragile legal basis” in comments toL’Orbsmagazine.Uber says the firm is creating jobs (founder Travis Kalanick haspledgedto create 50,000 in Europe, and1 million jobsfor women by 2020) and that competition is good for the industry.Uber defines UberPOP as a ride-sharing service – similar to rival appLyft– but the fact that money changes hands and the user sets the destination rather undermines that definition.In October 2014 the firm wasfined€100,000 (£72,000) by a Paris court for “deceptive practices” in relation to its advertising and promotion.Global legal challengesThe Silicon Valley-based firm, part-owned by Google, has come under fire all over the world and has been subject to numerous legal challenges and protests.In December, although a Paris courtfound againsta civil suit from competitors attempting to shut UberPOP down, the French interior ministry spokesman latercalledthe service illegal and dangerous.In December 2014, the app was temporarilysuspendedin Spain after a complaint was brought by the Madrid Taxi Association. It was alsobannedin September 2014 in Germany after complaints from Taxi Deutschland.The company was suspended in Delhi, India, after a woman was allegedly raped by a driver last year. Service wasresumedin January of this year.A protest in Delhi, India, after the alleged rape of a passenger riding in an Uber taxi.Photograph: Anindito Mukherjee/ReutersUber has bullishly defended its business worldwide and continued to operate throughout bans and suspensions, while battling the rulings in the courts.The police raid on Uber’s Paris offices comes within 24 hours of an allegedincidentin which Uber drivers were beaten up by rival drivers with hammers and knuckledusters.Uber continues to operate in the Netherlands despite Dutch courts ruling drivers would befined€10,000 every time a driver was caught providing an UberPOP service.Travis Kalanick, co-founder and chief executive officer of Uber Technologies Inc.Photograph: Bloomberg/Getty ImagesIn Canada, the company will makeits casethis week to a council in Vancouver to operate there again, the only city the firm has so far pulled out of.Uber’s app offers multiple services at different price ranges, with options varying from country to country and, confusingly, fluid use of service names. In the US, for instance, the “UberX” service is the equivalent of the UberPop service in Europe. In the UK however, UberX is the name of the lowest-priced professional service.There are at least nine different named level services Uber offers, many renamed for different markets, including UberSUV, UberBERLINE and UberExec.The company, launched in 2009, nowclaimsto operate in 55 countries and 250 cities. It has beenvaluedat $40bn ($25.5bn) and has justsecureda further $1.6 billion in funding from Goldman Sachs clients earlier this year.• Uber introduces panic button in India
The web browser that will ship with Microsoft’s newWindows 10operating system might not be called Internet Explorer, but reports of IE’s demise have been somewhat exaggerated.Microsoft’s new browser – codenamed “Spartan” after the protagonist in its Halo game series – has been built from the ground up, jettisoning the underlying code from IE.By doing so, the new browser won’t be compatible with a lot of older web software and services built specifically for IE. This will include the majority of older internal web-based applications used by businesses for admin purposes.As a consequence IE will live on and be available on Windows 10 as well as Windows 8, 7 and Vista. Businesses that use IE today are unlikely to switch to Microsoft’s new browser any time soon.“We will continue to make Internet Explorer available with Windows 10 for enterprises and other customers who require legacy browser support,” a Microsoft spokesperson said.What Microsoft’s new browser, which is due for release with Windows 10 in the summer, will be called is still undecided.“We’re now researching what the new brand, or the new name, for our browser should be in Windows 10,” said Microsoft’s head of marketing Chris Caposselaspeaking at the Microsoft Convergence. “We’ll continue to have Internet Explorer, but we’ll also have a new browser, which is codenamed Project Spartan. We have to name the thing.”Whatever the browser is called (though let’s not rule out Microsoft picking “Internet Explorer 12” after all), the code change signals a big change. Microsoft’s biggest strength – legacy support for almost any and all Windows software – has also been its biggest weakness, holding it back and limiting innovation.Ditching Internet Explorer wholesale indicates an end to that approach, which could create many headaches for users and corporate IT managers in the next few years with compatibility issues and upgrade hassles.Apple did a similar thing when it released OS X in March 2001, which replaced OS 9. Developers were forced to rewrite their code, or their applications were forced to run in an emulator, an experience so bad it drove users away. It was a painful break, but a necessary one that stood the company in good stead for both its Mac computers, and later its iOS smartphones and tablets.A similar move from Microsoft would be even more painful, but could put the company back on the innovating path, which would ultimately be good for users and businesses.•Windows 10: ten things to know about Microsoft’s new OS•Microsoft names everything after Halo now. Here’s what they should do next…
This morning, I spent a happy 20 minutes wandering around my back garden taking photos of grass, flowers and trees to decorate a virtual patchwork elephant. I am 37 years old, and not ashamed.The Elmer’s Photo Patchwork app isn’t really for me, though. It’s a children’s app released this month by developer Touch Press, based on the popular series of Elmer books. And it’s one of a growing number of apps trying to encourage kids’ real-world play, rather than cannibalise it.Related:The best iPad apps for kids of 2014Their features vary, but their common goal is to get children to look up from their screens, whether it’s taking photographs, making papercraft animals or spotting constellations in the night skies.Here are 10 worth investigating with your children. It’s iOS-heavy, which sadly reflects the priority being given (or, rather, not given) to other platforms by developers of these kinds of apps.However, as more children get their hands on Android tablets – or at least, temporarily get their hands on their parents’ Android smartphones – more of these apps will hopefully be ported across.One more caveat:of coursethese apps aren’t a substitute for the kind of real-world, physical activities – bikes, books, dress-up, filling up saucepans with an unholy blend of washing-up liquid, crisps, pine cones and cat fur and then insisting that adults try a spoonful...They’re more a reminder that even screen-time can be creative and active in an off-screen way as a complement to the above. And if nothing else, they might at least distract the children while you dispose of the gloopy (and furry) soup...Elmer’s Photo Patchwork (iOS– £1.99)The app that got me nosing around my garden. It presents children with 10 line-drawings of elephants, with a choice of four patchwork patterns. Filling those patterns involves tapping on each section then taking a photograph. As ideal for exploring beaches or museums as domestic environments.Curious Words (iOS– £1.49)Developer Curious Hat has made its name with a series of apps aimed at sparking children’s creativity. This one focuses on getting them to record one-second videos in response to random words, then strings them together into short films. It’s an inventive and fun approach to junior filmmaking.Star Walk Kids.Star Walk Kids (iOS/Android– £1.96-£2.29)This is a standalone version of the popular Star Walk astronomy app, redesigned for children. It encourages them to hold their device up and use it to identify constellations and planets, with a mixture of animation and facts to hold their attention and explain what they’re seeing.Sesame Street Family Play (iOS– Freemium)This may have been released back in 2013, but the idea is still fresh: a collection of game ideas to play in the real world, with parents telling it where they are and what items they have to hand to filter them down. You can try it for free, with a single in-app purchase of £1.49 unlocking all its game packs.FriendStrip Kids Pro (iOS/Android– Freemium)More camera-based experimentation here, although FriendStrip focuses not on filmmaking, but on comic strips. Children choose from a library of more than 85 comic strips with different themes and stories, then take the photos to fill them in. Parents can buy the collections of stories via in-app purchases.Foldify Zoo.Foldify Zoo (iOS– £2.99)There’s plenty of scope for crossover between on-screen and real-world creativity, as Foldify Zoo shows. Children make their own animals within this app, using figures and digital stamps. But then they print them out to fold together in the real world, so they can physically play with their papercraft beasts.Adventure Time Game Wizard (iOS/Android– £3.29-£3.99)Made by developer Pixel Press, whose own Floors app uses similar technology, this is a game-maker app based on the popular Cartoon Network show Adventure Time. Children print out starter sheets, then draw in their levels and “glyphs” to plase coins, power-ups, lava and other obstacles, then scan then back in to play.TeleStory (iOS– Free)More junior filmmaking here. Well, television-making if I’m accurate: children choose a theme and then more than 30 scenes to shoot their own show, complete with digital costumes to “wear”. The emphasis is on action, too, from alien planet exploration to chasing around the house. Withits developer now part of Google, an Android release will hopefully be on the way.Gruffalo: Photo.Related:The best Android apps for kids of 2014Gruffalo: Photo (iOS– £1.49)Finally, one more photography app based on one of the most popular children’s characters of all: the Gruffalo. This is an accessible app for pasting digital stickers into children’s photos, but it’s also encouraging “woodland selfies” – children exploring woods and forests with their parents. A Things To Do section suggests outdoor activities, with a map of Gruffalo child activity trails thrown in for parents.DreamWorks Dragons Adventure (Windows Phone– Free)Yep, a rare Windows Phone-only game here, courtesy of DreamWorks’ previous partnership with Nokia. Based on the world of How To Train Your Dragons, this game taps into children’s real-world location to present its quests – the idea being that it will help kids be excited about visiting new places.
People are blinded by big numbersIt sounds like a simple question: how much should you pay to save 2,000 birds? Everything has a cost, and for oil companies, which regularly find themselves in the position of having to clean up environmental disasters, it’s useful for them to peg the amount to something which matches the public’s preconceptions.So, Exxon asked the public: and it turns out that the amount they’re willing to pay to save 2,000 birds is around $80.Unfortunately, Exxon also asked the public how much they’re willing to pay to save 200,000 birds. The answer? $88.Similarly, when asked to recommend a jail sentence for a financial adviser who defrauded their clients, people picked an average of 4.8 years for someone who defrauded 3 clients, and less time – 3.8 years – if they were told that there were instead 30 victims.Martin Harrison, of London-based agency Huge Inc, who highlighted the findings, said that “in 136 real court cases, they found that the pattern was repeated in real life. The more people harmed, the less severe the punishment meted out was.”“As things get bigger and bigger and bigger we lose track of the scope.”Sometimes it’s hard to be sure you’re helping the right peopleThe Electronic Frontiers Foundation began reporting on surveillance in Syria in 2011, amid growing evidence that the Assad regime was monitoring internet usage in the country – for instance,by performing man in the middle attacks on Facebook.Barely a year later, though, and the organisation backed away from the issue, and stopped publishing blogposts exposing the ways in which man in the middle attacks, malware, and other surveillance techniques were being used in the country. Why?“Because we could no longer be sure who the good guys were,” explained Eva Galperin, a global policy analyst at the EFF. As the situation in Syria developed from a relatively clear-cut case of an autocratic regime spying on its people to the multi-actor civil war the country finds itself in now, it became harder and harder to know that any individual blog post wasn’t just going to help the wrong people. And so with a heavy heart, they moved on to other areas.People are spending a ridiculous amount of time watching livestreamsMeerkat, the breakout app of SXSW, lets anyone livestream themselves from their mobile to their Twitter followers at the touch of a button. It was everywhere in Austin, with people Meerkatting panels, gigs, and even just themselves walking down the street (The Guardian saw one man very nearly become the first person to Meerkat his own death, as he stepped out into the road without checking for oncoming traffic).A lot of streams aren’t the most riveting content, but that seemingly doesn’t matter: according to the app’s founder, Ben Rubin, people are watching them anyway. And they’re watching them a lot. Rubin says that 4% of the app’s userbase watched more than 4 hours of streams every day. That kind of stickiness, combined with the fact that it’s not more than 100,000 users in barely two weeks, explains why everyone is all over Meerkat.Game of Thrones makes Robert Kirkman know what it’s like to be a Walking Dead fanThe writer of The Walking Dead spent much of his appearance joking with his fans about what was to come in the comic and its TV adaptation. “This week’s episode, I can’t remember which one it is – has Rick died yet?”, he asked interviewer Brian Crecente, to groans from the audience, before revealing that he was “joking! Or am I?”Tugging at fans’ heartstrings has become a regular entertainment for Kirkman, whose comics have a notoriously high body count, but he’s not without empathy: he expressed his dismay when, as he was playing the Telltale Games series based on the equally deadly Game of Thrones books, the first episode ended on a cliffhanger. “Now I know how it feels!”
Japanese games firm DeNA believes Nintendo’s first smartphone and tablet games have the ability to be as big as mobile hit Candy Crush Saga.The company,which struck a licensing deal with Nintendo earlier in the week, is working on the first official mobile games based on the latter’s big console and handheld brands.Related:Nintendo: NES to smartphone, it's been about one thing – control“The game should attract a huge range of people. We wanted to get a huge audience like Candy Crush — like 100 million users. We wanted to create something with that kind of DAU [daily active user] base,” Shintaro Asako, boss of the DeNA West subsidiary,told VentureBeat.“For this, I think the solution is not coming out with 10 or 20 games right away. We should pick the right game. We should actually create a smartphone-specific game that requires day-to-day social interaction. It’s not just porting a Wii U game out to smartphones.”Neither Nintendo nor DeNA have announced details of which brands they’ll be turning into mobile games, although at theirjoint press conference announcing the alliance, they said that all Nintendo’s franchises will be “eligible for development and exploration”, while noting that they will not be ports of Wii U or 3DS titles.Candy Crush Saga is certainly a game to aim at, and not just in terms of its popularity. Players spent $1.33bn on in-app purchases within King’s sweet-swapping mobile puzzler in 2014 alone,according to recent analysis of the company’s financial resultsby the Guardian.King ended 2014 with 356 million monthly unique users and 149 million daily unique users of all its games, Candy Crush included. Key to that game’s financial success has been its use of the “freemium” model of in-app purchases for virtual items and currency, though.While Nintendo has been experimenting with this model in 3DS games likeSteel Diver: Sub WarsandPokemon Shuffle, the company appears sensitive to the potential controversy around adopting the model too aggressively on mobile.Related:10 Nintendo games that would be great on a smartphone or tabletPresident Satoru Iwata told journalists of the company’s desire toensure its mobile games are a safe environment for childrenin its approach to making money.In his VentureBeat interview, DeNA’s Asako stressed his company’s ambitions for its Nintendo partnership to be a long-term success, noting that the two companies had been in talks of one form or another since 2010.“I think many people went to talk to them saying something like, ‘Can I have Mario? Or can I have Zelda?’ — a lot of people wanted a shortcut to get the business,” he said.“They need to be straight at what they really wanted to get at. We’re not doing this just for this year or next year — we really want to be a leading player... Some people say, ‘Why did it take so long?’ When you look at the mobile gaming market, I don’t think it’s too late to do this kind of partnership.”
Facebook is adding a feature to its Facebook Messenger app that will enable people to send payments directly to their friends on the social network.The new feature will be launched in the coming months, initially for US users only. It will be available within the Android and iOS Messenger apps as well as through the messaging section of Facebook’s website.People will have to register their debit card to send or receive payments through Messenger. Once set up, they’ll be able to tap a dollar icon within a conversation with a friend, and enter the desired amount of money to send.In itsblogpost announcing the new payments feature, Facebook stressed the security features around it, beyond the ability for users to create a dedicated PIN or to use Apple’s Touch ID fingerprint-security feature on iOS devices.“We use secure systems that encrypt the connection between you and Facebook as well as your card information when you ask us to store it for you. We use layers of software and hardware protection that meet the highest industry standards.These payment systems are kept in a secured environment that is separate from other parts of the Facebook network and that receive additional monitoring and control. A team of anti-fraud specialists monitor for suspicious purchase activity to help keep accounts safe.”Facebook’s interest in payments and messaging has been no secret for some time now. In June 2014 it hired David Marcus, then president of eBay’s payments subsidiary PayPal, to be the social network’s vice president of messaging products.In astatus update announcing the move, Marcus described the “compelling vision about mobile messaging” from Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg as the key factor in his decision to join the company, promising that he would be “getting my hands dirty again attempting to build something new and meaningful at scale”.Questioned about the hire during Facebook’s next earnings call with analysts, Zuckerberg said of Messenger that “over time there will be some overlap between that and payments … the payments piece will be a part of what will help drive the overall success and help people share with each other and interact with businesses”.Related:Messaging apps' next threads: encryption, payments, media and adsFacebook Messenger reached 500 million monthly active users in November 2014, with rapid growth fuelled by the social network’s decision to remove the messaging feature from its main apps. Peer-to-peer payments do not appear to be currently on the agenda for Facebook’s other messaging app, WhatsApp, which has 700 million active users.Other messaging apps are exploring this area, though.Snapchat unveiled a feature called Snapcashin November 2014 in partnership with mobile payments firm Square, for example.It was very similar to Facebook Messenger’s new feature, with users registering a debit card then typing a dollar sign, an amount and tapping a pay button to send money to a friend.In China, messaging app WeChat’s users have been able to register their bank accounts since 2013. During the Chinese New Year holiday in February, its userssent more than 1bn virtual “red envelopes” of cash giftsto friends using the app.Japanese social app Line is alsorolling out its Line Pay servicefor in-app payments, initially from users to retailers and businesses, but eventually to one another, too. Korean rival Kakao has also beenexperimenting with mobile payments.In the UK, meanwhile, Barclays recently becamethe first British bank to allow people to make social-media-enabled payments to each other– and to small businesses – by linking their Twitter accounts to its Pingit mobile payments app.
Tesla chief executive Elon Musk thinks that once self-driving cars become widely used, traditional human-driven vehicles may need to be banned.“It’s too dangerous. You can’t have a person driving a two-tonne death machine,” said Musk during an appearance at Nvidia’s annual developers conference, where he discussed Tesla’s ambitionsfor autonomous-cars.Musk suggested that any wholesale switch from human-driven to self-driving cars could take 20 years, because of the sheer scale of the challenge in replacing cars already on the roads.“I think it is important to appreciate the size of the automotive industrial base. There’s two billion of them,” he toldThe Verge.Tesla is known for its electric cars, but the company is also determined to develop autonomous cars too. It has alreadyunveiled an autopilot mode for its Model S vehicle, making it capable of changing lanes and self-parking.“Tesla is the leader in electric cars, and we’ll also be the leader in autonomous cars. If anyone is interested in working on autonomous cars, we’d love to have you at Tesla. It’s going to be the default thing and save a lot of lives,” Musk toldVentureBeat.The Tesla boss went on to claim that the evidence is already “overwhelming” that autonomous cars will be safer than human-driven cars, although he admitted that his industry will have to convince governments and regulatory authorities of this.Musk says the biggest challenge for autonomous vehicles is not high-speed motorways, but navigating urban streets safely at speeds of between 15mph and 50mph. “It’s the intermediate that’s hard,” he said.Related:Can driverless cars be made safe from hackers?Artificial intelligence technology is a key factor here, but Musk has been one of the high-profile figures from the tech world raising concerns about the future impact of AI in other areas,suggesting in October 2014that it could be the “biggest existential threat” to humanity if not regulated carefully.However, the AI that will be used for self-driving cars is not giving him sleepless nights. “I don’t think we have to worry about autonomous cars, because that’s sort of like a narrow form of AI,” said Musk at the Nvidia event.“It would be like an elevator. They used to have elevator operators, and then we developed some simple circuitry to have elevators just automatically come to the floor that you’re at … the car is going to be just like that.”Of more concern is the prospect ofautonomous vehicles being targeted by hackers, with Tesla already investing in security technologies to try to fend them off in the future. “We’ve put a lot of effort into that, and we’ve had third parties try to hack it,” said Musk.
Wednesday again!
Samsung’s new Galaxy A5 – the latest in its Alpha range – combines a sleek new design with decent specifications to create a compelling mid-range smartphone that looks much better than its competitors.Thin, light and manageableThe sides are chamfered metal, while two slide-out trays hold the microSD card and nano Sim card. A little bit of paint chipped off one of the doors while using a Sim ejection tool.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe A5 is one of the best built Samsung smartphones yet. It is 6.7mm thin, which is 0.2mm thinner than an iPhone 6 and thinner than most Android and Windows Phones.The metal frame, glass front and smooth – almost silky – plastic back feel sturdy, without give or flex anywhere on the body. At 123g it’s also quite light for a 5in smartphone – for comparison theiPhone 6 weighs 129g, the Galaxy S6 138g and the Motorola Moto G 2015 with 4G 155g.The 5in screen is bright, vivid and reasonably sharp with a pixel density of 294 pixels per inch (PPI) That’s the same as a5in Motorola Moto G, but it does mean it is noticeably less crisp than the 432ppiGalaxy S5.For a smartphone with a 5in screen, the Galaxy A5 is surprisingly small and manageable, making it quite easy to use with one hand.SpecificationsScreen:5in 1280 x 720 (720p) Super AMOLEDProcessor:1.2GHz quad-core Snapdragon 410RAM:2GBStorage:16GB + microSD card slot (up to 64GB)Operating system:Android 4.4.4Camera:13-megapixel rear, 5-megapixel frontConnectivity:4G, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, NFC, GPS/GlonassDimensions:69.7 x 139.3 x 6.7mmWeight:123gEnough under the hood for mostThe back is covered in a solid, silky-feeling plastic, which isn’t removable and neither is the battery.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Galaxy A5’s 1.2GHz quad-core Snapdragon 410 processor won’t win any benchmarking battles, but it is perfectly capable of handling most duties without issue.There were a few odd stutters, including animations in the British Airways app and when loading a code-heavy website such as the Guardian, but overall the phone feels snappy.While the A5 has a microSD for adding more storage, it lacks a removable battery. It does have solid battery life though, lasting a day with intensive use, longer if used sparingly. It also has Samsung’s excellent ultra power saving mode, which switches the display to black and white and leaves just a few applications and the phone accessible, extending battery life to several days when needed.Older Android and TouchWizThe Flipboard-powered ‘Briefing’ fills the left-most homescreen of the launcher, but can be turned off in settings.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Galaxy A5 runs Android 4.4.4 with Samsung’s customary modifications, in the form of a user interface called TouchWiz. It isn’t the latest version of Android – that would be theexcellent Android 5 Lollipop– and TouchWiz is a bit like Marmite, some will love it while others will hate it.It’s the same version of the software that was available on theGalaxy S5before it was updated to Lollipop, and on theGalaxy Alpha. Most of the Samsung apps can be safely ignored in favour of better ones from Google, but some features such as the “Briefing” panel on the homescreen that’s powered by social news aggregator Flipboard might well be worth using.CameraThe 13-megapixel camera is capable of solid shots, but the default camera app can be overzealous in post processing, reducing details in good light.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Galaxy A5’s 13-megapixel camerais a capable camera for a mid-range smartphone, but can’t compete with high-end models. It is considerably better than the 5-megapixel camera on the Motorola Moto G 2014, however.Images in decent light are good, and details are solid in low-light. The camera is easy to use and responsive, but its post processing can often leave something to be desired, with over-sharpened edges often destroying close-up detail in good photos. Third-party camera apps do not suffer from this problem.PriceThe Galaxy A5 costs £349 direct from Samsung, but is available for £280 without a mobile phone contract from retailers in black, white, silver and gold.VerdictThe Galaxy A5 is a solid, perfectly usable and attractive mid-range smartphone, which is unusual for Samsung, which has a habit of making its lower-priced smartphones frustrating to use.It doesn’t have all the bells and whistles of current flagship smartphones, but is thin, light and has enough processing power to get most jobs done without issue. It looks and feels like a premium smartphone, which most mid-range handsets do not.The A5’s biggest problem is its lower-priced competition, including theMotorola Moto G, which has similar specifications and a smoother software experience while costing over £100 less.Pros:premium design and feel, light and compact for a 5in smartphone, thin, solid camera, decent battery life, microSD card slotCons:no removable battery, relatively low resolution screen, not the latest version of AndroidOther reviews•Samsung Galaxy Alpha review: a direct iPhone 6 competitor•Samsung Galaxy S5 review: bigger, faster – but still plastic•Motorola Moto G 2014 review: the best all-round budget smartphone•Sony Xperia Z3 compact review: best small Android phone and iPhone 6 competitor
A week after Google’s chief financial officer resigned to spend more time with his family, his counterpart at Uber has followed suit,announcing on Mondaythat his ride “is coming to and end”.Brent Callinicos’s stated reasons for leaving Uber are not that much different than Google’s Patrick Pichette, who announced thathe was leaving his postto spend more time with his wife and to backpack around the world.In a memo, Callinicos echoes a lot of what Pichette said last week.“Time has a way of passing quickly, easily leaving your heart’s desire to ‘maybe happen later.’ For me, there is no later. It is now. It is time to do what I have desired for a very long time: time to keep a promise to my wife of not missing another school play, swim meet, or academic achievement of our daughter’s childhood,” he wrote in his memo.Related:Google CFO to leave job for a 'midlife crisis full of bliss and beauty' on the roadHe goes on to say that it’s time to admit to himself that “every day I work, I lose time with my family”.Both Callinicos and Pinchette worked at Google between 2008 and 2012 – Pinchette as CFO and Callinicos asvice-president and treasurer. It is not clear whether Pinchette’s resignation inspired Callinicos.“While my 21 years with Microsoft and Google rushed by, this is even more true of my time with Uber, and I am especially thankful to be ending my career ride right here at Uber,” he wrote. He said that for Uber, “the ride has barely gotten started” and that his successor will “take this amazing company to the next level as CFO”.Callinicos has spent the last two years working at Uber, which was most recently valued at $41bn. The company has raised more than $5bn by investors like Benchmark, Google Ventures, First Round Capital and BlackRock. His resignation is breathing fire intospeculationsthat Uber might go public later this year.“Brent has done a wonderful job here at Uber but has decided that it is time for his next journey, one where his wife and daughter take the front seat,” Uber CEO and co-founder Travis Kalanick wrote in an email sent to the staff and investors. “Though two years sounds short, Uber was a much smaller startup then – about 1/10th the size we are today. Brent has provided critical leadership to take Uber to the next level as we matured as a company.”Callinicos is to remain an adviser to the company. In the meantime, Gautam Gupta, described by Kalanick as “Brent’s right hand on strategic finance”, will become acting head of finance.In the last year, CFOs at Apple and Amazon have also left their posts.“I love Apple and the people I have had the privilege to work with and after 18 years here, it is time for me to take time for myself and my family,”said Peter Oppenheimer, Apple’s former CFO who retired in September. “For quite some time, I have wanted to live on the central coast of California and get more involved at Cal Poly, my alma mater; spend more time with my wife and sons; travel to interesting parts of the world; and something I have wanted to do for years – finish the requirements for my pilot’s license.”Amazon’s CFO Thomas Szkutakis set to retire in Juneof this year. In a statement, he said he is looking forward “to spending more time with my family and other outside interests”.
It is 7.30am and nine grown men are online, watching me bounce up and down on a trampoline from the privacy of their own homes. This is what it must feel like to be famous.No matter how it came into existence, the function of a social media platform won’t reveal itself until millions of people are using it. In its infancy, for example, you’d never guess that YouTube would become the leading star-maker of the age. Nor that Facebook would blossom into the most prominent way to inform former classmates that you’re a bit out of touch with the world and still don’t understand the difference between your and you’re.Meerkatis in this early stage. It’sa new, breathlessly touted video-streaming platform that has gained huge momentum since its releaselast month. You open an app on your phone, hit record and all your followers are invited to watch whatever you’re recording. What makes Meerkat different to, say, YouTube is that it’s completely ephemeral. Once you press stop, that’s it. Unless you save it to your phone (which I did, so I could upload it on to YouTube), the video isn’t archived. You either watch it live or you don’t watch it at all.Meerkat’s rise has been aided by the endorsement of several big-name figures. Last week, Jared Leto hosted a Q&amp;A session with fans on Meerkat, CNN has been broadcasting behind-the-scenes footage on Meerkat and Red Bull has been using it to show live snowboarding trials to fans. It’s gaining followers with such speed thatcompetitors are already racing to destroy it.You suspect that, one day, a live-streaming app similar to Meerkat will become very important. An enterprising citizen journalist – previously afraid of the ramifications of uploading permanent footage to the internet – will stream an event that the mainstream media has either ignored or can’t access, and help to bring it to wider attention. The next time there’s a Ferguson or an Arab spring, Meerkat will almost certainly be a defining voice.But that hasn’t happened yet, because the majority of smartphone owners tend not to have regular access to agenda-setting uprisings. Which means that, in my experience at least, the main role of Meerkat right now is to demonstrate just how colossally mundane our lives are. I’ve just moved to a small town not known for its broiling undercurrent of political tension. It’s so small that people here still point at aeroplanes. Late last year, someone threw some yoghurt at a police car and it actually made the news.My chances of succeeding were slim but, even so, I couldn’t just wade into the world of agenda-setting citizen journalism headfirst. I needed to start my Meerkat experience with something more innocuous. So I went into my spare bedroom, hopped on a miniature trampoline and hit record.Viewers immediately started trickling in, their avatars popping up on my screen as they did. You see their comments appear in real time, too, which was handy because I was interested to see the response to a four-minute film shot from the perspective of a 34-year-old adult man in his pants on a trampoline at 7:30 in the morning (it was “WTAF?”, by the way, which seems fair).Emboldened, I went on the hunt for an actual civil uprising. There was only one place I could go. The angriest place in town. A place that’s easily the Kentish equivalent of Tahrir Square – my local branch of Lidl. If anything was going to kick off anywhere, it’d be there. Someone is always shouting in Lidl; either at the checkout assistants, or other shoppers, or their own children. I saw a man shouting at a smashed bottle of rapeseed oil there once. Surely I’d capture some important footage there.Nope. Despite filming six full minutes of video, largely centred around the fruit and veg aisle for some reason, I failed to capture anything of value at all, except for the fact that the 2013 Mark Wahlberg film Pain &amp; Gain happened to be retailing on DVD for £2.99.In retrospect, I was hamstrung by three things. First, it was a weekday afternoon. Second, my hard-bitten journalistic instincts were immediately replaced by full-scale embarrassment about walking around a supermarket filming things like some sort of obnoxious oaf. Third, and most important, I forgot to turn the stream off when I put my phone away, resulting in several minutes of potential civil unrest as witnessed from inside my trouser pocket.Nevertheless, at its peak, I had over a dozen people watching me aimlessly drift around a supermarket. Nothing was happening, but they were still rapt. It struck me that it wasn’t the subject they were interested in, it was me. They were watching because I am an intrinsically fascinating person with many attractive qualities, and I am beloved. I could post anything – anything! – on Meerkat, and people would still watch, because they love me. So I went home and streamed a few minutes of my baby on a rug, before quickly realising that there are better things in life than pimping out children to sate your overwhelming desire for attention, and switched it off.Still, I suspect this is what Meerkat is likely to become – a vehicle for unearned narcissism. Just as Twitter is theoretically an important tool for public discourse but is actually a forum for weirdos to shout at famous people, it’s easy to see Meerkat turning into a home for dingbats and wingnuts, where attention-seeking teenagers and racists can blast their nonsense to a minuscule but dedicated audience, webcam-style.That’s only if Meerkat can maintain this momentum. Its surge in popularity has been so swift that Twitter has effectively sliced it off at the knees by throwing its weight behinda direct competitor. There’s every chance that this will turn Meerkat into another dead social-media platform, likeElloandMenshnbefore it. We might have already seen the best of Meerkat, which begs the question: if a man walks around Lidl and nobody’s watching the livestream, is he really there at all?
Apple is preparing to launch an online TV service in a “seismic” move that is set to further shake up the already-rattled television landscape.The technology giant has long had ambitions to break into TV and recently announced an exclusive deal with HBO, home of Game of Thrones. Now, according to theWall Street Journal, Apple is aiming to offer US consumers a package of 25 channels for $30-$40 a month. The service should be available by autumn.Related:Map: How much are Americans paying for cable?Content from broadcasters such as ABC, CBS, 21st Century Fox and Walt Disney would be available across all Apple devices, including iPhones, iPads and Apple TV set-top boxes.The “skinny” bundle of well-known channels would be available for afraction of the costof most cable packages, which offer hundreds of channels but cost at least twice as much as the Apple service. According to the Journal, talks with Comcast, the US’s largest cable company, over a similar streaming service collapsed last year. Comcast owns NBC Universal, which owns Bravo, USA and Universal Studios, and its content will not be part of the new TV service.One analyst familiar with the talks said the deal would create a “seismic” change in the TV industry. Speaking anonymously because of client relationships, he said the deal would hasten the end of cable companies being able to sell consumers huge packages of channels.“Now you sign up for a TV bundle and you are paying for hundreds of channels that you probably never watch. Prices on offerings are going to come down. Also for smaller channels and networks there are going to be issues. It could be very challenging for them to get picked up for smaller bundles. Look at something like Discovery – they have 15 channels at the moment,” he said.Apple officials declined to comment. The company may also face difficulties getting all the content it wants as rival streaming services Netflix and Hulu already have exclusive deals for some of the major channels’ top programmes.Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive officer, has made no secret of the company’s ambitions in TV. Last year he said TV was“stuck back in the 70s”.In an interview on the Charlie Rose Show, Cook said: “Think about how much your life has changed, and all the things around you that have changed. And yet TV, when you go in your living room to watch the TV, or wherever it might be, it almost feels like you’re rewinding the clock and you’ve entered a time capsule and you’re going backwards. The interface is terrible. I mean, it’s awful!”Earlier this monthCook announced a deal with HBO, owned by Time Warner, that will give Apple customers first access to the premium cable channel’s new standalone streaming service. HBO Now will be available from April and will give subscribers access to all of HBO’s award-winning content, which also includes the Sopranos and Veep. The launch coincides with the new season of Game of Thrones.HBO chief executive Richard Plepler announced plans for thestandalone servicelast October in a move that analysts saw as a major turning point for the cable and TV industry. HBO’s programmes are a major draw for cable customers, and the standalone service is likely to lead to more “cord cutting” – people dropping their cable packages in favor of streaming their TV from the internet.
Are screens bad for children’s creativity? Minecraft is one obvious rebuttal to such a theory, but there are also a growing number of apps and websites aiming to spark children’s imaginations rather than merely treat them as passive consumers.Even so, as kids spend more time with digital forms of entertainment, many parents are looking for ways to complement that with physical, creative play. Story is the latest potential option.Created by UK-based designer Melanie Smith, it’s a project focused on “walk-in books” presenting children with characters, maps, story cards and a mask to prompt them to come up with their own tales.Smith is trying to raise £7k on crowdfunding website Kickstarterto produce the first run of her product, charging £23 per pack. The first story is called Adventure to the Woods, which will be made available in an initial run of 500 copies.“Embarking on a career in design, I wondered if I could encourage creativity and interaction with books and stories. Could I pull a book apart and just leave the important bits; the location, the characters and the beginnings?” she explains in her pitch.Related:'Great big poo balls!' What it's like making a Kano computer with your kids“With just the bare bones of a book, would it be possible to fire up a child’s imagination using just maps, characters and tantalising beginnings?”The project’s goal is to encourage children to read and write more – particularly those who may lack confidence in both skills – while also stimulating their enjoyment of creative thinking and free play.Story’s Kickstarter pitch cites a recent report from think-tank Demos, with its concerns about childhood becoming “one prolonged stretch of spectatorship”. Hence the idea to use storytelling props to bring children back to an active, imaginative mode.There is no app for Story: it’s an entirely non-digital experience. Not a technology story, you might think. Yet it arguably taps directly into one of the most fascinating technologies of all: a child’s brain and its capacity for invention.
Nintendo’slandmark deal with DeNAwill see classic characters such as Mario and Link appear in new mobile games for smartphones and tablets for the first time. But which games would you like to see make the leap from Nintendo’s 41 years of video gaming?We’ve put our heads together and come up with a list of the top 10 games we’d like:The Legend of ZeldaZelda from the NES era.Photograph: Michael Harrison/flickrZelda’s been one of Nintendo’s best since its first release in 1986. The hack and slash, puzzle solving dungeon-crawling platformer has confused, confounded and infuriated gamers for years, but it’s the Game Boy variants such as a Link to the Past we’d like to see on a smartphone.The pick up and play gaming combined with the 2D graphics would suit the mobile experience, if DeNA can get the control scheme accurate enough.Mario KartClassic Mario Kart 64.Photograph: Brian Rawson-Ketchum/flickrMany an hour has been spent battling it out with friends and frienemies across the virtual race track.Mario Kartfrom the Super Nintendo era would be perfectly suited to a smartphone, while Sega’s Sonic and Sega All-Stars racing games on Android and iPhone have proved 3D racers work just as well.With tilt controls, wireless multiplayer and racing in bite-sized three minute chunks, Mario Kart would be an instant buy on smartphones for the commute. Just please don’t make it pay-to-win.Nintendo’s F-Zero racing series could also work well, but good luck with twitch controls on a smartphone.Super Mario Bros.A classic from 1985: Super Mario Bros.Photograph: Carles Escrig i Royo/flickrPlatformers could be tricky. Nintendo’s legendary Super Mario series has been the pinnacle of platforming for decades, predicated on keen controls and the need for precise timing. Mario on a smartphone would be excellent, but only if touchscreen controls could capture the accuracy of the classic Nintendo joypads.Sega has proved it can be done with ports of classic Sonic games as well as its new Sonic 4 series, so let’s hope DeNA can do as good a job with our little Italian plumber friend.Super Smash Bros.Super Smash Bros in its glory days.Photograph: Sarah Joy/flickrEveryone loves a fun beat-‘em-up and Super Smash Bros is probably the best from the last 15 years from Nintendo’s stable. Often frenetic, its short battles, simple arenas and multiplayer gaming could be well suited to a smartphone or tablet. Although we can see many smashed screens after frustrated hurling of smartphones onto the floor. Perhaps the game would have to come with a Wiimote style strap?Donkey KongDonkey Kong went from hurling barrels at Mario to hurling barrels at bad buys.Photograph: Rob DiCaterino/flickrStarring another one of Nintendo’s platforming greats, Donkey Kong Country would be great on a smartphone. Its controls were never quite as precise as Mario’s, which could help the big ape make the leap to the touchscreen more easily than Nintendo’s figurehead.PokemonA straightforward social interaction, as envisaged in Pokemon CrystalPhotograph: PRWe can’t think of a game more suited to the smartphone. Pokemon, with its turn-by-turn gaming and its collect-‘em-all attitude it would be an instant hit on the smartphone as it was on the Game Boy.It doesn’t need complex controls and a touchscreen interface for battles, and wandering around in the virtual game world could be very satisfying. Build in a bit of wireless multiplayer battling and we can see the trains, buses, trams and tubes of Britain turned into battle arenas. Just please wear earphones.Wii SportsWii Sports might need to link up a tablet with smartphones, but today’s mobile devices have all the sensors needed to make motion gaming work.Photograph: NintendoWii Sports proved that motion gaming could appeal to the masses. The smartphone already has almost all the sensors packed into it that the Nintendo Wii’s motion controller did in 2006, so there’s no reason a spot of Wii tennis, golf or bowling couldn’t work. Perhaps played on a tablet using smartphones as the controllers?MetroidMetroid from the 1980sPhotograph: Themeplus/flickrOne of Nintendo’s most acclaimed series, Metroid definitely deserves a mobile outing. Similar to Mario, players will need accurate controls to make sure Samus Aran survives, but a 2D version similar to the Game Boy releases could do well.GoldenEyeRare’s GoldenEye, released originally on N64 and later remastered for Wii (version pictured), used simplified controls to bring first-person shooter action to the consolesPhotograph: PRFirst-person shooters have struggled with the leap to the touchscreen smartphone, primarily because of the lack of solid controls. Nintendo’s GoldenEye from the heady days of the N64 could fare better because of two simple facts. One, it was a fantastic game, and two, it relied on auto-aiming, meaning all the player had to do was vaguely line up the bad guy and fire, the computer took care of the rest.Touchscreen virtual joysticks are fine for moving around and as precision isn’t needed for GoldenEye, it could be great.Star FoxThe Star Fox series offered on-rails shooting thrills that would be perfect on a tablet screenPhotograph: PRThe classic on-rails space shooter Star Fox could be a perfect fit for a smartphone, with relatively straightforward controls that a virtual joystick and on-screen buttons could replicate.Something akin to the Nintendo 64 version, known as Lylat Wars in the UK where it was a particular favourite, would work well especially on the larger phablets and tablets.•Nintendo: NES to smartphone, it’s been about one thing – control
Google is introducing a new age-rating system for Android apps and games on its Google Play store, while also revealing a new policy of reviewing apps before they are published on the store.The new age-rating system will see Android developers completing a questionnaire about their app or game’s content before it is published, rather than simply choosing a rating.“The developer goes in and takes this single questionnaire, based on the level of content that they have in their app, and at the end of the questionnaire they have the ability to activate ratings for different territories,” Eunice Kim, product manager for Google Play, told the Guardian.Related:Android has 1bn active users and grand ambitions for cars, wearables and TVGoogle has worked with the International Age Rating Coalition and local ratings bodies including the ESRB, PEGI, USK, ClassInd and the Australian Classification Board on the new system.“Different countries have different ideas of what content is appropriate for kids. We’re going to help developers categorise their apps for the right audience,” said Purnima Kochikar, director of apps and games for Google Play.Existing apps where developers have not completed the questionnaire will be marked as unrated on the Google Play store, which may mean they are blocked in certain countries. From May, developers submitting new apps or updating older ones will be required to complete the questionnaire.“It’s pretty much focused on the classic things you think about: sexual content, violent content, drugs and alcohol, and gambling,” said Kochikar. She acknowledged that there are some nuances for individual countries – rules barring content that supports acts of terrorism in Australia for example.Kochikar also told the Guardian about Google’s new policy of reviewing apps before publishing them on Google Play – a change from the hands-off policy that had been in place since the store’s early days as Android Market.“A few months ago we began reviewing apps and games before they were published on Google Play to catch policy offenders earlier in the process. This is a new process for us, and it involves a team of experts,” she said.Google is keen to stress that it does not believe introducing an Apple-style approval process will slow Android developers down as they launch and then update their apps on its store.“One of the greatest features we have on Play is the ability for developers to iterate quickly and publish quickly. Developers say that is something they truly value,” said Kochikar.“We have been able to build a system that catches violations early without adding friction for the developers.” Google says that its new approval process works in a matter of hours, rather than days or weeks.Google Play apps and games director Purnima Kochikar.The company is also launching new features to show developers where their app is in the approval process, including more information on why they have been rejected or suspended from the store, to encourage them to fix problems more quickly.“Usually it’s the simple things: do you have your IP correctly, are you doing something that most people would find egregious, or do you use ads in a very spammy way that takes away from the user experience,” said Kochikar.“When I talk to developers, I try to teach them more discretion. If you talk to our best developers – the ones who are super-successful in monetisation – I call it an exercise in restraint. They are usually good at creating a good user experience first, rather than just monetising.”She added that she hopes the new age-ratings system and approval process will help more developers build sustainable businesses with Android, including making it easier for them to go global with their apps in the former case.Google recently said that itpaid out $7bn (£4.7bn) to Android developers in 2014for apps and games released through Google Play for its billion-strong community of Android users.That’s less than the $10bn paid out by Apple to iOS developers from a smaller base of users, but Google’s figure shows Android’s growing significance to mobile developers – something that’s reflected in the greater number of apps launching simultaneously on both platforms.Related:The best Android apps of 2014“Even smaller developers are becoming very astute about going global,” said Kochikar, citing London-based developer Space Ape Games as an example, when it took its Samurai Siege mobile game to Japan.“We worked with them on localisation and provided them with great tools and support, and today 15% of their revenues are coming from Japan,” she said.The new age-ratings system will, she hopes, take the guesswork out of the process for developers targeting a global audience for their apps and games, without necessarily having the cultural knowledge of varying standards.“Those standards can be very different, and trying to understand that as a developer can be challenging. We hope this will help them,” she said.“Right now, we are reaching one billion people in more than 190 countries, and more and more developers – big and small – are building successful businesses on Play. We have really looked at being better business partners for developers.”
Nintendo has always been about control. Close, painstaking control. In 1983, when the company launched its first major home console, the Nintendo Entertainment System, then-president Hiroshi Yamauchi drew up a strict licensing agreement for game developers. If they wanted to work with the machine, they were only allowed to release five games a year, these had to be exclusive to Nintendo, and there was to be no overt violence or suggestive material. The six biggest game publishers in Japan immediately signed up. The Nintendo era of console domination had begun.Over 30 years later, the industry has changed radically in all aspects except one: Nintendo’s urge to control. The restrictive licensing agreements are gone, but the company’s business still revolves around manufacturing its own hardware, selling it at a profit, and producing the best games to support it. Current president Satoru Iwata has repeatedly acknowledged the rise of smartphone gaming and the importance of online connectivity, but its products and strategies have lagged behind competitors Microsoft and Sony. Both of those companies have expansive online infrastructures, supporting complex multiplayer and video-on-demand services; both tie in their console businesses with smartphone hardware and cross-platform operating systems. Smartphone games are, after all, big business. Market research firm Newzoo calculated that the industry will be worth $30bn a year in 2015. There are over 116m smartphone gamers in the US alone. Everyone wants a slice of that. Well, until today’s announcement, everyone except Nintendo.‘Our approach is ... no’In January 2014, Iwata told attendees at a business briefing: “Lots of people have said we should go on to smartphones over the last few years, telling us our business would increase. But our approach is not to put our games on smartphones.” Actually, his meaning was more nuanced; he later confirmed that the company was looking into smartphone development, but that it wouldn’t be about porting current titles over to the new platform.That subtlety was inevitably lost, and analysts reacted to the “no smartphone games” phrase with consternation. “I believe that Nintendo will see a further erosion of their market position in this space,” stated Spencer Izard from IDC Insights. Speaking at a cloud gaming conference last autumn, notorious US analyst Michael Pachter put it blunty: “[Nintendo] are more than a decade behind the curve, and they are so insular that there is no desire internally to learn from others. There is no place for Nintendo hardware. Nobody cares. They will have to abandon hardware.”Which is wrong, of course. There is a place. Take the Nintendo 3DS, the company’s latest handheld gaming machine. Its market should have been utterly destroyed by the smartphone, but it was the best-selling console in the US in February, shifting almost 400,000 units, due mostly to its re-birth as New 3DS, with better 3D and controls. The machine is selling because it has amazing games like Monster Hunter 4 and Super Smash Bros – games you can’t buy on smartphone. As Iwata pointed out in his press conference on Tuesday morning, in 2014, five 3DS titles sold over 2m copies each – an unprecedented achievement. Certainly, it’s a smaller market than smartphones, but Nintendo dominates it. This is a company that has prospered through the toughest years of the games industry, it beat the crash of 1983, because it controlled the market and placed the emphasis on quality. Quality still matters.A Nintendo fan purchases one of the first Wii U systems in the world in November 2012. Part of Nintendo’s reluctance to jump into the smartphone market has been to avoid alienating their core fanbase.Photograph: Anders Krusberg/APPeople call Iwata backward in his thinking, but he’s just cautious, and with good reason.Of coursehe has beenstudying the smartphone market; of course he must understand that there are new audiences to reach on smartphone and tablet devices; of course he appreciates that families are more likely to use an iPad or a Samsung phablet as a gateway to gaming now, rather than a dedicated entry-level device like the 3DS. But Nintendo has unique concerns. Its fans expect quality, value and pixel-perfect design sensibilities. The company could never just hand Mario over to some free-to-play giant and allow the character to become just another commodity. This isMario –the most consistently revered brand in gaming.As Iwata stated inthe smartphone press conference: “I really had to thoroughly consider how we would be able to grow the business by maintaining and nurturing the value of Nintendo IP and what conditions would make that happen, because the value of content can easily be deflated in the digital world and, especially on smart devices, it is not easy to maintain content value since the lifespan tends to be very short, as much content is released and then replaced so quickly.”So Nintendo has prodded at the market. It has experimented with freemium content through its 3DS titles Steel Diver: Sub Wars and Pokemon Shuffle; it has announced plans for a smartphone-based extension to its Miiverse social network. And no doubt it has been searching for a suitable partner.Why DeNA, why now?Japan’s video game giant Nintendo president Satoru Iwata (right) shakes hands with Japanese online game operator DeNA president Isao Moriyasu during a press conference in Tokyo on 17 March.Photograph: Yoshikazu Tsuno/AFP/Getty ImagesNow it believes it has that partner in smartphone gaming veteran DeNA. Formed in 1999, the company runs the Mobage games and social networking portal (now re-branded as DeNA Games), the largest service of its type in Japan. DeNA already has content deals with Square Enix, the creator of the Final Fantasy series, and Disney. It understands these big global brands. The companies have assured gamers they won’t be porting 3DS or Wii U titles to smartphones, so those platforms are guarded. Furthermore, creativity and production haven’t been leased wholesale to DeNA: Nintendo teams will be working on smartphone games. It’s still all about control.“The Nintendo-DeNA alliance is a good fit for both parties and offers up a number of important synergies for each,” says Piers Harding-Rolls, head of games at IHS Digital. “DeNA remains one of the biggest mobile games companies in Japan and, we believe, shares cultural similarities with Nintendo, especially across its most popular content. The alliance gives Nintendo access to a large audience in its home market, which remains very important to its overall financial performance. Japanese consumers spend significantly more per capita on mobile games than in any other country and it remains the biggest market for both smartphone and handheld gaming. While the partnership gives Nintendo immediate potential to grow its domestic revenues through this audience, gaining access to DeNA’s mobile expertise is important too to realise this potential.”Harding-Rolls also points out how valuable the deal is to DeNA. The company’s revenue is falling and it needs fresh IP to maintain growth. It has also struggled to gain a foothold outside of its domestic market. An alliance with Nintendo will certainly help here.From now on, it’s about working out how to maintain that old sense of control within the volatile and unpredictable mobile space. Iwata knows that Nintendo investors are frothing at the mouth at the prospect of a freemium Super Mario game. Last year, a hedge fund manager with shares in Nintendodeclared: “Just think of paying 99 cents just to get Mario to jump a little higher.” The response, predictably, was revulsion from the gaming press. Nintendo understand that it cannot intrude on its classic design sensibilities in such a crass way. “Going mobile” isn’t just about sticking a free-to-play mechanic onto the side of a ported classic. Freemium itself isn’t the problem – millions of smartphone gamers expect it these days. The problem is how it’s applied and who gets alienated in the process.“The fact is, it is a highly competitive market and only a handful of content providers have been able to show enduring results,” said Iwata in the press conference. “If Nintendo cannot make it to that handful of winners, it does not make sense for us to be engaged in the software business on smart devices.” Nintendo can’t just enter a market, it needs to beat the market.This time, though, it needs help – via DeNA – and that represents the core intrigue here. As Harding-Rolls puts it: “The main challenge will be knitting together the cultures of both companies and aligning the speed of development and iteration that is needed in the mobile space with Nintendo’s more patient and systematic approach to games content production.” The company needs to build a new team that understands the smartphone ethos: release quick, iterate, monetise. It needs to apply its sense of quality and calm to that.In 1983, the mainstream console industry was in a place where smartphone gaming is now: a wild west of mass consumer interest, competing platforms and radically different business models. Atari, the dominant company at that time, went with volume, choking the market with forgettable releases. Nintendo watched, learned and produced quality games. In the 90s, it learned from the Sega Mega Drive and allowed darker, more mature games into its family mix. In the 2000s it learned from the ruinous hardware war between PlayStation and Xbox and produced the Wii, a console with off-the-shelf parts and a weird new controller that people loved. It has misstepped along the way, but it has always learned.And through the Yamauchi and Iwata eras, the lesson has always been the same. It is a simple lesson, but it is something so many video game designers, publishers and hardware manufacturers have missed or messed up. It is a lesson that will always be the Nintendo motto.Never relinquish control.
Nintendo has officially confirmed that it is working on a brand new dedicated games platform, under the development codename “NX”. The company has not stated whether this is a home console or handheld gaming device.The announcement was made during a hastily convened press conference in Tokyo on Tuesday. The main purpose of the event was to explain Nintendo’s decision to enter the smartphone gaming market, via a partnership with smartphone games specialist DeNA.However, Nintendo’s chief executive, Satoru Iwata, went on to announce the hardware platform in order to assuage fears that Nintendo may move away from manufacturing dedicated games machines.During the press event, Iwata said: “As proof that Nintendo maintains strong enthusiasm for the dedicated game system business, let me confirm that Nintendo is currently developing a dedicated game platform with a brand-new concept under the development codename NX. It is too early to elaborate on the details of this project, but we hope to share more information with you next year.”Nintendo’s current home console, the Wii U, has not been as successful as its 100m-selling predecessor. Released in 2012, the machine, which comes with a touchscreen controller called the GamePad has sold around 10m units. In comparison, Sony’s PlayStation 4, released over a year later, has already passed the 20m mark.However, Nintendo has seen continued success with its 3DS handheld console, releasing several iterations, including this year’s New 3DS with improved stereoscopic effects and a larger screen. The series has now sold over 50m units.Nintendo has been slow to embrace the rise of smartphone gaming, which now makes around $30bn (£20.3bn) a year, and both analysts and investors were becoming impatient. There have been suggestions that Nintendo may be about to abandon hardware production entirely and concentrate on developing its world-respected IP, such as Super Mario Bros, Mario Kart and Zelda on other devices.With the announcement of NX, however, Iwata has confirmed Nintendo’s dedication to gaming hardware.“Of course, the challenge of asking our consumers to purchase dedicated video game hardware has become harder now that smart devices have widely spread,” he stated. “However, we recognise that our business model of producing both video-game hardware and software is effective even today, and we do not share this pessimistic view of the future for dedicated video-game systems.”There is no other information about the machine, though Nintendo may well provide an additional teaser at this year’s E3 gaming exhibition in Los Angeles in June.
In Japan, they play Monster Hunter everywhere. You’ll see groups of people in parks and cafes, or on packed commuter trains, handheld consoles clutched in their fists, battling creatures together.This strange game series, a combination of role-playing adventure and hunting simulation has sold over 30m copies since the first title arrived on PlayStation 2 in 2004. Five years ago, it single-handedly saved Sony’s PSP console, with 2010’s Monster Hunter Portable 3rd shifting 5m copies. But somehow, it is yet to really crack the western market. The game can seem obtuse with its intricate combat systems and upgrade mechanics, and its multiplayer mode is based around fun and co-operation rather than the deathmatch-style competition we’re used to in the West.But Monster Hunter 4 Ultimate – the latest title in the series, released on 3DS in February – is a game so beautifully planned and executed in every aspect that it will take your breath away multiple times in every sitting. It is a whole world jammed into a game cartridge the size of a stamp.The core of the experience is hunting enormous monsters. Around this, there are all manner of extraneous activities that feed into and out of your hunting career, but this is basically a game built around boss fights. Perhaps the appeal is somewhat subconscious; we are, after all, a species of hunter-gatherers that nowadays do very little of either.Upon either killing or capturing one of the game’s 51 large monsters (there are also smaller species), you carve them up and use the body parts obtained to make better armour and weapons. Your hunter begins in rather sad-looking basic togs, with one of each weapon type, but soon those early hunts lead to beautifully-designed (and much more effective) gear. Taking down a Great Jaggi, and then seeing the claws and tough skin reworked into a snazzy chestpiece, is a simple thrill that – as the monsters get tougher and the stuff you can make from them gets better – becomes deeply rewarding in its own right.This reward loop is at the centre of everything in Monster Hunter 4U, the diabolical twist being that what you get from a monster is randomised every time. This is at once a minor source of frustration and the reason the system manages to pull you in so effectively. You kill, you hope for a specific item, you get another, you try again. This skinner box-like compulsion mechanic is often characterised as “grinding” – but this is a woefully off-base analysis.Grinding is an experience familiar to any gamer, and refers to repeating the same actions in the same way multiple times in order to acquire experience points, gold, or loot. In a role-playing game (RPG), for example, if you’re not at a high-enough level to kill a boss you’ll often circle around and kill the same enemies over and over in order to level up. Grinding is, generally speaking, a bad mechanic, or at the least a boring one.What is often mistaken for grinding in Monster Hunter – killing large monsters multiple times – is in fact a completely different design ethos. The iconic Rathalos, a huge winged dragon that breathes fire and can poison hunters with its long tail spike, has a range of possible attacks, as well as two behaviour states (normal and enraged), and can fight in almost any environment the game has to offer. It can fight on the ground, or take to the skies to rain fire and dive-bomb hunters.Monster Hunter 4 Ultimate: it’s not grinding, it’slearningPhotograph: PRThe point about grinding is that you repeat the same mindless actions over and over – but when you fight a Rathalos you will never do this. In each fight the beast will respond to the hunters in a different way, chain attacks together in different orders, and surprise you over and over with its resourcefulness in unusual situations. As you progress through the game you’ll begin hunting the Azure Rathalos and then even later the Silver Rathalos, which add new moves and increased intelligence and aggression to the mix. Essentially, you’re learning how to take it down, but there is no guaranteed route to success.It should be obvious how beautifully this system aligns with the theme of being a hunter. The first time you encounter most monsters, they’ll batter you from pillar to post for daring to intrude on their stomping grounds. As you struggle against this you’ll learn their moves, make mental notes of a few tells, and realise you should have brought antidotes, or sonic bombs, or maybe even a different weapon. Soon, imperceptibly at first, the scales begin to tip. Soon it’syouchasing down the monster, tooled-up with the perfect gear and with the kind of experience that only comes from hard-fought victories, relentlessly attacking and dodging every offensive onslaught by reflex.What you have done is mastered that monster. And then you move on to the next, which you’d better believe is bigger, spikier, and eats five of that first one for breakfast every morning. The point is that mastering a beautifully-crafted AI creature like this is not grinding. Yes, you fight the same monster multiple times, and if you want to make every item possible from a monster’s organic treasure trove you’ll need to fight it a lot. But though your kit may become more tailored, or your armour a little better, the improvement in your hunting ability is almost nothing to do with statistics – it’s about you. This is a skill-based system built around repetition, rather than a series of stat increases built around repetition, and the gulf between these is the difference between hundreds of average action-RPGs and one of the greatest in history.The RPG element to Monster Hunter is perhaps not obvious, because there is little here we associate with traditional examples of the genre – the hero’s quest, the interminable cutscenes, the irritating characters and, more than anything, the linear progression. Playing the role of a hunter creates a more profound relationship between player and game, through the blindingly simple tactic of subtly tying everything together.Take as an example having something to eat. One of MH4U’s great draws is the ability to play online with up to three other hunters, and set out together to take down a giant beast. These fights – where the monster is deadlier and has more health – are the pinnacle of what the game has to offer. You meet other players in a Gathering Hall where you can buy items, sort through your inventory, post quests, and share a meal. These meals, depending on what you have and how it’s cooked, confer various buffs.In 2009, Capcom set up a pop-up Gathering Hall for Monster Hunter fans in Charing Cross Road. There are more permanent bases in JapanPhotograph: public domainNo serious hunter, and you learn this quickly, ever hunts on an empty stomach. Which leads to the spectacle of four armoured players, each with an enormous weapon strapped to their back, sitting down together at a table and gobbling up a delicious feast cooked by a cat (don’t ask). This may seem like a minor detail but the sense of camaraderie it creates is enormous; especially when you consider the fact that, in five minutes, the guy on your left will be hanging onto the back of a beast for dear life, while the one opposite is running away to heal, and the last is cartwheeling away after being smashed by a paw the size of her own body.I play lots of multiplayer games and, among them all, Monster Hunter has the nicest community: the pros help new players along, there’s no abuse, and when a quest is failed the atmosphere is subdued rather than toxic. It is no coincidence that this is the case in a game where such care and attention has been spent on seemingly incidental social details. Alongside those meals there is a series of gestures available to players, among which is the “Prance”. Choose this and your hunter puts both arms up and does jazz hands, while jogging jauntily in a circle. It is an absolutely ridiculous sight, unimaginable in any of the Highly Serious testosterone-rammed universes so familiar to gaming, and every regular hunting companion I have adores prancing at any opportunity: atop a defeated beast, in the hall before setting out, even during little lulls mid-hunt.There are so many other important aspects to this game: the 14 weapons to use, each with a completely distinct moveset and fighting style, as well as enormous and bespoke upgrade paths; the much-improved single-player experience; the enormously-improved online connectivity; the best-in-class translation work, which gives every NPC more character in a few lines than most games manage in hundreds; the many minigames and idle distractions, all of which somehow feed back into the hunting; the peerless aesthetic, which ranges from ragtag travelling tents to the burnished gleam of a G-Rank hunter’s chestplate; the sheer variety of modes that offer hugely different takes on the core activity; the free DLC being released weekly, from costumes to quests; the new system that lets you “mount” monsters to try and briefly down them; the magnificent theme tunes of each monster, alongside gorgeous aesthetic touches like draining the whole environment’s colour when a Gore Magala is enraged.I could go on. And on. But how do you summarise, let alone explain, a game that potentially contains thousands of hours of play? Monster Hunter is not an endless game: if you want a focused experience, you can probably crack through the single-player in 30-40 hours. But it is, especially in multiplayer, an inexhaustible one.There is often some snobbery about the idea of sequels in gaming – perhaps thanks to the film industry’s general example of diminishing returns – but games are a medium that by their interactive nature are much more suited to iteration. The principle of tweaking and refining a system over multiple entries has led to some of the industry’s finest moments: Resident Evil 4, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, Final Fantasy VII, Mario Kart 8 ... all classics.Monster Hunter 4U shows where the best of them can end up. The PS2 original, released just over a decade ago, was great from the start. But from there, developer Capcom, one of videogaming’s greatest creative forces, has built on this foundation and then some. Monster Hunter 4U is a masterpiece.
When IBM’s Watson computer won a special episode of US game show Jeopardy, many hailed the event as a threshold of a new era of computing: the end, as IBM’s Florian Pinel puts it, of “the era of programmable computers, where you had to write code to get a computer to do what you wanted. Now, we have cognitive computers, which can learn what you want”.But Watson’s Jeopardy victory was only ever intended as a proof of concept, designed to get the artificially intelligent computer system in the mind of the public.It was undoubtedly impressive: parsing the crooked question-as-answer format of the gameshow to deliver accurate responses faster and more frequently than two of the show’s most successful contestants. But it’s also a long way from what Watson was created for: to use that prodigious ability to parse massive databases of natural-language information to act as an aid to humans in highly technical areas, working alongside them rather than competing with them to be the best.That’s what the service has been quietly doing away from the public’s gaze, developing its role as a capable diagnostic engine for the medical community, and opening up an application programming interface to the public, enabling more than 7,000 apps to plug in to the database.Now, Watson’s back in the public eye, but wearing a new hat. No longer a gameshow competitor, it’s now a chef.While winning Jeopardy was a flawless demonstration of Watson’s sheer power, Chef Watson is actually closer to what the AI was developed for, explains IBM’s Steve Abrams. “Its job is to create new and never-before-seen recipes.“Think about areas like pharmaceutical research, medicine, law,” he says. In those areas, professionals amass huge knowledge, which they can only realistically use by sorting through with heuristics developed over years in the field. “As professionals those biases generally serve us well, but sometimes they don’t. That’s really what Watson majors in: it has no biases, it has no preconceived notions.”That helps Watson it its more serious day job, but is just as applicable in the kitchen. Chef James Briscione,who has co-authored a cook-book with the AI computer, gives an example of the sort of thing which Watson’s targeted naiveté can enable.Typically, apples are cooked in butter. The fruit can be grown almost anywhere, but in American cooking it is most associated with Northern European styles, where cooking with dairy products is more common. In contrast, Mediterranean cooking, which typically uses olive oil in the place of butter for frying, and rarely involves apples, which can struggle in arid climates.Watson, of course, doesn’t care about any of that. In fact, Briscione says, “we found that apples share more flavour profile with olive oil than butter”. So Watson readily recommends mixing the two ingredients, leading Briscione to discover the joy of poaching apple sous-vide in olive oil with sage as a condiment for roast duck. “It was something I’d never conceive of doing on my own, but it was one of the best singular bites that came out of doing three years [working alongside the machine].”.Watson approaches cooking with a scientific mindset, looking at the role individual ingredients serve in a recipe, and focusing down on the specific aspects of their composition which makes them work. Of course, that doesn’t always result in overturning conventional wisdom. “One of my favourite examples is a compound that shows up in tomatoes, mozzarella, parmesan and baked wheat,” Briscoine says, “which is scientific proof that pizza is delicious.”Initially, the Chef Watson service was focused very specifically on the ingredients: working with Briscione at the Institute of Culinary Education in New York, it was up to the chefs to turn an abstract list of ingredients with complementary flavour profiles into a full recipe.But now, the service has moved into a public beta test in cooperation with food website Bon Appétit, using the frameworks of pre-existing recipes (and its ability to understand and write natural English) to write out full recipes.Of course, there are still bugs in the system, as Dawn Perry, Bon Appétit’s digital food editor, explains. On the site, “we have this one punch recipe, which uses pomegranate seeds.” The recipe serves as a basis for a lot of Watson’s cocktail suggestions, with an unfortunate side effect. “Because pomegranate seeds are classified as a nut” by the knowledge engine, “we get a whole load of cocktail recipes with pecan nuts and brazil nuts in them. I’m like” – she affects the tone of a frustrated mum – “Watson, come on.”For those already into cooking, Chef Watson may already be an appealing prospect – but IBM wants his effect to trickle down even to those who rarely make their own meals. Abrams explains: “As with any maker community, at the tip of the iceberg there’s a very small number of people creating new recipes. Then there’s more people who remake recipes. Then there’s more people who take the recipes as written. And then there’s the much larger number of people who just eat.”For those people, the AI offers other possibilities, such as cutting down on food waste. “Celery, sour cream, fresh herbs, citrus and bread are the most wasted foods in the US fridge,” says Pinel. “So Watson made a recipe that uses all those foods.“You can also use Chef Watson at a retail store or a restaurant to optimise your ingredient inventory.”The next question to answer, of course, is whether any self-respecting cook will be OK with taking instructions from an AI. If you are,Chef Watson’s cookbook is out now.
A major social media firm was “frozen” with indecision over whether and how to share information with the police in the midst of the Charlie Hebdo attacks in Paris, according to journalist and academic Emily Bell.Speaking at SXSW in Austin, Texas, Bell – Director, Tow Center for Digital Journalism at Columbia Journalism School – cited the case as a major example of the way social media firms are completely unprepared to adequately wield the power they have developed.“For one reason or another I’ve talked to a number of individuals at social media companies, and what seems to be the case at three or four of them is that they genuinely don’t know what to do. Some of these ethical challenges are completely new territory to them,” Bell said.“I can anonymise one: there was a social media company which, during the Charlie Hebdo shootings, realised that there may be aspect of the data they owned which was enabling the gunmen to get away – or might enable the police to stop them.“One of [that company’s] employees told me that they were literally frozen, because they didn’t have a rulebook for that situation.”Also speaking on the panel was former NSA general counsel Stewart Baker, who accused Bell of “moral bullying” when it came to Silicon Valley.Quoting author Janet Malcolm, Baker said that “every journalist who is not too stupid or too full of himself to notice what is going on knows what he does is morally indefensible,” and that the industry suffers from the presumption that “what we think is ethical is what’s ethical”.“What is central to our idea of privacy may be something we didn’t care about 20 years ago and won’t care about 20 years from now,” Baker continued. “The whole right to privacy was invented by an eminent american jurist who said the pain of his privacy being invaded was shocking, worse than physical. And what did he mean? Someone took his picture without his permission.“I would submit that the reason Silicon Valley is less sensitive to these privacy issues is that they live with the future.”
Nintendo has been fending off questions about whether it should start making smartphone and tablet games for years. Now the company is making its move.Nintendo is teaming up with fellow Japanese firm DeNA in a partnership that will see the companies release a series of new games, as well as launch an online gaming community around them.No specific games have been revealed yet, but don’t expect any conversions of modern-day Wii U or 3DS titles.“To ensure the quality of game experience that consumers expect from this alliance of Nintendo and DeNA, only new original games optimised for smart device functionality will be created, rather than porting games created specifically for the Wii U home console or the Nintendo 3DS portable system,” explainedNintendo’s announcement of the deal.However, both companies will be creating games as part of the partnership, which raises the prospect of some of Nintendo’s talented development teams being let loose on new smartphone and tablet titles, while ports of games from older Nintendo consoles and handhelds have not been ruled out.“In order to create completely new game experiences for smart devices, all Nintendo IP will be eligible for development and exploration by the alliance,” said Nintendo.Related:It's-a-me, Mario! And soon I'll be playing my games without your help …DeNA is best known for releasing freemium mobile games that make their money from in-app purchases of virtual items and currency, so the deal raises the prospect of this model being applied to franchises like Mario and Zelda – something that may not sit well with all fans.However, Nintendo has been experimenting with the freemium business model on its own devices recently: 3DS gameSteel Diver: Sub Warsin early 2014, and match-three puzzlerPokemon Shufflein 2015.DeNA first came to prominence with its Mobage mobile gaming community, and that experience will be a factor in its partnership with Nintendo too.The companies will be launching an “online membership service” spanning smartphones and tablets, PC and Nintendo’s own gaming devices. It’s due to launch in the autumn.DeNA also announced a deal in February with console publisher Square Enix to launch a new Final Fantasy mobile game, Final Fantasy: Record Keeper, and has also recently launched mobile games based on Transformers and Marvel.As recently as January 2014,Nintendo executives were denying speculationthat the company was preparing to release games for smartphones and tablets.“Nintendo’s intention is not to make Nintendo software available on smart devices,” said a spokesperson at the time, while admitting that the company saw mileage in mobile devices as a way to promote the games available for its own platforms.
You wouldn’t take your dog to a disco if you’ve got any concern for their welfare, but how about bringing the disco to your dog?That’s the goal of the Kickstarter crowdfunding campaign forDisco Dog, a “smartphone-controlled LED dog vest” created by design agency Party, which is seeking $15k of funding to develop the product.Yes, on one level this is a novelty product designed for internet virality. “It displays a variety of animated patterns and custom scrolling text in thousands of colours,” explains the Kickstarter pitch.“You can choose an animation or type in a message using our Disco Dog application on your smartphone. It’s a fun way to celebrate your dog, and also keeps her visible and safe when it’s dark out.”That hints at the more serious side of Disco Dog: if its connection to the owner’s smartphone drops because their pet has strayed too far, the display will switch to a “LOST DOG” message to alert passers by.Party is planning to make an initial run of 80 vests, most of which will be sold to backers on Kickstarter – although they’ll have to pay $300 for a small-dog version, $350 for medium-sized dogs, and $400 for large dogs.(Note: you can get a decent non-LED non-smartphone-controlled high-visibility dog vest for less than a tenner, and handle the lost dog side of things via the low-tech medium of “shouting”.)Even so, with nearly $5.6k of pledges with 26 days to go in its campaign, and a shout-out from Kickstarter in its weekly community email as a product to check out, Disco Dog looks likely to hit its relatively modest funding target.With a projected shipping date of November 2015, expect to see four-legged models sporting the vests on the streets – if not the discos – of Williamsburg and Shoreditch by Christmas.
Oh,of courseit’s Tuesday.
Smartphones are getting bigger, much bigger. Almost all flagship smartphones have screens larger than 5in, while the even bigger phablets are more popular than ever, with good reason.With screens measuring 5.5in and up, phablets have plenty of space to make the most of the screen in your pocket. From watching movies and browsing sites, to editing text and manipulating photos, almost everything is better on a big screen.But phablets are (mostly) expensive, so which one is right for you, and do you really need to spend £600 or more?Samsung Galaxy Note 4The Samsung Galaxy Note 4 is arguably the best out-and-out phablet available.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPrice:£629Samsung’s Galaxy Note line arguably invented the phablet and made it popular. Its 5.7in Note 4 is the best yet, with a 2K OLED screen that’s the best currently available on a smartphone – bright, clear and crisp with rich blacks.It also a powerful quad-core processor, 3GB of RAM and 32GB of built-in storage with a microSD card slot for adding more space for movies, TV shows, photos and music. The 16-megapixel camera is excellent, the fingerprint sensor makes it easy to unlock and a two-day battery life means it lasts longer than most others.The metal edging, rigid body and textured back make it feel great in the hand but also easy to grip, which is important for a large smartphone.But the biggest selling point is the S Pen stylus, which hides in the bottom of the phone until needed, but is accurate and well supported by software – handy for quick sketches or handwritten notes.Verdict:the best Android phablet availableSamsung Galaxy Note 4 review: big, powerful and Samsung’s best yetGoogle Nexus 6The Nexus 6 is difficult to hold in one hand because of its sheer size.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPrice:£499Google’s first phablet is a monster. With a 6in screen, it’s one of the biggest, but is easier to handle than you might expect thanks to a curved back – although one-handed use is a struggle.Made by Motorola, it feels rock-solid, with a comfortable design and simple, screen-focused front. Two front-facing speakers either side of the screen are loud and clear and the 2K screen is excellent.The Nexus 6 has the same powerful quad-core processor and 3GB of RAM as the Note 4, but only has 32 or 64GB of storage, which isn’t expandable. It lasts for approximately a day and half of heavy use, but has wireless charging built in.The 13-megapixel camera is solid, while Motorola’s useful active display feature dimly displays notifications in black and white when the rest of the screen is off.The Nexus 6’s big draw is the latest version of Android 5 Lollipop without any added bloat, which makes it fast and slick.Verdict:the latest Android, but 6in might be just too big for someGoogle Nexus 6 review: big is beautiful, but not manageableOnePlus OneOnePlus One.Photograph: Maurizio Pesce/flickrPrice:£229The OnePlus One aims to be a flagship phablet, the same as the likes of Samsung and Google, but at a fraction of the cost. For the most part, the One delivers.Its 5.5in full HD screen is decent, its design is solid and understated, but its back is a bit strange, covered in a rough, felt-like texture. It makes it easy to hold onto, but doesn’t feel premium and picks up dust easily.The One either runs OnePlus’s own custom version of Android called OxygenOS or a popular third-party Android version called Cyanogen. The software is the same as Google’s version of Android, except that it provides much greater customisation options and privacy settings.The One is arguably the best Android phone for a power user, with more settings to tweak than any other. But it’s also an excellent all-round phone with a decent camera, snappy experience, solid battery life of over a day and 16 or 64GB of storage.Verdict:a power-user’s dream and excellent value for the rest of usOnePlus One phone review – hitting the sweet spotApple iPhone 6 PlusApple iPhone 6 PlusPhotograph: Lucy Nicholson/ReutersPrice:£619Apple’s first phablet is a solid entry. The iPhone 6 Plus has a 5.5in screen full HD screen, but has quite large bezels top and bottom, which makes the phone bigger than rivals with the same screen size.Its metal body and rounded edges feel very nice in the hand and the most premium in this group, but its metal back can be slippery, which makes holding onto the large phone more difficult. A case solves that of course.The iPhone 6 Plus has 16, 64 or 128GB of storage, but no options for adding more, and an excellent eight-megapixel camera. Apple has made some accessibility functions to make it easier to use the bigger screen, but the exploitation of the large screen isn’t on the same level as Samsung’s Note series.The Touch ID sensor hidden under the home button is the iPhone’s best feature, which is the most accurate and fast fingerprint reader available at the moment, and can be used to unlock the phone and authenticate payments.Verdict:best for those upgrading from a smaller iPhone that don’t want to switchApple iPhone 6 Plus review: a big phone that feels greatLG G3The LG G3 is one of the most compact phablets available, but it still boats an excellent 5.5in 2k screen.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPrice:£299LG are the masters of making a large screen phone as small as possible. The G3 has a very good 5.5in 2K screen, but very small bezels around the edges and top and bottom, making it one of the most compact phablets available.The back of the phablet is also curved, which makes it easier to grip, but its plastic shell feels cheap compared to some of the others.The G3 has a decent quad-core processor, although not the latest, 2GB of RAM and 16GB of storage with a microSD card slot for adding more. The 13-megapixel camera with laser autofocus is solid and its Android software customisations inoffensive.Verdict:easiest to handle, good value phabletLG G3 review: the easiest to handle phablet goingOther smartphones•Which is the must-have smartphone from 2014?•Which is the best 2014 smartphone for less than £150?
Labor parliamentarians have raised serious concerns about the data retention bill, with one MP warning that the legislation would not have prevented the deadly Martin Place siege in Sydney in December.More than a dozen MPs and senators spoke during a 40-minute debate in the Labor caucus meeting in Canberra on Tuesday, before the party opted to support the the legislation with anamendment to prevent warrantless access to journalists’ call records.Guardian Australia understands the people who raised concerns included Doug Cameron, Alannah MacTiernan, Melissa Parke, Ed Husic, Anna Burke, Michelle Rowland and Julie Owens.The Greens’ Adam Bandt was critical of Labor’s support, despite the amendment.Link to videoSeveral other speakers were largely positive about what Labor had achieved through the bipartisan security committee and the subsequent amendment to require agencies to seek a warrant from a court before seeking to access metadata to identify a confidential source.To the extent there was disagreement, it related to how far Labor should have pushed the government to extract further concessions and improvements to the legislation. A few speakers criticised the party for failing to make its case for data retention with branch members and the public, and said it needed to communicate better.Husic told caucus he understood why metadata was useful to law enforcement, but noted the difficulty of preventing lone wolf terrorist attacks because the perpetrators limited their communications.He drew his colleagues’ attention to a section of the security committee’s report that “evidence that data retention would likely not have enabled agencies to prevent” incidents such as the Sydney siege by Man Haron Monis.Husic said there was still a lot of uncertainty about the cost of the scheme and he underlined privacy concerns by saying the legislation would create a “digital footprint” of citizens’ activities.Owens, like numerous other MPs, raised concerns about the financial impact on internet service providers (ISPs) of complying with the obligation to store the required data of its customers for two years.MacTiernan told the meeting that the legislation would affect millions of Australians, unlike the previous tranches of national security laws passed last year. People would see this through a privacy lens, she said.Parke suggested that the issue of security of the data ought to be resolved before the scheme was legislated.The opposition leader, Bill Shorten, acknowledged the frustration of Labor MPs in helping the government out of its own “shambles” after the introduction last year of an inadequate bill.“This caucus is forcing the government to positions it did not want to go to, including protections of journalists,” Shorten told the meeting.The caucus vote to support the amended legislation was carried “on the voices”. It is understood there was broad support in the caucus for greater funding for the ombudsman.The prime minister, Tony Abbott, wants to pass the bill by the end of next week, the final sitting before the May budget.Politically, Labor is caught between the Coalition, which has been pushing it to give bipartisan support to the bill as a matter of urgency, and the Greens, who have accused Labor of “rolling over” and not applying adequate scrutiny.
Australian media industry figures, the journalists’ union and key crossbench senators have argued a compromise deal on data retention legislation does not go far enough to protect confidential sources.The opposition leader, Bill Shorten, indicated Labor was likely to vote for the bill after the prime minister, Tony Abbott,agreed on Monday to an amendment to force agenciesto obtain a court warrant if seeking to access a journalist’s call records or other metadata for the purposes of determining a source.But questions remain about the operation of this amendment, including the definition of a journalist. There is a fresh push from the media industry for the warrant process to be contestable so that lawyers could argue their case for keeping the source confidential.Senior industry figures said the law should require the court to balance the security requirements with free speech considerations, based on a presumption in favour of protecting the source. The wording of the amendment is yet to be finalised.The independent senator Nick Xenophon said the compromise was “a superficial and ineffective fix” and media organisations should be given an opportunity to argue before a judge why a warrant should not be issued.“The warrant will be a formality and journalists and sources will be investigated just as before,” he said, dismissing the Labor-Coalition deal as a tick-and-flick approach. “In the age of mass data retention, no journalist will be able to offer confidentiality to a source.”The Coalition wants parliament to pass its data retention legislation by the end of next week, requiring telcos and internet service providers to store customers’ details such as call logs and email recipients for two years.Labor’s communications spokesman, Jason Clare, said Abbott’s agreement to move an amendment was “a victory for journalists” and a “victory for Bill Shorten”.Clare said Abbott had been “terrified” at the prospect of senior media representatives attending a public hearing on Friday telling him his previous stance was inadequate.When asked about whether the warrant should be contestable, Clare appeared to keep the option open. “This is a question that should be asked of the government. They should sit down and work through the details of this amendment with [attorney general] George Brandis and Tony Abbott,” he told Sky News.“You don’t want a tick-and-flick approach … Journalists are different. Unless you can protect their sources it undermines freedom of the press.”Adam Bandt slams Labor party for caving in on metadata laws. Mark Dreyfus and Jason Clare speak in support of the amendment secured by Bill Shorten.Brandis played down the prospect of allowing journalists to contest a warrant application, saying it had “never been a case in our system that a party against whom a warrant is sought is given advance notice of the warrant”.“The warrant process is an application to the court or to the tribunal or in unusual circumstances the attorney general,” Brandis told the ABC.He insisted the targets of the data retention law were “criminals and paedophiles and terrorists”, not media organisations.“I regret that the debate about this law has diverted down this path about journalists, for heaven’s sake,” he said.“Journalists are not the object of the law. This is a law that continues to guarantee the availability to the police, to the law enforcement, the national security authorities, to essential evidence in criminal and terrorism investigations.”Asked about the difficulties of defining who would be covered by the warrant requirement, Brandis said he would not regard bloggers as journalists.“But a journalist is, for the purposes of this law, a person engaged in the profession of journalism and there is an interesting argument, of course, as to what at the margins a journalist is,” he said. “Ultimately that is an issue resolvable by courts.”The union representing journalists said the prime minister’s proposal remained inadequate. The Media, Entertainment and Arts Alliance (MEAA) said the addition of a hurdle such as a warrant did not change the fact that agencies would be able to use reporters’ metadata to pursue a whistleblower.“Accessing metadata to hunt down journalists’ sources, regardless of the procedures used, threatens press freedom and democracy,” said the alliance’s chief executive, Paul Murphy.Brandis rebuked the MEAA for “outrageous hyperbole”.The Greens senator Scott Ludlam said nobody except Shorten was really convinced that the proposed limited warrant amendment fixed the problem.Ludlam said the principle of storing the phone and internet records of millions of citizens who were not suspected of any crime was offensive.And he said if agencies wanted to engage in intrusive snooping they should be required to seek a warrant “whether you’re a journalist or not”.“We will turn up the heat on the Labor party; do not throw this beleaguered failed prime minister a surveillance lifeline,” Ludlam told the ABC. “The parliament is better than that and this country needs an opposition at the moment.”The Liberal Democratic senator David Leyonhjelm said he remained fundamentally opposed to the ability for the government to “snoop” and treat everyone as suspects.“It’s a step in the right direction but there are a lot more steps that need to be made,” he told the ABC when asked about the warrant deal for journalists. “It is just one of my concerns.”The votes of crossbench senators will not be required if Labor supports the bill in the Senate.Leyonhjelm said he accepted parliament would pass the bill because Labor had “rolled over” on the fundamental principle, so he would try to move numerous amendments to make the law “less obnoxious”.
Despite being blocked by Twitter from accessing its social graph, the founder of live-streaming service Meerkat, Ben Rubin, says he has no hard feelings towards the social network, and plans to forge ahead with or without them, calling the lockdown “just a speed bump”.Meerkat integrates closely with Twitter, automatically announcing that a users’ stream is beginning by sending a tweet. It also streamlines account creation by letting new users sign in with the social network. But on Friday, the network blocked Meerkat’s access to its social graph, the data which shows who follows who on Twitter.Without access to the graph, it’s impossible for Meerkat to offer the service it previously did, automatically following all of a user’s friends from Twitter who are also on the app.But Rubin says that the view in the press, that Twitter’s move could be a fatal blow, is inaccurate.“We never wanted to build a graph on top of Twitter,” he explained onstage at the South by South West (SXSW) festival in Austin, Texas. Instead, Twitter was chosen because its real-time nature makes it perfect for the app’s needs, particularly the difficulty in making live-streaming on the go a conventional activity.“We definitely knew that Twitter would be upset at some point. We didn’t know that Twitter would buy in another company in the space, [nor] that they would do it so soon,” he explained. Now, “it’s just a little bit harder for us to build a community around new uses. We’ve already put some solutions in place.”Before blocking off the access to the social graph, Twitter and Meerkat had a cordial relationship. The way the app treats commenting initially triggered Twitter’s anti-spam mechanism, but Rubin says that “they worked with us making sure that” those problems were fixed. And earlier this week,he told the Guardian that“they know that our intentions are good. They will play fair as long as we play fair.”Part of the reason Twitter’s lockdown came so suddenly is because it bought another live video streaming service, called Periscope, and began enforcing policies that prevent the social graph from being used by direct competitors.It’s there that a note of annoyance does enter Rubin’s voice. “The policy of twitter is that you can have the graph but you cannot resell it and you can’t use it in a competitive way. What we didn’t know is that we’re competing against them because they bought a company in the space.“They call it internal policy, which is funny because what is ‘internal policy’? Policies should be external when you’re working with developers.“But at the same time it just proved how significant Meerkat has become.”Meerkat’s rise has been astronomical. The app, which lets anyone stream video of themselves live to the internet, launched just 16 days ago – and on Saturday it gained its 100,000th user. Rubin also revealed that the number of clicks on links to Meerkat streams is now in the hundreds of millions, and that the app has a small number of hardcore users who watch a seemingly absurd amount of video: more than 20% of the people on Meerkat watch more than two hours a day; 8% watch three hours a day, and 4% watch four hours of video every day, according to Rubin.But the potential for growth in the streaming video market is a large part of the reason why he doesn’t take Twitter playing hardball to heart.“Put Meerkat aside: there’s not going to be one winner in this space. So we don’t look at it as a rival. In fact, we’re very happy to see a big company moving in this space.”
Crowdfunding startup Patreon is now paying $2m a month to its community of more than 10,000 musicians, illustrators, vloggers and other creators.The company, which recentlyadded musician Amanda Palmer to its network, has doubled its monthly payouts since November 2014, when itreached the $1m-a-month milestone.Patreon now has nearly 250,000 “patrons” paying money to creators through its site, where they can pledge as little as $1 per release, whether that be a song, a video, a web-comic strip or another kind of content.Now the company is buying one of its peers, crowdfunding service Subbable, which was launched by YouTube stars Hank and John Green in 2013, the same year as Patreon.While Patreon funds individual creators,Subbablehas focused more on web video series, including its founders’ own SciShow and Crash Course shows, which have been watched more than 451m times on YouTube.The Greens are among 24 Subbable creators, earning more than $1m a year collectively, who will now join Patreon’s network as part of the acquisition.“From day one, Patreon and Subbable were guided by the same values and the same goals,” said Hank Green as the deal was announced.“Initially we came at the problem differently, and this helped us both improve our products and our services to creators, but once it was clear that we could help creators more together than apart, this was inevitable.”The Greens – also known as the “Vlogbrothers” – are well known within the YouTube community for more than their videos: they also own the high-profile VidCon online video conference.The acquisition is likely to encourage more creators to give Patreon a try just as the arrival of Palmer did. The musician is currentlyearning more than $28,000 from her patrons on the siteevery time she releases a new song or piece of content.Patreon’s growth is also part of a wider surge in direct fan-funding that also includes Bandcamp, which is currentlypaying out $3.5m a monthto artists selling music and merchandise through its site, and crowdfunding service Kickstarter, whichaveraged $44.1m of monthly pledges in 2014.
Apple’s head of internet software and services, Eddy Cue, has hit out publicly against the newSteve Jobs: Man in the Machinebiopic calling it “inaccurate and mean-spirited”.Documentary-makerAlex Gibney’s unsparing portraitof Apple co-founder Jobs is unlikely to please fans, zeroing in on certain aspects of his life, painting a compelling portrait of a modern-day Citizen Kane.Very disappointed in SJ:Man in the Machine. An inaccurate and mean-spirited view of my friend. It&#39;s not a reflection of the Steve I knew.&mdash; Eddy Cue (@cue)March 16, 2015A public outburst, such as Cue’s tweet, is highly unusual for a senior executive at a company with a history of strongly controlling its messaging.Related:Steve Jobs: Man in the Machine first look review – Apple founder's sour sideThe film portrays a man with unshakable righteousness, and goes over Apple’s 2010 incident of the lost iPhone 4 prototype, which was acquired by technology site Gizmodo, as well as Jobs’ control of phone production in China, and Apple’s philanthropic programmes.For Cue,none of the biopics and biographieshave yet captured Jobs correctly: “The best portrayal is about to be released – Becoming Steve Jobs (book). Well done and first to get it right.”Since his death various movies and books have been written and made, most recently an adaptation of Walter Isaacson’s authorised biography Steve Jobs, which is written by Aaron Sorkin, directed by Danny Boyle and starring Michael Fassbender as Jobs. The film is due for release in the summer.
This year’s Rezzed festival presented a vast cornucopia of PC, Xbox and smartphone titles over a packed weekend at London’s Tobacco Dock venue. Hundreds of interesting, offbeat indie titles vied for attention, but here are the treasures that really held our gaze.Convoy(Convoy Games)A squad-based tactical roguelike with procedural landscapesSuccessfully funded on Kickstarter last year and described by its small development team as a cross between Mad Max and the indie strategy game FTL, Convoy is an interesting roguelike derivative with sharp pixel visuals and lots of neat ideas. Your spaceship has crashed on a desolate war-torn planet and now you have to travel in a convoy of vehicles across the wastelands searching out spare parts. You need to earn cash to build new units which attach to your convoy and provide new weapons or defensive capabilities, and the procedural landscape is filled with side-quests. It’s going to be huge on Steam when it’s released in April.Salt: A Social Story(Indieful Entertainment)Salt is a visual novel told entirely through social media messages and friend systemsPhotograph: public domainDescribed by developer Holly Pickering as a pastiche of social media relationships, Salt is a cross between the sci-fi Facebook satire Redshirt and Christine Love’s visual novel, Digital: A Love Story. Players are introduced to a small group of colleagues through the fictitious social network Mugshot, and must try to add a new friend everyday. Despite the retro look, designed to resemble a Windows 3.1-era desktop, the mechanics of combining through status updates for snippets of gossip make this feel strangely real.Okhlos(Coffee Powered Machine)Take on gigantic gods with your army of farmers, warriors and ... cowsBased around the ancient Greek word for “mob”, Okhlos is an intentionally daft squad-based brawler where you run around a series of historic Greek cities gathering citizens and farm animals into a group of fighters who then take on a range of mythical enemies, including the Olympian gods. There are power-ups to collect on the way, and the action is fast-paced and frantic. Basically, Homer meets Cannon Fodder. It’s hitting Steam this summer.Hue(Mudvark)In Hue, the player can use a colour-wheel interface to change the background colour, thereby making certain obstacles appear or disappearPhotograph: public domainUnlike a lot of 2D platformers with distinctive art styles, here the aesthetics and mechanics are intertwined. Your ability to change the vibrant background colour means that you can temporarily colour-match objects out of existence thereby removing barriers and solving puzzles. Co-designed by Bafta award-winner Henry Hoffman (responsible for the fascinatingemotional platformer, Mush), it’s a simple idea that should have more interesting applications further on.Concrete Jungle(Cole Jefferies)Build a deck of varied property types then dominate the boardPhotograph: public domainHearthstone meets Sim City? Yep, that’s the basic concept behind the really rather lovely Concrete Jungle which gets you to build a deck of city zones that you then place onto the playspace to improve your score while ruining the plans of your competitor. Shoving a power station next to their residential area, for example, will lower its score potential, while ensuring harmony between your own business, residential and industrial cards maximises your earnings. Intriguing and beautiful to look at.Line Wobbler(Robin Baumgarten)This installation game, described as a “one-dimensional dungeon crawler”, is proof of how talented designers can do a lot with very little in the way of input or graphical detail. A joystick moves the player’s green dot back and forth along a line of LEDs, some coloured as obstacles: wobbling the line disposes of red dot enemies. It’s a crowd-pleasing spectacle that’s genuinely fun.Deep(Owen Harris and Niki Smit)Virtual reality relaxation and explorationPhotograph: public domainWith a customised controller strapped around your diaphragm and an Oculus Rift, you dictate your movement in a low-poly underwater virtual reality through diaphragmatic breathing: in to gently rise, and out to sink to the seabed. The point is meditative, but shoals of low-poly fish add the joy of discovery.A Light in Chorus(Broken Fence Games)A fascinating experimental project from two graduates of St Martins School of Art and DesignPhotograph: public domainThis could have been a standard walking simulator – or “experiential game” – built entirely around its subjective environmental visuals, which in this case are made solely of particle clouds. However, while the tutorial still needs work, the developers are working in mechanics that directly involve and explore that art style. It’s beautiful and promising.Super Dungeon Bros(React Games/Wired Productions)Among a plethora of four-player co-op games on the Rezzed show floor, this one caught the attention for its Nintendo-baiting name and its interesting group mechanics. Basically, you charge through a series of procedurally generated dungeons (there are 32m unique combinations of rooms, apparently) slaughtering cute skeleton warriors and collecting treasures. Your warriors are able to lob each other over chasms, or scramble into a human tower to create a boss-beating “Bro-nado” move. It’s out on Xbox One and PC this autumn.Dashy Crashy(Dumpling DesignDashy Crashy is a lane-swapping touchscreen game with lots of little references to classic Sega arcade titlesPhotograph: public domainDeveloper Travis Ryan, a lead designer on the Xbox version of Outrun 2, describes this lighting-paced touchscreen, lane-changing racer as “what would happen if Sega made sat-navs”. Built for tablets, you just have to avoid incoming traffic for as long as possible by swiping left and right while a Crazy Taxi-style voice-over shouts encouragements and warnings. Accelerating by swiping upwards increases your score accumulation but also multiplies your risk. It’s a bright, brash homage to Sega’s arcade heritage in an utterly compulsive mobile gaming form.DiscStorm(XMPT Games)DiscStorm is a fast-paced arena battle game that nods toward nineties console titlesPhotograph: public domainThis is great as a fast-paced competitive challenge in which up to four players fling damaging discs at each other across various modes, but there’s also a single-player campaign featuring bosses with different strategies. Also, one of the male characters has an outfit that’s just a pair of swimming trunks. That doesn’t happen enough.Super Rude Bear Resurrection(Alex Rose)Every time you die in Super Rude Bear Resurrection, the mangled corpse is left in the game world making subsequent attempts a little easierPhotograph: public domainDesigner Alex Rose created his uncompromising platformer out of frustration with what he saw as crucial failings behind cult classicSuper Meat Boy. The result is turbo-paced near-masocore experience that pits your cute bear character against an ever-tilting dungeon filled with buzzsaw barriers, spiked pits and demanding jumps. There’s also a force-based physics system that adds slip and acceleration to every landing so you’re mastering a weird idiosyncratic gravity and velocity system as well as everything else. Ridiculously, outrageously compelling.Flame Over(Laughing Jackal)Fighting fires in a procedural generated office block filled with hazards, power-ups and desperate civiliansPhotograph: public domainIf you never thought you’d see a combination of Spelunky and Sega arcade classic Brave Fire Fighters, you’re in for a shock. Flame Over is a twin-stick roguelike where you sprint through a series of burning buildings, extinguishing flames and saving civilians. Realistic dynamic fires, multiple power-ups and RPG-style upgrades add complexity, and there are around 1,300 room combinations so there’s plenty of replay value. Plus, let’s face it, roguelikes are so hot right now. Coming to PS Vita, PC and PS4.Goat Simulator(Double Eleven)The successful goat-based open-world exploration sim is coming to Xbox One in AprilDrawing huge crowds of goat fanatics to the ID@Xbox room, Double Eleven’s console conversion of the PC favourite is a pretty faithful adaptation. It’s still a completely open sandbox where you can headbutt, lick and gallop to your heart’s content. There are two areas to explore – Goatville and Goat City Bay – and a whole range of power-ups, from angelic halos to jet thrusters. It’s out next month, with a four-player local multiplayer mode. The kids will eat it up.Adventure Box(Adventure Box)Import your Minecraft worlds then add stories and characters in this ambitious browser-based voxel gamePhotograph: public domainBuilt by a small team based around Europe, Adventure Box is a browser-based building sim that adds a whole range of story and RPG mechanics, allowing you to build narrative games, rather than just landscapes. Players are even able to import their Minecraft worlds, then add non-player characters as well as trigger points for story sequences. There are basic story templates to mess about with, and it’s possible to create portals that lead to worlds built by your friends. It’s out on PC and Mac in April.Mighty Tactical Shooter(SockThuggery)Turning the rhythms of scrolling shooters like R-Type into a turn-based strategy mechanic is a strange idea at first, but it quickly becomes absorbingPhotograph: public domainXCOM meets R-Type in this fiendish retro-themed shooter, which lets you plan out your attacks against waves of enemy fighters, using a range of weapons and evasive moves, before setting them into action and awaiting the computer’s fiery response. It takes a while to adjust your shoot‘em-up approach into a turn-based system, but it’s an intriguing challenge. You can even save out key battles as a seamless movie that plays the action in real-time.
The internet might make you feel hyperactive, but do you really have attention deficit hyperactivity disorder?Michael Pietrus PsyD, coordinator of the ADHD assessment protocol at the University of Chicago, explains how the internet encourages behaviour that at least mimics ADHD, and can exacerbate the condition in people who have it already.Pietrus looks after many students at the college who feel the effects of academic and social pressure. In the US, 11% of children between four and 17 now have a diagnosis of ADHD and the rates have been going up by 5% every year from 2003 to 2011. It’s now the most commonly diagnosed condition for children in the US after asthma. Twenty per cent of the US college population now have ADHD, which appears as hyperactivity, inattention and impulsivity, and are at higher risk of substance abuse and self medication, depression and a host of other consequent conditions.“People with ADHD are hardwired for novelty seeking, which until recently was an evolutionary advantage,” said Pietrus, speaking at the South by Southwest festival in Austin, Texas. ADHD sufferers have fewer dopamine receptors, which means that a normally interesting activity seems less rewarding or even boring.No one can explain the increase in ADHD in the US, Pietrus said. “People engage in compulsion for all sorts of reasons and often because of the way their personality extends into the online space. But compulsive behaviour is reinforced and rewarded, and that has an impact on the ability to plan and organise as well as focus on tasks and self regulate our behaviour.”Our brain grows and changes according to our experiences. Memory and attention involve biochemical and anatomical changes in the brain; when we feel overloaded, distractions appear to be more distracting, and we find it harder to link experiences to past experiences, mimicking ADHD.Pietrus presented some productivity tips to try and combat the hyperactive behaviour encouraged by the internet. Elite musicians have been shown to work in intense, focused 90 minute spurts with scheduled 15-20 minute breaks. Focus on the hardest tasks, set and stick to deadlines and split larger tasks into smaller ones to make the hurdle of starting process easier; the Ziegarnik Effect is a compulsion for finishing a task once we have started. And try writing an accountability chart that documents the time slot and what you achieved, a more successful approach than simply assuming what you did.The web has stolen my creativity. What I need is the time and space to think
“Some of our top developers are starting to get about a quarter of a million dollars a year. They’re treating it literally as a career, and starting to hire their friends…”David Baszucki is the chief executive ofRoblox, the all-ages gaming community whose rise has been lower-profile than that of Minecraft, but just as interesting.Minecraftis often mentioned as a comparison for Roblox, but the two are very different. Where Minecraft is concerned with creating one albeit vast and imaginative world, Roblox is more about creating different games and then making them available for the rest of its online community to play.“In December, we hit 4.7 million players. The foundation of Roblox is user-generated content: just like on YouTube there is so much to watch, on Roblox there is so much to play,” says Baszucki.“People get really attached to it: many of our players have played for four to five years, and our developers range in age from eight to 80. Some of the top developers are 18 or 20, and we have kids in high-school who are making two, three or four thousand dollars a month.”How? By creating 3D games on Roblox’s website, then sharing them to be played online, as well as on iOS, Android and Kindle Fire devices. The money comes from the in-game currency, “Robux”, bought by players to spend within games, and then exchanged for real money again by those games’ developers.“Just as the creation is powered by the community, so is our economy. Our developers are helping and participating in the virtual economy by making games that aren’t just fun, but which monetise as well,” says Baszucki.“When it’s fun and monetises well, a lot of people play it and a lot of virtual currency goes into the game. We’re making it possible to publish a multiplayer, physically-simulated destructible-environment game that works on multiple devices and screen types, and can scale to 12,000 concurrent players.”A platform with lots of children playing and a growing number of games using in-app purchases? It sounds like a recipe for controversy, especially with the US Federal Trade Commission poking around in the affairs ofAmazon,Appleandnow Facebookover children’s in-app spending.Thus far, though, Roblox hasn’t faced a backlash for its virtual economy. Baszucki stresses the benefits for young players who come at it from the other side, making money from their own games and learning skills that may serve them well if they go into the games industry as a career.He’s also enthusiastic about the impact of Roblox’s mobile apps. “Over the holidays, we were the number 33 top grossing iPad iOS app in the US, and a significant percentage of our playtime is now being spent on mobile,” he says.“Our vision is that there will always be some games that are better on a PC, some that are possibly better on a mobile device, and a lot that can do well in both environments. But we have our ideas about set-top boxes and consoles too in the future.”Roblox and Minecraft are very different, butMicrosoft’s recent acquisition of the latter’s developer for $2.5bnmay spur more interest in Roblox from investors and perhaps even potential acquirers, since it’s in the same “user-generated” gaming area.Baszucki understandably isn’t playing down that comparison. “Minecraft is a very early play in this whole user-generated content space. I think we’re going to see there’s enormous headroom there over the next three, four or five years,” he says.“This is a very early phase. Our vision is really extensive: 100% in the cloud, games that work on any device or screen, and physically-destructible and immersive environments way beyond what we have on Roblox now.“Ultimately, games that start to look like high-end CGI movies. And companies are starting to realise that this user-generated content segment could be bigger than any individual games company. There’s so much leverage from being a platform rather than a content producer, where every few years you need a new huge property.”Minecraft’s creator will always be a hero to me, he gave my autistic son a voice
YouTube may have more than one billion monthly viewers, but in 2015 it’s facing the prospect of real competition.Facebook videos are now being watched 3bn times a daywith persistent rumours that the social network is encouraging popular YouTube stars to start uploading videos directly to their Facebook pages.Vine and Snapchat have emerged as new platforms for shortform videos – includingthe latter’s Discover section, which launched in January – while startup Vessel is trying to convince YouTubers that it can make them much more money than YouTubeif they grant it 72-hour exclusives on their new videos.Related:Vessel founder: ‘Companies realise it’s a chance to redefine the next generation of TV’Unsurprisingly, Patrick Walker has been watching closely. Once YouTube’s senior director for Europe, the Middle East and Africa, he’s since worked at multi-channel network Base79, which was subsequently bought by another MCN, Rightster. In January 2015, Walker became chief executive of that company.“I am still very bullish on YouTube, and still today it is absolutely critical to our plans. But now due to the increase in broadband and the dollars flowing in to online video, there are more people investing deeply in the space,” says Walker.“There are the usual suspects: the Yahoos and the AOLs still offering great services. But there’s the emergence of new platforms like Vessel, Amazon with their Fire Box, and video becoming commonplace on websites of all kinds, including newspapers.“And now Facebook doing 3bn views a day, where did that come from? I remember standing on the YouTube stage when they announced a billion views a day, and now Facebook is three times that a couple of years later. And there’s Snapchat, and Twitter video, which both have some ex-YouTube guys involved ...”Rightster works with nearly 2,000 content owners and 7,500 online publishers – The Guardian included, in the past – helping them to build audiences and make money on YouTube, other online video services, and websites.Walker has had a ringside seat at the development of online video well before joining YouTube in 2006 as its head of video partnerships outside the US: after starting his career making TV shows in Japan, he oversaw TV, radio and online output at the BBC’s south east Asia bureau, before moving back to the UK in 2000 to work on broadband video site Network of the World.“It was all about making short form video, but it was just too early and died a miserable death – mostly because not enough people had broadband,” he says. Since then, Walker says he has watched the media world catch up with the potential of short form content, fuelled by YouTube’s growth.“It’s a whole new range of content types that are free and independent from the tyranny of the 30-minute TV window,” says Walker.“A show only needs to be as long as it needs to be: make what works for the content. You don’t have to force something into a traditional show length.”In 2015, TV networks are increasingly keen to tap in to the reservoir of YouTubers, who in turn are exploring opportunities to expand their audiences (and make more money) outside Google’s online video service.Walker delivers a warning: if they are too swift to leap on other opportunities, YouTubers risk alienating the audiences that gave them this clout in the first place. He cites Lucas Cruikshank as one example: the first YouTuber to reach a million subscribers, in 2009, who subsequently signed a deal with Nickelodeon.Lukas Cruikshank: ‘a cautionary tale’ for YouTubers.“It’s a cautionary tale: he jumped a bit too far into Nickelodeon’s world and lost his audience. Creators now are very smart, and very particular about protecting the authenticity of their audience. The great ones are maintaining a YouTube presence and being respectful to their history, but they are experimenting on other platforms,” says Walker.“We are at the forefront of a battle between great forces in attracting young audiences and,as a Variety survey showed last year, YouTube stars are more popular than TV stars for US teenagers. More popular by a long shot. These guys have worked their way into the public consciousness in a way that many people still have trouble understanding.”Now bossing a company responsible for helping stars and brands decide which new platforms will give YouTube a run for its money, Walker notes that Facebook, Snapchat and Twitter are currently the focus of much attention from the latter in particular.“Brands get attracted to audiences, and audiences are built by great platforms building trust with users. I think we can see these things – creators developing new ways to communicate with these new audiences on Snapchat and Facebook to some extent, on Twitter to some extent, and then brands will follow,” he says.However, YouTube’s first recruit outside the US in its growing years doesn’t think his old company is destined to fall out of favour any time soon.“YouTube has been around for 10 years, and look at how it’s ingrained in people’s lives: politically, socially and culturally. My children are 14 and 15, and it’s inconceivable to them that YouTube didn’t exist once,” he says.“They’ve done a great job in staying cool, mostly. That’s the big challenge for these new platforms: to attract the cool kids, and then stay cool enough to keep them.”That’s why Walker believes YouTube stars should think carefully when negotiating deals with rival services, even when tempted by sizeable advances and/or promises of increased income.Related:YouTube targets music lovers and children to head off rivals“That cheque may look shiny, but a high revenue-share and big cheque with no audience is no strategy. If you’re trying to build a long term relationship with your audience, you can’t ignore the place where that audience exists,” he says.“So think twice before jumping ship. But in many ways this is just like investing money: you want to have a diversified portfolio.”That approach extends to the way online video stars make their money too, with most striving not to rely solely on the income from adverts running before and during their videos.“Most big YouTube talents are probably making 50% of their revenues from direct brand deals,” says Walker, citingRightster’s partnership with Turkish Airlinesin 2014 to fly 10 prominent YouTubers to exotic locations to make branded videos as an example of the kind of campaign we’ll see more of.This, in turn, is ensuring that YouTube stars spend more energy cultivating their fanbases on other services.“Those [brand] revenues are largely linked to their social media platforms including Twitter, Facebook, Instagram etc,” he says. “If I get paid a certain amount of money to make a video, I’m going to tweet it and put it on my Facebook page. The dollars are much more diversified than before.”
