Facebook tracks the web browsing of everyone who visits a page on its site even if the user does not have an account or has explicitly opted out of tracking in the EU, extensive research commissioned by the Belgian data protection agency has revealed.The report, from researchers at the Centre of Interdisciplinary Law and ICT (ICRI) and the Computer Security and Industrial Cryptography department (Cosic) at the University of Leuven, and the media, information and telecommunication department (Smit) at Vrije Universiteit Brussels, was commissioned after an original draft report revealedFacebook’s privacy policy breaches European law.The researchers now claim thatFacebook tracks computers of users without their consent, whether they are logged in to Facebook or not, and even if they are not registered users of the site orexplicitly opt out in Europe. Facebook tracks users in order to target advertising.The issue revolves around Facebook’s use of its social plugins such as the “Like” button, which has been placed on more than 13m sites including health and government sites.Facebook places tracking cookies on users’ computers if they visit any page on the facebook.com domain, including fan pages or other pages that do not require a Facebook account to visit.When a user visits a third-party site that carries one of Facebook’s social plug-ins, it detects and sends the tracking cookies back to Facebook - even if the user does not interact with the Like button, Facebook Login or other extension of the social media site.EU privacy law states that prior consent must be given before issuing a cookie or performing tracking, unless it is necessary for either the networking required to connect to the service (“criterion A”) or to deliver a service specifically requested by the user (“criterion B”).The same law requires websites to notify users on their first visit to a site that it uses cookies, requesting consent to do so.Acookieis a small file placed on a user’s computer by a website that stores settings, previous activities and other small amounts of information needed by the site. They are sent to the site on each visit and can therefore be used to identify a user’s computer and track their movements across the web.Cookies allow saved preferences and other important features of websites and services, but can be used to track and identify users.Photograph: Cristina Quicler/AFP/Getty Images“We collect information when you visit or use third-party websites and apps that use our services. This includes information about the websites and apps you visit, your use of our services on those websites and apps, as well as information the developer or publisher of the app or website provides to you or us,” states Facebook’s data usage policy, which was updated this year.Facebook’s tracking practices have ‘no legal basis’An opinion published byArticle 29, the pan-European data regulator working party, in 2012 stated that unless delivering a service specifically requested by the user, social plug-ins must have consent before placing a cookie. “Since by definition social plug-ins are destined to members of a particular social network, they are not of any use for non-members, and therefore do not match ‘criterion B’ for those users.”The same applies for users of Facebook who are logged out at the time, while logged-in users should only be served a “session cookie” that expires when the user logs out or closes their browser, according to Article 29.The Article 29 working party has also said that cookies set for “security purposes” can only fall under the consent exemptions if they are essential for a service explicitly requested by the user - not general security of the service.Facebook’s cookie policy updated this year states that the company still uses cookies if users do not have a Facebook account, or are logged out, to “enable us to deliver, select, evaluate, measure and understand the ads we serve on and off Facebook”.The social network tracks its users for advertising purposes across non-Facebook sites by default. Users can opt out of ad tracking, but an opt-out mechanism “is not an adequate mechanism to obtain average users informed consent”, according to Article 29.“European legislation is really quite clear on this point. To be legally valid, an individual’s consent towards online behavioural advertising must be opt-in,” explained Brendan Van Alsenoy, a researcher at ICRI and one of the report’s author.Related:Facebook’s privacy policy breaches European law, report finds“Facebook cannot rely on users’ inaction (ie not opting out through a third-party website) to infer consent. As far as non-users are concerned, Facebook really has no legal basis whatsoever to justify its current tracking practices.”Opt-out mechanism actually enables tracking for the non-trackedThe researchers also analysed the opt-out mechanism used by Facebook and many other internet companies including Google and Microsoft.Users wanting to opt out of behavioural tracking are directed to sites run by the Digital Advertising Alliance in the US, Digital Advertising Alliance of Canada in Canada or the European Digital Advertising Alliance in the EU, each of which allow bulk opting-out from 100 companies.But the researchers discovered that far from opting out of tracking, Facebook places a new cookie on the computers of users who have not been tracked before.“If people who are not being tracked by Facebook use the ‘opt out’ mechanism proposed for the EU, Facebook places a long-term, uniquely identifying cookie, which can be used to track them for the next two years,” explained Günes Acar from Cosic, who also co-wrote the report. “What’s more, we found that Facebook does not place any long-term identifying cookie on the opt-out sites suggested by Facebook for US and Canadian users.”The finding was confirmed by Steven Englehardt, a researcher at Princeton University’s department of computer science who was not involved in the report: “I started with a fresh browsing session and received an additional ‘datr’ cookie that appears capable of uniquely identifying users on the UK version of the European opt-out site. This cookie was not present during repeat tests with a fresh session on the US or Canadian version.”Facebook sets an opt-out cookie on all the opt-out sites, but this cookie cannot be used for tracking individuals since it does not contain a unique identifier. Why Facebook places the “datr” cookie on computers of EU users who opt out is unknown.‘Privacy-friendly’ designFor users worried about tracking, third-party browser add-ons that block tracking are available, says Acar: “Examples include Privacy Badger, Ghostery and Disconnect. Privacy Badger replaces social plug-ins with privacy preserving counterparts so that users can still use social plug-ins, but not be tracked until they actually click on them.“We argue that it is the legal duty of Facebook to design its services and components in a privacy-friendly way,” Van Alsenoy added. “This means designing social plug-ins in such a way that information about individual’s personal browsing activities outside of Facebook are not unnecessarily exposed.”Facebook is being investigated by the Dutch data protection authority, which asked the social network to delay rollout of its new privacy policy, and is being probed by the Article 29 working party.A Facebook spokesperson said: “This report contains factual inaccuracies. The authors have never contacted us, nor sought to clarify any assumptions upon which their report is based. Neither did they invite our comment on the report before making it public. We have explained in detail the inaccuracies in the earlier draft report (after it was published) directly to the Belgian DPA, who we understand commissioned it, and have offered to meet with them to explain why it is incorrect, but they have declined to meet or engage with us. However, we remain willing to engage with them and hope they will be prepared to update their work in due course.”“Earlier this year we updated our terms and policies to make them more clear and concise, to reflect new product features and to highlight how we’re expanding people’s control over advertising. We’re confident the updates comply with applicable laws including EU law.”Van Alsenoy and Acar, authors of the study, told the Guardian: “We welcome comments via the contact email address listed within the report. Several people have already reached out to provide suggestions and ideas, which we really appreciate.”“To date, we have not been contacted by Facebook directly nor have we received any meeting request. We’re not surprised that Facebook holds a different opinion as to what European data protection laws require. But if Facebook feels today’s releases contain factual errors, we’re happy to receive any specific remarks it would like to make.”•Facebook’s privacy policy breaches European law, report finds•Leave Facebook if you don’t want to be spied on, warns EU
They do it at bus stops, in airports and train stations, and in shops and banks nationwide. Queuing politely isconsidered a uniquely British trait, and millions instinctively observe its rituals and etiquette every day.Yet this quaint tradition could die out soon, thanks to theInternet of Things, or IoT, connecting us with what we want to buy, how we choose to pay for it, and even how it’s delivered – without the need to wait in line for any of it.Look at London’s Oyster card: it can be set to automatically top up credit, so most commuters in the capital never need to queue for Underground tickets. Transport for London is even using it as the impetus toremove staff from ticket offices.Many of us have already seen this shift to technology when buying groceries, left to scan our Jaffa Cakes or ready meals on our own at self-service checkouts, silently screaming at the machine that there really is not an unexpected item in the bagging area.But even that could be about to end. Supermarkets are already experimenting with ways to use RFID chips in product labels, said the University of Strathclyde’s Professor Lillian Edwards, who is chairing theSmart Cities conferencebeing held in Glasgow on Tuesday and Wednesday.“You can price your items as you put them into a basket or trolley using a reader, and you could even use that reader to add it all up ready to check out by the time you get to the end,” she says. It could be as simple as swiping a contactless card on the way out of the store, without having to queue at all.‘You won’t have to queue’It’s not only groceries. Add a payment method to a smartphone and connected labels to anything, and we can walk out of the shop with the object of our desire in hand - and without being done for theft.Sarah Eccleston, UK director of enterprise networks at Cisco, says: “When books are connected to the internet, and so is your smartphone with a payment capability on it, you can walk right out of Waterstones with the books you have chosen and be automatically charged. You won’t have to queue to buy them.”You also won’t have to speak to a shop assistant, which could appeal to the reluctant and unsociable shoppers among us. British IoT companyIconemeembeds smart “beacon” technology into store displays and mannequins.“The customer can instantly access information about the items they’re interested in and even make purchases via the retailer’s website, without waiting for a sales assistant or joining a queue,” said Iconeme co-founder and chief executive Jonathan Berlin.The Internet of Things is set to allow shoppers to see clothes on a mannequin and order them online - no checkout queuing required.Photograph: Sarah Lee/GuardianIn other words, point your smartphone at a mannequin, find out where to try on its outfit, and then order it on an app. You can soon buy clothes without even having to speak to a human - let alone queuing for the privilege.But if you’re not such an introvert and crave a little human interaction, shop assistants will also be touting their wares equipped with tablets, predicts John Pincott, European MD, Shopatron.That will let them not only provide a “frictionless” way to pay on the shop floor without queuing, but provide access to “product intelligence”, promotions, and inventory visibility, he says – a welcome change from the shoulder shrug many questions get in response. Indeed, there are no tills in Apple stores - just shop assistants who take your credit card and email the receipt to you.Cisco has already added the death of queuing to its listMuseum of Lasts– its collection of inconveniences set to be killed off by the IoT including traffic jams and missed meetings. Eccleston says we will not even have to think about what we’re buying.“Imagine for example, that your fridge is connected to the internet, and so are the shelves in a supermarket,” she says. “When the fridge tells the supermarket you have used the last of of an item, a supermarket can start to prepare your weekly shop for you, and automatic payment can be made. So you won’t have to queue for anything - you will just need to collect it.”Or not. Forget waiting in traffic – leave that to a self-driving car or delivery drone, which arealready being developed by Amazon.“Once the public is convinced of driverless vehicles, it is only a matter of time before even smaller vehicles or robots are permitted on roads to deliver packages – this will happen much more quickly and with less resistance than airborne drones,” says Shopatron’s Pincott. “This will make fulfilment methods such as ship-from-store, or click and collect more efficient, because point-to-point deliveries won’t require a driver.”More boredom for shop assistants. And more surveillance?Despite our apparent affection and respect for the art of queuing, most of us would surely welcome less of it. But there may be downsides.The high street will become even more empty, and most of those shop assistants we’re ignoring in favour of staring at our handsets will be out of work. Plus, Professor Edwards notesanother concern, and it’s one that always comes up with the IoT: the more sensors and connected devices, the more potential for privacy invasion. “Again we’re extending this network of surveillance, but it will improve consumer satisfaction,” she says. “There’s always a tradeoff.”Of course,blind acceptance of the surveillance state is another infamous British trait, so perhaps it can take the place of queueing in the list of what it means to be British.• This article was amended on 31 March 2015 to correct John Pincott’s name and job title.
Sorry everyone! I set up a Chatterbox to run yesterday, but managed to get the date wrong – then got on a 10 hour flight from Los Angeles.But I’m sure you still have a few things to say about Bloodborne?
The 126th anniversary of the public opening of the Eiffel Tower is being marked with a Google doodle showing the site in cartoon form. The doodle, by French visual development artist Floriane Marchix, shows the tower being painted by cheery workmen in berets and overalls, swinging from the tower.To paint the structure in its entirety would require 60 tons of paint, according to theEiffel Tower website, which says that this process takes place every seven years. The tower is still the tallest structure in Paris, at 300m high (324m if you include its antennae). London’s Shard stands at 306m.The tower was first opened by French premier Pierre Tirard on 31 March 1889. On that day, Gustave Eiffel, the architect and civil engineer behind the building, climbed its 1,710 steps to plant the French flag at its peak. In 2010, it received its 250 millionth visitor.
“French Maid” wasn’t Carl Force’s officially sanctioned darknet alias.In his capacity as an undercover Drug Enforcement Agency agent, and a senior member of the team investigating the deep-web drug market Silk Road and its owner, Force used the alias “Nob”.Ross Ulbricht, the founder of Silk Road known then as “Dread Pirate Roberts”, believed Nob to be a drug smuggler operating in the US with criminal underworld connections.But Force also created “French Maid” and “Death from Above” – separate aliases not sanctioned by his bosses which he used to extort from Ulbricht hundreds of thousands of dollars’ worth of bitcoin, according to a complaint filed in a US district court in California.In 2013, after a two-year investigation, the FBI arrested Ulbricht. In February 2015 he was found guilty on charges of money laundering, conspiracy to traffic drugs and attempted purchase of a murder-for-hire.The complaint against Force, which was filed on 25 March, describes how he was assigned to the Baltimore, Maryland side of the FBI investigation into Ulbricht. While involved in that investigation, the complaint alleges, Force stole and converted for personal use “a sizable amount” of bitcoin that had been sent to him in his official capacity.“Rather than turning those bitcoin over to the government,” the complaint continues, “Force deposited them into his own personal accounts.”Force and Shaun Bridges, a secret service agent who has also been charged in relation to fraud linked to the Dread Pirate Roberts investigation, were senior agents within the taskforce. Force was the lead agent in communication with the Dread Pirate Roberts account, and Bridges was a computer forensics expert.Force and Bridges had significant exposure to and developed expertise in the digital currency known as bitcoin, according to the complaint, which also says that Force used his position as a federal agent to illegally run background checks for the benefit of a bitcoin exchange company called CoinMKT, in which he had invested more than $100,000.At one point, believing that Silk Road had been the victim of a theft, Dread Pirate Roberts contacted Nob – Force – and asked him to commission the assassination of a former Silk Road vendor (whose account had been compromised to law enforcement), known in the complaint as CG.Force appears to have made little attempt to hide his activities. His personal checking account, reviewed by the FBI during its investigation into the two agents, showed incoming deposits of “at least approximately $757,000” between April 2013 and May 2014.Force and Bridges also set up bitcoin investment properties named Quantum Investments and Engedi LLC, apparently to hold and re-invest the funds they had stolen.In communication with Dread Pirate Roberts, Force also created a fictional insider source in the government agency, known as Kevin, whom he said was feeding him insider information. For this information, Force demanded payment from Ulbricht.Force and Bridges have been charged with wire fraud and money laundering. Force has additionally been charged with theft of government property and conflict of interest.
New Apple releases are usually accompanied by lines of fans outside their stores waiting patiently to be the first to get their hands on the tech icon’s latest gizmo. Not this time. Well, if you have at least $10,000 to spend on a watch.Apple is creating a club class for customers looking to buy its new Apple Watch. There’ll be no lines, private lessons for users and 24-hour support for those buying the high-end version of its soon-to-be-released smart watch, according to documents seen by tech site9to5Mac.Apple unveiled the long-rumoured Watch at the start of March. While most of its functions had been widely trailed the price of the top models came as a shock to many.Apple Watch will start at $349 but prices rise to $17,000 for the 18-carat rose gold version with a sapphire display. Apple Watch will go on sale on 24 April.The so-calledApple Watch Editionis Apple’s first foray into truly high-end consumer goods. The company has recently hired a clique of designer executives, includingAngela Ahrendts, former CEO of Burberry, and their luxury aesthetic is being applied to the Watch sales.According to 9to5 Apple briefing notes to employees the Apple Watch Edition is: “the ultimate expression of extraordinary craftsmanship, incredible innovation, and design driven by functionality and end use … technology becoming seductive, with desirability not necessarily defined simply by a price tag or elitism, but rather meticulous focus on usefulness and utility rooted in beauty.”Edition customers are “interested in this collection for the intrinsic value that a gold watch offers along with the unique style choices available”. And the sale experience “is intended to be extremely personal, elegant, and purposeful”.
Activists battling internet censorship in China said Monday they had proof a massive online assault on their websites had been coordinated by the Chinese authorities.In recent days, popular coding service GitHub faced a massive denial of service (DDoS) attack – an online attack aimed at bringing down a service by overloading it with fake traffic.The attack started last Thursday and targeted two GitHub projects designed to combat censorship in China: GreatFire and CN-NYTimes, a Chinese language version of the New York Times.In a statement on theGreatFire.orgblog, an activist identified as “Charlie” wrote: “On March 17th 2015, our websites and partner websites came under aDDoS attack. We had never been subjected to an attack of this magnitude before. This attack was unusual in nature as we discovered that the Chinese authorities were steering millions of unsuspecting internet users worldwide to launch the attack. We believe this is a major cybersecurity and economic threat for the people of China.”After consulting with independent researchers and the internet community, GreatFire claims to have established that the attack was made by hijacking the account of millions of global internet users, inside and outside China.Those users received malicious code which was then used to launch cyber-attacks against GreatFire.org’s websites. Among the users targeted were customers of Baidu, which offers a Chinese search engine and a Wikipedia-like service, and is one of China’s largest internet companies.According to GreatFire, Baidu’s Analytics code – a service that tracks and reports website traffic – was one of the files replaced by malicious code. Baidu Analytics is used by thousands of websites.GreatFire released aresearch reporttitled “Using Baidu to steer millions of computers to launch denial of service attacks” to back up its claims.Baidu had previouslytold the Wall Street Journalthat it wasn’t involved in the attack and its systems had not been infiltrated. “After careful inspection by Baidu’s security engineers, we have ruled out the possibility of security problems or hacker attacks on our own products,” it said in a statement.
Chores are boring. Get home from work, let the dog out, put dinner on, start a load of laundry and write a list for your next grocery order. What if rather than doing housework when you get home, you could do it on your commute – or better yet, not at all?That’s the promise of the internet of things: hand your commute over to a smart car, let your pet out via his web-connected dog door, open up an app to pre-heat the oven and start the laundry, and click to approve the shopping list your smart fridge automatically generated.This all sounds like a futuristic life, and parts of it do remain years away, but the foundations are being laid now – and much of the work is being done by British firms. We need to decide now what the IoT will look like, how it will protect our privacy, and just how much help we really want from it.What is the internet of things?The term Internet of Things (commonly shortened to IoT)first emerged in 1999, yet a connected toaster was on show atan internet conference ten years earlier. The term is currently used to describe everything fromintelligent thermostatsthat turn up the heating before you get home tofridges that order milk when you’ve run outandcows fitted with health and location trackers. It’s what happens when sensors, cheap wireless chips and ubiquitous internet connectivity collide: devices can talk to each other, making it easier to control and automate tasks – and collect data.Want an IoT life? You can start now – but it’ll either take effort or a rather lot of cash.Those who are handy with technology can programme their own smart devices and control them using Arduino or Raspberry Pi boards, but basic smart home functions are easy to achieve now. Companies such asBelkinandD-Linksell internet connected plugs: pop one into a socket, and whatever you plug into it can be flipped on or off via an app, either remotely or on a set schedule. Connecting a single socket will cost about £40.Philips Hue is a smart light that can be turned on remotely or used as a timed wake-up light. It’s easy to install – screw them in and open the app – but thestarter kit costs £179, and each bulb £25.Lars Kurkinen, a senior analyst atBerg Insight, said smart thermostats are the most popular connected home device in Britain. “British Gas’ Hiveis the largest with more than 150,000 users now, but there are of course a large number of other companies competing in this space as well such as Nest, Tado, Honeywell and Heat Genius,” he said.Not easy, and not cheapIndeed, many existing IoT products have very specific goals:PetziConnect($170) lets you interact with a pet over camera and feed them a treat, Withings Scales track your weight and body fat, and the Firefox iKettle starts boiling water for a cuppa when your morning alarm sounds. And then there are appliances. LG has shown off a smart refrigerator that you can send a text message to, asking it if there’s any milk in the fridge. It’ll cost £2,000, but isn’t yet available in the UK.Most of these are standalone products, and one challenge for the IoT is bringing it all together into a single platform, as no one wants to open a new app for each appliance, smart lamp, and so on.Homey, from Dutch developers Athom, hopes to pull it all together by allowing you to talk to your home; you can set phrases that let you control your lights, music and TV. Along similar lines, Amazon has unveiled theEcho speaker, which uses voice recognition to give you answers to basic questions as well as add items to a shopping list, set an alarm and play music.There’s more holding back IoT. Berg analyst Kurkinen said smart devices would be more useful to consumers if they got along better. Such interoperability would mean that as you “leave your home and lock your front door, your door lock could tell your thermostat to switch to ‘away mode’ and turn off the lights,” he noted. “Quite frankly, however, there are very many standards and initiatives related to interoperability and it is often difficult for consumers to tell if two smart home products will be interoperable or not.”“Smart home products still need to improve in terms of usability and the value that is delivered to consumers,” Kurkinen said. “One challenge is that using smart home products often requires a fair bit of fiddling with your phone to get the settings right. A future trend is to minimise the number of settings and controls that are required to enable ‘true’ home automation.”And don’t forget the cost of those £25 light bulbs. “Currently there are countless potential applications of IoT that are not being realised because the technology is not there yet or it’s too expensive,” added Maurizio Pilu, partnerships director at Digital Catapult, a technology accelerator funded by the Technology Strategy Board.Smart securityThere are other challenges with the IoT, notably around security and privacy. It’s handy to be able to unlock your door from a distance, but not so convenient if a burglar can do the same. As F-Secure product manager Mika Majapuro noted, hackers have already broken intobaby monitors and webcams. In the future, hackers could crack your smart door lock remotely and sell access to local thieves, he suggested, or take over your fridge and demand a ransom to get it back. “It sounds like a strange concept, but would you prefer to pay £50 to get your fridge or freezer working again or hundreds of pounds on replacing the food and buying a new appliance?” he asked.Is there anything IoT users can do? “Essentially, consumers are in over their heads on this one,” said Stahlberg. “Just as with cars, there should be independent tests and reviews – and perhaps certification or vetting [such as] ‘crash test dummy tests’ for products.”Invasion of privacyAnd then there’s privacy. We already face online surveillance – what happens when even our home appliances add to the pool of personal data collected about us? “As the market is still at a very early stage, a lot of the cool IoT devices we see today are made by startups or at least fast moving teams within bigger companies,” warned Mika Stahlberg, director of strategic threat research at F-Secure. “These kinds of teams typically are very driven and focused on getting their product to the market fast, and tend to travel light. This means that it’s likely there might be some cutting of corners when it comes to selecting which customer data to upstream, how the data is stored, who gets access and how product security has been implemented.”Again, that means privacy isn’t always in users’ hands. Lilian Edwards, professor of e-governance at Strathclyde University – which is running aconference on the subject later this week in Glasgow– pointed out that’s the downside of private companies, especially when they’re developing IoT products to be used city-wide. “What’s happening with smart cities is that, increasingly, the data that’s generated within them may be from public spaces but may belong to private companies.”Because of the threat to privacy, the EU needs to ensure its data protection laws reflect the changes brought in by the IoT, and both Edwards and Stahlberg called for privacy to be built in at the design stage of IoT products and platforms – not be left as an afterthought.British building blocksThe Internet of Things doesn’t have to mean letting Silicon Valley in through your remotely unlocked door: British companies, from established players to startups, are already making a mark. “The UK has the potential to be a world leader in the IoT, largely because the country has outstanding capabilities in communications technology and cyber security,” said Pilu.He pegged a few firms to watch, starting with ARM, the British chip designer responsible for most smartphone and tablet processors. “London-basedEvrythngis another great example of UK-based innovation in the IoT. Creating a platform connecting normal consumer products, from boilers to lamps, to the web allows real-time data to drive applications and manage them,” he added. “Organisations that have been showcased at the Digital Catapult Centre are really showing the potential for the UK around the IoT – from sensors byBeacontentandNWavethrough toCanaryCareandKemurishowing the true social benefits of the IoT, as well asthingfulthat maps the interactions and scale of IoT as it grows.”Across Europe, he pointed to French firm Sigfox, which is building an EU-wide, low-power network using unlicensed spectrum – perfect for connecting IoT devices and sensors. “For the IoT to reach its full potential being connected is key, and with the 3G spectrum at capacity and 4G rapidly filling up, tapping into unlicensed spectrum is a disruptive but necessary move,” Pilu added.In the futureDespite the many challenges – from interoperability to price, security and privacy – analysts are expecting an explosion in IoT.Gartner says4.9bn connected “things” will be in use by this year, reaching 25bn by 2020.So what will it look like in the future? Your ride home will be via a driverless car (already being trialled in Milton Keynes), your home temperature, meals and other chores will be taken care of by the time you walk in your remotely unlocked front door, your lighting will turn on in warm colours to welcome you home, and your music playlist will follow you from the car to the living room – and, hopefully, all this will happen across one interoperable system with privacy baked in from the design stage.But the future of IoT may be impossible to predict. Edwards noted her amused surprise at one group presenting at theUniversity of Strathclyde’s conference in Glasgow, which will be showing off smart bathrooms that measure everything from your water consumption to how you use your toothpaste, highlighting the reach of the IoT. “It’s not science fiction anymore,” she added.
An ebook app called Clean Reader has writers up in arms over its blacklist of “profanity”. While you read your ebooks, it looks for hot-words and swaps them with milder versions like “fiddlesticks”. This is a stupid, offensive app, but it’s emblematic of the best the electronic age has to offer.Since the first days of the web, we’ve celebrated tools that let us alter the things we see according to our specifications. When I’m on expensive, metered mobile data, I turn off images. My increasing discomfiture with online tracking prompted me to install an ad-blocker. I used to usea plug-inthat warned me whenever I was reading a site owned by Rupert Murdoch. I dote onthis pluginthat changes linkbait headlines into milder versions, so “Will Blow Your Mind” becomes “Might Perhaps Mildly Entertain You For a Moment” and “One Weird Trick” becomes “One Piece of Completely Anecdotal Horseshit”.Writers object to Clean Reader because the people who made it have stupid ideas about novels. Their crude search/replace will undoubtedly do violence to fiction and the readers who use it are making bad decisions. But it’s their decision to make.It’s precisely because I disagree with Clean Reader’s users that I have no business prohibiting them from choosing how they read the copies of my books that they lawfully acquire with equipment they choose. It’s easy to be a free speech advocate when you agree with the speaker. Unless you support speech you find objectionable, you don’t support free speech at all.Make no mistake, this is a free speech issue. The right to free expression includes the right to decide whom you listen to, and how. Free speech is not compelled listening.The writer has no right to dictate how the reader must read. I can’t celebratea parent’s inspired, genderswitched Bilbo Bagginsor Michael de Larrabeiti’s Borribles novels – which started life as an extended piss-take of the Wombles – without defending the rights of readers whose changes I disagree with.Clean Readers’s opponents have stated that the company is illegally selling altered texts. This is not the case. Clean Reader has a license to sell ebooks – they operate a storefront backed by a major ebook retailer’s OEM platform – and the books that they sell are unaltered. By default, their customers see the verbatim, author-approved text. The reader, not the company, makes the decision to engage the filter, knowing what effect it will have on the text.Others say that Clean Reader makes derivative works by allowing readers to decide how they read. If this is so, then every ad blocker does the same. I once worked in a bookstore that sold markers. If I sold you a book and a marker and told you to line out the first paragraph on page 251 if you wanted to avoid a piece of terrible writing, I wouldn’t be the one preparing the derivative work – you would. It would make me a bad bookseller, not a copyright infringer or a censor.I want a future where readers get to decide how they read. I want to be able to make and share annotations to climate-denial bestsellers – even if that means deniers can mark up Naomi Klein’s This Changes Everything and share their notes. I want to be able to turn Oxford commas off and on. I want to be able to change the font, block the ads, and swap cliched passages for humorous alternatives. I wantBechdelwarethat let me choose to genderswap the characters. I want sentiment analysis that tries to sync a music playlist with the words I read.I want people to be able to do stupid things with their computers. Because more than anything, I want computer users to have the final say about what their computers do.That includes kids, by the way. It’s one thing for an adult to use Clean Reader to make her reading experience accord with her preferences. The same principle that says she should be allowed to dictate her computer’s behaviour means her kids should be able to decide for themselves how sweary the books they read are.Every writer whose Clean Reader denunciations I’ve read disagrees with Clean Reader because they perceive, correctly, that Clean Reader was created by and for social conservatives who practice linguistic bigotry. To these writers, I say: “Who will stand up for the tool that changes text in a way you like, and that bigots hate?” If you’re worried about the slippery slope of readers being able to “censor” their own books, what about the slippery slope of copyright becoming a tool to stymie the changes you agree with?
A lot of people are getting hot under the collar about the BBC’s article on Minecraft, children and parenting, written by journalist Jolyon Jenkins.Should parents ever worry about Minecraft?asks whether Minecraft is entirely healthy for kids, from addiction and lessening interest in the real world through to the prospect of “children being digitally mugged” by other players.Related:Minecraft movie will be 'large-budget' but unlikely to arrive before 2017Jenkins clearly knows that he’ll have critics, referring to “Minecraft’s champions”, “the other side” and “the opposition” in the piece when suggesting how they might try to counter his arguments, setting this up as a battle.At this point, as someone who writes regularly about children and technology – Minecraft included – I’m probably expected to saddle up and charge into battle, laying waste to Jenkins’ arguments.He does make some points worth talking about in a much more balanced and less adversarial way. But my main response boils down to this: wouldn’t it be better for parents tounderstandMinecraft rather than worry about it?Because once they understand the game and what their children are getting out of it, they’ll have a much better base of knowledge to make parenting decisions about and around it – from setting time limits to ensuring it’s complemented by other activities.Parenting, judging by my experience with my five and seven year-old sons, is about a) worrying constantly, and b) trying to make informed decisions about setting boundaries in response to those worries.Sometimes, those worries spring from the ability of pretty much every child – as far as I can make out – to get addicted to (or at least obsessed by – I share Jenkins’ hesitance to bandy around “addiction” as a word here) pretty much anything that they enjoy doing.My seven year-old would happily play Angry Birds Star Wars games for hours on the tablet if left unchecked. He’d eat Bear Yoyos until he was sick in order to collect more of the monster cards that come with them.Related:Minecraft YouTube videos have been watched 47bn timesHe’d read non-fiction endlessly instead of stories; have the same album playing every day for a month in the car during the school-run; and watch Disney XD for so long that the programmes would start repeating.The point is that he doesn’t, because there are boundaries. Tablet time lasts for 15 minutes every evening; Bear Yoyo packets are rationed; stories are read; different albums played whatever the howls of protest from the back seat; and TV time is also carefully managed.I get lots of things wrong in my parenting – oh yes, c) parenting is about winging it most of the time, and frequently regretting your mistakes – but the point is that I’m not worried about apps, fruity sweets or music as things, any more than I will be about Minecraft when and if that time comes.Jenkins makes some important points about the nature of Minecraft fandom: the fact that children don’t just play, but they alsowatch other people play through YouTube channelslike Stampy and Yogscast.Still: parents set the boundaries here too, at least for younger children – for teenagers with their own smartphones and tablets or computers in their bedrooms, there’s a whole new kettle of worries in store, but they’re far from restricted to a single game.Cyberbullying? Pornography? The prospect of both in my sons’ future makes my stomach lurch more than any game.Related:Headteachers ​threaten to contact police over children playing 18-rated gamesJenkins’ piece makes some points that few parents would disagree with. “Children should be exercising more than their mouse fingers.” Yes, physical exercise is important (but it’s not an either/or thing with computer use).“Reading allows you to imaginatively inhabit other minds.” No arguments on that score either (but it’s not an either/or thing with playing games).These feel a bit like straw-man arguments, but they do point to what parents should really be worrying about, which is the overall balance of their children’s entertainment and activities, rather than about one of those individual activities.The BBC piece praises the impact Minecraft has had with some children on the autism spectrum – something my colleague Keith Stuart haswritten about with delicate beauty and insight in regards to his own son– but goes on to question whether this is an issue for other children:“The fact that Minecraft is such a good fit for some autistic children is, to my mind, a reason why parents of neurotypical children might be wary of it. It’s a universe where the social cues are sparse, communication is limited, and the environment simplistic.”Related:Minecraft's creator will always be a hero to me, he gave my autistic son a voiceFor me, those limitations are some of Minecraft’s strengths, because they’re what spur children to fill in the gaps from their own imaginations. The upcomingMinecon conventionshould reveal more about how Minecraft is evolving on this front, as well as more about what kind of environments and communication children are using it for.I may disagree with Jenkins’ interpretation, but I’m glad that these questions are being raised: they’re a sign that Minecraft is being taken seriously, which in turn will lead to better understanding among parents.For now, though, there’s a simpler way for parents who don’t feel they understand Minecraft to build their knowledge: sit down next to your child and watch them. Ask questions. See if they’ll teach you how to play it with them.This doesn’t mean you’ll avoid having to make decisions about the amount of time your child spends in Minecraft’s beguiling “hyper-reality” rather than the unblocky real world, but it does mean you’ll have a better idea – with less worries – about what they’re up to, and how it can fit into their life.
We do everything online – book doctors’ appointments, manage our bank accounts and find dates – but we still can’t yet vote from our PCs or smartphones.By 2020 that should be set to change, with a government report calling for online voting to be trialled again by that year. But critics continue to call for caution, saying electronic voting isn’t secure enough to trust for the basis of our democracy – and may never be.The UK has run trials for local elections before – in 2002, 2003 and 2007 – and Estonia famously became the first to offer online voting for its general election for parliament in 2007.However, Meg Hillier, Labour MP and member of the digital commission that wrote the 2020 report, admitted thatthe team was “not set up to investigate in detail the issues of security and the mechanisms for delivering that,” hoping that the Electoral Commission “and others will take that on”.The case for e-votingThe MPs debating that report all accepted that e-voting security was a concern, but believe the challenges are outweighed by the benefits.Campaign group WebRoots Democracylaid out the argument for online votesin its own report, claiming two thirds of respondents to a survey would be more likely to vote if they could do so online, and that’s particularly true for younger voters.Related:John Bercow calls for online voting in 2020 general electionPlus, the report claimed online voting would cut the cost per vote by a third to £2.59 and reduce the number of accidentally spoiled ballots.Those same promises have been made before, each time the UK has previously trialled the idea. In 2002, five city councils let voters cast a ballot by home internet, text message and “kiosk”; in 2003, that was expanded to 14 councils.Turnout increased by an average 4.9 points, but varied widely, with South Tyneside leaping by 20 percentage points and Vale Royal sliding by two points.Following the 2003 elections,a report by the BBCshowed e-voting “failed to make much of an impact”. Voters were given a ballot number and a PIN, but there were issues with technology – in St Albans, PCs in polling booths had connectivity issues and had to be abandoned for paper ballots.Another five tests were run in 2007. All were considered “broadly successful” – but eight years on, there hasn’t been any more pilots. Not in the UK, anyway.Online voting has been trialled around the world, though many of the pilots have also been at a municipal or other low level. Estonia, however, has used e-voting since 2005 and in 2007 used it to elect its parliament – though only 5.4% of voters used the online system to make their choice.Security concernsAll of the potential benefits are moot if we can’t trust the result, but so far there haven’t been any attacks against e-voting systems – or at least none we’re aware of.As a report into e-voting in Switzerland from Harvard’s cyber law department pointed out, the digital option has remained poorly used by the electorate.“It is reasonable to assume, however, that the systems will be exposed to higher numbers of attempted attacks and manipulation as the use of e-voting becomes more widespread,” the report noted.If the government does press forward with e-voting trials, as it appears set to do, it needs to get some experts in, Anderson said – and there’s one Green politician who knows the issue inside and out.Related:UK should consider e-voting, elections watchdog urgesDespite spending years developing GNU.FREE, a free online voting system, Jason Kitcat – leader of Brighton and Hove City Council – isn’t a fan of e-voting (nor is his party).“Through working on this I came to the conclusion, now shared by most computer scientists, that e-voting cannot be delivered securely and reliably with current technology. So I stopped developing the system but continued to campaign on and research the issues,” he said.That includes observing e-voting and e-counting systems used in the UK and Estonia. His reports don’t make for encouraging reading.“When I and colleagues have monitored trials we have always observed serious flaws in the security and reliability of the systems used,” he said. “Yes, we have found problems every single time, and we have documented these at great length in peer-reviewed articles.”Kitcat argued there are three requirements for robust political elections: security, anonymity and verifiability. “Meeting those three requirements is a very difficult problem quite unlike other transactions,” he said.”Online banking suffers problems but refunds are possible after checking your bank statement. You can’t ‘refund’ a vote and ‘vote statements’ can’t be provided to check your vote was correctly recorded as that would enable vote selling and coercion.”All that paper in standard ballots may seem old fashioned, but it leaves a trail that votes cast from PCs and phones don’t, agreed other experts. “There’s a fundamental conflict between verification and keeping votes anonymous,” Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group. “Paper ballots do this very neatly but computers find this hard because they leave audit trails.”Voting away from polls raises the spectre of vote manipulation, explained Ross Anderson, a computer security professor at the University of Cambridge.“When you move from voting in person to voting at home (whether by post, by phone or over the internet) it vastly expands the scope for vote buying and coercion, and we’ve seen this rising steadily in the UK since the 2001 election where postal votes first became a right,” he said. “All the parties have been caught hustling up the vote in various ways.”ThatHarvard cyber law study into Swiss e-voting trialsechoed that, noting that, aside from malware and related threats, e-voting systems need to be secured against vote manipulation.“Since no signatures are used, there is the risk that the e-voter is not actually the person he or she claims to be,” the report noted, adding that “just like postal or ballot box voting, e-voting will probably never be completely safe from manipulation or unlawful observation.”Related:Pirate party founder: 'Online voting? Would you want 4chan to decide your government?'And all of this is before considering malware and other cyber security issues – in other words, someone directly trying to hack a vote. Killock pointed out that you would “need to ensure that everyone’s device had not been tampered with” – a challenge that seems insurmountable.“Internet voting is frankly scary,” he said. “When security experts looked at the Estonia election, they were shocked at how easy it was to defraud the system and steal votes ... We shouldn’t gamble with democracy.”Lack of transparency is another major security issue – especially if the data collection, analysis and storage happens in IT systems that aren’t fully transparent or are difficult to understand.“This can turn out to be a threat to the legitimacy of the ballot since most people are not technically skilled enough to be able to control whether the system is truly working flawlessly,” the Harvard Law report noted.“As of now, ‘average’ citizens have always helped in the counting of votes. This has – in some way – added to a feeling of control and a sense of connection with the state among the people.”Of course, all this debate solely surrounds the general elections. Anderson said online voting is fine in “low-stakes elections” – he cites its use at the Institute of Engineering and Technology, and at his own university council – but said it’s “less fine where there are capable motivated opponents”.Indeed, Vince Cable hascalled for its use in smaller ballotssuch as unions, to boost low turnout.
Related:Amazon warns Congress: US risks being left behind in delivery drone businessAmazon is testing its drone delivery service at a secret site in Canada, followingrepeated warningsby the e-commerce giant that it would go outside the US to bypass what it sees as the US federal government’s lethargic approach to the new technology.The largest internet retailer in the world is keeping the location of its new test site closely guarded. What can be revealed is that the company’s formidable team of roboticists, software engineers, aeronautics experts and pioneers in remote sensing – including a former Nasa astronaut and the designer of the wingtip of the Boeing 787 – are now operating in British Columbia.The end goal is to utilise what Amazon sees as a slice of virgin airspace – above 200ft, where most buildings end, and below 500ft, where general aviation begins. Into that aerial slice the company plans to pour highly autonomous drones of less than 55lbs, flying through corridors 10 miles or longer at 50mph and carrying payloads of up to 5lbs that account for 86% of all the company’s packages.Amazon has acquired a plot of open land lined by oak trees and firs, where it is conducting frequent experimental flights with the full blessing of the Canadian government. As if to underline the significance of the move, the test site is barely 2,000ft from the US border, which was clearly visible from where the Guardian stood on a recent visit.The Guardian was invited to visit Amazon’s previously undisclosed Canadian drone test site, where it has been conducting outdoor flights for the past few months. For the duration of the visit, three plain-clothed security guards kept watch from the surrounding hills.Amazon’s drone visionaries are taking the permissive culture on the Canadian side of the border and using it to fine-tune the essential features of what they hope will become a successful delivery-by-drone system. The Guardian witnessed tests of a hybrid drone that can take off and land vertically as well as fly horizontally.The company’s decision to set up camp in Canada, after frustration in its attempts to persuade US regulators to allow it to launch its drones in Washington state, takes Amazon’s quarrel with the federal government to a new level. Last week a senior Amazon executive appeared before a US Senate subcommittee and warned that there would be consequences if federal regulators continued to act as a drag on its ambitions to launch a drone delivery service called Prime Air.What Paul Misener, the company’s vice-president for global public policy, did not tell senators was that at the very moment he appeared before them, Amazon drones were buzzing in the skies just north of the border.The company wants to offer its customers the ability to have packages dropped on their doorstep by flying robots within 30 minutes of ordering goods online. With innovation in the drone sector reaching lightning speeds, Amazon said it was not prepared to curtail its ambitions because of what Misener said was a lack of “impetus” on the US side of the border.“We think that this new technology will provide huge benefits for our customers, who we think will love it, and for society more broadly,” he told the Guardian a day after the subcommittee hearing. “Why would we wait?”Gur Kimchi is the architect of Prime Air, Amazon’s planned domestic drone delivery service. ‘We do what’s necessary,’ he said. ‘We go to places where we can test outside.’Photograph: AmazonGur Kimchi, the architect and head of Prime Air, said the hope had always been to develop the drone service in the US, close to the company’s Seattle headquarters. “But we’re limited there to flying indoors and have been now for a very long time. So we do what’s necessary – we go to places where we can test outside, in this case Canada.”Drone technology is seen by many tech companies and aeronautics experts as the next frontier for innovation, with billions of dollars potentially in the balance. Traditionally, the US has been at the vanguard of both tech and aviation innovation, but the approach of the the Federal Aviation Authority (FAA), a US regulatory body, has been markedly tentative so far compared with that of regulators in Canada and Europe.Brendan Schulman, a New York-based specialist in drone law, said the Guardian’s disclosure of Amazon’s Canadian airstrip-in-exile should be a “serious wake-up call to politicians and regulators”.“America has led the world in aviation development,” he said, “but for the first time in history we are at risk of losing out. To see one of our most innovative companies forced over the border is a stark example of the danger.”Until it opened its Canadian base, Amazon had been limited to indoor testing in its Seattle laboratory, backed up with research outposts in the UK – in Cambridge – and Israel. Requests by the company to begin outdoor testing on company land in Washington state have so far largely been rebuffed by the FAA.The federal agency recently published itsguidelines for commercial use of small drones. The new rules will take at least two years to come into effect, a delay which Amazon finds unacceptable.Last July, the companyapplied for a so-called 333 exemptionthat would allow it to carry out outdoor experimentation immediately. Eight months later, the FAA has not responded.The federal body did agree last week, amidconsiderable fanfare, to award the company a so-called “experimental airworthiness certificate” that can be used to test a specific model of drone. But it took so long for the certificate to come through that by the time it was granted,Amazon said it was obsolete.“The pace of innovation is so great at this point that our designs are changing very quickly,” Misener told the Guardian.The contrast between the relative rigidity of the FAA’s approach to drone testing and the relatively relaxed regulatory regime in Canada is startling. Under the Canadian system, Amazon has been granted a virtual carte blanche regarding its entire fleet of drones within its designated airspace, having gone through a licensing process that took just three weeks.By comparison, it takes the FAA many months to grant approval. Sources familiar with the process told the Guardian the US regulator insists on an initial 23-page application, a review of 75 pages of further documentation and a four-hour presentation at FAA headquarters followed by a three-hour site visit, together with ongoing reporting and record-keeping obligations.Early experiments in Canada have focused on a range of individual drone capabilities: sensors that can detect and avoid obstacles in a drone’s path; link-loss procedures that control the aircraft should its connection with base be broken; stability in wind and turbulence; and environmental impact. Once each of these facets has been perfected, a new Amazon prototype drone will be assembled that Kimchi predicted would be utterly safe and wholly unlike anything seen before.“We are going to end up with unique shapes, unique vehicles. The most important part is to develop strong confidence that our system is safe and that we can demonstrate that to customers,” he said.“You can build a very different world. It can be faster, and safer, and more economic and more environmentally friendly – all of those things, all at the same time.”FAA – a uniquely difficult job?A now outdated iteration of an Amazon domestic delivery drone. The company keeps its new models strictly under wraps.Photograph: Amazon/EPAThe FAA argues that the US has a uniquely difficult job in safeguarding the nation’s skies. It emphasises that it is responsible for the largest, most complex airspace in the world, which, unlike other countries’, is used by a large general aviation fleet.“Different laws and regulatory structures in other nations may allow them to act more quickly to approve certain UAS [drone] operations,” an FAA spokesman told the Guardian. “Everything we do is safety-oriented, and we base our approvals for unmanned aircraft operations on an assessment of the risks to other aircraft and to people and property on the ground. We have been working diligently with Amazon to get the information we need.”Misener said he respected the FAA’s desire to keep America’s airspace as safe as possible. “That’s our top priority in Amazon Prime Air too,” he said.But he questioned the FAA’s portrayal of America’s unique position: “The US does have a complex airspace, but it’s no more complex than in Europe, where regulators do allow testing, and it’s certainly not complex beneath 500ft or in rural areas of Washington state where we had planned to operate.”The numbers speak for themselves. The FAA has received more than 750 requests for outdoor drone testing licenses from American businesses, Amazon’s among them, but so far has granted just 48. Canada’s equivalent civil aviation authority, Transport Canada, released 1,672 commercial drone certificates last year alone.Amazon will will result in other large American companies like Google and Facebook looking at our market as wellDiana CooperDiana Cooper, head of drones and robotics at the Canadian law firm Labarge Weinstein, said that in recent months several US companies had contacted her to inquire about opportunities in her country – a phenomenon that she believes will be boosted further by Amazon’s decision to join the fold.“Amazon will definitely be a trendsetter,” she said, “and will result in a lot of other large American companies like Google and Facebook looking at our market as well.”Another battle is already on the horizon. The FAA has stated bluntly it does not believe that drones can be flown safely under their own autonomous control, and is insisting that humans must keep them within eyesight at all times. That is a deal-breaker for Amazon Prime Air, which could only function if drones were able to fly well beyond visual line of sight.Here too, the contrast between the uncertainty of the US regulators and the can-do attitude of their Canadian and European equivalents is striking.A huge area of Albertacovering 700 square nautical miles of restricted airspace has already been set aside to allow for drones to be tested beyond visual line of sight. In Europe a similar facility is being openedin Wales.Misener believes that with such opportunities exploding beyond US borders, it is only a matter of time before the FAA is forced to accept that drones are here to stay.“This technology is going to work,” he said. “It’s coming.”
Smartwatch manufacturer Pebble has finished its second run on crowdfunding website Kickstarter,raising $20.3m in pre-ordersfor its new Pebble Time watch.That makes it the most funded project ever on Kickstarter, beating the previous record – $13.3m for theCoolest beer cooler– and nearly doubling the$10.3m that the company raised in 2012for its original Pebble smartwatch.78,741 people backed the Pebble Time, with the first run of devices due to ship in May, with more following over subsequent months.The new smartwatch has a colour e-paper display, a new “timeline” interface and the promise of up to seven days battery life, in contrast to the 1-2 days offered by most of its rivals.During the campaign, Pebble made some additional feature announcements, including“smartstraps”– watch straps containing sensors and electronics to work with apps running on the Pebble Time – and a$1m fundto encourage developers to support them.Pebble also unveiled a second smartwatch, the Pebble Time Steel; released a developer preview of the software development kit (SDK) for the new devices; and confirmed that both will be water resistant.Related:Why brands like Pebble keep coming back to KickstarterPebble’s original device was one of the first mainstream smartwatches when it launched in 2012,reaching 1m shipments by February 2015. However, the Pebble Time and Pebble Time Steel will face much more competition when they launch.Google’s Android Wear software is now running on a growing range of smartwatches, includingSony’s Smartwatch 3,LG’s G Watch R,Motorola’s Moto 360,Samsung’s Gear 2andAsus’ ZenWatch.Apple is preparing torelease its Apple Watch in April, while Microsoft’s smartwatch-cum-fitness tracker, the Microsoft Band,went on sale in the UK in April.Pebble’s chief executive Eric Migicovsky was bullish about the competition during arecent Ask Me Anything (AMA) interviewon Reddit. “I personally love the fact that PT fits into my life and doesn’t force me to conform around Apple or Google’s systems,” he said.“It works with both platforms, lasts for up to a week, is durable/waterproof. Timeline is our latest breakthrough... I believe that this interface, which is custom designed for the wrist, will win out.”
Uber denies that its servers were hacked after reports that thousands of usernames and passwords for the taxi-like service are available to buy for as little as $1 online.Two sellers with outlets on the AlphaBay Market dark web marketplace, hidden from the open internet within the Tor anonymity network, claim to sell stolen, working Uber credentials allowing purchasers to login and book rides.According to the market place listing, one vendor has sold over 180 Uber logins since 18 March.But Uber denies that the stolen logins came from its servers suggesting that users should avoid sharing the same login credentials across multiple sites.“We investigated and found no evidence of a breach,” said an Uber spokesperson in a statement. “Attempting to fraudulently access or sell accounts is illegal and we notified the authorities about this report.”Technology site Motherboard wasable to verifythat some of the stolen credentials were valid and included names, usernames, passwords, partial credit card numbers and telephone numbers for Uber users.Related:Are driverless cars the future of Uber?Uber has been criticised in the past for the way it handles customer data and the ability of staff to access a “god mode”, which allowed employees totrack ridersusing the GPS in their smartphones and the Uber app.The company changed its privacy policy and the way customer data was handled in response to outcry from BuzzFeed reporter Johana Bhuiyan, who claimed that an Uber executive had accessed her profile without her knowledge prior to a meeting.Uber now enforces a “strict policy prohibiting all employees at every level from accessing a rider or driver’s data” except for “legitimate business purposes”, although what constitutes a business purpose is not defined.•What to do if your email gets hacked - and how to prevent it
Apple’s chief executive Tim Cook has called on US legislators to rethink their support of so-called religious freedom laws, which enshrine the ability of individuals to breach nondiscrimination laws if the laws go against personal religious beliefs.Such laws have been passed in 20 US states, most recently Indiana, and are widely seen to be specifically aimed at enabling discrimination against LGBT people.Cook,who spoke publicly for the first time about being gay in October, writes that the laws, as well as more explicitly discriminatory bills elsewhere, “rationalize injustice by pretending to defend something many of us hold dear”.In an editorial in the Washington Post, he continues that “They go against the very principles our nation was founded on, and they have the potential to undo decades of progress toward greater equality.“America’s business community recognised a long time ago that discrimination, in all its forms, is bad for business. At Apple, we are in business to empower and enrich our customers’ lives. We strive to do business in a way that is just and fair. That’s why, on behalf of Apple, I’m standing up to oppose this new wave of legislation – wherever it emerges.”Under Cook, who became chief executive of the firm in 2011, Apple has become a far more active campaigner on social issues. Shortly after becoming leader,Cook instituted the company’s first charitable gift-matching programme(Famously, Steve Jobs, the company’s co-founder and chief executive from 1996 until his death in 2011, had given the company’s charitable efforts a low priority), while the companylaunched an advert supporting Pride last July.In a Bloomberg Businessweek article, in which he discussed his sexuality for the first time, Cook expressed his pride at Apple’s record. “We’ve taken a strong stand in support of a workplace equality bill before Congress, just as we stood for marriage equality in our home state of California. And we spoke up in Arizona when that state’s legislature passed a discriminatory bill targeting the gay community,” a similar bill to the one recently passed in Indiana.In the Washington Post editorial, Cook says that the company’s message, “to people around the country and around the world, is this: Apple is open. Open to everyone, regardless of where they come from, what they look like, how they worship or who they love. Regardless of what the law might allow in Indiana or Arkansas, we will never tolerate discrimination.”“This isn’t a political issue,” he concluded. “It isn’t a religious issue. This is about how we treat each other as human beings. Opposing discrimination takes courage. With the lives and dignity of so many people at stake, it’s time for all of us to be courageous.”
Sony and Spotify have launched their PlayStation Music streaming service in 41 countries, making it available for PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 games consoles as well as Sony’s smartphones and tablets.It’s a replacement for Music Unlimited, the Sony-branded streaming music service that launched in 2010, but has now beenaxed by the company in favour of a partnership with Spotify.Related:Streaming music: what next for Apple, YouTube, Spotify… and musicians?PlayStation Music is essentially Spotify, but redesigned for the TV screen and PlayStation controller devices.It will be available as a free, advertising-supported service or a premium subscription, with people able to sign up from their consoles, including a 30-day trial of the premium tier.“It’s a third-party service given first-party priority on the platform,” Murray Pannell, PlayStation marketing director for the UK and Ireland, told the Guardian during a demonstration of the new app ahead of its launch.As on desktop and mobile devices, Spotify’s latest incarnation is split between “Browse” and “Your Music”. The former focuses on curated playlists sorted by genre, mood and activity, while the latter is users’ own playlists.“We’ve optimised the experience for the big screen. We’ve been looking at how to make Spotify available on smart TVs and other non-mobile devices, and for us this is the pinnacle experience in terms of big screens,” said Spotify’s head of global product marketing, Tim Grimsditch.“We’ve learned over the years to try to really simplify for a big-screen leaning back experience. We’re making the most out of the artwork and creating a very visual navigation, completely in line with how PS4 users would expect to use the platform.”PlayStation Music’s interface makes prominent use of artwork.On the consoles, PlayStation Music will be able to run in the background while people play games, with quick pop-up controls to skip tracks when required. Players will also be able to control the music from their smartphone or tablet while playing.“We’re not just sticking a music player onto a games console. We wanted to make sure we made Spotify work hard for gamers,” said Grimsditch, who suggested that games developers and publishers may wish to create Spotify playlists to accompany their games – potentially as an alternative to the official soundtracks.Spotify and Sony’s partnership is exclusive, but neither Pannell nor Grimsditch would confirm how long that exclusivity lasts.That means Xbox One console owners will remain in the dark about when (or whether) Spotify will be available for their device, while subscribers to other streaming music services, such as Deezer, Rdio, Napster and Google Play All Access, will be equally unsure whether they’ll be available on PS3 and PS4.Related:Spotify has six years of my music data, but does it understand my tastes?For now, neither company has anything to announce for Sony’s PlayStation Vita handheld either, although it would be surprising if PlayStation Music does not make its way to that device in the coming months too.Music Unlimited launched in 2010 in the UK and Ireland, before expanding to other countries in 2011. Run by British digital music firm Omnifone, it hadmore than one million active users by January 2012, but never updated that figure, which suggests it did not catch on with PlayStation owners.Microsoft has been similarly quiet about the growth of its own-brand Xbox Music service, which raises questions about why streaming music on consoles has not been a success in the past, and whether Sony’s Spotify deal can change that.“It’s a bit harsh to say it hasn’t been a success: that’s debatable,” said Pannell. “We think that aligning the gaming and music platforms together is a great opportunity. Music has been a big part of our audience’s lives, as well as games.”
More than four days after it started, coding hub GitHub says it is deflecting most of the traffic from anattack that has caused intermittent outages on the site, whichthe Wall Street Journal says stems from China.“Eighty-seven hours in, our mitigation is deflecting most attack traffic. We’re aware of intermittent issues and continue to adapt our response,”a tweet from the GitHub Status accountsaid on Sunday.The attack took the form of a flood of traffic, known as a distributed denial of service – or DDoS – attack, which are among the most common on the internet.The Wall Street Journal reported that the flood of internet traffic to GitHub came from Chinese search engine Baidu, targeting two GitHub pages that linked to copies of sites that are banned in China.On its blog, GitHub said the attack began early last Thursday “and involves a wide combination of attack vectors”. The company, which supplies social coding tools for developers and calls itself the world’s largest code host, said web users’ computers were hijacked to try and bring the site down.“These include every vector we’ve seen in previous attacks as well as some sophisticated new techniques that use the web browsers of unsuspecting, uninvolved people to flood github.com with high levels of traffic,” the blogpost continued. “Based on reports we’ve received, we believe the intent of this attack is to convince us to remove a specific class of content.”According to security researchers Insight Labs, the code specifically targets the pages of two Github users. The first isGreatFire, an organisation which reports on, and develops ways to circumvent, the “great firewall of China”. GreatFire’s most recent success allows Chinese residents who want to bypass the nation’s internet surveillance and censorship to do so by cleverly using commodity cloud hosting platforms such as Amazon Web Services. Since blocking AWS would break significant portions of the internet, China has found it hard to directly counter that circumvention method.The second target is the page forthe New York Times’ Chinese mirror, which aims to allow Chinese residents to read the paper even when its website is blocked. It lets users download an unblockable iOS app, and links to further cloud-based copies of the newspaper’s website.Insight Labs adds that at least part of the attack seemed to be co-ordinated through code originating on Baidu’s servers, although a Beijing-based Baidu spokesman said the company had conducted a thorough investigation and found that it was neither a security problem on Baidu’s side nor a hacking attack. “We have notified other security organisations and are working to get to the bottom of this,” the spokesman said.GitHub’s outages have also revealed the extent to which the supposedly decentralised internet is actually focused around a few pieces of critical infrastructure. The site, which was created to allow coders to collaborate on software projects remotely, has evolved to become a massive web host in its own right, and a crucial part of a number of other software platforms.With GitHub sporadically unavailable for days, companies which rely on the site – or on any software or service which itself relies on the site, such npm and Bower, two popular items in many programmers’ toolkits – have found themselves unable to deploy new code, paralysing them until the site returns.
Musicians including Kanye West, Rihanna and Beyoncé have turned their Twitter profiles blue to promote Tidal, the streaming music service recently acquired by Jay Z.Madonna, Nicki Minaj, Deadmau5 and Jay Z himself are among the other artists taking part in the campaign, which comes hours before the rapper is due to announce his plans for Tidal at a press conference.The musicians have replaced their Twitter profile pictures and header images with blank blue images – actually turquoise, if we’re being picky – in the kind of coordinated campaign that’s more often used for charitable purposes.&quot;The Tides They Are-A Changing&quot;#TIDALforALL&mdash; Mr. Carter (@S_C_)March 30, 2015Music makes the people come together. Join Madonna and turn your profile picture blue. Do it for the music.#TIDALforALL&mdash; Madonna (@Madonna)March 30, 2015Together, we can turn the tide and make music history. Start by turning your profile picture blue.#TIDALforALL&mdash; KANYE WEST (@kanyewest)March 30, 2015NAVY, turn the tide…#MakeMusicHistory#TurnitBlue#TIDALforALL&mdash; Rihanna (@rihanna)March 30, 2015Tides are about to turn.#TIDALforALL&mdash; deadmau5 (@deadmau5)March 30, 2015Tidal is a Spotify rival originallylaunched by Norwegian firm Aspiroin October 2014, before the company wasacquired by Project Panther Bidco, a company controlled by Jay Z, in March 2015.Tidal’s key selling point so far has been its “lossless” quality streams, for which the company charges a monthly subscription of £19.99 – double its rivals. It is available in 31 countries, withsix more to follow by the end of June.Tidal’s website has been counting downto a press conference due to take place at 10pm BST today (Monday 30 March) at which Jay Z is expected to announce his plans for the service. It will be streamed live on the Tidal website.Some of those plans have leaked already, with areport earlier in March by entertainment site Showbiz 411 that he had convened a summit of music stars– Madonna, Kanye West, Daft Punk, Nicki Minaj, Daft Punk, Coldplay’s Chris Martin, Jack White, Beyoncé and Rihanna included – to outline his ambitions.Related:Jay Z to take on Apple and Spotify by buying streaming music services“The subject was how they could turn Aspiro – which will be known in the U.S. as TidalHifi when it relaunches – into a streaming music and video service akin to the old United Artists pictures, in which artists would actually profit from their art and put out quality material.In 1919, a handful of movie stars – Charlie Chaplin, Mary Pickford, Douglas Fairbanks and director D.W. Griffith – banded together and started their own studio to combat what they saw as growing commercialism of the majors. I’m told that Jay Z, who can be a bit of a visionary, sees his new service just this way.”Tidal has since posted a video to YouTube showing footage of the meeting:Meanwhile, in arecent press release, the company described Tidal as “a single destination for artists and fans to share ideas, exclusive content, songs, videos, studio sessions, rough tracks, personal conversations and more”.Project Panther Bidco paid $56m for Aspiro, whichended 2014 with 500,000 paying usersfor its subscription services. Tidal will compete with Spotify, Deezer and other streaming services, withApple also set to relaunch its own Beats Musicwhile YouTube brings itsYouTube Music Keyout of invite-only beta.
Welcome to this week’s best iPhone and iPad apps roundup. As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, and (Free + IAP) means the app is freemium and uses in-app purchases. More interested in Android? That’s aseparate weekly roundup.APPSPeriscope (Free)Twitter’snew live-streaming video apphas a ton of hype, and it’s tempting to write it off as a novelty when you see endless broadcasts of cats, kids and parties you’re not invited to. There’s something more powerful brewing here though: watch for more interesting people who find themselves in interesting places to start using it.iPhoneLayout from Instagram (Free)Another standalone app from a prominent social network: in this case Instagram. Layout is an app for creating collages of multiple photos before you upload them – not just to Instagram, but to its parent company Facebook too. It’s quick, slick and pretty flexible.iPhoneVessel (Free + IAP)Available in betasince early this year, Vessel has now launched properly. What is it? A service focusing on shortform video – from vlogging and how-tos to music videos – that promises to have the newest clips available for at least 72 hours before they go on YouTube. It costs £2.29 a month for a subscription.iPhone / iPadThe Very Hungry Caterpillar &amp; Friends – First Words (£2.49)The famous children’s-book caterpillar is back in this latest app from developer StoryToys, which is aimed at young children learning their first words. Specifically, 80 words, presented over a digital pop-up book.iPhone / iPadThe Edit (Free)More and more people are shopping on their smartphones in 2015, even in categories – clothing – that were once thought impossible for e-commerce. Here, clobber, shoes and jewellery are on the menu, complete with a Tinder-style swiping system to like or reject individual items.iPhone / iPadDitty for Messenger (Free + IAP)This is one of the first apps made for Facebook’s Messenger messaging platform, which was announced earlier this week. It’s a musical messaging tool: you pick a song from the choice available, add text then send the results to a friend via Messenger.iPhone / iPadFilters for iPhone (£0.79)If you’re really into your mobile photography, Filters looks like a keeper: an app promising more than 800 filters and overlays for your snaps to make them look prettier, stranger, older or other effects. You’ll have plenty of fun simply exploring what’s available, before saving your favourites for fast access.iPhoneBeatport (Free)Best known as a downloads store for dance music, Beatport is getting into streaming – and for now, its service is entirely free. How long that lasts remains to be seen, but if you love your electronic music the app is well worth checking out.iPhoneShaun in the City - Sheep Spotter (£1.49)One for children, this, from Aardman Animation. Based on its Shaun the Sheep character, it gets kids out and exploring London trying to find 50 statues of Shaun decorated by artists. Later in the year, it’ll also work for a similar scattering of statues in Bristol.iPhone / iPad850 Sports Digest (Free)If you’re a keen sports fan, this is definitely worth a download: it provides a daily digest of sports news covering football, cricket, rugby union and league, tennis, golf, Formula 1 and others. It’s a quick, simple way to dive in to the latest happenings.iPhoneSilly Sausage in Meat Land for iOS.GAMESSilly Sausage in Meat Land (Free + IAP)It sounds ridiculous. It IS ridiculous. But it’s also brilliant fun: a game that’ll put a big smile on your face while keeping you coming back for play after play. It’s a carefully-crafted game starring a stretchy dog – nobody mention Adventure Time at this point – which works beautifully on a touchscreen.iPhone / iPadThe Trace: Murder Mystery Game (£3.99)I’ve been itching for a proper murder-mystery detective game on mobile, and The Trace looks like it may be it. From rifling through the murder scene to studying forensics and testing deductions, it sucks you in. The case itself is quite short, but hopefully there’s potential for updates.iPhone / iPadFast &amp; Furious: Legacy (Free + IAP)Developer Kabam is becoming something of an expert in freemium movie games, with this new racer its latest accompaniment to the Fast &amp; Furious films, just in time for the seventh flick. Expect various race modes, lots of ride-pimping, and social features to interact with friends.iPhone / iPadFinal Fantasy Record Keeper (Free + IAP)A real treat for Final Fantasy fans, this is essentially a greatest hits package: not of the individual Final Fantasy games in full, but rather some of their most memorable moments. It’s a brisk adventure through the RPG series’ history, with a big roster of characters and weekly events in store.iPhone / iPadStormblades (Free + IAP)Stormblades is cut from similar cloth to epic fighting game Infinity Blade, even if it’s not quite up to its standards. Warriors, weapons and a galoot of enormous enemies to take down provide plenty of fantasy fun.iPhone / iPad.Decluster: Into the Bullet Hell (£2.29)“A mass of bullets and enemies. All you need is just to dodge and to fire,” claims the App Store listing to Masayuki Ito’s shoot ‘em up. Don’t worry: there’s a beginner’s difficulty setting, although it’s on the harder settings that you’ll get the full bullet-hell experience. Marvellous.iPhone / iPadStar Wars Rebels: Recon Missions (Free + IAP)In theory, animated TV show Star Wars Rebels is for children. In practice, it’s appealing to a fair few nostalgic adults too, filling the gap before the next all-new Star Wars film. This is its first official game, throwing in Stormtroopers, TIE fighters and all sorts of other familiar Star Wars faces.iPhone / iPadDungeon Hero RPG (Free + IAP)If you’ve grown up with dungeon-crawling adventures, this will ping all the right nostalgic synapses in your brain. Heroes, magic, hand-to-hand or ranged combat, and LOTS of monsters to fend off, with the promise of more story-based action to come.iPhone / iPadCompass Point: West (Free + IAP)Clash of Cowboys? There are definitely elements of Clash of Clans in this Wild West-themed game, but it’s got a spark of originality too as you build your posse, explore the wild frontier and protect your town.iPhone / iPadMr Jump (Free + IAP)The new Flappy Bird? With millions of downloads in its first few days on the App Store, Mr Jump is certainly something of a craze. It’s more of an endless platformer than a flappy clone, as Mr Jump… well, jumps his way through the game. It’s brutally hard, but somehow keeps you coming back.iPhone / iPadWhat have I missed? The comments section is open for your recommendations, and your feedback on the apps above.
As Parliament is dissolved ahead of the general election on 7 May, all MPs in the House of Commons become prospective parliamentary candidates (PPCs) seeking gainful employment. And we the voters are the recruiters.The salary and conditions are pretty good: £67,000 a year, rather generousexpenses, flexible working hours and a few private offices. And as is traditional in all recruitment processes, I would expect to see all candidates’ CVs for my constituency of Wanstead and Leyton as soon as possible.To that end, theDemocracy Club– a group of digital activists that aims to increase the quantity, quality and accessibility of information on election candidates, politicians and our democratic processes – have created a web app that helps you decide who to employ this time around.So far, just 233 PPCs – 6% of the total standing – have participated. Here’s atwitter-streamshowing members of the public asking their MPs to upload their CVs.Francis Irving, who coded the project, says his intent is serious: “People are disillusioned with politics, and we find this a fun way to engage with that positively to try and improve it.“It would be lovely to get a human resources recruiter to look at their CVs, as if they were being hired for similar private sector jobs. MPs aren’t properly skilled to vet new laws and run the administration of hundreds of billions of pounds. Of course, some MPs are good. But generally, we’re not selecting them based on the sort of skills they need to do the job well. We’re selecting on the other whimsical games that are played now.”Irving argues that digital tools are our best chance to save democracy, but says that time is of the essence. “New technology sweeps in and allows disruption. Once it has settled down, that chance erodes away. Patterns of usage lock down, and large organisations learn how to control it. This is a short moment to use the technology while it is still shiny new, to make the best changes that we can. Access to information does give people more power.”Here’s how it works: Go todemocracyclub.org.ukand enter your postcode. A screen appears allowing you to mail or tweet all PPCs for your constituency, and ask them to upload their CV to help you make your choice in May.None of my candidates have yet uploaded their CV: John Cryer, Labour; Ashley Gunstock, Green Party; Martin Levin, Ukip; Carl Quilliam, Liberal Democrats; Matthew Scott, Conservatives.I emailed them all, thanking them for their application and their interest in the role as my MP, but let them know I couldn’t make any decision before they supplied me with a full work history.None have yet replied.Of all the constituencies being contested, Irving says he would most like to see the CVs of Anne Snelgrove (Labour) and Robert Buckland (Conservative). They are both candidates for South Swindon, which is the closest Tory/Labour marginalaccording to Lord Ashcroft’s most recent polls.“I’d like them as they are the CVs that could decide the next prime minister. I’d love to go knocking on doors there, telling people about them – see if it changes their vote,” Irving says.“We, the voters, are hiring MPs. We judge them. We choose them. Pointing out that they should therefore send in a CV, and noticing when they squirm and don’t want to (they’re used to caring just about the party and electioneering), is an indirect way of showing people what’s wrong.”A few general tips for all prospective applicants: a list of jobs, dated, with role and responsibilities outlined briefly is the traditional format. In the case of those PPCs who have had little experience outside professional politics, such as David Cameron, George Osborne, and Ed Milliband, a list of your non-professional achievements and educational details will have to suffice.And even if you don’t have a formal university education, or any widely recognised higher educational qualifications, as is the case forIain Duncan Smith,please don’t be put off from applying. Strictly speaking, no qualifications whatsoever are required to run the country.
There are two ways of looking atXenoblade Chronicles. In terms of mechanics, it’s nigh-on flawless – a brilliant example of Japanese RPG game design. It boasts a combat system combining real-time action with deep customisation, an engrossing story, and characters you genuinely grow to care for. In this sense, having been overlooked on the Wii, it’s great to have this modern classic more widely available.Visually, however, it’s much trickier. Despite the ambitious title needing the more powerful New 3DS hardware, the device still has ridiculously low-res screens. It’s a real shame, as there’s clearly a beautiful world underneath the murky, indistinct graphics. Keep playing and despite the muddy screens it’s clearXenobladeis a remarkable game, but sadly still not getting the treatment it really deserves.
The first clue that this is unlike any previousFinal Fantasygame arrives early, when a military cadet and his chocobo steed – the series’ cheery mascot – bleed out while an entire city is ravaged around them.Type-0is far bleaker than its peers, with a story exploring the harsh realities of war. Controlling Class Zero, a group of 12 students at a magic school targeted by the attacking forces from the Militesi Empire, speedy combat sees attacks unleashed with the tap of a button, although using a party system, only one character is directly controlled, with two others supporting. Progression is largely mission-based, many of which are action-oriented, although a few adopt clunky real-time strategy mechanics.The HD remastering is impressive but still shows signs ofType-0’s PSP roots, with some low-res textures and restrictive level design. Engaging combat and an emotionally challenging story will win players over, however.Matt Kamen
The most eagerly awaited game of the year is finally here. And it is a pleasure to report that it’s brilliant. A fast and aggressive action-RPG,Bloodborneis the spiritual successor to theDark Soulsseries, in which you are the sufferer of a strange sickness who has come to the city of Yharnam for treatment. Here, the citizens hide behind locked doors as monsters stalk the streets. You must become a hunter and cut a path through the city to uncover the truth behind the affliction.The new combat system puts first-timers and veteranSoulsplayers on a more even footing, discouraging defensive play while rewarding agility. Interesting online features – user-generated and shareable dungeons; the ability to join someone else’s game – are offset by weaker RPG elements such as a smaller arsenal and simplified levelling system.More accessible thanDark Souls,Bloodborneis still a gruelling and oppressive game. Deaths are frequent, enemies fight dirty and the environment oozes with gloomy, Lovecraftian aesthetics. Lines between man and beast, reality and nightmare blur as you descend into madness. This is not a game you complete; it’s a game you defeat.
Denial have won the 2015 Call of Duty world championship, beating Team Revenge by three matches to two in an engrossing final.The team established itself immediately, dominating the opening Hardpoint round of the best-of-five series, winning 250 points to 130; that impressive total came thanks to the astonishing accuracy of James “Clayster” Eubanks – later awarded the Most Valued Player of the tournament – who claimed 40 hits in the match, including one 11-kill streak.In the next match, however, Team Revenge excelled in the Search and Destroy mode, winning 6-0. They then went on to take the chaotic Uplink match, which saw a series of blistering shootouts in the narrow alleys and wide courtyard spaces of the Comeback map. But Denial surged back, taking Capture the Flag and then finally triumphing in a climactic Search and Destroy match.The three-day championship event saw 32 teams from around the world competing for a prize fund of $1m. After Friday’s group stage, Saturday saw the knockout phase begin, although the tournament’s double elimination format meant that losing sides dropped down into a lower bracket, giving them a second chance to reach the final.Championship Sunday got off to a thrilling start with Revenge and Denial slugging it out in the upper bracket final. The first two matches went to Revenge, with some brutal gun skill from both seasoned veteran Clayster and 18-year-old newcomer Attach securing the opening Hardpoint match. Next it was Ulysses “Aqua” Silva who shone, revealing his clinical long-range accuracy with a series of sniped kills to win Search and Destroy.But Denial fought back, putting in an aggressive, high-tempo performance to secure a tense Capture the Flag match. The incredible Uplink bout was the highlight of the series, with the teams continually trading a two-point lead between them, leading to a frenetic final 30 seconds. Although Clayster made a number of vital shots, showing off why he has the best Kill/Death ratio in the championships, the star of the match was Revenge’s Brice Faccento, claiming eight uplinks for his side. It was Denial that booked its place in the grand final, however, winning a gripping Search and Destroy round, which at times turned into a personal face-off between Clayster and Faccento.After that nerve-jangling loss, Revenge dropped down to face Faze Red in the lower bracket final. It was another dramatic showdown, with Revenge going up 2-1 after entertaining Hardpoint, Search and Destroy and Uplink matches. The latter went into extra time with both teams on 10 uplinks each. Revenge seemed to have it in the bag, making a forward pass within site of Faze Red’s hoop, however Faccento made a astonishing clutch interception, scoring for Revenge in the closing seconds. It was to be Revenge’s series, however, storming through the Capture the Flag match, with Aqua and Remington “Remy” Ihringer dominating the captures.The victory set up a re-match of the upper bracket thriller, with Revenge looking for retribution against Denial. But it would be Denial, relying on the greater experience of its players under tense tournament conditions, that would claim the championship for the first time.“Everything went our way today,” said Denial captain, Chris “Replays” Crowder. “There were a few maps here and there that we choked on, but we clutched up in the end. We put a lot of work in, especially over the last two weeks. We came second in the last tournament before this, so we’ve just been playing for hours and hours. It paid off. We were really confident.”Keith Stuart is attending the Call of Duty Championships on a press tour, with accommodation and travel paid for by Activision.
Favourite Optic Gaming dropped out of the running for the Call of Duty World Championships on Saturday as eSports fans enjoyed a chaotic and unpredictable second day of the competition.The popular team, which had been unstoppable on the first day of this year’s finals in Los Angeles, was knocked out of the upper bracket by unfancied outsider Denial early on Saturday morning. The event’s “double elimination” format meant that Optic still had a chance to win, if it beat all the other losing finalists. However, the team suffered a crushing 3-0 defeat to Faze Red, a competitor boasting one of last year’s winners, Patrick “Aches” Price – the only player from the 2014 final to make it through to the last day of the 2015 competition.“If there’s any team that everyone wants to beat it’s Optic Gaming,” said Brandon “Sharp” Rodgers, of Team Kaliber, which ended the tournament in eighth place. “They’ve got the fans, they’ve got the players – they’re the so-called God Squad.”This was not to be the only shock of the event, which has seen 32 teams from around the world competing for a $1m prize purse. Last year’s runner up, Team Envy, was also ruthlessly dispatched by Faze Red, while established names like Strictly Business and Team Kaliber fell earlier than expected. Sunday’s event will see Denial, whose key player James “Clayster” Eubanks has so far won in every major Call of Duty competition apart from the championship, and Team Revenge facing off for a chance to compete against Faze Red for the championship and the $400,000 top prize.Related:Call of Duty Championships 2015: Optic Gaming dominates day oneThe day saw some exciting and surprising encounters. Opening match Optic vs Denial was perhaps one of the most discussed and anticipated face-offs , and one that most pundits were expecting to see later in the tournament. Facing up against his former teammates, Eubanks was in exceptional form, knocking Optic into the Losers Bracket with a tense 3-1 win. With six of the world’s top eight sides placed against each other in the early stages of the play-offs, upsets were always going to be likely. Team Envy, last year’s losing finalists, did not even place in the money, scraping into ninth place alongside Europe’s highest placing team Aware Gaming, the little known UK side that actually knocked Envy into the losers’ bracket in the first game of the playoff stage.Championship Sunday will see the winners’ bracket final take place with Denial facing surprise competitors Team Revenge. The loser of that game will then go up against an the form Faze Red, who managed to plough through Saturday’s loser bracket matches 12-0.“Revenge deserve praise because they weren’t talked about much pre-event,” said Chris Marsh of specialist eSports site,Dexerto. “Dillon “Attach” Price from Denial has also had a particularly stand out event and could be Most Valuable Player candidate, especially if they go all the way. While he’s not new, he’s not nearly as well known as a number of his team mates.”A Denial vs Faze Red grand final is the expected outcome, though Team Revenge has had an outstanding championship, knocking Faze Red into the loser bracket on Saturday afternoon. Because of that, Faze Red will have to win the Losers’ final as well a best of 11 match against the other finalist, to take the title, whilst Denial or Team Revenge will only need to win the initial best of five.However, Aches is on vengeful form. Last year he won the Call of Duty World Championship alongside Ian “Crimsix” Porter who later left the team to join Optic. In a sport riven with personal rivalries, this has developed into one of the most intriguing. “I told Crimsix, I would beat him here,” said Aches as Optic slipped out of the running. “I told him I would win where it mattered.”Keith Stuart is attending the Call of Duty Championships on a press tour, with accommodation and travel paid for by Activision.
To cut or not to cut; that is the conundrum.I’m talking aboutcutting the cord that ties me to cable television, of course, and the growing debate over whether to make the move to a life without instant access to I-can’t-even-remember-how-many TV channels. The bottom line, however, is that it’s too many, far more than I ever watch, and more than I’m happy paying for every month.So it would feel very, very satisfying to whip out the shears and hear the snip. But would it make financial sense? For me? For other wannabe cable-cutters?My two-year commitment to Cox Communications is up in May, and that’s when I’ll make my final decision. Right now, I’m paying $163.84 a month for a bundle of internet, phone and cable services, of which $73.64 is for my TV package (a motley assortment of three different “paks” of channels) and $80 is for the highest-speed internet on offer (since I work from home). Some months, that’s my biggest discretionary payment, and it makes me wince, given the fact that I so rarely actually end up turning the television on.About19% of American householdsnow live without cable television. As they cut that cord, only a fraction of them experience anycutters’ remorse.But before making any irrevocable decisions and joining the trend, potential cable cutters like me need to be sure we won’t just be swapping one big monthly bill for a lot of smaller ones as we try to replicate the content that we want via other, online services. For instance, at first I was excited at the idea of being able to get a standalone HBO subscription package without a cable package. Until, that is, the word spread that HBO waspondering a price point of $15 a month: pretty much the same consumers already pay their local cable company to add HBO to their services.For me, some of that is pretty straightforward. A movie addict, I’m already a subscriber to Netflix’s streaming service, paying $7.99 a month. (That pricing is locked in until May 2016.) I already own a Roku, and I’m paying Hulu the same amount a month for access to a year’s worth of many of my favorite television shows – and a great archive of shows – that aren’t otherwise available. (It means I don’t have to set up and manage a DVR, and I’m not constrained by its capacity.) I also already pay $99 a year for Amazon Prime (there are other benefits in addition to the online streaming video content, some of which overlaps with that offered by Netflix or Hulu), which translates to $8.25 per month.All this means I’m already paying nearly $25 a month on top of that cable bill for services that I use far more than I use the cable. If cutting the cord meant immediately replacing it with those new expenses – and the purchase of a new Roku device on top of that – I might think twice. As it stands, it won’t cost me anything extra.And that’s what it comes down to: what do you watch? Are there shows or channels that are “must haves” – and can you find them easily via a streaming service? If you have to wait a day or two to watch them, is that OK? What are you paying for already, and how much value do you place on the simplicity of having a single service (with a single number to call if anything goes awry) and a single monthly bill?If you’re a diehard sports fan, for instance, you may want to think twice about cutting the cord. That’s particularly true if you’re a diehard NFL fan. While you can sign up to watch the upcoming baseball season onMLB.TV Premiumfor $25 a month or $130 a season, and get all out-of-market games, when it comes to football you’re limited to the NFL Game Rewind streaming service forgames that have already been played, for $69 a season. If you want to watch in real time, you’ll need access to at least local cable channels.Sports fans who can survive without live football still will juggle a lot of different services, accounts and bills in place of one cable bill. In addition to the MLB’s service, there is the NBA’s League Pass ($169 per season) and perhaps the National Hockey League’sGameCenter Live($49.95 a season). Add ’em all up, and you’re looking at $420 a year – and monitoring four accounts and services.With that kind of investment at stake, it makes sense to give everything a dry run before cutting the cord. Unlike cable companies, which require you to lock yourself into a one- or two-year commitment and impose penalties if you pull out before they expire, Netflix, Hulu and the like mostly don’t have such penalties. You can cancel at the end of any month.So if you’re thinking about cutting the cord, figure out what you’re going to replace it with, set it up and try it out for a month. Does your new system work well without glitches? If so, great; cut the cord. If not, you’ve given it a try, and can keep a service that adds value – perhaps you love Netflix’s unique shows – and ditch the others that overlap too much with the cable offerings.Remember, if you’re going to be relying on the internet to deliver everything from the playoff games to your favorite Masterpiece Theater episodes, you’ll want to ensure that thequality of your internet serviceis up to the challenge. Happily, for now at least, this doesn’t worry me: I’ve signed up for the fastest service available to a residential customer in my service area.Nevertheless, I still face a big unknown. If I drop my cable service, how will Cox charge me for that premium internet service going forward?When I signed up for service, Cox priced the package at a discount: I’m saving $57.38 on all my services. If I signed up only for the most popular internet package, streaming at 50mbps, it would cost $64.99. Package it into a bundle that includes phone and cable, says Cox spokesman Todd Smith, and the internet cost falls to $40 or $50.A bundle that includes cable only, Smith says, would mean that the internet would cost me $61.99, or about $71.99 for my current, higher-speed option. That’s more than I’m paying today.North of the border, a new kind of flexibility and value may deter consumers from becoming cord cutters. Canadian regulators haveordered the country’s cable providersto offer their customers “skinny” basic cable packages (priced at no more than $25 a month) and to give them the ability to add the channels they want on an à la carte basis after that. While some US consumers are trying to accomplish something similar, in what’s known as“shaving the cord”, we’re less able to do so; many channels are still available only in bundles.In the absence of flexibility, those of us in search of value – and who have analyzed what it is that we watch, and how we watch it – may only have one viable option.The cable companies, however, are watching anxiously for signs that the shears are appearing. Smith, when I mentioned my own intent to start cutting the cord, was quick to mention Cox’s own year-old package, designed for people just like me.“Flex Watch” includes the most popular internet package, and a streamlined package of television channels, including HBO and Starz, all for $69.“When you see that you’d be paying that for the internet alone, it’s a deal,” says Smith, who describes the package as having been devised primarily as a retention tool for Cox’s customers on the verge of bolting.And it might just work.
Price £72,500MPG 36.7Top speed 155mphRather amazingly theMercedes-Benz SL400is an entry-level model. It costs £72,500, which is almost three times the price of the average new car in Britain today (£28,973). However, it is still a good £10,000 cheaper than its near identical sister, the SL500 – the car which is one step above it in the Mercedes-Benz “pyramid of greatness”, asRon Swansonwould say. The SL500 has a V8 rather than a V6 engine, and those two extra cylinders willvroooooomit to 62mph in 4.6 seconds rather than the slovenly 5.2 seconds of the V6. If time is money, that half-second could be the most expensive you ever buy.As the two cars are indistinguishable in all respects other than the size of their engines, opting for the “budget Benz” is also the fastest way you’ll find to save money – £10k in 0.5 seconds. And that certainly beats stealing ketchup sachets, bathing with a friend or wearing a jumper.A Mercedes-Benz SL is the retirement present so many slave half their lives for. It’s the car they dream of parking by the clubhouse so they can flash the gold Rolex as they duff another ball into the rough. But this car is far too good to waste driving to the golf club. Those magic letters, SL, derive from the GermanSport Leicht, or Sport Lightweight, and they’ve been applied to sports cars built by Mercedes since 1954. The first model to carry the suffix (it’s a prefix now) was the legendary gullwing 300SL – to many, the most beautiful sports car of all time. It had a steering wheel that pivoted to ease entry and bumpers were an optional extra. Since then, SL has applied to models spanning six design generations. The last of which is this, the SL400.Inside story: the luxurious interior of the SL400.Owing to a pretty epic domestic admin cock-up (the inquiry into whether it wasactuallymy fault or not has yet to be published), I had to drive from London to Salisbury and back, about 230 miles, after work, on a miserable Wednesday night. But such is the allure of the SL, I spent the whole day looking forward to it. I left at 8pm and got back after 1am, spending five hours pummelling through the dark in the company of a true knight of the road.Despite the chill and the dark and the drizzle, I kept the folding roof down (that’s the law with convertibles). The Airscarf neck warmer (the car breathes warm air over your neck and shoulders – but not in a creepy way) and heated seats kept me toasty. This is a cruiser you can use all year round, and if you do decide to keep the roof up, its tinted glass panels can be darkened at the touch of a button. Other clever stuff includes the Magic Vision Control wipers which fire water out of the lip of the blade in both directions so no water is splashed on the windscreen – that loose spray may disrupt your visibility for a second or two. On the other hand it does mean you can’t have fun squirting cyclists.The SL400 is fastandfrugal – its twin-turbo 3-litre V6, paired with the seven-speed auto, churns out almost 37 miles to the gallon. It’s smooth, elegant, enviable. They’d love this at the club… I really must start working on my swing.Win VIP tickets to the British Superbike ChampionshipsBlazing saddles: are you ready for one of the most gripping rides of the year?To celebrate the screening ofI, Superbiker V: Split Secondon 30 March, Showcase Cinemas is giving you the chance to win a pair of VIP full-hospitality passes to this year’s British Superbike Championship. The prize includes spending the day with the GB Moto team, with free food and drinks all day. The Championship rounds take place across the country kicking off at Donnington Park on 4 April and culminating in a high-speed finale on 16 October. To enter please answer the question below and send your answer tomartin.love@observer.co.ukby 5pm on Monday 30 March (terms and conditions available on request):Who is the reigning 2014 British Superbike Champion competing this year?a) Shane Byrneb) Dan Linfootc) Josh BrookesBook your tickets toI, Superbiker Vhere:showcasecinemas.co.ukEmail Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166Follow the Observer Magazine on Twitter@ObsMagazine
Related:Ellen Pao loses landmark sexual discrimination lawsuitOn Friday, a jury found that the venerable venture capital firm Kleiner Perkinshad not discriminatedagainst a former junior partner, Ellen Pao, because she is a woman.Despite the verdict, Pao and other women in the tech industry remained defiant, hinting at more fights to come in their efforts to level the playing field. While Pao’s trial was under way, former employees atTwitterand Facebookfiled gender discrimination suits.“I have told my story, and thousands of people have heard it,” Pao told reporters outside the courtroom. “If I’ve helped level the playing field for women and minorities in venture capital, then the battle was worth it.”The trial captivated Silicon Valley for five weeks, as some of the tech industry’s most elite investors were called to testify about matters as seemingly trivial and salacious as all-male ski trips and steamy Valentine’s Day gifts between colleagues. Pao said she had been denied promotions in Kleiner Perkins’ “boys’ club” culture – where employees chatted about porn and claimed “women kill the buzz” – and was fired in retaliation after she filed suit in 2012.A judgment in Pao’s favor, along with punitive damages, could have topped $100m. But the jurors – six men and six women – delivered a four-part verdict, siding with Kleiner Perkins on all of Pao’s allegations. In interviews, jurors said their decision was based on the testimony and evidence presented.Kleiner Perkins’ attorneys homed in on Pao’s perceived personal shortcomings, painting a cartoonish picture of a greedy and incompetent ex-employee out only for revenge and a big pay day.“There is no question gender diversity in the workplace is an important issue,” the firm said in a statement. “KPCB remains committed to supporting women in venture capital and technology both inside our firm and within our industry.”Pao’s trial was a watershed moment for women in Silicon Valley, who have always been a minority in the technology industry. Only 4% of senior investing partners at venture capital firms are women, andnew reportsshow the gender gap in tech is growing.Related:Ellen Pao gender discrimination trial grips Silicon ValleyOver the last year, the issue has come to light in a series of disturbing incidents and allegations.Whitney Wolfe, a former vice-president of marketing at Tinder,filed suit against the company she helped found, alleging she had quit after sustained abuse, harassment and discrimination. The case was settled quickly.Engineer Julie Ann Horvath left her position at GitHub, claiming she had been the victim of sexual harassment and discrimination. Horvath did not file suit, but made her allegations publicin interviews and on Twitter. GitHub conducted an internal investigation, which resulted in the resignation of its chief executive.“When you have a voice, it’s your responsibility to use it,” said Horvath. “After coming out with my experience, I’ve seen a lot more of the same. I think women are becoming less afraid and more empowered to speak their truth.”Like Pao’s suit, the suits against Twitter and Facebook will face significant challenges in presenting clear evidence of discrimination in an industry shaped by implicit bias and stereotypes that often come in the form of vague proclamations of “culture fit”.US employment discrimination law is rooted in Title VII, the 1964 Civil Rights Act, which was passed in a time of open and obvious racial and gender bias and harassment. Successful gender discrimination lawsuits have drawn upon clear expressions of such bigotry: inPrice Waterhouse vs Hopkins, in 1989, an employer told an “aggressive” woman she needed to be “more feminine” in order to earn a promotion. But stereotypes and implicit bias can be tricky in trial situations that privilege such conspicuous evidence.“If a jury’s only focused on a single smoking gun – the memo from the bad guy who said some horrible language about the plaintiff – then juries miss the reality of the average workplace,” said Kelly Dermody, managing partner at Lieff Cabraser Heimann &amp; Bernstein’s San Francisco employment practice group.“There’s usually not just one event that explains it all. It’s a host of decisions that are complicated and nuanced. Until we catch up culturally, the law is only as good as the people who are interpreting it.”But women in Silicon Valley won’t be waiting for juries to catch up to them.“We’re witnessing a generation of women coming forward who have felt that their attempts to work within the system didn’t ultimately change the culture, and they need outside assistance to actually require employers to act fairly,” said Dermody.Horvath said: “I’m positive [the Pao] trial will have a huge impact on the way Silicon Valley operates. It becomes more risky for companies to foster or allow misogynistic behavior to be pervasive in their company culture and their leadership.”The Pao verdict creates no new legal precedent, only a socio-cultural one. As the dust settled and attorneys were still making statements to the press, many supporters tweeted to express their gratitude for Pao’s courage and leadership – with the hashtag #ThankYouEllenPao.“I’m very encouraged that there are women like Ellen Pao who will file lawsuits and say, this is too much,” said Dermody. “If there aren’t people like that, we won’t fix it.”
The veteran eSports team Optic Gaming have emerged as the clear favourite at this year’s Call of Duty World Championships. The hugely popular team easily won their three group-stage matches with some merciless performances from Ian “Crimsix” Porter and Matt “Nadeshot” Haag.The Call of Duty finals event, which offers a $1m prize purse, attracted 32 teams from all over the world, after a series of regional qualifying events. In each match, two teams of four players each compete over a series of maps and game modes in a best-of-five competition.The battle begins.Photograph: Call of Duty Championships/FacebookThe huge popularity of the Call of Duty franchise has seen it rise in importance in the nascent eSports scene, alongside strategy sim Starcraft II, shooter Counter Strike and major PC titles in the “moba” genre: League of Legends and Dota 2.But while South Korean and Chinese teams have tended to dominate the moba and real-time strategy scenes, US teams have controlled the Call of Duty finals for the third year in succession.Optic Gaming surged through their group matches, showing an impressive grasp of Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare, the latest title in the series which forms the basis of competitive play this year. One of the day’s highlights was a fascinating Group A finale between Optic and strong rival Orbit. The teams were drawing 1-1 until incisive play from Optic members Seth “Scump” Abner and Matthew “Formal” Piper took the Capture the Flag round 6-2. Optic then made it 3-1, with a tense win in the Uplink mode.Of the 16 competitors who made it to Saturday’s knockout stage, only three are from outside North America. European teams had been confident about making an impact on the event this year, with Epsilon and TCM from the UK looking strong in the London qualifier in February. Both were knocked out.Optic Gaming will now face stiff competition. Other qualifiers include Team Envy, last year’s runners-up, who didn’t drop a single map in a demolition of Group E, and the “dark horse” of the competition, Faze Black. Team Kaliber emerged strongly from Group H, nicknamed “the group of death” for the strength of its four teams. Rising star Team Revenge also performed with confidence, especially against Aware Gaming, after which team member Brice Faccento dismissively declared: “We’re not a Friday team. We don’t really turn up until Saturday.”A crowd watches the Call of Duty Championships on day one.Photograph: Call of Duty Championships/FacebookWith a vast and growing audience, eSports is becoming a major spectator phenomenon, mostly via the live streaming platform Twitch, which attracts more than 100 million viewers each month (though most Call of Duty pro-gamers use the Major League Gaming channel). The victorious team at this event will walk away with $400,000, and players will supplement that with lucrative sponsorship deals and subscriptions to their own Twitch TV channels. Players like Nadeshot and Crimsix have hundreds of thousands of followers on Twitter.For game publishers, developing and supporting a hit title on the eSports circuit can provide a major financial boost. League of Legends creator Riot Games, for example, generated $1bn last year from its one eSports title.Keith Stuart is attending the Call of Duty Championships on a press tour, with accommodation and travel paid for by Activision.
Peugeot considers itself at the enviro-vanguard, with all kinds of perfectly reasonable caveats (apart from so-and-so, who make cars that are tiny; and such-and-such, who only do electric). Apart from them, they really think they’re getting somewhere. The 508 RXH – top of the 508 range, and so much prettier than the 407 – has more up its sleeve than a bit of engine-cutting in traffic.The diesel engine is a patented world leader in particulate reduction. The emissions are the lowest I’ve encountered for a car this size (119g/km). To prevent overheating and lessen the need for air-conditioning, even the windows have a greenish tint which, with the acoustic lamination and leather upholstery, made me feel insulated and remote – echoingly far away from my fellow road users. Paradoxically, since the car is large, I was often closer than I thought. The blind spot sensors, tiny orange spirals on the wing mirrors, glowed. “Other cars are using the road,” they warned me, silently. “It’s the A23!” I’d yell. “Of course they are.” The spirals, undeterred, kept glowing.There are four modes, “auto”, “four-wheel drive” (the back wheels powered by an electric motor), “Zev” (100% electric for short distances) and “sport”. For the first few days, in auto, the acceleration was iffy: from 15 to 30, it would pull back, then surge into a perceptible skid. By day four, I could no longer make it happen and everything felt smooth, powerful but biddable. Day six, I was actively trying to skid, to demonstrate to my mister, while he drummed his fingers on the green glass, saying, “Really? You’re trying to make yourself skid in the rain, with children in the back?” “I just want to test the electronic brake force distribution!”Small things were annoying. The dashboard components were distracting in the over-reflecty front window; the parking camera would happily direct you to drive into a bollard. It was never obvious whether you should push the parking button up or down until you’d tried both ways twice. Harsh conditions, poor visibility, giant puddles, sudden diversions round corners: all that suits the 508, makes sense of its size, shows off its vigour and draws attention to its confident handling. One could imagine oneself more glamorous, more European and modern, living in a mountainous region, being more eco. That’s what you want from a family saloon, right? Some safety; acres of delusion.Peugeot 508 RXH Blue HDi 180Price£30,895Top speed136mphAcceleration0-62mph in 9.7 secondsCombined fuel consumption61.4mpgCO2emissions119g/kmEco rating9/10Cool rating7/10
Amazon is to remove a “non-compete” clause from its employment contracts for US workers paid by the hour after criticism that it is unreasonable to prevent such employees from finding other work.A company spokeswoman confirmed to the Guardian that the clause would be cut.“That clause hasn’t been applied to hourly associates, and we’re removing it,” she said.In the past, Amazon has required its US employees, including seasonal workers, to sign non-compete contracts which cover a period of more than 18 months after the employee has separated with the company,the Verge reportedon Thursday.According toa contractobtained by the Verge, Amazon workers that signed it pledged not to “engage in or support the development, manufacture, marketing, or sale of any product or service that competes or is intended to compete with any product or service sold, offered, or otherwise provided by Amazon (or intended to be sold, offered, or otherwise provided by Amazon in the future) that employee worked on or supported, or about which employee obtained or received confidential information”.Typically, non-compete contracts are part of the hiring process for white-collar, highly skilled employees privy to trade secrets.“How technical is it to go and box stuff every day and send it off?” Ray Lee, a seasonal Amazon worker,told the Verge.If Amazon were to enforce these non-compete clauses among its hourly employees, it could limit their ability to find employment elsewhere.Low-wage workers, including Amazon’s seasonal hourly workers, in need of jobs were not likely to negotiate the terms of a contract and object to a non-compete clause, Charlotte Garden, a law professor at Seattle University School of Law, told the Verge, whichfirst reported the existence of such clauses.Even if the clause were to be unenforceable, as some experts predict, workers earning $10 to $12 an hour would not be able to afford to pay for legal fees to fight the company in court.Amazon’s definition of competition is highly inclusive, as the company competes in many fields.“Our businesses are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive,”the company said in its last annual report. It went on to add that it has six different types of competitors – among them physical retailers, publishers, e-commerce retailers, and media companies.Then there are the companies that handle payment processing, information storage or computing storage.Amazon’s contract is also technically applicable “worldwide”.“Employee further recognizes that the geographic areas for many of Amazon’s products and services … are extremely broad and in many cases worldwide,”the contractstates.Amazonemploys over 88,000 workers worldwide. The company would not disclose the breakdown of its staff by geography or hourly pay and salary. No UK employment contracts for hourly workers contained such non-compete clauses.Amazon further required laid-off employees to reaffirm their non-compete contracts in order to receive severance,reported the Verge.
Former technology venture capitalist Ellen Pao has lost alandmark sexual discrimination lawsuit that shone a light on long-complained about ill-treatment of women in Silicon Valley.After a four-week trial, which gripped the west coast tech scene by revealing the inner workings of such a secretive industry, the jury found that venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers (KPCB) did not discriminate against Pao - now interim CEO of Reddit.Pao’s lawyer, Alan Exelrod, had argued Kleiner was a “boys’ club” whose ingrained culture discriminated against a talented woman.However, the jury sided with Kleiner Perkins’ case that Pao was fired because she was bad at her job, and was divisive and not a team player. Kleiner Perkins’ lawyer Lynne Hermle said in closing arguments that Pao’s claims were “meritless and frivolous”.“[She] didn’t want to play for team KP. She wanted to play for Team Ellen,” Hermle said.The jury of six men and six women found that there was no case to answer on Pao’s main claim that she was discriminated against on the basis of her gender.It also found that she was not fired in retaliation for suing the firm.#ellenpaoThe jury foreman counted wrong on the fourth claim. They said they had a decision but the vote wasn&#39;t enough. The Judge caught it.&mdash; Elizabeth Weise (@eweise)March 27, 2015Pao had filed claim for $16m in loss of income damages.Gender – and race – are increasingly controversial topics for a tech industry in which internal surveys from top companies including Apple, Facebook and Google have shown a lack ofdiversity among workforces.Local and international news and technology websites have chronicled every detail of the case, the most high-profile of its kind ever to reach court. Kleiner has backed some of the biggest names in tech including Amazon and Google, while Pao has moved on to become interim chief executive of Reddit, the social news site.The Silicon Valley technology cluster has long been accused of behaving as a boys’ club, with women occupying just 11% of executive positions, according to a recent diversity report bylaw firm Fenwick &amp; West. But no one in the Valley can remember a senior woman ever taking a tech company or venture capital firm to court over sex discrimination.Pao, 45, had claimed she was passed over for promotion and excluded from important meetings because of her gender after she accused a senior Kleiner Perkins partner of sexual harassment.She had claimed in the packed San Francisco court house that she and other women were barred from work trips on private jets and ski resorts, and not invited to an important Kleiner Perkins dinner with former US vice-president Al Gore because women would “kill the buzz”.Kleiner Perkins said Pao was sacked for being a chronic complainer who twisted facts and circumstances in her lawsuit and had a history of conflicts with colleagues.Hermle showed jurors a slide with comments from Pao’s work reviews that called her “territorial” and “not a good team-mate”.The case has shone a light on the lack of diversity in Silicon Valley. Women hold 11% of executive positions at Silicon Valley companies compared to 16% across the top 100 Standard &amp; Poor’s firms, according to a report bylaw firm Fenwick &amp; West. Silicon Valley firms boards are on average 15.7% female compared with 20.9% in the S&amp;P 100.Venture capital firms are even less diverse than the technology companies in which they invest. Babson College’sDiana Report, a research initiative working to increase the number of female entrepreneurs, found that the number of female partners in VC firms decreased from 10% in 1999 to 6% in 2014.The report found that 97% of VC-funded businesses had male chief executives, and businesses with all-male teams are more than four times more likely to receive VC funding as teams with one or more women.Despite the verdict that Pao was not discriminated against on the basis of her gender experts said the case highlighted that the business community needs to do more to prove that it is taking allegations such as this seriously. “I think it’s a real wake-up call to the Silicon Valley community in general and the venture capital industry in particular,” Deborah Rhode, a Stanford Law School professor, said.In a statement released after the verdict, the partners of Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers said that it reaffirmed that Pao’s claims had “no legal merit”.They said: “We are grateful to the jury for its careful examination of the facts.“There is no question gender diversity in the workplace is an important issue. KPCB remains committed to supporting women in venture capital and technology both inside our firm and within our industry.”
Google has struck a deal with the healthcare company Johnson &amp; Johnson to develop surgical robots that use artificial intelligence.Google’s life sciences division will work with Johnson &amp; Johnson’s medical device company, Ethicon, to create a robotics-assisted surgical platform to help doctors in the operating theatre.The robots will aid surgeons in minimally invasive operations, giving operators greater control and accuracy than is possible by hand, minimising trauma and damage to the patient. Some systems allow surgeons to remotely control devices inside the patient’s body to minimise entry wounds and reduce blood loss and scarring.Related:Google calls for guinea pigs for ambitious 'Baseline' health studyRobotic surgical systems such as the Da Vinci device developed by Imperial College London have been used in general operations since the early 2000s, andeven starred in a Bond film in 2002.Google believes it can enhance the robotic tools using artificial intelligence technologies including machine vision and image analysis employed in other parts of the business, including Google’s self-driving cars.The two firms will explore how advanced imaging and sensors could complement surgeons’ abilities, for example by highlighting blood vessels, nerve cells, tumour margins or other important structures that could be hard to discern in tissue by eye or on a screen.Augmented reality systems will be used to overlay important information required during surgery that is typically displayed on multiple monitors stacked around the surgeon, such as pre-operative images, lab test results and details of previous surgeries.“We look forward to exploring how smart software could help give surgeons the information they need at just the right time during an operation,” said Andy Conrad, head of the life sciences team at Google.Related:Google is developing a cancer and heart attack-detecting pillGoogle will be providing software and expertise for data analysis and vision but will not be developing the control mechanisms for the robots.The partnership will help Johnson &amp; Johnson, the world’s largest healthcare product manufacturer, to compete in the growing field of robotic medical devices.Google’s life sciences team is also developing systems that candetect cancer and heart attacksusing nano particles, and has worked onsmart contact lensesthat contain sensors capable of monitoring the signs of diabetes – technology that was licensed by the Swiss drug firm Novartis in July 2014 to develop into a practical medical application.•Robear: the bear-shaped nursing robot who’ll look after you when you get old•Meet Spot the dog, Boston Dynamics’ cutest robot yet
Google will pay its new chief financial officer,Ruth Porat, more than $70m.Related:Wall Street's 'most powerful woman' is Google's new finance chiefPorat, who is joining Google from Morgan Stanley, will get an instant $5m cash signing-on bonus, $25m worth of Google shares and a further $40m in “biennial” stock awards. Her actual base salary will be $650,000.She will have to stay at the company for four years to be sure to collect all the money.It is a big jump in pay from the roughly $10m a year she has collected as Morgan Stanley’s chief financial officer.Porat is the latest in a recent flurry of Wall Street types decamping to Silicon Valley – and collecting a lot more money on the way. Twitter gave Anthony Noto, its new chief financial officer, $61m worth of shares to join the company from Goldman Sachs.Porat, who has been at Morgan Stanley since 1987 and advised the US government on its rescue of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac during the 2008 financial crisis, is often referred to as “the most powerful woman on Wall Street”.She will join Google on 26 May, and report directly toGoogle’s chief executive and co-founder, Larry Page.“We’re tremendously fortunate to have found such a creative, experienced and operationally strong executive,” Pagesaid in a Google blogpost announcing her appointment on Tuesday.Porat said she “can’t wait to roll up my sleeves and get started … I’m delighted to be returning to my California roots and joining Google. Growing up in Silicon Valley, during my time at Morgan Stanley and as a member of Stanford’s board, I’ve had the opportunity to experience first-hand how tech companies can help people in their daily lives.”Porat has spent 28 years at Morgan Stanley, during which time she led the bank’s team raising funds for Amazon, eBay and Netscape during the dotcom boom. When the bubble burst, she reinvented herself as a financial services banker.She rose to nationwide prominence advising the US Treasury on the collapse of insurer AIG and the bailout of mortgage providers Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. She features in the 2011 film Too Big to Fail, in which she is played by Jennifer Van Dyck.
The collapse of the BlackBerry from the “crackberry” device that business executives and political leaders could not live without to an almost forgotten handset was highlighted on Friday when the company revealed it sold just 8.5m handsets last year – compared tomore than 50m four years ago.The Canadian company, which has fallen into decline after failing to keep up with innovation from Apple and other smartphone makers,sold just 1.6m Blackberrys in the last three months of its financial year. That is less than half the number it sold in the same period last year, and compares toApple selling 74.4m iPhones in its latest quarter.BlackBerry, which changed its name from Research in Motion (RIM) in 2013, reported annual revenue of $3.3bn – less than half what it made the previous year. In 2011 it collected revenue just shy of $20bn.The company, which has cut thousands of jobs, made a pre-tax loss of $385m – an improvement on $7.2bn of losses the previous year. It made a pre-tax profit of $4.6bn in 2011.John Chen, Blackberry’s chief executive, told investors that the pain may finally be over. “I am very pleased to announce that our financial house is in order,” he said. “Our financial viability is no longer in question.”The company’s share price has collapsed by 95% since its height of $230 a share in the summer of 2007 (just as Apple launched the iPhone) to $9.6 a share today. The shares rose by 3.2% on Friday.Chen said morale at BlackBerry was at last beginning to improve. “The company needs to financially be stable. I don’t know of any way to improve the morale of a company, the people, if the company’s not doing well,” he said on a conference call with analysts. “I would say today the morale of the company’s a lot better than a year ago. It probably still needs to be a lot better than today.”After years of trying – and failing – to keep up with Apple and touchscreen smartphone technology, BlackBerry returned to its roots in December by launching a phone with traditional Qwerty keyboard it called ‘the Classic’. The company did not say how many of the new Classic model it had sold.Colin Gillis, an analyst at BGC, said Chen had done a good job since he came out of retirement to lead the company’s turnaround in November 2013.“The fact John Chen was able to do this despite a pretty sharp drop in revenue is impressive,” he said. “It’s on to phase two, which is ‘let’s become an enterprise software company’. 2016 is truly the transition year.”Brian Colello, an analyst at Morningstar, said: “BlackBerry continues to do a good job controlling operating expenses and eliminating its cash burn during its business transition, but the total revenue was still a big miss and we still have concerns about the demand side of the equation.“It’s a good start; they are looking for a more meaningful ramp in the middle of the fiscal 2016, but certainly it’s a good start. It’s an early good sign.”
Welcome to this week’s best Android apps roundup. As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, and (Free + IAP) means the app is freemium and uses in-app purchases.APPSBeatport (Free)Best known as a downloads store for dance music, Beatport is getting into streaming – and for now, its service is entirely free. How long that lasts remains to be seen, but if you love your electronic music the app is well worth checking out.Nuzzel: News From Your Friends (Free)There’s definitely a niche still to be filled with apps that access multiple social networks, and find a smart way to present updates from your friends across them all. Nuzzel is the latest attempt, starting with Twitter and Facebook.UltraTuner - Chromatic Tuner (£2.99)IK Multimedia has released a succession of useful apps for musician, with this latest tuner app making the grand claim of being “ten times more accurate than a mechanical strobe tuner”. I’m not quite expert enough to judge that, but the app is certainly easy and fast to use.LinkedIn Job Search (Free)Believe it or not, business social network LinkedIn is good for more than merely endorsing colleagues for “unicorn hunting”. It’s not bad for hunting down prospective jobs, with this standalone app aiming to make that process even easier.Nick (Free)Nick is the official app for children’s TV channel Nickelodeon, with a mixture of games, videos, animation and full episodes of shows including SpongeBob SquarePants, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and Power Rangers. A good distraction in times of parental need.Ditty for Messenger (Free + IAP)This is one of the first apps made for Facebook’s Messenger messaging platform, which was announced earlier this week. It’s a musical messaging tool: you pick a song from the choice available, add text then send the results to a friend via Messenger.The Edit (Free)More and more people are shopping on their smartphones in 2015, even in categories – clothing – that were once thought impossible for e-commerce. Here, clobber, shoes and jewellery are on the menu, complete with a Tinder-style swiping system to like or reject individual items.Shaun in the City (£1.49)One for children, this, from Aardman Animation. Based on its Shaun the Sheep character, it gets kids out and exploring London trying to find 50 statues of Shaun decorated by artists. Later in the year, it’ll also work for a similar scattering of statues in Bristol.850 Sports Digest (Free)If you’re a keen sports fan, this is definitely worth a download: it provides a daily digest of sports news covering football, cricket, rugby union and league, tennis, golf, Formula 1 and others. It’s a quick, simple way to dive in to the latest happenings.Caliber - Business Messenger (Free)Another business tools for business people doing business, here. A messaging app, specifically, with the idea of separating your work instant messaging and contacts from your social chats. A clever idea, although its success will depend on those contacts being on the app.Silly Sausage in Meat Land for Android.GAMESSilly Sausage in Meat Land (Free + IAP)It sounds ridiculous. It IS ridiculous. But it’s also brilliant fun: a game that’ll put a big smile on your face while keeping you coming back for play after play. It’s a carefully-crafted game starring a stretchy dog – nobody mention Adventure Time at this point – which works beautifully on a touchscreen.Fast &amp; Furious: Legacy (Free + IAP)Developer Kabam is becoming something of an expert in freemium movie games, with this new racer its latest accompaniment to the Fast &amp; Furious films, just in time for the seventh flick. Expect various race modes, lots of ride-pimping, and social features to interact with friends.Final Fantasy Record Keeper (Free + IAP)A real treat for Final Fantasy fans, this is essentially a greatest hits package: not of the individual Final Fantasy games in full, but rather some of their most memorable moments. It’s a brisk adventure through the RPG series’ history, with a big roster of characters and weekly events in store.Stormblades (Free + IAP)The Infinity Blade games have never yet made it from iOS to Android, which is a hugely frustrating affair. Stormblades is cut from similar cloth to that epic fighting game, even if it’s not quite up to its standards. Warriors, weapons and a galoot of enormous enemies to take down.To Be Or Not To Be (£4.49)“William Shakespeare’s Hamlet has finally been restored to its original second-person non-linear branching narrative format,” chirps the Google Play listing for this. The sharp humour runs throughout this narrative-led game, as fun if you’re a Shakespeare buff as for complete newcomers to the Bard.Star Wars Rebels: Recon (Free + IAP)In theory, animated TV show Star Wars Rebels is for children. In practice, it’s appealing to a fair few nostalgic adults too, filling the gap before the next all-new Star Wars film. This is its first official game, throwing in Stormtroopers, TIE fighters and all sorts of other familiar Star Wars faces.Motion Tennis Cast (Free + IAP)Remember the tennis bit of Wii Sports? Developer Rolocule Games does: they’ve taken the idea and run with it for Android smartphones, working with screencasting technology like that provided by Google’s Chromecast. Swing your phone and see how it plays out on your TV. Although please find some way to attach your phone to your wrist first…Boss Monster (Free + IAP)Boss Monster had me from the initial concept: you play as a game’s boss character rather than its hero. And it’s just as fun once you get into playing it, based on a tabletop game and thoroughly rooted in retro gaming culture.Home: Boov Pop! (Free + IAP)DreamWorks’ new animated movie Home is very good, and the official game that accompanies it is pretty smart too. Yes, it’s a match-three puzzler, but with enough touches to distinguish it from the Candy Crush Sagas of the Google Play store. Fun for kids, although have a word with them about the in-app purchases first.Taichi Panda (Free + IAP)Not Kung Fu. No. Taichi. Despite the name, this isn’t a cheap rip-off of an animated movie. Instead, it’s a fun fantasy-themed dungeon-crawling game. Just with more pandas than you’d usually expect. The multiplayer features have lots of potential too.
Europe’s top competition watchdog has said that companies charging online shoppers higher prices for the same goods depending on where they live could be breaking the law.The EU’s competition commissioner, Margrethe Vestager, sounded the alarm as she announced a sweepinginquiryinto Europe’s e-commerce marketplace, subject to approval by the European commission in May.Her investigation will examine why prices can vary so dramatically between the country-specific websites of retailers such as Amazon and Apple. It will cover digital content such as films, TV series, music and games, and physical goods such as computers and designer clothes.“It has become normal to travel from Germany to Poland, say, and take back home the goods you have bought during your trip,” Vestager said on Thursday. “Unfortunately, buying goods online is a lot more difficult. It sounds like a paradox, but we still have a number of digital borders. It is high time we removed these barriers, which keep Europe’s digital markets fragmented.“European consumers should be able to access goods, content and other services no matter where they live and travel in Europe.”The newly appointed competition boss said she wanted to create a truly single online market for goods in Europe. Her inquiry will also examine geo-blocking – software that erects artificial digital barriers between countries.Vestager cited the example of a Netflix subscriber in Brussels, paying the same price as a British subscriber, but given access to a much smaller library of content than is available on the Netflix UK site.A truly single e-commerce market could be good news for UK shoppers, who are typically charged some of the highest prices in Europe. An iPhone 6 on Apple’s Spanish website, for example, is £30 cheaper than the identical model on the UK Apple store.Amazon sells Beats headphones for £113 in Germany, but the same item costs £169 on Amazon.co.uk. A Spotify premium subscription in the UK costs £9.99, but in Germany it costs €9.99 – £2.70 less.“Think of a French tourist who buys a pair of Italian shoes in Rome,” said Vestager. “Why is she re-routed to a French website when she tries to buy them online from home? Restrictions like these are often the result of arrangements that are included in contracts between manufacturers and content owners on one side and their distributors on the other.”She said the arrangements fall under EU competition law, and were covered by legislation called vertical guidelines. The guidelines were updated in 2010 to ensure a level playing field for distributors, allowing them to sell online in any of the 28 member states, and to protect consumers.Vestager said: “Consumers must be allowed to look for the best deals online wherever they want. Contractual bans of so-called passive online sales are therefore considered hardcore restrictions of competition.”Questionnaires will be sent to content rights holders, broadcasters, manufacturers, online merchants and marketplace operators. The inquiry is intended to produce data on how the market works, and highlight any anti-competitive practices. The commission would then have to launch inquiries into specific breaches of the law.Last year, Brussels opened a formal investigation involving major US film studios and large European broadcasters and their licensing contracts. It is also investigating pricing and cross-border trade restrictions for consumer electronics and the geo-blocking of video games sold online for playing on personal computers.Addressing the same subject on Wednesday, the commission’s vice-president,Andrus Ansip, who is leading the charge to create a digital single market, said: “I detest geo-blocking from the bottom of my heart.”Geo-blocking can be used to divert shoppers back to a website in their own country, denying them access to better prices. It can also be used by sites like YouTube to stop a viewer in Poland seeing a video that is accessible to a viewer in France.Ansip said: “We need to stop people being blocked from a website based on their nationality, residence or location. We agreed that the logic of geo-blocking cannot override that of the single market. They cannot coexist.”How prices varyApple StoreiPhone 6 16GB:in the UK £539in Spain £509 (€699)Macbook Air 13inin the UK £849in Spain £802 (€1099)AmazonDr Dre Beats Solo2 headphonesin the UK £169in Germany £113 (€155)Ferragamo.comVarina ballerinasin the UK £355in Italy £274 (€375)Microsoft storeXBox Onein the UK £329.99in Spain £292.00 (€399.99)
In November 2009, Twitter made a small, seemingly cosmetic, change to its web interface. For two years, ever since the site was still called “twttr”, the box for composing a new tweet had posed the question “what are you doing?”But seeing how the site was actually being used, Twitter changed its mind. The new question was “What’s happening?” That paved the way for the modern era of social networks – but it’s something that Twitter’s new app, Periscope, might find hard to emulate.Twitter’s co-founder Biz Stone explained the change in 2009, writing: “Sure, someone in San Francisco may be answering ‘What are you doing?’ with ‘Enjoying an excellent cup of coffee,’ at this very moment.“However, a birds-eye view of Twitter reveals that it’s not exclusively about these personal musings. Between those cups of coffee, people are witnessing accidents, organising events, sharing links, breaking news, reporting stuff their dad says, and so much more.”As Stone pointed out, the change in the text field was merely catching up with how people were already using the site. But “maybe it’ll make it easier to explain to your dad”.The change marked an important self-discovery for Twitter: Most people, most of the time, are doing really boring stuff. The perception of Twitter as the site where people shared what they had for lunch, bolstered by that focus on the “doing” question, was something the site consistently struggled to overcome in its bid for user growth.It’s not what we’re doing that anyone cares about, but what we’re thinking, what we’re remembering, what we’re happy or upset about, or what we like or dislike.Facebook, meanwhile, always promoted that attitude: its initial prompt for status updates, the trailing sentence “Alex is …” allowed for almost any interpretation.In other words, we all have rich inner lives. The great value of Twitter and Facebook over the past decade has been letting us share that with friends and strangers. Today, Facebook explicitly asks “what’s on your mind?”, while Twitter still asks “what’s happening” (after a three-year hiatus which avoided a question entirely, simply offering the option to “Compose New Tweet”).But take a look at Periscope (or Meerkat, YouNow, or any other live streaming app), and you could be forgiven for thinking it’s 2008 again. Live streams on the app have gripping titles such as “drink with us”, “equipment testing”, “driving” and “i’m cutting steak let’s watch!”Twitter was never really an app for sharing what you were eating; but Periscope, at times (lunchtimes), seems barely anything but.The problem is that live video is a medium which is, at heart, fairly ill-suited to sharing thoughts, feelings or emotions. A smattering of Periscope streams have tried to work around that by performing to-camera monologues; but unlike YouTube, or even Vine, where that format is hugely popular, in a live feed, users stumble over the question of what to do with latecomers. Do you ignore them and carry on? Keep bringing them up-to-date as they come in? Turn the whole thing into a Q&amp;A? I’ve watched streamers try all of them, and none have been hugely satisfactory.What Periscope does excel at is sharing events happening around you. But for most people, most of the time, those events are dull.It’s not yet clear how Periscope will square that circle. One possibility is that it will become the app that sits, mostly unused, on home screens until that one day when a user happens to be in the right place at the right time to live stream something interesting.Another is that Periscope hones its private broadcast functionality to the extent that it becomes its main use. After all, what’s boring to a stranger might be fascinating to a loved one or close friend.But maybe the outcome will be a reassessment of what we find interesting. If you’d asked 30 years ago, who would have predicted that the thoughts and feelings of strangers would be so engrossing that peoplewould stay up late arguingwith them, orcollate the funniest weekly. Who knows what we’ll be doing with the broadcasters of the future? Just maybe dial back on the sandwich videos for a bit.
Facebook is aiming to use the Oculus Rift virtual reality headset to create a more immersive social experience through the company’s communications tools.In the first explanation of what Facebook intends to do with its $2bn purchase that has puzzled some investors and analysts, the company told developers at its F8 conference in San Francisco that it will help create a more lifelike and useful social network.“After thousands of demos we know we are just on the cusp, just getting there to get that sense of presence where for a moment your conscious brain is overruled by the subconscious that says: ‘You are not where you think you are,’” Facebook’s chief technology officer Mike Schroepfer said during his on-stage talk on the second day of the 2-day conference.Virtual reality headsets such as the Oculus Rift and Samsung’s Gear VR have launched with a focus on video games and entertainment, but Schroepfer and other Facebook executives attempted to convince attendees that the gadgets could transform how people communicate.Oculus Rift’s founder and chief executive Palmer Luckey has said in the past that Facebook in its current form wasn’t a good fit for virtual reality.“Looking at a larger than life News Feed or someone’s photos in VR isn’t interesting. It needs to be new experience. I don’t think it’s going to be Facebook the social network in VR, but people are narcissists and they want people to see what they think are their amazing lives,” hesaid at International CESin Las Vegas in January.One example given of these “new experiences” was an event such as a birthday party or a child’s first bike ride that could be shared on Facebook so that users in different parts of the world felt as if they were taking part.“Their mission is to connect the world and VR teleports people into a different place,” said Vlada Bortnik, the founder of app-maker Happy Bits, at the conference.Facebook said the Oculus headset will be released “before long,” but did not provide a timeframe. Samsung’s Gear VR, which was built in partnership with Oculus Rift, was released to consumers through the electronics chain Best Buy in the US on Friday, becoming the first VR headset to be available beyond developers and early adopters to the mass market.•Sony Morpheus virtual reality headset to launch in first half of 2016•Andreessen Horowitz gets behind London VR startup Improbable
In Demon’s Souls and its successors, you died a lot, but never unfairly. Bloodborne is from the same stable, and shares those games’ refusal to mollycoddle: it believes you’re a better player than you think. The opening hours of the game will see you slaughtered innumerable times by shambling behemoths, zombie dogs and humans armed with scythes and pitchforks, but every time you’ll know what you should have done differently. Like a hostage with Stockholm syndrome, you fall in love with its convoluted gothic labyrinth, populated by terrifying beasts whose wailing you can hear several streets away. The successive disembowelments at their hands, claws and slavering maws train you until you become hunter rather than hunted. Demanding a more aggressive playing style than its forebears, Bloodborne inspires the same obsession. A brutal masterpiece.PS4; Sony Computer Entertainment; £47.99ALSO OUT THIS WEEKHotline Miami 2: Wrong Number, PS3/4/Vita, PC, Mac &amp; LinuxIn the original Hotline Miami, you played a hitman responsible for clearing buildings in a procession of dizzyingly fast murder sprees. It was a joyous homage to 80s ultra-violence drawn in a faux 8-bit style that made its gore cartoonish rather than disturbing. The sequel is still steeped in nostalgia, from its harrowing difficulty level to the amusingly distorted VHS-style pause screen, but this time the carnage gets a bit much, even in pixellated form. It’s also less open-ended, forcing you to use characters with preset restrictions – one starts with a gun but can never pick up a new one – where the first game let you choose strengths and weaknesses by donning a selection of gruesome-looking animal masks. Bigger, bloodier, more difficult and less interesting, Hotline Miami 2 is a disappointingly retrograde follow-up to a game that was lauded for its uncompromising spirit of invention.Devolver Digital, £10.99Sid Meier’s Starships, iPad &amp; PCSid Meier’s monstrously addictive game Civilization detailed mankind’s evolution from cave dwellers to space farers. It’s there that Starships picks up the story. Starting with a planet and a puny fleet of ships, your job is to construct a mighty galactic federation, extending your influence, co-opting planets and crushing rivals. The meat of the game is turn-based space battles, where ships in your fleet can manoeuvre and fire a weapon or launch a squadron of fighters before watching your opponent do the same. Victories earn you credits to spend on scientific research and upgrading your fleet, processes which are nowhere near as deep as those of Civilization, but that still manage to add a solid sub-game to its progressively more complex starship engagements. It’s not pretty, and some will mourn the absence of multiplayer, but this is entertaining tactical fun without the tedious stat management.2K Games, £9.89
Facebook has been testing large, solar-powered drones in the skies over the UK, chief executive Mark Zuckerberg has announced.The drones use lasers to beam internet access down to the ground, designed to provide connections to rural and internet-free zones.“As part of our Internet.org effort to connect the world, we’ve designed unmanned aircraft that can beam internet access down to people from the sky,” said Zuckerberg in ablog post. “We’ve successfully completed our first test flight of these aircraft in the UK.”Developed by Ascenta, a Somerset-based designer of solar-powered dronesbought by Facebook in March 2014, the drones will be able to fly at altitudes of 60,000 feet for months at a time on solar power. They will have wingspans greater than 29m, or that of a Boeing 737, but weigh less than a car.“Aircraft like these will help connect the whole world because they can affordably serve the 10% of the world’s population that live in remote communities without existing internet infrastructure,” said Zuckerberg.The drones form part of Facebook’s internet.org initiative that aims to connect the next billion people to the internet, creating new markets for the social network which already connects 1.39 billion monthly active users.Facebook’s artificial intelligence group is already planning for the flood of new users by developing technology to help them cope with the surge in messages and photos on the social network.“If we achieve our first goal, get everyone on the internet, build services at scale for the entire planet, we create this new problem: so much information you can’t consume the stuff that’s important to you,” Facebook’s chief technology officer, Mike Schroepfer, told the F8 developers conference in San Francisco, explaining how the company’s artificial intelligence group is working to solve information overload.Google is also planning to provide internet access to non-connected areas using both high altitude balloons and drones, buying American drone firmTitan Aerospace in April last year.The two US technology firms are fighting it out to become the pipe and hub that serves both new users and an untapped resource for marketers.•Why Facebook and Google are buying into drones
Google has failed in its attempt in the court of appeal to prevent British consumers having the right to sue the internet firm in the UK.A group known as Safari Users Against Google’s Secret Tracking wants to take legal action in the English courts over what it says is Google’s tracking of Apple’s Safari internet browser.It has accused Google of bypassing security settings in order to track users’ online browsing and to target them with personalised advertisements.Three judges have dismissed Google’s appeal over a high court decision against it and ruled that claims for damages can be brought over allegations of misuse of private information.Friday’s ruling was a victory for Safari Users, including editor and publisher Judith Vidal-Hall, and Robert Hann and Marc Bradshaw, who are both IT security company directors. They say Google’s “clandestine” tracking and collation of internet usage between summer 2011 and early 2012 led to distress and embarrassment among UK users.They accuse Google of collecting private information without their knowledge and consent by the use of “cookies” – a small string of text saved on the user’s device.Dan Tench, a partner at law firm Olswang, which represents the group, said the landmark case would decide “whether British consumers actually have any right to hold Google to account in this country”.He said: “This is the appropriate forum for this case – here in England where the consumers used the internet and where they have a right to privacy.”
The ZenWatch is one of the most attractive square Android Wear watches on the market. The OLED screen is gently curved with a polished stainless steel body inlaid with a rose gold-coloured inset. A traditional brown leather strap with a locking clasp completes the look.The classic styling may not suit everyone, but at 75g in weight and 9.4mm thick, the watch is comfortable to wear, does not feel chunky and the 1.63-inch Gorilla Glass 3-covered screen is bright and relatively crisp. It is also water resistant to IP55 standards, which means no swimming, but rain is not a problem.The ‘biosensor’ monitors heart rate when the circuit is completed by putting two fingers on the metal bezel of the watch.The smartwatch has a built-in heart rate sensor, but instead of being an optical sensor it uses a capacitive one. Two fingers need to be placed on the metal frame of the watch to complete a circuit and measure the wearer’s pulse. I found it as accurate as the optical heart rate sensors, but it takes slightly longer to get a measurement.But because there is nothing that needs pressing against the wrist the watch does not have to be as tight as those with optical sensors, which makes it more comfortable to wear – a bonus considering how rarely I actually use the heart rate functions on any of these watches.Android WearEvery Android Wear watch operates like pretty much any other. It connects to an Android smartphone via Bluetooth. Users swipe and tap to navigate the interface, talk to it to input text and conduct searches and receive vibrating notifications on the wrist. On the ZenWatch it is all very fluid and works well.Android Wear review: Google looks to dominate wearablesThe ZenWatch differentiates itself with 14 custom watch faces in addition to the built-in Wear ones. These include attractive and useful analogue faces, digital ones with more information such as steps and other time zones, and faces that combine both.The OLED screen can stay on in a lower power mode, which is clearly readable at a glance.A ZenWatch Manager application on the phone helps customise the watch faces and provides options for muting the phone, finding the watch and setting an alert if the watch and phone are separated.One of the most useful additions is a smart unlock setting that keeps the smartphone unlocked if the watch is connected. The feature was added into the latest version of Android 5 Lollipop, but for smartphones still on KitKat or lower it’s a great asset.Asus’s Wellness fitness tracking app works well enough for heart rate monitoring – fortunately, as it cannot be uninstalled. Up by Jawbone comes pre-installed for tracking steps, but can be disabled.BatteryA row of metal contacts hooks into a small plastic charging harness, powered by microUSB.The ZenWatch lasted just under two days on average during my testing. It could just about last two days on some occasions, but on others barely a day and half. I suspect that if you could fully disable the bundled apps and relied solely on the built-in Google apps including Fit for heart rate tracking it would consistently last two days, but I have no way to test that.Most Android Wear watches last about a day and a half per charge, with the exception of theSony Smartwatch 3that lasts about three.The watch slots into a grey plastic charging cradle with a microUSB port, which works well enough, while a small button on the underside of the watch turns it on.PriceThe strap is leather and comfortable, here shown on a small female wrist.The Asus ZenWatch costs £200, which makes it one of the more expensive Android Wear watches, matching theMotorola Moto 360, but is £25 cheaper than theLG G Watch Rand £10 more than theSony Smartwatch 3.VerdictThe Asus ZenWatch is a surprise. It is comfortable, looks great and works well. The heart rate monitor is well suited to infrequent checks, and the screen is bright and can be clearly read in sunlight.Having to charge it at least every two days is a drag, but almost every other smartwatch short of the Pebble suffers from the same drawback.The always-on ambient display mode using the OLED screen makes it a very good watch for actually telling the time, which others have neglected.Overall, the ZenWatch is easily one of the best Android Wear watches available and a solid contender for the incoming Apple Watch.The ZenWatch is slightly less thick than other smartwatches such as the Motorola Moto 360, but its tapered edges and curved glass make it seem much thinner and less chunky.Pros:comfortable, attractive, normal/replaceable watch strap, heart rate monitor, curved glassCons:less than two-day battery life, bundled apps cannot be removed, another charging cradle to loseOther reviews•Sony Smartwatch 3 review: great design, good screen and decent battery•LG G Watch R review: chunky, masculine, and fast•Samsung Gear S review: can a smartwatch with a phone built-in replace a smartphone?
It’s Friday! Are you in love?
Suppliers that do business with Microsoft in the US will have to provide employees handling the company’s work with at least 15 days of paid leave each year,Microsoft announced on Thursday.“We believe paid time off is an important benefit for workers in our economy,” Brad Smith, general counsel and executive president of legal and corporate affairs at Microsoft, wrote in a blogpost announcing the new initiative.The new requirement will apply to suppliers with 50 or more employees. Employees who work on Microsoft-related projects and are with the supplier for over nine months will be eligible for 15 days of paid leave – either in the form of 10 days of paid vacation and five days of sick leave or 15 days of unrestricted paid time off.Related:Only three US states have paid family leave policies – will New York be next?“[B]ecause we recognize that this approach may increase the costs for some of our suppliers, our plan is to work with them to implement these changes over the next 12 months,” wrote Smith. “We appreciate that this may ultimately result in increased costs for Microsoft, and we’ll put a process in place for addressing these issues with our suppliers.”Specifically, the company is worried that this new requirement could affect the diversity of its suppliers. According to Microsoft, businesses owned by women and minorities account for more than $2bn of their supplier services. Minorities are also among the groups disproportionately affected by lack of paid time off.In his blogpost, Smith admitted that the initiative isn’t entirely for the workers’ benefit. Paid time off often results in a happier workforce, which results in a more productive workforce.Additionally, paid sick leave helps improve overall health in the workplace.“One flu day reduces on-the-job transmission by 25%, while two flu days reduced such transmissions by 39%,” Smith pointed out.US businesses do not need to give workers any days off whatsoever – for vacation or sick days – under federal law.Some states havepassed lawsforcing businesses to provide a certain number of sick days.The US is also the only developed country thatdoesn’t guarantee paid maternity or parental leaveto its citizens. Three states have local policies.In 2014, 77% of Americans working for privately owned companies got paid vacation days, typically between 10 to 14 days a year. And 74% of full-time workers and 24% of part-time workers in the private sector were offered paid sick leave,according to the US Department of Labor.Related:Americans petition White House for paid vacation as Congress takes a break“Today, we are the only advanced country on Earth that doesn’t guarantee paid sick leave or paid maternity leave to our workers. Forty-three million workers have no paid sick leave – 43 million,”Barack Obama said during his State of the Union address in January.Two lawmakers – Senator Patty Murray and Representative Rosa Delauro – are trying to change that.In February, theyreintroduced the Healthy Families Actthat would allow workers a week of paid sick leave. But the legislation is unlikely to pass through the Republican-dominated Congress.Obama has alsoexpanded paid leave for federal workerswho have to care for a new child or family member who is ill. They can now take six weeks of paid sick leave.In April, Obama’s labor secretary, Thomas Perez, and White House senior adviser Valerie Jarrett are launching the “Lead on Leave” road showto help garner support for paid-leave policies.In the summer of last year, the Vacation Equality Project attempted to get the White House to address why the US didn’t have a law requiring paid time off bylaunching a petitionon theWe the Peoplesite. The petition did not get the 100,000 signatures needed to warrant a response.Americans who do get paid vacation don’t always use it. In 2013, Americans who received paid vacation only used 51% of it, according toa Glassdoor surveyof 2,300 workers.
Tim Cook is planning to give away all of his near $800m fortune before he dies, the Apple boss said in a surprisingly frank interview, in which he also described his sexuality as a “yawner”.Cook, 54, who took over as Apple chief executive from Steve Jobs in 2011,told Fortune magazinethat he planned to donate all of his wealth to charity after providing for his 10-year-old nephew’s education.Cook, who has spoken publicly about the importance of stopping HIV/Aids and climate change, as well as championing human rights and equality, did not specify which causes he would support but said he had already begun donating money quietly. He said he would develop a systematic approach to philanthropy, rather than just writing cheques.Fortune estimated that Cook holds $120m worth of Apple shares and a further $665m of restricted stocks.Cook follows other high-profile executives in giving their money away. In 2010, Warren Buffett and Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates launched the Giving Pledge, an appeal to billionaires to give at least 50% of their wealth to charity. Tesla chief executive Elon Musk, former New York mayor Michael Bloomberg, Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg and eBay founder Pierre Omidyar have all signed up.Cook has previously spoken of his affection for his nephew. In a speech last year, he said: “I have a nephew that I dearly love that’s 10, and when I look at him, and when I think of leaving a world that’s not as good as when I entered it, there’s no bigger sin than that.”In 2012, Cook donated $50m to Stanford hospitals, near Apple’s Silicon Valley headquarters, including $25m for a new children’s hospital. He also gave $50m to Product Red, a charity working to combat Aids, tuberculosis and malaria,according to Silicon Valley website the Verge.Cook also spoke abouthis decision to come out as gay last year– making him by far the most influential gay business executive as head of the world’s most valuable company.He said he made the decision to come out “quite some time ago” and that his announcement was viewed internally at Apple – where most people already knew he was gay – as a “yawner”.However, Cook said making his sexuality public knowledge was difficult because he is a very private and guarded about his personal life. “To be honest, if I would not have come to the conclusion that it would likely help other people, I would have never done it,” he said. “There’s no joy in me putting my life in view.”In the interview, Cook also took a strong line on investors trying to make a quick buck out of Apple’s rising share price. “The kind of investors we seek are long term because that’s how we make our decisions,” he said. “If you’re a short-term investor, obviously you’ve got the right to buy the stock and trade it the way you want. It’s your decision. But I want everybody to know that’s not how we run the company.”Earlier this week, a financial analyst predicted thatApple could soon become the world’s first trillion dollar company. Analysts at Cantor Fitzgerald on Monday said they thought Apple’s shares – which are currently trading at about $127, valuing the company at $733bn – could soon be worth $180 each, which would value the iPhone maker at $1.05tn.It would be the first time any company had ever been valued at more than $1tn, and would make Apple more valuable thanthe gross domestic product (GDP) of Indonesia, the Netherlands or Saudi Arabia, according to World Bank statistics.It would also mean Apple would be worth 2.6 times as much as Google, the second most valuable company in the US, with a market valuation of $383bn.
The European Commission has warned EU citizens that they should close their Facebook accounts if they want to keep information private from US security services, finding that current Safe Harbour legislation does not protect citizen’s data.The comments were made by EC advocate Bernhard Schima in a case brought by privacy campaigner Maximilian Schrems, looking at whether the data of EU citizens should be considered safe if sent to the US in a post-Snowden revelation landscape.“You might consider closing your Facebook account, if you have one,” Schima told attorney general Yves Bot in a hearing of the case at the European court of justice in Luxembourg.When asked directly, the commission could not confirm to the court that the Safe Harbour rules provide adequate protection of EU citizens’ data as it currently stands.The US no longer qualifiesThe case,dubbed “the Facebook data privacy case”, concerns the current Safe Harbour framework, which covers the transmission of EU citizens’ data across the Atlantic to the US. Without the framework, it is against EU law to transmit private data outside of the EU. The case collects complaints lodged against Apple, Facebook, Microsoft, Microsoft-owned Skype and Yahoo.Schrems maintains that companies operating inside the EU should not be allowed to transfer data to the US under Safe Harbour protections – which state that US data protection rules are adequate if information is passed by companies on a “self-certify” basis – because the US no longer qualifies for such a status.The case argues that the US government’s Prism data collection programme, revealed by Edward Snowden in the NSA files, which sees EU citizens’ data held by US companies passed on to US intelligence agencies, breaches the EU’s Data Protection Directive “adequacy” standard for privacy protection, meaning that the Safe Harbour framework no longer applies.Poland and a few other member states as well as advocacy group Digital Rights Ireland joined Schrems in arguing that the Safe Harbour framework cannot ensure the protection of EU citizens’ data and therefore is in violation of the two articles of the Data Protection Directive.The commission, however, argued that Safe Harbour is necessary both politically and economically and that it is still a work in progress. The EC and the Ireland data protection watchdog argue that the EC should be left to reform it with a 13-point plan to ensure the privacy of EU citizens’ data.“There have been a spate of cases from the ECJ and other courts on data privacy and retention showing the judiciary as being more than willing to be a disrupting influence,” said Paula Barrett, partner and data protection expert at law firm Eversheds. “Bringing down the safe harbour mechanism might seem politically and economically ill-conceived, but as the decision of the ECJ in the so-called ‘right to be forgotten’ case seems to reinforce that isn’t a fetter which the ECJ is restrained by.”An opinion on the Safe Harbour framework from the ECJ is expected by 24 June.Facebook declined to comment.
America’s top trade watchdog has rejected accusations it took no legal action to curb Google’s dominance in search because of intensive lobbying by the software giant.Google staff donations made the firm the second-largest corporate backer in Barack Obama’s 2012 re-election campaign.The Wall Street Journalthis week revealedthat Google employees had lobbied the White House 230 times since Obama first took office, in 2009, and that the search company employs 20 separate lobbying agencies.The chairwoman of America’s Federal Trade Commission, Edith Ramirez, issued astatementon Wednesday night rejecting accusations in the Journal that the regulator had ignored the advice of its own staff in deciding to close its Google investigation.“Contrary to recent press reports, the Commission’s decision on the search allegations was in accord with the recommendations of the FTC’s Bureau of Competition, Bureau of Economics, and Office of General Counsel,” Ramirez wrote.The statement was signed by two other serving commissioners. The remaining two members of the five-strong commission were not serving in early 2013, when the FTC settled with Google after extracting voluntary concessions from the company.Ramirez said: “Some of the FTC’s staff attorneys on the search investigation raised concerns about several other Google practices. In response, the Commission obtained commitments from Google regarding certain of those practices. Over the last two years, Google has abided by those commitments.”The Journal has obtained andpublisheda partial copy of a 2012 report by FTC staff in which serious concerns were raised about Google’s practices.In the strongly worded document, FTC staff identify risks in bringing legal action against Google, but state: “Staff concludes that Google’s conduct has resulted – and will result – in real harm to consumers and to innovation in the online search and advertising markets. Google has strengthened its monopolies over search and search advertising through anticompetitive means, and has forestalled competitors’ and would-be competitors’ ability to challenge those monopolies, and this will have lasting negative effects on consumer welfare.”The debate is being closely watched in Europe, where competition commissioner Margrethe Vestager must soon decide whether to step up a long-drawn-out inquiry into Google search practices. The European commission probe began in 2010 and remains open after the rejection of three successive packages of voluntary concessions.Ramirez blasted suggestions that commissioners had been politically influenced. She said: “Today’s Wall Street Journal article … makes a number of misleading inferences and suggestions about the integrity of the FTC’s investigation. The article suggests that a series of disparate and unrelated meetings involving FTC officials and executive branch officials or Google representatives somehow affected the Commission’s decision to close the search investigation in early 2013. Not a single fact is offered to substantiate this misleading narrative.”In an emailed statement, the Journal defended its reporting as “careful, accurate and fair”.
I need to buy a new family desktop computer for myself, my partner and our two children aged seven and 12. We’ll use it for word processing, photos and listening to music. I’ve tried Windows 8 in a shop and don’t want to use it! Linux options seem too complex for the kids to pick up quickly, and it doesn’t have the full range of software they need, including Microsoft Office, printer drivers etc. I’ve looked at Macs but I’m aiming to spend less than £500 (not including a monitor).SamI like the idea of buying a desktop PC rather than a laptop, for three reasons. First, desktop cases are better than thin laptop cases. Desktop cases can use hotter, faster, cheaper processors, provide more space for expansion, and are easier to upgrade and repair.Second, desktops have better ergonomics, though your kids may need raised chairs to get their elbows to keyboard height, and footrests if their feet don’t reach the floor. (Thiscartoonmay help.)Third, it’s easier to keep an eye on what your kids are doing on a desktop than if they are using a laptop or tablet.Don’t worry about the operating system. Windows 8.1 has ameliorated the problems with Windows 8 on desktops, and Windows 10 – expected this summer – should provide a comprehensive solution. The systems you can try in shops are not set up for desktop use, but 8.1 allows you to bypass the new Start screen. If that’s not enough, you can always install a utility such as Stardock’s Start8.Either way, Windows 8.1 is not hard to learn – it is easier than learning to use an Android or Apple iOS device from scratch, let alone Linux – and there are helpful videos such as Scott Hanselman’sHow to use Windows 8.1 effectively with hotkeys.Family computingAs the head of the family’s IT department, you should give each of your users a separate account, and pin their most-used applications to the Windows task bar. I would make these limited, rather than administrator, accounts to provide greater protection from malware. You can also add shortcuts to shared folders for music, movies, photos and so on.Windows 8.1 includes parental controls that allow you to restrict the times your children can use the PC and the programs they can run. You can also monitor the websites they visit. Microsoft provides a guide:Keep your kids safer on the PC. Of course, it is up to you to decide whether you want to use these controls.You may also want to set up a home network so that you can access your music, movies and photos from other PCs and devices such as smartphones and tablets. Windows 8 automatically creates a HomeGroup so it could hardly be easier, but there are still YouTube videos such asHow to Create and Join a HomeGroup in Windows 8 For Dummiesand Computeractive’sWindows 8 guide: Set up a Home Group.Hardware optionsThere are plenty of desktop PCs at prices from £200 to £2,000 (usually a penny less), with fewer choices at the cheaper end of the market. You have to decide on the form factor, the specification, the price, and whether to buy from a high-street retailer or online.The mainstream desktop market offers three main form factors: very small PCs, all-in-ones, and traditional tower systems, which come in a variety of sizes. I’d recommend against the very small machines and the all-in-ones for your purposes, because they have the same limitations as laptops. You only get the performance advantages, easy expandability and reparability by buying a tower. And the more USB ports it has, the better.If you want a really cheap tower, have a look at the slimline Lenovo H30 with a 500GB hard drive for£199.99 at PC World, or preferably with a 1TB hard drive for£229.95 at John Lewis. Both systems have a 2.4GHz Intel Pentium J2900 processor, which is the weak link.The J2900 is a 10W Atom-based chip that will do everything you need now, but it might be more at home in a cheap laptop. I’d rather go for something with the power to run games – including Minecraft. However, according to themanual, the H30 has a PCI Express X16 slot (and three X1 slots) so you should be able to add a graphics card later. (As always, confirm before you buy.)If you shop around, you can get more powerful versions of the Lenovo H30. For example, PC World has one with a fast Intel Core i3-4160, 8GB of memory and an Nvidia GeForce GT705 graphics card for£429.99. There’s also the fatter Lenovo H50 version.With your budget, the top of the range would be an H50 with a Core i5-4460 processor, 8GB of memory, 2TB hard drive and the same Nvidia GeForce GT705 graphics card for£499.99.Lenovo makesnine rangesof desktop PCs, not counting all-in-ones. These run from mini home theatre PCs (Q series) to Erazer X gaming rigs. You can buy an H30 online, and the model with a 3.6GHz Core i3-4160, 4GB of memory and 1TB hard drive looks good value at£299.99.Alternatives to LenovoThe obvious alternative is the HP Pavilion range. The entry level HP 110-405na with the usual J2900 processor, 4GB of memory and 1TB drive costs£229.95 at John Lewis– the same price as its entry-level H30. Your top model would be the HP 500-550na with a Core i5, 8GB of memory, Nvidia GeForce GT705 and 2TB hard drive for£499.99. Sound familiar? John Lewis also has it with a 1TB drive for£449.95.HP alsosells desktop PCs direct from its UK website, so you can scroll through and see if there is a model that meets your needs.Both Lenovo and HP ship too much crapware with their consumer PCs, so there is probably not much difference there. Obviously you would want to avoid getting one withSuperfishinstalled.If you like Dell, it has similar offerings. The entry-levelInspiron 3000small desktop packs a J2900 for £209. (When I put one in a shopping basket, Dell removed the £19.99 delivery charge so that was the actual price.)However, the normal-sized model 3847 with a Core i3-4160, 8GB of memory and 1TB hard drive looks much better value at its current£299(ie £50 off) including shipping. Look for code CD84727. It doesn’t have a graphics card for Minecraft, but that’s something you could add later.You could also consider Dell’sOptiplex 3020range of business PCs with prices that start at £376.80 including VAT and delivery (£30). These are built to run Windows 8 but ship with Windows 7 Pro, the business standard. This would let you skip Windows 8 and install Windows 10 if or when you want to.One big drawback is the inability to change the 3020’s specs in any useful way to vary the processor, memory or hard drive - very disappointing for a Dell desktop.These are all fairly boring PCs, but ought to last at least six years. If the kids need more power when they get older, you should be able to keep them going strong by adding more memory, a cheap graphics card, and perhaps an SSD.Have you got a question? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
Uber is taking steps to improve passenger safety following allegations of rape against a driver in India and mounting concerns about background checks.Phil Cardenas, head of safety, said the company was implementing a new global code of conduct and setting up “incident response teams” worldwide to reassure riders in the wake of several high-profile incidents.Cardenas said in a blog post: “With more than a million rides per day in 295 cities and 55 countries, continually improving rider and driver safety is the most critical component of what we do.”The announcement came after authorities ordered Uber and its Indian rival Ola off the road in New Delhi in December after an Uber drivers was charged with raping a passenger.In other cities where Uber operates, critics had complained that a lack of regulation and background checks for drivers could endanger passengers.Cardenas said his team had called for new safety measures after an internal review in consultation with external experts.Related:Uber pledges to sign up 1 million female drivers worldwide by 2020Uber’s new code of conduct requires all drivers to comply with local laws and regulations, and to avoid using alcohol or illegal drugs in the vehicles.The company also plans to set up a global safety advisory board to review its policies and employ off-duty police officers to audit safety measures.Another new measure will be “incident response teams” to deal with problems around the clock for “those critical moments when a rapid resolution is needed”.Cardenas also said that Uber would be working to improve its background checks and to collaborate more closely with law enforcement as needed, including providing GPS coordinates when crimes are reported.In India, Uber last month said it was launching an SOS button and other safety features for users in the country within its app to allow passengers to call police in an emergency.A Send Status also allows users to inform people of their exact location while riding with Uber.The company is alsoworking with Safetipinto help measure city safety in New Delhi – an initiative that will soon be extended to Bogota, Nairobi and Jakarta.“We intend to make these and other new features available in the coming months elsewhere,” Cardenas said.Uber has expanded rapidly in the past few years as its valuation soared to more than $40bn (£27bn), but it has faced hurdles from regulators in many locations and protests from traditional taxi services.
