Every so often a story pops up in the national press about a company or person selling plots of land on the moon (here's one from 2006). Or, sometimes, on Mars. I've written about it enough times that it's wearily familiar: the people involved say that they've got a perfect right to sell the land, which is true enough if you can find someone stup... eager enough to buy it. Sometimes it's "buying" stars and naming them, which is the sort of thing that's not going to sit well in astronomers' tables - which is why astronomers ignore them. (And who knows what astrologers feel about them?)I realised today, when the PR on behalf of a company called zubworld got in touch, that it's this "let's make money from something that's not got any implicit or explicit value to the people handing over the cash" approach which turns me off location-based "games" such as Foursquare and Gowalla. And particularly zubworld, who won't of course be happy to hear that.It's the proposition ofzubworldthat I find laughable. It says it has 3.7m locations. "You can buy 3.2m locations from $5. We plan to release details on resale market shortly,"tweetedits PR company.At this point I reacted rather like the garage owner in the joke where the customer comes in and says "Can I get a petrol can for my Yugo/Lada/[insert looked-down-on car brand of choice", to which the owner responds "OK, sounds like a fair exchange."Hmm, I thought, you can buy 2.5m locations for a total of $5? That sounds OK. Then again, how many location are there? And then it dawned - wait,each locationcosts $5? What sort of mugs is zubworld looking for, exactly? Why would you buy a "location" in a virtual world like that? Why would you sell it? Who would buy a "used" location?The obvious weakness in the plan is that there's nothing to stop me, or someone else with a bigger budget and better-known brand, coming along and doing exactly the same thing - at which point all those zubworld locations are going to crash in value. And rather as with the moon plots, all you'll be left with is less money and a plaque for the wall (if you printed it out).Plus, it's been done before: ever heard ofSecond Life? You could buy plots and things there, and build dwellings and so on. But that actually had something approaching utility - you could connect with people there. Perhaps zubworld will do the same... but at the cost of reinventing the wheel.Now,FourSquareandGowallaaren't run in quite the same way - there's no charge for using them, for one thing - but the idea behind it works much the same: you go around collecting useful information for them (the location of restaurants, houses, and so on) and they "reward" you by letting you claim to be the mayor of Nonsuch. Except that if someone else comes along and checks in more frequently,theycan become the mayor of Nonsuch. Oh noes! Oh, who cares.Because the fact that there are two (now three) of these sorts of services offering to let you do things to virtual worlds indicates that they're all as worthless as each other - they're all people competing to sell you bits of the moon. (Try theGoogle searchand notice that there are multiple companies offering to sell space on the moon. What happens if they both claim to sell the same lot? Do you get to watch while they fight for it?)Perhaps people will say I'm not "getting" location-based services - more particularly, location-based "games". I'd disagree. Location-based services are really important, and they're potentially the source of substantial revenue-making opportunities. But only the ones that are grounded in the real world, and things you can do with that real world.For the rest? I'd give you $5 for them.
As expected, Microsoft shipped patchMS10-002yesterday to fix the Internet Explorer vulnerability that may have affected Google, gave some journalists panic attacks, and almost brought the governments of France and Germany to their knees.The patch is important because as well as fixing a specific vulnerability that affected people running IE6 on Windows XP (two browsers and two operating systems behind the times), it rolls up several other fixes into a 9.6 megabyte package you candownload here. Alternatively, a visit to Windows Update will bring the offer to installCumulative Security Update for Internet Explorer 8 for Windows XP (KB978207)if it finds you don't have it.The patch does require you to restart your PC, so pick a time when that's convenient. You don't really need it in a hurry unless you're still running IE6. However, it's important to install the patch even if you use a different browser, because IE components can be used by other programs or may otherwise be accessible to malware.The patch will not actually protect companies like Google from targeted "spear phishing" attacks because Microsoft doesn't have a monopoly of security holes. You should check for other unpatched vulnerabilities on your PC by runningSecunia's Personal Software Inspector, as mentioned previously in Ask Jack.But while Microsoft has been congratulated on its openness and speed of response in releasing the patch, a blog post at The Microsoft Security Response Center (MSRC) suggests it has not been as open or as speedy as it looks.The post by Jerry Bryant says:As we noted in our blog post yesterday, this Internet Explorer security update was already planned for release in February. When the attack discussed in Security Advisory 979352 was first brought to our attention on Jan 11, we quickly released an advisory for customers three days later. As part of that investigation, we also determined that the vulnerability was the same as a vulnerability responsibly reported to us and confirmed in early September.In other words, Microsoft didn't so much knock out a patch at impressive speed as bring forward the fix to a vulnerability it knew about "in early September".OK, Microsoft, but what happened to this fix during November, December and January? If the patch had been released three months ago, maybe Google would not have been caught with its PC pants down.There's a system of "responsible reporting" whereby security researchers tell Microsoft about security holes in advance, so it can fix them before they become widely known. It's not responsible behaviour to delay fixes for these vulnerabilities on the grounds that people don't know about them, because the bad guys could find out sooner rather than later.Yes, we know that all browsers have security flaws, and that Firefox has had plenty. However, Mozilla does appear to fix its security flaws much quicker than Microsoft, which means that the "window of vulnerability" is actually shorter. This is a good reason to use Firefox rather than IE.If Microsoft had fixed this particular hole three months ago, it might have saved itself billions of dollars worth of bad publicity and probably a measurable loss of browser market share.
Don't worry, said Microsoft a few days ago: the zero-day vulnerability that Chinese hackers exploited to infiltrate Google's network only affects Internet Explorer 6 (released in 2000) running on Windows XP (released in 2001).The implication being that nobody uses that still, do they? Ed Bott, who has forgotten more about Microsoft than many people know, says in avehement blogpost at ZDNetthat:"Any IT professional who is still allowing IE6 to be used in a corporate setting is guilty of malpractice. Think that judgment is too harsh? Ask the security experts at Google, Adobe, and dozens of other large corporations that are cleaning up the mess from a wave of targeted attacks that allowed source code and confidential data to fall into the hands of well-organized intruders. The entry point? According to Microsoft, it's IE6."By Bott's measure, we'd have to conclude that there's a lot of malpractice going on in UK government. More than 750,000 workstations in the NHS and 500,000 in the Department of Work and Pensions use exactly that combination. (See thecomment herefrom user "limbo".) The DWP installation of IE6/XP in 2002/3 took a total of three years, he suggests.In fact it is still arequirementof any new web application being deployed in the NHS that it works on IE6/XP. You can see the 2008 machine requirements for thePrimary Care Trust Prescription services report deployment, for example, which specifies machines that these days you'd have trouble finding outside eBay:Client Machine Requirements for Report Deployment:Windows: Microsoft Internet Explorer 5.0, 5.5, 6.0; Netscape Navigator 4.7, 6.2; Acrobat Reader 3.0, 4.05, 5.0 (If PDF viewing/printing is required)Mac OS: Microsoft Internet Explorer 5.0, Netscape Navigator 6.2, Acrobat Reader 3.0, 4.05, 5.0 (If PDF viewing/printing is required)OS/2: Netscape Navigator 4.61, Acrobat Reader 3.0 (If PDF viewing/printing is required)Solaris: Netscape Navigator 6.2, Acrobat Reader 3.0, 4.0 (If PDF viewing/printing is required)A year ago, Microsoft itselfposted an NHS advisoryrecognising the problems around backwards compatibility with IE6, and noting that virtual machines (VMs) could do the job on newer machines, by hosting an instance of IE6/XP.Neil Slater, who wrote the note, commented that he knew"that the [NHS] IM&amp;T Tools Project needs to remain focussed on the challenges you are facing today. One of these challenges is applications that require Internet Explorer 6 (IE6)."He continues:"Incompatibility of applications with Internet Explorer 7 (and soon 8) has been a much discussed problem for NHS Trusts planning upgrades to Windows Vista. Testing and migrating applications can be time consuming, and meanwhile users are unable to take advantage of the new capabilities and enhancements offered by the new OS. By delivering applications in a Virtual PC that runs Windows XP and IE6, IM&amp;T teams can remove the barriers to OS upgrades. If you have an application that requires IE6, please get in touch. Whether it is a widely-deployed national application or a bespoke Trust-specific application, I would like to hear from you."It's organisational inertia like this which is really dangerous. It's difficult enough of course to get the vast mass of people to upgrade their browsers; even more so to change their browsers to a different one. Yet the indications are that a significant proportion of individuals really do take an interest in what browser they're using: how else to explain that Firefox now looks like the most popular individual browser?Part of the incentive for those upgrades must be personal security: Internet Explorer has had so many well-documented exploits targeting it that eventually the message permeates through to individuals.The irony is that organisations like the NHS and DWP and all sorts of other government departments control personal information that is truly valuable, connected by systems which have woeful security holes. It's very easy to argue (and I'm sure that someone will) that the vast majority of those NHS and DWP workstations are not connected to the internet, and so don't face the same threats that you and I browsing the web would.While that's true, it overlooks the point: it only takes one of those systems to be connected to the net, or to be forwarded an infected attachment over the intranet from someone – perhaps on a completely safe machine – and the entire network is, potentially, compromised. (A scenario like that is highly likely to have been the modus operandi at Google.)The key question is, how do you solve that problem? How do you ensure that you won't be tied to outdated browsers and operating systems? Quite simple: write to web standards. Then all you need to do is upgrade (or move) to a browser that supports those standards.And that's where the failing was when the NHS specification was written. In 2000, there were plenty of web standards around; IE6 didn't meet all of them. But because the NHS was a huge project, and the government wanted to use Microsoft, it went with IE6.Short-term gain, long-term problem. Now we have to wonder if our medical records and national insurance data are safe against malware-driven intrusion on computers that use a decade-old browser which wasn't built for the hostile environment that the web has become.Microsoft could make out that IE6/XP is the only system at risk (though it is now patching all versions of IE and Windows against the vulnerability - including awarning for the NHS). Unfortunately that "only" system turns out to be rather widely used.It's ironic that this has happened in the week of theofficial launch of data.gov.uk– which is a browser- and platform-independent approach to using all the (non-personal) data that the government has got squirreled away, and is now being encouraged to open up. Yesterday, the civil servants who've worked so hard at the launch of that site, who I discussed this issue with, were covering their faces in horror at the thought of it.But then a ray of light dawned. "I know!" said one. "We'll replace them all with modern browsers running HTML5!"Well, we can hope. In the meantime, let's hope that Chinese hackers just don't think our health records or pension or national insurance details are that interesting. Fingers crossed.
Steve Ballmer signs a MacBook Pro at Trevecca Nazarene University. It survived. Anyone want to guess how long before it's on eBay? (Here's thehappy student's blog post.)Just as a reminder of yesterday's data.gov.uk launch, and a taster of what can be done with the sort of data that's available, here's a view of Mapumental, which shows you what places you can afford to buy within a particular distance of your workplace. (Unless your workplace is "any coffee shop with Wi-Fi or a decent 3G signal".)You cansign up for Mapumental- presently it's in private beta.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?It's my BlackBerry Storm – I absolutely love it. For me it's an iPod and iPhone killer. It's much better for my emails, and I just find it easier to use. It's not as intuitive as the iPhone, but once you get used to its idiosyncrasies, it's much more forgiving.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Today, to read the questions before doing this interview, while I was cooking my lifesaving dhal. I always keep it in the kitchen with me because I hate being too far away from my email – and I'm never far away from my kitchen.What additional features would you add if you could?The one thing that I find very weak on it is the web browsing – it uses 3G rather than Wi-Fi, and from that point of view its very slow. The iphone is much quicker.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I think it will be obsolete in 10 weeks time – all these things, the moment you buy them they almost are, aren't they?What always frustrates you about technology in general?It's never as quick as you think it should be and it always goes wrong. Macs, when they work well, are fantastic, and when they don't you just want to hurl them out of a window. When technology fails, it more frustrating than when we had no technology.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Patience. Always be patient – particularly when you travel as much as I do.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Well, when I'm talking to nerds I consider myself to be a bit of a luddite; when I'm talking to luddites, I consider myself to be a bit of a nerd. I can get by – I'm the halfway house.I know more than the lasst generation, but not as much as the next generation.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably my Macbook, which cost me about £1,000. I'm not one who buys big televisions or anything like that.Mac or PC, and why?Mac – partly because of my background in publishing, and partly because as someone who doesn't really know all the ins and outs of computing, Mac is more intuitive.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I download – I haven't bought a CD for some years. My last DVD purchase was The Best of The Larry Sanders Show, with which I'm obsessed – it's the best television programme ever made.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Absolutely a good idea, as long as they can learn how to talk.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A top-of-the-range induction hob for the kitchen – one of those instant hot, instant cold ones. I have odd dreams about them, they're just such fantastic things.•Simon Majumdar is a food blogger atdoshermanos.co.ukand has just published his first book, Eat My Globe.
YouTube has been a great place to catch up on music videos for songs and artists that you might have missed. Now the Google-owned video site has made it simpler to create a playlist for an artist by introducing theYouTube Music Discovery Project and Playlist Creation Toolunder the heading Find &gt; Mix &gt; Watch.The initially-alarming Disco in the address (http://www.youtube.com/disco) is presumably short for Discovery. It's not an offer to Donna Summerise some innocent musician.Search for an artist and you get a playlist that YouTube will play through, one video after another. It also offers a list of Related Artists, plus a Mix Tape option that will intersperse songs from your chosen artist and ones from the Related Artists column.It's nothing like as smart as Pandora, which generates a "personal radio station" from the name of an artist,The Filterand similar services. YouTube's Related Artists for William Orbit, for example, includes Peter Gabriel, Beth Orton and Kanye West but not Orbital, Boards of Canada, System 7, Aphex Twin, Torch Song or even Madonna's Ray of Light album, to which he contributed. That's an embarrassingly bad result.Still, it's early days, and the "instant playlist" feature seems likely to attract an audience.YouTube is also running a brief experiment with movie rentals in connection with the Sundance Film Festival. In a blog post yesterday,YouTube said:we are excited today to announce our partnership with the Sundance Film Festival to make five films from the 2010 and 2009 festivals available for rent for US users on YouTube starting this Friday and running through Sunday, January 31. In addition to these five films, a small collection of rental videos from other US partners across different industries, including health and education, will be made available in the weeks ahead.To pay the rental fee, you have to open a Google Checkout account: you can't just use PayPal.Finally, YouTube has also launched an experimentalHTML5 video player, which means you can play videos without downloading a browser plug-in, but it only works with Google Chrome and Apple Safari (and maybe others based on the open source WebKit engine).
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Oracle's $7.4bn takeover of software rival Sun Microsystems looks set to go through after European regulators finally gave their approval to the deal.Nine months after the surprise acquisition was announced, EU competition commissioner Neelie Kroes has said she is satisfied that the deal holds no potential danger to the software market."I am now satisfied that competition and innovation will be preserved on all the markets concerned," she said in a statement."Oracle's acquisition of Sun has the potential to revitalise important assets and create new and innovative products."The deal,first announced in April last year, will see the world's second largest software company take control of its smaller rival. In the process, Oracle will gain access to a suite of products including the Java programming language and business-oriented Solaris operating system.The acquisition had come in for criticism from some campaigners, who felt that Oracle's power would threaten free competition – particularly in the database market.Monty Widenius, who sold database company MySQL to Sun in 2008 for $1bn,was among the chief objectors- arguing that Oracle would kill off open source products like MySQL to protect its existing sales."I just don't buy it that Oracle will be a good home for MySQL," he said in December, adding that competition "not only scares, but actually hurts Oracle every day".But after a series of hearings and reports of arift between regulators on either side of the Atlantic, the takeover now has the seal of approval from Washington and Brussels. Although authorities in Russia and China still have to give it their blessing, executives appear confident that affairs will now be completed in short order.In a memo to staff, Sun chief executive Jonathan Schwartz told his employees that they had to prepare for the change and praised Oracle's management."With nine months of getting to know them, I've found Oracle to be truly remarkable, led by remarkable people," he said. "I've seen their commitment and focus, now they need yours."He added that staff should "let go" of any resistance they have to the deal, or attachment they have to Sun's particular values."Every employee needs to emotionally resign from Sun," he wrote. "Go home, light a candle, and let go of the expectations and assumptions that defined Sun as a workplace. Honour and remember them, but let them go."
Two little mobile game-related snippets that cropped up today. First, EA has just announced that its various mobile iterations of Russian legend Tetris have reached over 100 million paid for downloads since 2005. That is alotof oddly shaped blocks being stacked into confined spaces. I wonder how many of those 100 million gamers have wasted culiminative hours of their lives, desperately thinking, "I just need the long thin one, I just need the long thin one!"The falling object puzzler, which is celebrating its 25th Anniversary this year (do inanimate intellectual properties celebrate? I guess not), is also massive in Japan where mobile content provider G-mode has been distributing Tetris titles since 2001. "Just this past year alone our 'Tetris League' game in Japan has been played nearly 100 million times," says Takeshi Miyaji, president of G-mode in an enthusiastic press release which finally manages to mention Alexey Pajitnov, thecreatorof the game, in the fourth paragraph.Fortunately, although he made little money from his masterpiece for the first few years of its rampant success, the rights reverted to him in 1996 and he now managesThe Tetris Companywith early US licensee Hank Rogers. Rogerstold PocketGamer:"1.2 billion people on the planet have handsets, so that leaves another 4.8 billion who don't have handsets, and therefore don't have access to Tetris... so I think there's still a lot of room for us to grow. To double in size, actually."And with a grasp of mathematics like that, I'm sure the only way is up. Anyway, here's a fun fact about Tetris from that press release:According to researchers, the Tetris game is an excellent tool for neuroscience research and has been used in over 30 scientific studies. Research published in 2009 in BMC Research Notes found that study participants who played Tetris showed increased brain efficiency and, relative to controls, an increase in brain tissue.Also, as Homer Simpson discovered in one memorable Simpsons skit, it's great for teaching you how to effectively load your car with many times more crap than it should conceivably be able to hold.Anyway, on to another classic mobile game - Snake...The Guinness World Records 2010 Gamer's Edition has just declared that the mobile version of Snake is the most played game on the planet. An estimated one billion people have been making monochrome lines grow since the title was created for the old Nokia 6110 in 1997 by Nokia design engineer, Taneli Armanto. Allegedly, it only went on the phone because they had some room left in the memory and wanted a fun extra to fill it. By 2005, the game was on 350 million handsets.Do you have any memories of either game you'd like to share?
Google has suggested that the advertising market is beginning to return to normal, after announcing profits of nearly $2bn for the last three months of what it called a "rollercoaster year".Announcing its latest quarterly financial results, the company said that it had received a substantial boost in the period from October to December 2009 - pushing profit for the quarter to $1.97bn.That figure came on the back of a 17% year on year growth in revenues, up to $6.67bn from $5.7bn during the same period in 2008. Led chief executive Eric Schmidt to make an optimistic assessment of the current state of affairs."Given that the global economy is still in the early days of recovery, this was an extraordinary end to the year," he said. "Our performance in 2009 underscored the strength of our management team, the resilience of our business model and the pace of innovation within our product and engineering teams, which continued unabated throughout the downturn."While profit was higher than Wall Street analysts had expected, however, there was disappointment that revenue growth was not higher - an example, perhaps, of Google suffering from the weight of expectation."All of those things they report at a basic level were fine," Martin Pyykkonen, senior analyst at Janco Partners, told Reuters. "The reason the stock is down is that it wasn't a blowout. I think the stock will recover. I don't think it will fall through the floor."In Britain, one of Google's most important markets outside the US, revenues came to $772m - the same proportion of the company's income as it was this timea year ago. At that point, the internet giant was pushing through the deepest trough of the recession - cutting jobs and axing new projects.In a conference call with reporters and analysts, Google executives said that they were now investing heavily in the future, with substantial efforts in search, the social web, mobile phones and the company's suite of business offerings.Asked aboutthe company's conflict with the Chinese government- which some have worried could end up with the company frozen out of the world's biggest new market - Schmidt remained relatively quiet."In a reasonably short time we'll be making some changes there," he said, indicating that the company would press ahead with its threat to uncensor the Chinese version of its search engine in protest at attempts by local hackers to break into its systems.Shares in Google dropped 5% in after hours trading.
"They gave us the Beatles, we gave them data.gov" is the title of the blogpost by VivekChundraKundra, the US's chief information officer who is head of the US's data.gov - a title that one could take as being slightly pointed, yes?"Taking a page from our efforts here in the Obama Administration, the United Kingdom today launched data.gov.uk – a site to aggregate datasets from the UK government.  It is exciting to see the seeds of openness, accountability, and transparency taking root around the world."It certainly is. However, there seems to be a certain amount of one-up-datasetmanship going on here; possibly Kundra was stung by the claim on ReadWriteWeb that "the UK's datastore puts data.gov to shame".According to RWW,"The UK government has been a big supporter of innovation built on top of public data.  It sponsored a contest calledShow Us a Better Way,giving cash prizes to people who came up with the best ideas formashups they would like to create if they had access the rightgovernment data. Charles Arthur at the Guardian hasgood coverage of the UK's open data work- the Guardian has been working hard to open public data as well.""The US government, on the other hand, has been lackluster in its move to open data to facilitate outside innovation."So given that Stephen Timms announced today that there are 2,500 datasets available (a number that was being revised with each version of the speech, I hear), Kundra apparently can't resist the temptation to put in a little correction:"When we launched Data.gov here at the White House website in May 2009, we had just 47 datasets online.  It was a modest start, but the growth we've seen has been phenomenal.  Today, there are more than 168,000 datasets online, and federal agencies are poised to publish new high-value information this week as the next step in Administration's Open Government Initiative."168,000 eh? That's a lot. My understanding though is that a visit to the US by Tim Berners-Lee and Nigel Shadbolt, including a White House visit, was key to getting the data.gov.uk site on track in the summer of 2009 - so Kundra can certainly take some of the reflected glory. Even if people at thedata.gov.uk launch on Thursdaydid spend a fair bit of time tweaking the figurative nose of data.gov in the US.Then it all gets nice again and everyone's happy:"The Federal Government does not have a monopoly on the best ideas.  We are all part of an increasingly complex network of communities, ideas, and information.  We applaud today's launch of data.gov.uk  and look forward to working with the  international community to ensure that people across the world are actively engaged in helping find the most innovative paths to solve some of the toughest problems we face. Moreover, we are pleased to see that other governments share the Administration's philosophy that data availability will help change how government operates and empower citizens to participate in making government services more effective, accessible, and transparent."Yeah.Andwe gave them the Beatles. And what did we get in return? High School Musical.
MCV are reporting that theBBC is returning to the games market. The corporation are looking at bringing familiar brands – including obvious audience fit Doctor Who – onto DS, Wii, iPhone and online. Yes, Xbox and PS3 owners will have to do without Top Gear and In the Night Garden games – unless they arrive on Xbox Live and PSN of course.  BBC Worldwide exec Neil Ross Russell explains the thinking behind the change of heart:We are open to conversations with anybody in games about all kinds of business models to see how we can extract more value. Outside of Disney we have the most well-known line-up of children's characters around the world.Ok, hype aside this makes all makes sense. I have two young children who are regularly hypnotised by the Cbeebies games. Dragging these kind of brands onto DS and the rest is a no-brainer.  But let's face it, the track record for BBC branded games is mixed. Dr Who games haveinvariably been rubbishfor example. Will things be different this time?What about retro too? Surely there must be some value in older shows - maybe a Dad's Army RTS game? A Grange Hill kart racer withZammoagainst Tucker? Anyway let's help them out. Which BBC "key IP" – or TV programmes to you and me – from the past and present do you think would make good games?
The great and good from the games industry – Ian Livingstone from Eidos, Chris Deering from Codemasters, David Braben of Elite fame – gathered in Whitehall, London, today for the Westminster eForum, to discuss what the games industry wants the government to include in its pre-budget report next week.And while some MPs turned up – including former defence minister Tom Watson, and shadow minister for the creative industries Ed Vaizey – the star turn was a no-show. Keith Vaz MP, widely known for his anti-gaming views, had to be unavoidably elsewhere. Reporters looking for an attention-grabbing headline and a bit of Vaz-bashing (or not, depending on what he said) were disappointed.The games industry is undoubtedly important to the UK economy, and several speakers at the eForum said it was bigger than the film industry. The problem is that it is in relative decline. Indeed, it looks as though the UK – currently the world's third-largest producer of computer and video games – will be overtaken by Canada and France, both of which provide tax breaks to games developers. It could sink to sixth.TIGA, the independent game developers' association, has been asking for similar tax credits to be offered in the UK. Our developers can compete with the best in the world when the playing field is fair, claimed TIGA chief executive Richard Wilson, but it isn't fair. "The creative industries need the chance to flourish and grow," he said. "A tax break against production costs could create an extra 3,500 jobs, and generate an additional £400m for the Treasury over five years."Wilson pointed out that the film industry in the UK gets £100m a year in tax credits.There are also two other areas where the games industry wants government to act. First, there are problems with the higher education system. Second, the UK is falling behind in terms of broadband provision, and online gaming is today's growth area.Elite developer David Braben, founder of Frontier Developments, complained that "we are getting far fewer people with computer science skills: we're having to recruit people from abroad". He blamed this partly on ICT being a dull subject in schools, leading to a decline in applications for computer science degrees. "Games courses that are just studies of games are no use to us," he said.Ian Livingstone said "the problem with universities is that they're paid on a bums-on-seats basis", which led to a "dumbing down". There should be incentives to promote the study of "hard" topics such as maths and computer science.Keith Ramsdale, Electronic Arts' vice president for Northern Europe, said "the UK punches above its weight in Europe", but we needed action on taxes and skills to keep the UK attractive as a place for development. He pointed out that the movie industry had a unified voice in the government-backed UK Film Council, which also got lottery funding. Again, there wasn't a level playing field.Ramsdale said that, on an optimistic prediction, the online games business could be close to the packaged games business in revenues this year, and that broadband speeds were important. "Getting 2Mbps by 2012 is not quite ambitious enough," he said. "The broadband pipe needs to be a whole lot thicker and faster."Vaizey, who quipped that "every MP needs a Wii", said the focus of the next government would be reducing the deficit – "if we're lucky enough to be elected" – so tax breaks would not be easy to introduce. He also wondered if the UK Film Council could "extend its remit" to include games, though "to be frank with you, I don't know whether that would work".A member of the audience pointed out that it had taken years to get games ratings out of the hands of a film body (the BBFC) that "doesn't understand games at all". Livingstone replied that in terms of moving images they were similar, so "it has to be looked at, even if it doesn't work out."You could, of course, say the same about the rest of the debate. Everybody recognises that the UK games industry is not doing as well as it could be, and isn't the publishing powerhouse it used to be; that the universities are not producing enough computer scientists; that slow broadband could limit the development of online gaming.The government will recognise that all these things have to be looked at, but there seems to be relatively little chance of them coming up with something that works out.
Last spring Gordon Brown was at Chequers, hosting a dinner for recipients of the Order of Merit – which, as it happened, that year included Sir Tim Berners-Lee, best known as the inventor of the world wide web.Berners-Lee had already decided that 2009 should be the year in which he got more involved in how governments deployed data. Though based in Massachusetts, he travels frequently – including visits to Britain. And that March he had given a talk at the TED conference, which gathers influential thinkers and visionaries, in which he made the case for better public data provision and led the audience in a chant of "raw data now".Brown, seeking a technological initiative and seeing just the sort of person who might know what it should be, said to Berners-Lee: "What's the most important technology right now? How should the UK make the best use of the internet?"To which the invigorated Berners-Lee replied: "Just put all the government's data on it."To his surprise, Brown simply said "OK, let's do it."Berners-Lee now says: "I was so much more used to hearing 'no' from government that it was a big shock."His hope was that putting that data online could make the public more aware of how government is using their money – and where disparities are, and how services could be improved. He says that the motive is twofold: that the data belongs to the public anyway, because government is owned by the public; and that it enables companies and individuals to operate more effectively because they are better able to find out about their surroundings.Within weeks Brown wasannouncing in Parliamentthat Berners-Lee and Nigel Shadbolt, the professor of computer science at Southampton University, who is a specialist in linked data, would be working as "information advisers" to the Cabinet Office to "help us drive the opening up of access to Government data in the web over the coming months".Though there were plenty of enthusiasts within government for making data open – particularly inside the Office of Public Sector Information, where the chief, Carol Tullo, and head of e-services and strategy, John Sheridan, had  been trying to get departments to relax their approach to publishing non-personal data for years. The problem was to drive a change of approach from the top of government downward.Richard Allan, the former chair of the Power of Information taskforce, describes the resistance within government as coming because "people worry about what might go wrong – because the data they've been publishing before has been personal data, by mistake. You had to persuade them this would be OK."A key moment for Berners-Lee and Shadbolt was the creation of the cycling accident map, which followed within hours from the publication on the direct.gov website of cycling accident statistics. Those were rapidly turned into a generic format which could then be placed on a Google Map – and then showed people how to derive a cycle route that would avoid the most dangerous spots.Berners-Lee and Shadbolt made a presentation to the Cabinet in the summer demonstrating this, which they say was key in winning politicians' approval for their project.Soon afterwards they visited the White House, where they saw a model for the way to bring those datasets to the British public, and particularly to British developers. The US government's data.gov site, which aimed to make US government data sets available for free, had a simple URL – data.gov – and a clear aim: becoming a central point for the distribution of UK government datasets.That was quickly followed by the drawing together of a group of eager outside developers who began to work with the data that was there to demonstrate what they might like to do with it. A "hack day" at the Guardian's offices in October 2009produced a "postcode paper"that drew together all the local information about a particular postcode as an illustration of how powerful data could be, though the paper itself pointed out that the principal barriers to anyone being able to use it were the cost of postcode data, and the licensing costs for Ordnance Survey maps.Berners-Lee and Shadbolt were however already well into a round of lobbying to make OS data free – a substantial challenge, because OS, operating as a "trading fund" which makes a profit from licensing its map data, has in the past successfully defended its revenue sources despite complaints from other government departments about the restrictive terms of its licences. Making OS data free would mean persuading the Treasury to fund any shortfall in revenues.Berners-Lee sees the case for making mapping data free as unanswerable. "There's been a study which showed that making OS data free would bring wide economic benefits. But that's quite hard for them just to go ahead and do. But you can argue that the data for the really fine-scale maps, the sort you need if you're an architect planning a new building, OK, you can charge for that. But the maps showing larger areas – a sense of place is important, it tells you so much."A key date was 8 September, when Berners-Lee and Vanessa Lawrence, the chief executive of OS, met Stephen Timms, the minister for Digital Britain at his office, then in the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills, to discuss "Making Public Data Public". The title of the meeting alone communicated that Berners-Lee had won the argument. When Timms moved to become chief secretary of the Treasury – while retaining the title of minister for Digital Britain – the battle was almost over."We heard a lot of cases of why they shouldn't release data in the past six months," said Shadbolt. "They say 'But they'll interpret it in different ways.' And we say 'Yes...?' " With the launch of the developer-only preview of data.gov.uk, more and more departments began to see that there was no danger in making their data available for reuse.Finally, in November, Gordon Brown announced thatOS "mid-scale" data would be freefor all sorts of reuse – including commercial use, which would break the terms of current OS licences. Although there is a consultation now under way over the plan, sources inside government are confident that the "OS Free" will be implemented – "it was announced by the Prime Minister, after all". Still, the consultation will have to look at the longer-term future of the OS's revenue model.With the data.gov.uk website launched, and acting as an index to the growing number of datasets that are being released, Berners-Lee and Shadbolt are already looking forward to their next challenge. Their initial one-year contract (without remuneration, but with expenses) for the Cabinet Office expires in June. Then they will move on to try to do the same with local government data. That may be a bigger challenge, says Shadbolt – because although there are a few dozen government departments, there are hundreds of local authorities, with varying expertise in freeing data.
Peter FraenkelPeter Fraenkel, who has died aged 94, was a civil engineer at the heart of a movement of British consulting engineers responsible for infrastructure all over the rapidly developing post-colonial world of the 1970s and 80s. He built up a 160-strong practice that produced innovative, heavy engineering solutions to such problems as how to support the world's then longest cable-stayed bridge in Thailand and how to build the biggest road projects at that time through the challenging topography of Hong Kong.In the UK, he quickly made a name for&nbsp;himself by carrying out research that led to the regeneration of Britain's stricken canal network. Fraenkel was asked to put together teams to walk along some of the country's 3,100km of canals to research the feasibility of bringing them back into commercial use. Many had fallen into dereliction and only through the efforts of enthusiasts had the occasional pumping house or lock been restored. The Fraenkel report (1975) argued persuasively that there was a case for restoring much of the network, aided by&nbsp;central government funding.This report, for the Department of the Environment, was a catalyst for some early projects, such as the restoration of&nbsp;39 locks on the Kennet and Avon canal and the restoration of the Avoncliff aqueduct, which Peter Fraenkel and Partners (PFP) carried out. By the turn of the millennium, he was able to look back with pride at his role in the UK-wide regeneration of the 18th- and 19th-century waterways.Fraenkel was born in Breslau, Germany, now Wroclaw in Poland. His German parents – his father was Jewish, though Peter was brought up as a Lutheran – horrified at the rise of nazism, sent Peter to London aged 16. He rapidly learned English and won a place to study civil engineering at Imperial College.When the second world war broke out, Fraenkel was assigned to the Ministry of Works to supervise the building of brigade camps needed for soldier training. After the war he joined the consulting engineers Rendel Palmer and Tritton, specialising in heavy marine engineering projects. His most notable job was the Port Talbot harbour in south Wales. The presentation of this project at the Institution of Civil Engineers led to his being awarded the Telford medal, the most prestigious in its field.He took the bold step of setting up his own consultancy in 1972. It grew rapidly, winning projects all over the world, and received the Queen's award for enterprise in 1982. Projects in the UK included the loading jetties at the Sullom Voe oil terminal in Shetland, completed in 1978, and the floodgates to protect the entrances to the Royal docks and Tilbury docks, east of London, which were threatened by the rise in the water level after the completion of the Thames barrier in 1982.Overseas, Fraenkel opened an office in Nigeria in 1976 and worked on 600km of highways, including the 200km highway from Biu to Maiduguri, in the north of the country, which required clever solutions to ensure that the road and bridge structures resisted flash flooding in the rainy reason from the Ngadda river. He opened another short-lived office in Cameroon and lost a lot of&nbsp;money due to the misappropriation of funds. Chastened, but with important lessons learned, Fraenkel moved into the next decade by&nbsp;turning his attention to the far east and south-east Asia.Notable projects included a dockyard built in a mangrove swamp for the Thai navy at Pom Prachul, near Bangkok, in&nbsp;1980; the Rama IX bridge in Bangkok, which – when it was completed in 1987 – was the longest cable-stayed bridge in&nbsp;the world, with a main span of&nbsp;450m; and a highway in Malaysia from Sandakan to Kinatanga, which aided economic development in the east of the country. In Hong Kong, PFP designed the Tolo highway (1985), built along land reclaimed from the sea from Shatin to Tai Po in the New Territories. Another Hong Kong triumph in the mid-1980s was the enlargement and realignment of&nbsp;the congested King's Road.By the late 1980s, however, work overseas began to dry up, as foreign consultants from the US and elsewhere challenged the market-leading UK engineering consultants. Project funders, such as the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank, had also begun to redeploy their support for developing economies away from infrastructure and into improving governance. Fraenkel kept the firm afloat by breaking into the UK highways sector, where there was a boom in bypass building.After winning the Bicester southern bypass, he opened an office in Leicester and undertook many other highways schemes in the east Midlands. When the&nbsp;UK's road-building programme came&nbsp;to a halt in the mid-1990s, Fraenkel, by then an octogenarian, refocused the firm back into the heavy marine engineering that had made its name. He&nbsp;remained involved in the firm into his 90s, and was remembered by colleagues as a shrewd operator.He is survived by his wife of 62 years, Barbara, and by two daughters, Laura and Sarah.•Peter Fraenkel, civil engineer, born 5 July 1915; died 18 November 2009
Monopoly – the game – has had a long and complicated pedigree. It first gained traction in the 1930s, partially stimulated by a need to escape from the economic woes of the depression.If it has an equivalent today it is Farmville, available on the social website Facebook, which claims an astonishing 74 million regular users. It is the most successful of a number of similar games on Facebook which are themselves part of a wider boom in gaming during the recession.Farmville is like a real farm. If you don't crop your harvest in time or feed your cartoony animals regularly then you face disaster. Like Monopoly it is power-driven to the extent that everyone wants to beat competitors and have the biggest farm. Like Monopoly its success has been generated by its users.Parker Brothers, who later acquired the rights, famously turned Monopoly down in 1934 as "too complicated, too technical … took too long to play". They listed "52 fundamental playing errors", and it was only later when they became of aware of huge demand spontaneously generated by the public – which the small company which then marketed it couldn't cope with – that they changed their minds and bought the company and earlier patents.Gaming would probably be on a roll anyway but during a recession there is an added impetus to play video games you already own more intensively rather than spend money on entertainment or to savour some of the burgeoning free games on offer. The boom is difficult to quantify partly because aggregated statistics for all forms of gaming are difficult to find but also because so much of it is free.We are experiencing an explosion of games based on the "freemium" model whereby publishers give it away in the hope that at least 5% of players will trade up to a paid model or else trigger advertising revenue.The boom is being experienced everywhere except on the bottom line. Widespread redundancies among traditional publishers and developers are coinciding with a surge in demand in other sectors.The casual gaming site miniclip.com of Hatton Garden, London, was at one stage claiming 50 million unique users a month, while Getjar.com, another UK-based indie company, claims to be the biggest app downloader after Apple. Playfish.com, another big casual gaming site, was bought for $275m in November by the games giant Electronic Arts, which has experienced a sharp drop in profits. And Activision's Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 made $1bn in its first couple of months, which is a result comparable to the unprecedented success of the 3D blockbuster film Avatar.What seems to be happening, despite the huge success of some titles, is a switch from expensive video-based games to cheaper-to-produce ones residing on mobile phones, online, or on social networks – which is where all the eyeballs are anyway. It is reckoned that more than half of iPhone users are playing games. Morgan Securities says demand for online gaming will double annually for a few years, to $800m this year and $1.6bn next.It has been presumed that the centre of gravity for gaming will switch to Apple's app store (which this month added a version of Grand Theft Auto to its growing games portfolio) but now the outlook is not so sure.The success of Facebook has raised the prospect that social networks could be the place people go to for games. The iPhone, for all its undoubted success is still a minority sport. The mobile guru Tomi Ahonen reminds us that "only 0.7% – yes less than 1% – of all who have a mobile phone on the planet, have an iPhone", and in any case apps only work on smartphones which so far only account for about 14% of the installed base of mobile phones (but, of course, are growing fast).Developers are finding it increasingly difficult to make any noise among the avalanche of apps in the iPhone store, let alone any money. Apple's disclosure that total downloads have exceeded 3bn is an amazing success story, though not as big as it looks once you have allowed for the fact that most downloads are free and the figures also include downloads of updates.Games embracing Google's Android operating system – based, unlike iPhone apps, on open source – could offer serious competition to Apple; as could Nokia, which is still the biggest mobile phone manufacturer in the world by a distance.Companies faced with investing millions in new video games or much smaller sums in the mobile market – towards which everything, including social networks, are migrating – may well take the cheaper option. Either way, a lot of companies are likely to go under before the wheat is separated from the chaff. In this market, the consumer is still king.
The UK has become a world showcase for open government data, with the launch today  of a government website hosting 2,500 public data sets – more than the best-known rival, data.gov in the US.The official launch by Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the world wide web, and Nigel Shadbolt, professor of computer science at Southampton University, comes just under a year after Berners-Lee met prime minister Gordon Brown, who was hosting a dinner for recipients of the Order of Merit."Gordon Brown said to me, 'How should the UK make the best use of the internet?' and I replied that the government should just put all of its data on it," Berners-Lee recalled. "And he said 'OK, let's do it'."Making data free has multiple benefits, Berners-Lee said: the public has in effect already paid for it through taxes; people can find patterns in the data that might not otherwise be obvious; and there is huge potential for new businesses, which would bring in tax revenues.Among the data released today are football banning orders by club, air quality data for the UK, the number of visits to museums, the house price index, and bus punctuality statistics. At the launch there were demonstrations including the immediate generation of a poster showing bus timetables.The release marks a significant victory for the Free Our Data campaign run by Guardian Technoogy since March 2006, which called for non-personal government-owned data to be opened up for free re-use, including commercial exploitation.The drive injected by Berners-Lee and Shadbolt – together with their high-profile hiring by Brown – has galvanised the process of opening up data. One government source at the launch of data.gov.uk told the Guardian: "Departments are queueing up to release data sets. It's completely different from a few years ago."After their appointment in June 2009, Berners-Lee and Shadbolt made a number of presentations within government – including a crucial one to the cabinet pointing to a mashup using Department for Transport data about cycling deaths, which had evolved from the raw data in a posting on the direct.gov websiteto a map-based illustrationin just 48 hours.That gained the attention of ministers – and Berners-Lee and Shadbolt then worked to persuade departments to make their non-personal data available. That has led to a dramatic change in attitude within government.Berners-Lee told the Guardian that there had already been strong grassroots support within government for making government data available, and that with the efforts by himself and Shadbolt "we met in the middle".Stephen Timms, the minister for Digital Britain, hailed the launch of data.gov.uk. "Government has a unique role in the data economy – we gather a unique range of data: whether a company exists, is solvent, whether its products are safe for customers, whether the house you're about to buy is prone to flooding, is safe, what bus services there are nearby, even what fish there are in the English channel."Timms added that "release of data is a cornerstone of how to strengthen the role of citizens and government, and recast the relationship between the two".But the government could also see benefits in reducing costs and improving efficiency through opening data, said Timms. "It will be a big period of fiscal consolidation ahead … and we think this exercise is going to help us."Berners-Lee said the launch had attracted worldwide attention: "The interesting thing is that a lot of developers are looking to the UK because there's a feeling that the UK is showing the way to do it."Departments also lobbied for restrictions on the reuse of Ordnance Survey mapping data to be lifted so that they could apply data more freely. Gordon Brown announced in December that OS "mid-scale" mapping products, equivalent to Explorer-scale and Landranger-scale paper maps, will be available for free from April.Shadbolt said the underpinning principle was simple. "We believe that the government should establish the principle that all the public services should publish in reusable form all the objective factual non-personal data on which the public services run and are assessed and on which public decisions are based, or which is collected or generated in the course of public service delivery."The principle almost precisely mirrors that of Guardian Technology's Free Our Data campaign.Shadbolt and Berners-Lee will next work with local authorities to help them perform the same process on their datasets – a process that they aim to begin from June, when their current one-year contract as information advisers with the Cabinet Office ends.
Block 1Why the launch is importantSir Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the world wide web, launcheddata.gov.uk, a new British government website offering free access to a huge amount of public-sector data for private or commercial reuse.While taking a page from theUS with the launch of its own public data hub, the UK data portal offersalmost three times the number of data sets available on the US site.Berners-Lee laid out the thinking behind the site in a "manifesto" published on the Guardian:Data underpins our economy and our society - data about how much is being spent and where, data about how schools, hospitals and police are performing, data about where things are and data about the weather.Yet until recently not many non-technical people concerned themselves with data and how it could be used better.Data.gov.uk had abeta launch for developers last October, and Berners-Lee said that the official launch was a beginning, not an end goal.we hope it never is: there will always be scope to add more data as it is collected and to give more help to those using it to make economically or socially valuable applications.MP Stephen Timms, minister for Digital Britain, kicked off the launch.Data.gov.uk launched with more than 2,500 data sets, and he gave a sense of the range of data available:Whether a company exists or is solvent, we have data on that topic. If you need to know whether the house that you are about to buy is prone to flooding, we have data on that. I am told that we have how many fish there are in the English Channel.As the Prime Minister Brown pointed out in a liberty speech in 2007, data does not belong to government but public, Tims said.The developer preview of data.gov.uk launched and worked with 2000 developers and to find out how it could be more useful.Timms praised the leadership of Berners-Lee and Shadbolt, and he also praised the involvement of the developer community. The features reflects feedback from the 2000 developers involved in the preview, and the site continues to have features so that developers can continue to contribute their ideas. The site would help showcase British developer talent.He reiterated pre-launch comments from Berners-Lee and Shadbolt who said that this was not the end of the process. He said:We have agreed to an open licence for free reuse of the data. We have agreed to release data, weather, transport and public finance. We have started public consultation to open up data at Ordnance Survey.Timms said that this was part of strengthening the relationship between citizens and civic society, and he said that data.gov.uk would help the government become more efficient as public finances were under pressure.In addition to showcasing British developer talent, he said the project would:• Open up government• Improve public services• Increase economic growth and social valueUnexpected green lightSocieties create lots of data, Berners-Lee said. Scientific data. Weather data. Social graph.One important bit of data is government data, collected by governments and paid for by tax payers. It's mostly under-utilised.Prime Minister Gordon Brown asked Berners-Lee how the UK should make best use of the internet. Berners-Lee said that the UK government should put all of its data online.Much to his surprise, the prime minister said: "Yeah, let's do it."I don't normally get such a direct response, Berners-Lee said.Block 23.30pm:Berners-Lee said: "Why data?"If you put data looking after something in Britain. they can compare things over time.They can run statistical analysis and see trends. People can put things on a map.Block 33.35pm:Berners-Lee said: "The people who generated this data should get credit, kudos and respect. We must track whose hard work it has been that has led to this."Block 43:35pm:Nigel Shadbolt then gave more detail about the project. Highlighting the use of data to byJohn Snow discover the source of cholera outbreak in 19th Century London, he said, "We history of improving public services by getting the facts out there."Block 53:37pm:Shadbolt said that the project did not just engage the developer community but pushed and prodded by them.Block 63:39pm:They also created URIs, uniform resource identifiers, across government so that data was more easily shared, Shadolt said.Block 73:40pm:Data.gov.uk was built using open-source technology by 10 people over six months.During the launch, theUK Director of Digital Engagement tweeted:#datagovuk built with #linux, #drupal, #mediawiki and other good stuff. (UK Gov OSS policy at http://bit.ly/639bw0)Block 83:41pm:The site also has a place to highlight some of the latest applications built using the data.Block 93:41pm:Shadbolt next talked about the licencing terms of the data. He stressed what a watershed the launch was in terms of licencing.The data might have been available before, but it was available as PDFs, which didn't allow easy reuse of the data, or was available under restrictive licences.I don't think that we should underestimate new Crown Copyright for Data consistent with Creative commons.Block 103:43pm:The government is still engaged in the public consultation on how to licence geographical data from the Ordnance Survey, data which Shadbolt described as the "crown jewel" of UK government data. He said:We have to get that data to the greatest number of people with the least amount of friction.Block 113:45pm:The site has already got rave reviews from sites such as Web 2.0 news site, ReadWriteWeb, which highlighted the fact thatdata.gov.uk had almost three times more data than data.gov in the US. Shadbolt said that he hoped competition amongst governments to release their data might set off "a race to the top".Block 123:47pm:In the hands of talented programmers, Shadbolt said that they could develop interesting applications with the data in just a few days.Developers with access to the preview access to the site have already built applications using the data, and Simon Rogers, editor of the Guardian'sDatablog,highlighted them earlier today.Block 134.15pm:To follow up on Simon's post highlighting some of the applications, here are a few of my favourites from the presentations:• An easy way tocompare house prices across the UK• Anewspaper with information based on a postcode• And theBillion-Pound-o-Gram, helping us understand some of the huge numbers we run across dailyespecially in terms of government finance.Block 144.25pm:Here are the Guardian, we launched agovernment data gateway, bringing together not only data from the new site here in the UK, but also making it easy to find data from New Zealand, Australia and the United States.Block 154.28pm:The event ended with a panel session called the Power of Apps. After the iPhone, everyone seems to be obsessed with apps, but this was about data-driven apps.Mike Bracken, the Guardian's technology director, gave this slightly humorous introduction of Berners-Lee:He's an Oxford graduate, who went on to create the world wide webNot too many people have that on their CV.Block 164.31pm:Bracken started off by asking, "Where do we go now?""This is very much the beginning. Hopefully, this is the tip of the iceberg," Berners-Lee said. "There is a whole lot more to do."First you do the easy bits, but after they finish those, they will probably run into government departments that are more resistant to releasing the data."The most important thing is to get this used," he said.Block 174.33pm:What next? Shadbolt said that we have to maintain momentum.Government has an "imprecise" understanding of how much non-personal data it has, which is a nice way of saying that it doesn't have records of all of the data that it has.Block 184.34pm:Shadbolt said a big challenge would be finding "the join points" where the data sets are connected, and they want to focus on local government data as well."Now that the baby has been born, we don't want to let it die of neglect," he said.There are some interesting lessons that they learned in building the project.Block 194.35pm:Is structural change still needed in central government, Bracken asked.Richard Allan, the director of public policy at Facebook, said that the government needed the confidence to release data.Much of their experience with data was when CDs or laptops full of personal data go missing.When it comes to local government, we would challenge a "large local authority which shall remain nameless" on their copyright statement, they said that a junior web officer thought they needed one so they cut and pasted it from another website, Allan said.Block 204.38pm:There was a big focus on local data on the panel. Chris Taggart, of OpenlyLocal, said that our biggest connection was to our local community.People were interested where the money went in their area. People were concerned about why their roads hadn't been fixed and who was the biggest developer in their area.Block 214.40pm:What new services do you expect to see? Bracken asked. What new enterprises will start?Shadbolt said that was a tough call with many answers. "Where will it get monetised? What will be the business model?""It's a very embryonic landscape," he said, but past experience with services such as geo-spatial say that there is a lot of money to be made.Block 224.42pm:Bracken put the same question to Allan.Right now, Allan said that most of the applications that are making money are social, and he pointed to the recent acquisition of social games makerPlayfish, which sold to games giant EA for hundreds of millions of dollars.However, government data apps might have a much smaller market, but he still saw opportunities.Block 234.44pm:What about privacy?"We define our privacy as a common and reasonable expectation of privacy," Shadbolt said. You can't as a society say as information cannot be used in these ways. Social conventions will evolve.It wasn't a statement that privacy doesn't matter, but rather that it was an evolving, ongoing debate fed in part by changing norms.Block 244.46pm:Taggart said that it was too early to talk about business models. Things are moving too fast.Open data is an enabling technology, and we don't know what will be built on this technology.With the launch of OpenlyLocal, he wanted to "correct the asymmetries in access to data". Much of this data was available previously, but it was only available at a cost.Opening up data more publicly allows a wider range of people to have access to that information, not just people with more power and more open.He didn't know what would happen in terms of business, but hopefully, he said, open data would make the world a bit fairer.Block 254.49pm:There was a question from a ZDNet journalist about privacy and licencing.Allan said that, in terms of privacy, there is a difference between something you do and something that is done to you. The government is tied in to only releasing data that is non-personal.However, there is another side. People are sharing personal data because they perceive value in doing so. That's different than government doing things on data that it holds.It leads to caution (possibly over-caution, was the implication) on the government side in terms of releasing data.Block 264.51pm:4.51pm:Shadbolt said that in terms of privacy, this is really about what we decide as a society is acceptable behaviour.This isn't about the technology but rather about a public debate.In terms of licencing, they worked with alternative copyright organisation,Creative Commons, to develop an open licence.Before this, there wasn't a UK-wide Creative Commons licence but rather one for England, Scotland and Wales, and they had to work with Creative Commons to develop a UK-wide licence.Block 274.53pm:There was a question about mobile being the platform of the future and whether this would cause problems in terms of building apps because of fragmentation in the mobile market.Berners-Lee said that web standards existed and were being ported to mobile phones.Things have changed greatly in the past few years in terms of the web experience that people expect. In the bad old (well, sadly recent) days, mobile web browsers didn't follow standards, making it difficult to easily port desktop apps to mobile phones. That was changing.Block 284.56pm:How time consuming will it be to create linked data?Berners-Lee said:That's a really interesting question that takes us back to the creation of language and the Tower of Babel.Block 294.57pm:Berners-Lee said there are some elements of language such as degrees Celsius, but there are other things like data, where you pull up a table and are recognised internationally and some only recognised locally.Using potholes as an example, which lack an international data standard unlike temperature, it might become valuable enough for people who want their potholes fixed to create a data standard if it helped them get fixed faster.The point being that people standardise when there is an incentive to do so.Block 305.00pm:Someone from City University said that he had poster on his wall saying: "It's the postcodes stupid!" On one day, Gordon Brown says that we'll release the postcodes, but the next day, someone from the Royal Mail, says that no one will release the postcode data.Shadbolt said that one problem were issues with the postcode system itself. There are also issues of franchising in terms of postcodes.The Guardian building itself is not findable by its postcode using mapping software, Allan said. (The building is a year old, but common online maps or SatNav systems don't have the postcode for Kings Place in their database.)Block 315.03pm:Greg Hadfield, of the Telegraph until last week now of CogApps, asked how do we improve data literacy because right now people rely on politicians, civil servants and others to interpret.Taggart said with data you can badly analyse it or twist it, but with open data, at least you have the opportunity to interrogate yourself and say that you got it wrong.Block 325.06pm:In terms of data literacy, Berners-Lee said that the UK had a high degree of map literacy because Ordnance Survey maps are taught as part of the curriculum. Likewise, it may be that countries with more data will become more data literate.Block 335.08pm:Shadbolt said, "Tim and I have heard a lot of excuses for not releasing data in the past few months such as: 'But, they will be able to interpret it in different ways'".There were lots of noises of approval from the room.Block 345.09pm:Tony Hirst of Open University (and the author of the wonderfulOUseful blogon data and data mashup tools) asked what education were needed in terms of local government.Allan admitted that this was not at the top of the agenda for local government, especially with shrinking budgets. Standard processes needed to be adopted."The more you make it 'noddy' the easier it will be," Allan said.Berners-Lee said the next phase is very much about spreading the word. He suggested workshops where people would share what software they used and how they built their apps. "A community can help teach itself," he said.There is a wiki for each database where people can ask questions about projects they want to do.Block 355.12pm:There was a question about the possible release of time-sensitive data."The timetabling data is one of those causes to get agitated about," Shadbolt said.Berners-Lee said that in the US you couldn't just take cable television schedule data and put it on any site. It's private and viewed as valuable in the US. In the UK, television scheduling data is not private.He hoped to create an atmosphere of "competitive disclosure", where groups (and not just government groups) saw it as competitively advantageous to release data.Block 365.18pm:Speaking of competitive advantage, Allan highlighted a possibility for developers. A government data app that works well in the UK might work well in the US or Australia, and British developers might be able to sell the apps they built for data.gov.uk to use in other markets, including the large US market.Block 375.20pm:One last point, data.gov.uk is not one large database, Shadbolt said. It's a hub linking together government data. It's a decentralised model, not one huge database.Shadbolt mentioned this several times, probably to head off misconceptions that the data.gov.uk was a one, huge, Orwellian database chock full of data on British citizens. Just in case you're confused. It's not that.Block 385.24pm:The point of data.gov.uk was to shift the default in UK to publishing data if it is collected, Shadbolt said."It's shifting the default from 'why?' to 'why not?'", he said.In Australia, they have added their open data strategy into their freedom of information policy, Allan said. One way to cut down on FOI requests was simply to publish the data in the first place, he added.Block 395.29pm:What's the time line for all of this work?Berners-Lee said, "I'm not inclined to guess. I'm more inclined to declare that this time next year more than 50% of this will be on the web."Shadbolt laughed uncomfortably and turned a bit red. He added, "Tim and I are appointed until June."There are different milestones in the project, Shadbolt added. He talked about league tables to compare different branches of government.It sounded like the kind of competition in data release that Berners-Lee suggested.
When The Jackson 5 sang "A-B-C, it's easy as 1-2-3, as simple as do-re-mi," it is unlikely they were lamenting the lack of effort by future generations when choosing internet passwords.However, the song's lyrics would form a sage 21st-century warning, with a startling number of web users apparently using woefully inadequate passwords such as the song title.Asecurity breach of RockYou.com in December– a website which offers applications that can be used on Facebook and MySpace – saw hackers access the usernames, passwords and email addresses of around 32m users.The passwords, without the usernames and email addresses, were then posted on the web, allowing data security firmImperva, to explore common trends.The analysis revealed a large amount of users had chosen "easy-to-crack" passwords, the most common being "123456", which was chosen by 290,731 users, or almost 1%."It is simple to remember, and in a row on the keyboard," said Amichai Shulman, Imperva's chief technology officer. "Like 'qwerty', but easier."Indeed; qwerty is one of the more common passwords, the 20th most popular, according to the data.Number sequences make up six of the top 20 passwords, while "Password" itself, remains a favourite, at 4th on the list."iloveyou" was the 5th most common, followed by "princess" in 6th place.Curiously, "Nicole" was the 11th most commonly chosen code, followed by "Daniel" in 12th. Shulman said this could be due to the popularity of both names during the mid to late 80s; there could potentially be a large number of users in their early 20s either called Nicole or Daniel, or with friends with those names.According to the new search engineWolframAlpha, themost common age for a Nicolein the US is 25,the same age as Daniel. Other names appearing in the top 20 passwords include Jessica and Michael.Around one-third of users chose passwords of six characters or less, while Imperva said the most common had changed "very little" since a password security study in 1990.Shulman said passwords should have a combination of numbers and lowercase and uppercase letters to be secure. He added that users should consider using longer 'pass phrases' – to protect their identity online."A pass phrase compiling 50 characters gives you more room for creativity while not compromising the safety," he said. "Choose something your dad used to tell you or a sentence from a book you like."He said most people would struggle to remember a different password for every internet service they use, "but should keep at least a couple"."One for more sensitive accounts and another for social networking sites and places that are less critical."The most commonly used passwords1      1234562      123453      1234567894      Password5      iloveyou6      princess7      rockyou8      12345679      1234567810  abc123* Taken from a sample of 32m passwords used on rockyou.com
Hillary Clinton will today promise funding to organisations promoting internet freedom and pledge to make unrestricted access a foreign policy priority, days afterGoogle's announcement that it is no longer willing to self-censor its Chinese service.The US secretary of state sees internet access as key to America's promotion of democracy abroad, her innovation adviser Alec Ross told the Wall Street Journal.In an online discussion yesterday, he said her speech in Washington would lay out policy "to ensure that our centuries-long traditions are preserved in the 21st century".He said: "Internet freedom is not just about freedom of expression, but about what kind of world we live in. Is it about one knowledge [in common] or about access to information based on where you live?"Although Ross stressed the speech was not about China as such, but a broader exploration of internet freedom, it will inevitably be seen in the light of last week's statement by Google and the swift support it received from the US government.The internet giant said it reached its decision following a Chinese-originated cyber attack that targeted human rights activists' email accounts as well as intellectual property.The US will issue a formal request for China to respond to Google's claims, but Ross said: "The state department is not the foreign policy arm of Google."China's vice-foreign minister, He Yafei, told a press conference today: "The Google case should not be linked with relations between the two governments and countries; otherwise, it's an over-interpretation."Beijing has said that it "resolutely opposes" hacking and has itself suffered. On censorship, it has warned that Google, like other foreign companies, must comply with Chinese laws.Some are already questioning whether Clinton's speech will in reality go beyond a repackaging of existing policy."The importance of internet freedom ... was often articulated by the George W Bush administration – and $20m is already allocated for programs to help human rights and democracy activists evade censorship and maintain their privacy ... As part of this year's appropriations bill, Congress has pumped another $30m into these programs,"pointed out Daniel Calingaertof Freedom House – a US government-funded organisation promoting liberty and democracy internationally – in a piece for the website of Foreign Policy magazine.Some of those who have discussed the issue with officials hope the speech may also discuss how ethical standards for companies could be established.Sam duPont of Washington-based thinktank NDN, which has published papers by Ross, said officials were concerned about a growing global trend of internet control."I think increasingly we can see internet freedom and access to the internet as a basic right on a par with freedom of speech and assembly," he said."I think the state department is coming around to that view, and I think that's what we will hear."DuPont, a policy analyst for NDN's Global Mobile Technology Programme, added: "In the past year, the state department has broken a lot of new ground in integrating technology with everything they do, from diplomacy to economic development."Sophie Richardson, the Asia advocacy director for Human Rights Watch in New York, urged Clinton to take a "tough, unambiguous position on censorship in China," saying Google had made it easy for the administration."If the administration fails to seize that opportunity, it will be a gaffe on a par with Clinton's comments that human rights should not interfere with other issues [in relations with China]," she added.But Rebecca MacKinnon, a fellow with the Open Society Institute, who is currently writing a book on the internet and censorship said: "The wrong message ... would be something to the effect of: 'Never fear, netizens of China, America is here to free you!'"Ina blog posting, she called for an acknowledgement of the challenge which "all governments and most companies" face in deciding how to handle the net."Right now, the world's democracies are arguing fiercely within and sometimes amongst themselves about where the right balance point should be in the internet age," she said.
Passwords. Can we just say "try harder"? When RockYou.com, a social networking application and advertising site which stored passwords on behalf of sites such as Facebook, got hacked in December there were 32m passwords just sitting there waiting to be harvested. And analysed.Which security company Imperva has now done. Oh dear. Oh dear oh dear.The report identifies the most commonly used passwords:1.      1234562.      123453.      1234567894.      Password5.      iloveyou6.      princess7.      rockyou8.      12345679.      1234567810.  abc123The report can be downloaded athttp://www.imperva.com/ld/password_report.asp(registration not required).It's quite interesting to compare that list with thelist of Twitter banned passwords- the ones that you can't register an account with, because they're too easily guessed or hacked. Only "12345", "123456789" and "rockyou" don't appear on the Bad list.What does this show? Actually, it shows that we're all bloody sick of registering for sites. The most telling password there is number 7 - the site's name. There's a very good chance that for a huge number of people, the easiest way to remember their password at hotsocialnetworkthisweek.com is to use hotsocialnetworkthisweek. No muss, no fuss.Except, of course, when one of those sites gets hacked, and your email address and the password are sitting there. (You can argue that the passwords shouldn't be sitting there unencrypted - what site doesn't store passwords that have first been put through MD5 or crypt or something? - but perhaps Rockyou needed to communicate with sites which in turn required a cleartext password. Complicated, this web stuff.)The interesting aspect though is that we haven't gotten any better at passwords. As the report notes,"In 1990, a study of Unix password security revealed that password selection is strikingly similar to the 32 million breached passwords8. Just ten years ago, hacked Hotmail passwords showed little change9. This means that the users, if allowed to, will choose very weak passwords even for sites that hold their most private data."And that's not all:"Worse, as hackers continue to rapidly adopt smarter brute force password cracking software, consumers and companies will be at greater risk. To quantify the issue, the combination of poor passwords and automated attacks means that in just 110 attempts, a hacker will typically gain access to one new account on every second or a mere 17 minutes to break into 1000 accounts."Imperva's CTO Amichai Shulman notes that "Employees using the same passwords on Facebook that they use in the workplace bring the possibility of compromising enterprise systems with insecure passwords, especially if they are using easy to crack passwords like '123456'."Still, they'd never do that, would they? Just like they'd never use Internet Explorer 6 in critical systems.We've written extensively about passwords before, of course.Bruce Schneier:passwords aren't broken, but the way we choose them isBy me:Forgotten your password? Google can remember it for you.. unfortunatelyMichael Pollitt:You need a password for your passwordSo read Wendy Grossman's explanation ofhow to compose a good password.
Amazon is inviting developers to build iPhone-style apps on its Kindle ebook reader, in what is seen as a pre-emptive strike against the expected launch next week of an Apple tablet computer.Developers are promised the capacity to "build and upload active content that will be available in the Kindle Store later this year". The first developers will be allowed to join a test programme – a limited beta – from next month.TheKindle development kit pageis soliciting email addresses for applicants to join the beta programme. It offers the same 70% royalties available from Apple – minus "delivery fees" for using the Kindle's Whispernet wireless system, which gives Kindle owners in the US free access to shop for books and soon, presumably, apps.Early releases are said to include an active Zagat restaurant guide, word games and puzzles from Sonic Boom, and games from Electronic Arts.Amazon also looks to be following Apple by planning to filter apps through a set of guidelines, unlike Google's Android app platform which has no restrictions. It says that it will ban "voice over IP functionality, advertising, offensive materials, collection of customer information without express customer knowledge and consent, or usage of the Amazon or Kindle brand in any way", but adds that it will "refine" these guidelines during the beta.This is the second time in as many days that Amazon has improved its  Kindle offering, while Apple appears to be getting ready to move into Amazon's territory:there are widespread reports that it is negotiating with publishersto carry their content on its forthcoming tablet.Yesterday Amazondoubled the royalties available through its Digital Text Platform, which lets authors and small publishers upload books for sale on the Kindle, again to an Apple-style 70%-30% split. Books have to meet several conditions – including being priced less than $9.99, and at least 20% less than the physical version – to qualify for the higher royalty rate. Last Friday itopened Digital Text Platform to authors outside the US. It has also, without public fanfare,allowed books to be published on DTP without digital rights management, a source of some contention in the past.The requirements of the Whispernet system have so far limited the Kindle's international spread: since last October, you can buy a version that will work in the UK, butit comes from Amazon US, priced in dollars, and has book prices raised to compensate for higher wireless costs.Readers wanting to split the difference between Amazon and Apple can already buya Kindle app for the iPhone.
Nokia is taking the dramatic step of making its satellite navigation software free to current and future owners of its smartphones as the world's largest mobile phone manufacturer intensifies its fight against Apple's iPhone and handsets using Google's Android platform.The Finnish company, which makes roughly four out of every 10 phonessold worldwide, spent €6.5bn (£5.6bn) on map firm Navteq in 2007, butfrom today will let anyone with a recently introduced GPS-enabledNokia device – such as its X6 or 5800 - download its navigationservice and maps for free from its Ovi mobile application store.To date Nokia has sold more than 80m compatible handsets worldwide and users of older devices such as the N97 will be offered the chance ofdownloading the service over the next few weeks. Contrary to initialexpectations, Nokia is not, however, allowing users of one of itsearliest smartphones - the N95 - free access to its satnav service.Full satnav direction services – for both road users and pedestrians – will be available across 70 countries from today, with extensive maps available in more than 100 others.The move is likely to infuriate satnav companies such as Garmin and TomTom, which charge up to £100 for in-car satellite navigation systems and will see their market effectively undercut by Nokia. It will also threaten companies that currently charge for downloadable satnav mobile phone applications – such as US-based ALK Technologies, whose CoPilot UK product currently costs £26.99 for iPhone users.Nokia executive vice president Anssi Vanjoki denied that the decision to give its satnav service away for free is a defensive move against companies such as Google, which are increasingly encroaching on the company's turf."It is a very offensive move if you will," he said. "We are not talking one product for one country, we are talking map coverage in 183 countries, launching simultaneously globally in 76 countries with 46 languages and with millions of devices already out there, plus with all of our new products being equipped with this. So it does not sound too much like defence to me."But giving away sophisticated turn-by-turn car and pedestrian satnav direction services to entice customers to choose one of its smartphones over devices such as the iPhone and Google's Nexus One is symptomatic of Nokia's desperation to get back into the high-end mobile phone market.The company has seen its share of the lucrative smartphone market come under sustained attack. It was slow to create a viable touchscreen rival to the iPhone while bitter rival Rim has successfully moved its BlackBerry line of mobile devices from the boardroom to the classroom, enticing a new generation of younger users. There have also been successful touchscreen launches by Samsung, which has already overtaken Nokia in the UK market. After more than two years of development, Google's Android platform is starting to become a major force in the mobile market.Google recently unveiled its first own-branded Android device, the Nexus One, to rave reviews. The internet company already has an extensive maps business and offers turn-by-turn directions in the US.Outside North America it relies upon mapping data from Tele Atlas, owned by TomTom, and is not able to give full satnav services. But it is rumoured to be building up its own maps database outside the US with a view to launching turn-by-turn direction services at some point.Vanjoki also denied that the dramatic volte-face suggests that the company now thinks Navteq is worthless. "Quite the contrary," he said. "Right now, what is happening is we are unleashing all this power based on the Navteq acquisition which will help Nokia in three different ways: first of all this becomes a tremendous average sales price defender for our products because it will be completely unique – there is nothing similar available from anyone else; secondly this will be a demonstration of the capabilities and precision of the Navteq maps, so their business will be improved; and thirdly, there are all these developers that are developing applications based on the quality of the maps and then we can distribute those through Ovi store which is another business opportunity for us."Nokia is also making its maps available to any third party developer that wishes to build applications on top of them. These applications will be sold through the Ovi store and already Nokia is offering its customers free Lonely Planet and Michelin Guide information on its maps."It becomes a giant environment for mash-ups," Vanjoki said. "Where people can deliver new applications and immediately they will have a huge customer base available to them".Nokia's maps service also allows people to share their location with friends on Facebook, adding pictures and status updates. Its maps also include information about local attractions and events within walking distance of a user's location through a deal with San Francisco-based local information aggregator Wcities, which has data for over 350 cities worldwide.Nokia will still allow other satnav companies to use Navteq's data for their services. Navteq's maps, for instance, are used by Garmin.• This article was amended on 21 January 2010. The original said that the N95 handset was among those able to download the navigation service. This has been corrected.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.Favourite snippets from the last couple of days..."I just use god to kill all baddies."Cameroon takes up his own religous war. (suggested by Umboros)"A properly trimmed and prepared piece of pork will not have any hair coming out of it so this needs to be removed from the argument against crackling. It's your fault if you don't treat your meat properly."Bigworv gives his two cents to the epic debate that is…CracklingBlog (suggested by Office Pest)
Guybrush Threepwoodwas the first game character I ever loved. While Mario, the moustachioed plumber, and Link, the warrior in the Zelda series, were a little on the dull side, Guybrush – the wannabe pirate hero of the early 1990s Monkey Island games – ­possessed the quality that still charms me: humour.The Monkey Island series was witty. Instead of swordfighting, you had to win battles through banter. "You fight like a dairy farmer," says your opponent. "How appropriate. You fight like a cow," you respond. KAPOW! You win. How could one not love a man who wins fights with repartee? Twenty years on, Guybrush hasn't been forgotten: The Secret of Monkey Island hasbeen re-released as an iPhone appandTelltale Gameshas recently made a very worthy sequel.Truly funny games tend to occupy a special place in gamers' hearts. The darkly comic game Grim Fandango – whose hero is a travel agent for the dead – still has its ownfan sites. I ­suspect that the delight taken in Valve's games Team Fortress 2 and Portal is as much due to their ­amusing lines and scenarios as the ­undeniably interesting gameplay. Portal's "portal gun", which lets the player create mini-wormholes between any two spots, was innovative. But the standout ­moment is when, having been ­promised "moist delicious cake" for completing all the challenges, the player finds scrawled graffiti warning "The cake is a lie!" – a slogancelebrated on geek ­T-shirts everywhere.It can be hard to create great stories in games. Classically, plots have a sense of inevitability, while games need to give the player at least some choices or autonomy. It's not impossible to ­reconcile these two demands, but it is difficult. Good writing, however, isn't just about plot. As I learned from Guybrush Threepwood, a devastating way with one-liners can be all you need.
First Barack Obama dived in. Today sees Gordon Brown's turn to open up government information to the public with the launch of a new website: data.gov.ukBrown brought in the inventor of the world wide web, Tim Berners-Lee, last June as an adviser for the launch of data.gov.uk "so that government information is accessible and useful for the widest possible group of people".It follows the Obama administration's data.gov, launched in May to provide thousands of sets of data about the US to the public – the result of Obama's first legislative act as president. Since then Australia and New Zealand have followed suit with official data sites.In theory the information can be used to provide ultra-local information, even down to postcode level, for things such as crime, health indicators or educational attainment.The minister for digital Britain, Stephen Timms, said the launch would create new opportunities for businesses. "By allowing industry to use data creatively they can develop new services and generate economic value from it."This is the first step in that process. Put together on a shoestring budget, at the moment the site simply gives people a place to find public data. Users search for a subject, such as "crime" or "exam results" and the site comes back with the latest data for that topic.The project has involved some of the country's most prestigious software developers in competition, creating examples of what people would do with public-sector information, with a £20,000 prize fund. Among the winners were maps for local recycling, cycle paths, school catchment areas and postbox locations.Professor Nigel Shadbolt of Southampton University – brought in with Berners-Lee as a fellow adviser – says this is a big day for free information. "Today marks an important step forward in the work the prime minister asked us to lead – it gives data to the public and sets the groundwork for further progress."Over the next few weeks and months we will build on this by adding more functions. We are already working with departments, agencies and local authorities to release even more data all the time."Maurice Frankel, of the Campaign for Freedom of Information, said the government had much further to go. "The question is will it get the impetus to keep growing beyond data sets that are available anyway?"This month the London mayor, Boris Johnson, launched the London Datastore – a set of data collections about the capital – and cities such as Toronto, San Francisco and New York have done the same.Simon Rogers edits the Guardian's  Datablog at: guardian.co.uk/datablog
Based on the code used in the attacks against Google and other companies, security researchers have dubbed the malware Operation AuroraA US security researcher has provided more evidence that he says links the attacks against Google and other companies back to China.Joe Stewart, a researcher with Atlanta-based SecureWorks, analysed the code theHydraq Trojanalso known asOperation Aurora.On thecompany's blog, Stewart doesn't mince wordsabout what he referred to as "espionage-by-malware" originating from China:With the recently disclosed hacking incident inside Google and other major companies, much of the world has begun to wake up to what the infosec community has known for some time – there is a persistent campaign of "espionage-by-malware" emanating from the People's Republic of China (PRC). Corporate and state secrets both have been shanghaied over a period of five or more years, and the activity becomes bolder over time with little public acknowledgement or response from the U.S. government.However, he also explains how difficult it is to definitively link the attacks to hackers in China, much less the Chinese state. He writes, "outside of the fact that PRC IP addresses have been used as control servers in the attacks, there is no 'hard evidence' of involvement of the PRC or any agents thereof." Theattackers could have purchased hosting on those servers or compromisedthem as well. It is one reason why Verisign would not support thestatement of its subsidiary, iDefense, linking the attacks to the Chinese state or its proxies. It could be a false-flag attack designed to draw suspicion to China.Stewart looked for clues in the code. He discovered a CRC (cyclic redundancy check) algorithm that "seems to be virtually unknown outside of China". As he explains in the post: "CRCs are used to check for errors that might have been introduced into stored or transferred data". The CRC code is from China, released in a paper there on optimising such codes for microcontrollers. He has never seen this type of CRC code before, and when he did a Google search on key parts of the algorithm, it returned only Chinese results.UPDATE: Other analysts say that the code is not limited to China and is quite common in microcontrollers. Commenters on thisblog by a University of Oregon professorsay the code has been used on a calculator from Texas Instruments and firmware for MP3 players. Itweakens Stewart's case.Google stopped short of implicating the Chinese government, even when pressed, and this is but another piece of circumstantial evidence of the origin of the attack.However, pulling together this evidence, Stewart concludes:considering the scope, choice of targets and the overwhelming boldness of the attacks (in light of the harsh penalties we have seen handed out in communist China for other computer intrusion offenses), this creates speculation around whether the attacks could be state-sponsored.This still is not definitive proof, and other explanations exist, butStewart told the New York Times, "Occam's Razor suggests that the simplest explanation is probably the best one."
You've probablyseenthat Sony has delayed the launch of its motion control wand - now apparently called 'Arc' - until autumn. The unit was originally intended for a spring debut.The official explanation is reasonable: the company says it wants to ensure there is plenty of software available before the product comes to market. You'd think, however, that, considering games take at least 18 months to develop these days, Kaz Hirai and co. would have had a good idea about developer support when the spring date wasannouncedlast August and confirmed during the Tokyo Game Show at the end of September.It was at TGS that Sony revealed it had 13 first-party launch titles in development, including such projects as 'Sing and Draw' and 'Motion Party', as well as new version of EyePet, Pain and Flower. Here too, we discovered that compatibility will be added to LittleBigPlanet and that Capcom has Resident Evil 5: Alternative Edition on the way. Later, Little known Portuguese developer announced support within its forthcoming titleUnder Siege.More recently, there has been little detailed chat about possible Arc titles. Of course the likes of EA, Sega and Ubisoft have all said they have dev kits and are working on projects, but as with Natal, there's little real information. So yes, spring always looked a little ambitious.So now we have Arc going straight up against Natal - two quite different philosophies about the future of game control virtually head-to-head. And who's to say Nintendo won't just blow the whole thing wide open with Wii 2?
The UK government is to act over its use of Internet Explorer  after vulnerabilities in the browser were apparently exploited by Chinese hackers against Google.In a statement on Wednesday, the Cabinet Office - which has responsibility for the use and security of computers across central government - said: "Government departments have been issued an alert on how to deal with this particular incident and to mitigate against vulnerabilities in relation to particular versions of IE. "Google announced last week that its email systems and network had been penetrated bymalware apparently developed by Chinese hackers, who are widely suspected of acting for the government in China. A weakness in Microsoft's Internet Explorer browser was apparently exploited to give unauthorised access. Microsoftsubsequently saidthat the  flaw that gave the hackers access would almost certainly have been in Internet Explorer 6, which was first released in 2000, running on Windows XP, which was launched in 2001.Microsoft will on Thursdayrelease a patch for IEto protect against the vulnerability.However the UK government is a substantial user of IE6, with a number of departments and the armed forces using it. Earlier this week the Cabinet Office referred queries about how government departments were protected against malware to the Get Safe Online website, which it half funds.That advises that "All web browsers are at ongoing risk to vulnerabilities and as such Get Safe Online's recommended advice is always to use the most up-to-date version to ensure that you have the latest security features in place. However, if you have particular concerns about a specific browser, it's very simple for home users and small businesses to download an alternative and run it concurrently." But it was not clear whether government departments would upgrade, or move to different browsers. The latest statement does not suggest that alternative browsers are to be used.The French and German governments haveissued advisories in the past weeksuggesting that citizens use alternative browsers to IE, which is targeted by hackers because it is widely used - and people using old versions are also unlikely to be using effective security. Among the alternative browsers are Firefox, Google's Chrome, Apple's Safari, and Opera.The Cabinet Office added: "A government user, operating on government systems, such as the GSi (Government Secure Intranet), will benefit from additional security measures, unlikely to be available to the average home computer user.  These include tools which actively monitor for evidence of any malicious attacks."It is not clear whether those tools would be able to record malicious attacks using previously unknown malware - so-called "zero-day vulnerabilities", such as that used against Google.It is also unclear whether there is a clear government-wide timetable to update its installations of Internet Explorer from version 6.
In one of his excellent Guardian columns, comedian David Mitchellonce wrotein defense of pointless studies - those attention grabbing pseudo-scientific follies, usually funded by interested commercial parties. You know the sort of thing - eating chocolate makes you sexier, men who wear grean trousers live five years longer, etc."Pointless studies are meat and drink to columnists like me. Not the fillet steak and vintage claret of Gordon Brown audibly farting in the Commons or Jeremy Clarkson being attacked by a miniature poodle, but a Peperami and Fanta snack that keeps the wolf from the door in the leaner times."So I feel entirely justified in grouping three recent videogame-related examples together - just for a bit of fun while I'm watching the Villa vs Blackburn game...My favourite flopped into my inbox on Monday, under the title: Gaming Grounds for Breakups:"A nationwide study of over 1,800 people by the UK's leading discount voucher codes website has revealed that 1 in 10 people have ended relationships due to their partner's addiction to videogaming and the internet. 1 in 5 women admitted to leaving their husband or boyfriend due to their gaming habits.The top issue which brought about arguments was lack of interaction and the ignoring of their significant others, with 48% of people stating so. Lack of help with household duties also scored highly with 25%.A fifth of women, 18%, said they'd ended relationships with their partner because of their web or gaming habits, compared to just 6% of men who admitted to the same."This socially responsible survey goes on to list the top five games most commonly cited as the cause of relationship problems. Can you guess what they are?Here are the top 5 games titles to blame for arguments and breakups according to the study, by percentage of women who said the game had caused arguments between them and their partner in the past,Call of Duty – 63%Fifa 2010 – 54%Grand Theft Auto IV – 49%Assassins Creed – 34%Resident Evil – 22%I'm disappointed not to see Football Manager on there. Sports Interactive were always obscenely proud of the fact that Championship Manager was listed as a decisive factor at least two divorce cases. So, which games have threatenedyourrelationships?Elsewhere, Capcom has taken a poll of 1000 gamers to find out - are you ready for this? - 'the technologies most gamers had hoped would be available by 2010'. Apparently, this endeavour was undertaken to celebrate the release of the sci-fi adventure title,Dark Void. I didn't get the connection until I saw, what came second in the resulting list:1. Virtual sex2. Personal jet packs  (as worn in... Dark Void!)3. Time travel4. Laser pistols5. Artificial Intelligence computersCould the era of virtual sex have arrived, though, with Natal, Arc, and co? I'm not sure I want to think about it.Finally, a new survey from Adwatch lists the most irritating ads of 2009. And, hey, what's that at number nine? Here's the top ten,via Marketing Magazine:1. Gocompare.com2. Cash4Gold2. Glade Touch 'n' Fresh4. Swiftcover5. Confused.com6. 118 2477. Churchill7. Webuyanycar.com9. Nintendo9. Country LifeThe ads in question are,according to MCV,the Ant and Dec ones. But this should be looked upon as an achievement by Nintendo - how many game ads are actuallymemorableenough to irritate people?
Microsoft has provided "an advance notificationof one out-of-band security bulletin that Microsoft is intending to release on January 21, 2010". In brief, it's going to release a patch for the Internet Explorer vulnerability fingered in the Google/China incident.The vulnerability affects all versions of IE (ie IE6, IE7 and IE8) on all NT-based operating systems (Windows 2000, XP, Vista, Windows 7), so every Windows user who might be affected should install it. The original exploit only worked if people were running IE6 on Windows XP, but now the exploit code has been published, some malware writers will be adapting it for a wider target market.Incidentally, the "out-of-band" designation means it is being issued separately, not as part of Microsoft's monthly roll-up of patches, which are provided to make the process less disruptive for businesses, large corporations and so on. (No doubt all French and German government-owned Windows PCs will have this extremely important patch installed within minutes of its release.) However, Microsoft could also include patches that would otherwise have had to wait until February.
Who knew that the Chinese search market was this interesting? After Google's bombshell announcement last week that it might quit the country, now the top dog in Chinese search,Baidu, is suing its US domain registrarafter hackers redirected its traffic to a site hosted by the "Iranian Cyber Army".The suit accuses registrars Register.com of "gross negligence" in the incident that left Baidu users unable to access the site for about four hours.The suit states:Baidu's account was vandalized so that Internet traffic intended for Baidu and accessed through the 'baidu.com' domain name was misdirected to a web page depicting an Iranian flag and a broken Star of David. ... In addition, Baidu was locked out of its account - thus precluding the re-routing of traffic to Baidu's website.The group did not break into Baidu's systems to deface its homepage, a popular exploit earlier in this decade against unpatched web servers. Instead, the Iranian Cyber Army simply changed the routing information, the DNS details, to redirect traffic to a site it hosted. The same group used the same exploit againstpopular micro-blogging service Twitterlast December.In that attack, someone using"set of valid Twitter credentials" accessed the company's account at their DNS providerand changed the routing information, according to Tom Daly, chief technology officer atDyn, a New Hampshire-based DNS company.It's entirely possible that the Iranian Cyber Army didn't use any sophisticated technical hack but simply engaged in a little social engineering to gain the account details. A little bit ofphishingas is common to part the credulous from their banking details might have done the trick. If they did the same thing in the redirection of traffic from Baidu, the "gross negligence" might not at Register.com but rather by one of Baidu's own employees.UPDATE: Register.com has released this statement about the suit:The lawsuit filed by Baidu.com is completely without merit.  Register.com takes cyber-terrorism very seriously and we are working closely with federal law enforcement officials who are investigating this crime as well as the recent similar attacks on Twitter and Google.  Register.com continuously works to enhance its security processes and to safeguard customers from these increasingly sophisticated attacks.
Amazon has announced plansto offer a much bigger royalty on ebooks, in a move that could also be intended to fend off competition from Apple.From 30 June, US-based authors and publishers will have the option to choose a 70% royalty of the list price, after subtracting delivery costs of 15 cents per megabyte (about 6 cents per book). Amazon says: "on an $8.99 book an author would make $3.15 with the standard option, and $6.25 with the new 70% option."There are, of course, restrictions. The new deal only applies to books that cost from $2.99 to $9.99; the list price must be at least 20% below the book price; the title must be offered in all countries where the author or publisher has rights; and "the title will be included in a broad set of features in the Kindle Store, such as text-to-speech".Finally, Amazon says the books "must be offered at or below price parity with competition". This will prevent authors and publishers who take the deal from undercutting Amazon if they do similar deals with Apple.Apple has established the 70/30 split through the success of its iPhone App Store. There have been rumours to the effect that Apple has been talking to authors and publishers about providing content for its forthcoming iTablet/iSlate/iPad, such as books and newspapers, and it is assumed these would also involve a 70/30 split.Amazon risks losing a chunk of its ebook business to Apple if Apple offers both a better e-reader than the Kindle and more attractive content deals. But any prospect of that should be clearer in another week.
Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the world wide web, is expected to lead the formal launch tomorrow ofdata.gov.uk, a new British government website offering free access to a huge amount of public-sector data for private or commercial reuse.The aim is to encourage British web developers and companies to create websites and information feeds that combine the data with other information such as time, maps or other datasets – and potentially to discover hidden patterns that may not be obvious from the raw information.The beta version of the site was announcedwith a blogpost by the Cabinet Office's director of digital engagementlast September, which sought web developers "to work with us to use the data to create great applications".The government has previously sponsored a competition,Show Us A Better Wayasking for examples of what people would do with public sector information and with a £20,000 prize fund. Among the winners were maps for local recycling, cycle paths, school catchment areas and postbox locations.People who have seen early versions of data.gov.uksay that it contains tools that make it "much easier for [government] departments to produce structured, linked data". Harry Metcalfe, an independent developer who has developed and worked on a number of sites that use government data to produce public information, commented that "this is such an encouraging thing to see. No expensive procurement exercises for clunky, bespoke sites: instead we have the right tools for the job, joined together … this is how government IT should work."The US government already has a similar site, data.gov, set up by the incoming Obama administration last year and officially launched in May by the US's "chief information officer", Vivek Kundra.London also launched a "datastore"earlier this month, hosting a number of London-specific datasets corralled from government departments as well as Transport for London data.Aftera long-running campaign by the Guardianwhich began in March 2006 demanding that the government make the non-personal data it collects available for unrestricted reuse, the launch marks a significant victory – especially together with plans announced by Gordon Brown in November to make Ordnance Survey mapping data and some postcode data also available for free.Berners-Leewas hired last June by Gordon Brown, to ensure "that government information is accessible and useful for the widest possible group of people".Berners-Lee had previously been critical of governments which blocked access to data collected by public bodies. "You have no idea of the excuses people come up with to keep data out of your hands, even when you as taxpayers have paid for it," he saidin a talk to the TED conference in March 2009.He devised the technologies used for the world wide web in the early 90s while working at the particle collider laboratory at Cern in Switzerland, so that researchers would have easy access to information for their next project – theLarge Hadron Collider.
Twitter has been down this morning, which always gets addicts asking themselves two important questions: Whose fault is it? and How long does Twitter have to be down before it prompts a blogpost? (People smarter than me probably have a pre-written story so they can blog it before Twitter comes back up.)The latest extended outage cast suspicion on Twitter newbie Bill Gates, characterised inlast night's blog postas pulling in users like a black hole. But that seems a little unlikely, if only because the idea has been punted by the Daily Telegraph.Twitter survived the arrival of Oprah, tweeting live on her TV show, and no Seattle nerd – not even Seattle's richest nerd – has Oprah's mass-market pulling power. (See mygraph.)Another theory was suggested in comments toTechCrunch's Twitter-is-down story, and posted by John Carnell atTechnicaVita. He wrote:The last big event around 1 minute before the site failed was that an aftershock in Haiti measuring 6.1 had just struck. I think we might have just seen Twitter overloaded as that single fact was retweeted across the network.Meanwhile, Twitter itself resorted to blaming innocent marine life*, as usual. Itsstatus updatesaid, simply:We are experiencing an outage due to an extremely high number of whales.  Our on-call team is working on a fix.Will we ever know the answer? If so, will anyone care?The problem is that when Twitter is down, there's not much for some folk to do except write Twitter-is-down blog posts. However, Twitter being down means that there's no way to tweet those Twitter-is-down blog posts, and thus reach the only audience that gives a hoot. Not you, obv.* SeeThe Story of the Fail Whaleat ReadWriteWeb
Sony has delayed the launch of its motion-sensitive rival to Nintendo's highly successful Wii games console by six months and it will not now hit the shops until the autumn.The delay means that the Japanese gaming giant now has only a slim timing advantage overMicrosoft, which is due to launch its revolutionary hands-free ­gaming interface– codenamedProject Natal– for the Xbox 360 in time for Christmas.But it does mean that by the festive season, video gamers will have the choice of three different devices, all of which will use motion-sensitive control, giving players a far more interactive experience.The news is an obvious setback for Sony,which was plagued by delays when it launched the PlayStation 3 three years ago. It also comes after the company last week admitted that the launch of hotly anticipated racing game Gran Turismo&nbsp;5 has had to be delayed yet again. It has been more than five years since the last instalment of the popular franchise.But the company stressed that the decision to delay the launch of its new controller was not linked to any particular hardware or design fault. Instead the company wants to ensure that there are enough games available that can use the new controller before launching it on the market.The success of the Nintendo Wii, launched in 2006, has revolutionised the games market. Allowing players to ditch their joysticks and traditional button-heavy controllers in favour of a wand they can wave at their TV screens has helped widen the appeal of video games, taking consoles out of the teenage bedrooms and back into the living room.Sony unveiled its answer to the Wii,a motion-sensitive controller for the Playstation 3, at the E3 electronics show in Los Angeles last summer. It uses a television-top camera to track a wireless controller held by the player. Sony claims it can track actions with "sub-millimeter accuracy".Microsoft's Project Natal, however,is more ambitious and does not require players to hold a controller at all. Microsoft maintains it can track a player's movements in three dimensions. It can also recognise faces and react to voice prompts, greatly expanding the range of actions which software developers can use in their games.
The list season isn't quite over yet but at least this latest one is worth a read.Ten Turkeys from the Noughtiesis, as you would expect, full of titles you may have forgotten about – Dragon Empires – or those that seriously disappointed (Haze). Or, as the analyst author of the list Nicholas Lovell puts it.The games that really flopped. The games industry's equivalent of Waterworld. Or Ishtar. Or Heaven's Gate.  I'm not just talking about games that were bad. There are lots of those. I'm talking about games that took down companies. Some of them were never released. Some of them came out and no-one cared. Some of them even made decent sales – just nowhere near enough to cover the costs. And all of them were costly for someone. Several of them destroyed companies. Some destroyed careers.So what is on the list then?The biggest surprise is that there are actually some decent-ish games on here. Ok, Tabula Rasa basically. The rest are a mishmash of expensively made disappointments (Enter the Matrix) and games that never made it (Duke Nukem Forever).  Unlike most "worst game ever" type lists this one takes a look at the impact on the development teams behind the failures too. You may remember Haze as a flawed shooter that failed to get anywhere close to fulfilling the PS3-exclusivity hype. But Lovell focuses on the 140 jobs that were lost when the developer - in this case, Free Radical - folded soon after Haze flopped.The game slipped to Winter 2007. The 360 and PC skus were dropped. The game was eventually released 12 months late in May 2008 to mixed reviews (Metacritic average: 55). Reviewers acknowledged the ambition of Free Radical's design, but it was let down by glitchy graphics, shallow characters and weak story. Six months later, Free Radical filed for administration with the loss of 140 jobs. Crytek, the German developer, acquired the rump of Free Radical and renamed it Crytek UK. After the acquisition, Karl Hilton, now managing director of Crytek UK, blamed the complexity of the PS3 for Haze's shortcomings. Whatever the reason, Haze was the last title that Free Radical developed.Likewise withTabula Rasa, the ambitious attempt to revitalise MMOs in the wake of World of Warcraft.A new and innovative combat system. Cutting-edge graphics. Even a brand new language. The game cost an estimated $69 million of NCsoft's money. And the gamble didn't pay off. Tabula Rasa did OK. Not spectacularly, not terribly. But it had cost a lot a make and, like all MMOs, had substantial ongoing costs. NCsoft took only fifteen months to declare the Tabula Rasa experiment over and close the game. At least 120 people were made redundant from NCsoft, and the entire Western operation was re-organised.Other games on the list include Daikatana and Tomb Raider: Angel of Darkness.  Both of which deserve to be on any list like this. But what do you think? Any other mega flops from the last decade that spring to mind? For me a good example is the recent charmless remake of Bionic Commando thatsold poorly. But what about you?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Microsoft co-founder and philanthropistBill Gateshas just joined Twitter with a verified account, having been preceded by numerous fakes. Just to confirm it, he used the programmer's standard:"Hello World".Gates tweeted that he was working on his letter for the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation, andtweeted Ryan Seacrestto say "thanks for your work on this, it will have a real impact for the people in Haiti who need it most."In about four hours, Gates picked up more than 25,000 followers and was added to more than a thousand lists,including one of mine, and now it's something like 1,000 per minute. A colleague commented: "he's pulling people in at an astonishing rate. It's like watching a black hole in action."Whether he'll outdo Oprah or Britney remains to be seen, but it seems unlikely.Gates is following 40 accounts including Microsoft, GatesFoundation, Bing, The Economist, The Huffington Post, Queen Rania, CERN, eBay-founder Pierre Omidyar, several TED accounts and Ashley Tisdale (2.6 million followers). No doubt Bill will thrill to Ashley tweets such as"Gettin my nails done with nessa!!!!"and"went grocery shopping and now cleaning the house!!!!".
Here's a story from the near future. It's been a long day. Finally throwing aside the cares of work, you slump down on your sofa and pick up that shiny new device you bought the other day. Costing the thick end of £1,000, it's Apple's stylish new iPad (iTablet? iSlate?) – a smooth 10in screen with no keyboard, like an iPhone on steroids. You pick it up, turn it on with one swipe of a finger, and begin to . . .At this point, the picture goes hazy and freezes. The reason: while the ­invitations for the launch of Apple's "latest creation" in San Francisco next Wednesday have finally gone out to the great and good of the technology industry, still no one is certain what the hell their creation is actually going to befor, nor even what it will be called (though my money is on iPad or iSlate).The device that Steve Jobs, chief ­executive and co-founder of Apple, will unveil at the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts is variously predicted to transform our experience of reading electronic versions of books, news­papers and magazines (there are ­publishing executives clasping their hands heavenwards with that fervent wish); of watching TV and video; of surfing the web and playing games; even of making internet video calls. Perhaps it will do all of the above.Not surprisingly, then, this is being called "a critical turning point for the way we get and use all sorts of media", and "Apple's reconception of personal computing". In the New York Times, the media columnist David Carr wrote: "I haven't been this excited about ­buying something since I was eight years old and sent away for the tiny seahorses I saw advertised in the back of a comic book." Anothergasping fanwrote: "The only thing I know is that I'll take two."A carefully leaked story in the Wall Street Journal at the start of the monthgave the scantest of details of what to expect of the new tablet: a 10.5in "multi-touch" screen (more of that later), no physical keyboard, probably in two different colours, available to buy in March.What is known is that HarperCollins and other publishers have already  been negotiating with Apple to  make their ­e-books, magazines and news­papers immediately available on the new device. The Apple ­tablet's reading experience is ­expected to be much enhanced from the current crop of handheld e-readers such as Amazon's Kindle, which launched in November 2007 and costs about £300. With its monochrome screen, plasticky white buttons and limited web browsing ­capabilities, you'd never mistake the Kindle for an Apple product, and ­industry rumours suggest it has sold no more than 1m ­devices worldwide."With big names like HarperCollins and Time magazine weighing in, the Apple iTablet is going to change digital publishing in a way Amazon's Kindle hasn't yet done," says Peter Moore, ­director of specialist publishers PSP Rare. "With a touch-enabled colour screen and a similar size format to ­current magazines, the experience should be almost physical – with the added ­benefit of live content and links through to websites."Richard Charkin, executive director of Bloomsbury Publishing, is eager to meet this new entrant in the e-reader market. "The fact that Apple is coming in is terrific. E-books are already ­happening with the Kindle – we have been pleasantly surprised by the ­volume of e-book sales – but this will accelerate it."To truly revolutionise our lives, however, Apple's creation must go far beyond being the best e-reader in class, and change the way we view film and games too. And there the question ­remains: how different can it be from an ordinary laptop computer, aside from being pricier and without a ­keyboard? After all, Lenovo, Asus and Apple itself all make super-thin laptops that weigh barely any more than the A4 office envelope you can slide  them into.But that is to underestimate the common denominator of most Apple products: that they (almost always) take an existing idea and make it cool and desirable. The iPod, the iPhone and the flatscreen all-in-one iMac all redefined the idea of what a device ought to do, forcing everyone else to copy the new benchmark that they set. Which means that, in five years' time, the person picking up the tablet-thing in their living room might be you – even if its maker isn't Apple.Consider the iPod. Apple wasn't first into the MP3 player market in ­October 2001 but, says Ian Fogg, ­principal ­analyst for consumer products at ­Forrester ­Research, it instantly ­redefined music on the move by ­making the player smaller and its ­capacity far bigger (around 1,000 songs). The real revolution was its "scroll wheel" for navigating through all those songs – obvious in retrospect; but the cool it exuded shot the iPod to immediate dominance.Similarly, the iPhone wasn't the first smartphone capable of email or web browsing. "Those had existed for eight or nine years," says Fogg. "But the iPhone did it in such a different way."  Effectively a handheld computer, it was iPhone details such as the ability to "double-tap" to zoom a column of text up to readable size that made it feel revolutionary to users – not to mention the multitude of useful, funny and plain weird apps software that soon sprung up around it.And so, goes the logic, it will be  with the iPad/iSlate. Because tablet computers are already here, having been launched as long ago as November 2001 by none other than Jobs's arch-­rival, Bill Gates. "I'm already using a [Microsoft] Tablet as my everyday computer," Gates told his audience at the Comdex show in Las Vegas back then. "It's a PC that is virtually without limits." He then added his own modest little prediction: "Within five years,  I predict it will be the most popular form of PC sold in America."But Gates was wrong. Today, the tablets market makes up less than 1% of sales  of all computers, because they are usually cumbersome and pricey (about 20% more expensive than the equivalent laptop). This is because the ­majority are, in reality, dual-purpose laptops: turning them into a tablet ­requires twisting the screen to hide  the keyboard; not a ­particularly elegant solution. The ­alternative format, the "slate", uses virtual keyboards that  you poke at with a special stylus,  or handwriting recognition that is ­hit-and-miss.Apple, however, has ­already shown it can make a workable virtual keyboard on the iPhone, which people use to write quite long messages. So what, ­ultimately, is the revolution we are ­anticipating? In one word, multi-touch: being able to control the ­computer ­directly via its screen without the need for keyboard or mouse, using one or more fingers. With a hint of Tom Cruise in Minority Report, this instinctive, ­futuristic control system allows users to tailor their screen (even the size of the keyboard) and move from function to function effortlessly and with style.A2007 interviewwith the New York Times explained how, "Mr Jobs seized on the multi-touch technology after Apple product designers proposed it as a 'safari pad', a portable web-surfing appliance. Instead, he saw the technology as something that could be used for a similar purpose in a cellphone." Now, having made the phone, why not finish the "safari pad"?Multi-touch first came to public ­attention thanks to Jeff Han, a ­researcher from New York University. In February 2006 at the TED conference (an exclusive gathering of physicists, artists, futurists, comedians and  Al Gore), Han gave a talk using a  36in x 27in touchscreen that wowed people by doing what iPhone users now take for granted: moving things around ­using his hands and fingers (you canfind thison YouTube).What Han did was a revelation. He moved pictures and files around the screen like someone shifting paper across a desk. But he also "pulled" them bigger, "squeezed" them smaller, flew over landscapes, tilted the view by holding two fingers down and pushing. The audience wowed and cheered."When I hear about the $100 laptop [a scheme to equip schools in the ­developing world with a low-cost ­machine]," Han told his audience,  "I cringe at the idea that we're going  to introduce a whole new generation  of people to computing with the ­windows, mouse, pointer interface.  I think this" – he shuffled the pictures and then brought up a virtual  keyboard – "is the way to go."He flipped some more pictures. "Isn't this great?" he said rhetorically, sounding exactly like Jobs extolling  the latest item to emerge from Apple's labs. Watching him, you could  only agree.Since then, Microsoft has also added multi-touch to Windows 7 (although most PCs don't have the capability to do anything with it), but it is clearly rattled by all the talk around Apple's forthcoming device. Though dismissive about the price tag on Apple products – Microsoft's brand manager David ­Webster last year sneered to Newsweek that, "Not everyone wants a machine that's been washed with unicorn tears" – the company let it be known, through leaks to the media, that its chief ­executive, Steve Ballmer, would be showing off tablet computers in his keynote speech to the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas earlier this month. He duly did – and it was  the second time Microsoft has launched tablets and ­nobody took any notice.Now, however, armed with a decent-sized screen, effortless multi-touch, sleek good looks and all those ­millions of apps, perhaps ­Apple's tablet will prove the holy grail of being the consumer favourite for watching TV and movies, reading e-books, surfing the webandplaying games(entirely new multi-touch games, played against fellow Apple tablet users).Among thenewly unearthed Apple patentsthat have been sniffed out this month is one where the screen shows a three-dimensional view of items arranged on a sort of landscape. Is that what Apple is ­going to do to make the tablet feel  even more futuristic?This is where the head-scratching ­really starts. Whenever you talk to ­anyone about tablet computers and Apple, the conversation follows the same pattern: everyone reckons that tablets just aren't that workable, ­because they are neither fish nor fowl in computing terms. Yet still they ­believe Apple can create the device that will be on everyone's menu."There's no really clear series of ­applications which define what a tablet is for," says Fogg. "It is more defined by its form factor – its shape and ­appearance – than its use."And, it should be remembered, ­Apple hasn'talwaysgot it right. The Apple TV, launched in March 2008, isn't a TV; it's a set-top box for playing videos or music from the iTunes Store or your computer. Not heard of it? That is because it has done underwhelming business. Similarly the Cube, a solid-looking 8in cubic ­computer launched in June 2000, was a pet project of Jobs's (who, in his previous company NeXT, had proudly ­unveiled a cubic black computer). ­Nobody could quite understand who the Cube was meant to appeal to. It cost more, but could do less than ­Apple's professional desktop machines. Apple, though, insisted there was demand for it. Then, a year later, it halted sales and said it was putting the Cube "on ice".It is, though, highly unlikely that Apple's tablet will meet the same fate. Jobs is smarter now, and the combi­nation of multi-touch, cheaper screens and all that video must add up to something. Mark Mulligan, who specialises in media analysis at Forrester Research, says the tablet could "break down the 20th-century media product boundaries which we understand and define our media consumption by."CDs, DVDs and so on have forced us to use different devices to watch films or listen to music. But a successful tablet could end all that.  "In the age of media multi-tasking," Mulligan says,  "it would join the dots ­between the multiple ­devices we live our digital media lives across."It sounds exciting. But it still does not answer how. For that, we will have to wait until next Wednesday.
You may not yet have heard of Michigan-based ­Sarcasm, Inc but it would be no exaggeration to say that it may soon be as big a household name as Tesco or Google.Its product, perhaps the most innovative and original of the century so far, is a punctuation mark for sarcasm. Although ­strangers to the mark might  mistake it for a squiggle with  a dot inside, the "SarcMark"  will soon be turning up in our  inboxes every day. The question that will baffle future generations is how we managed to live without it for so long.It's surprising, given the ­brilliance of the idea, that it has never been suggested before. ­Admittedly, French poet ­Alcanter de Brahm proposed using a ­backward-facing question mark to denote irony in the late 19th century. But that's in no way similar to the scribbled brilliance of the SarcMark. And the fact that US writer andsatirist Josh Greenman proposedthe upside-down exclamation mark as a "sarcasm point" in an article for Slate magazine in 2004 is equally ­immaterial.The existence of numerous alternative solutions already in use, from emoticons such as :P, ;) and :) to pseudo-html markers such as [/s] and &lt;/sarcasm&gt;, is unlikely to be an ­obstacle to the SarcMark's overnight success.The real breakthrough of ­Sarcasm, Inc is the realisation that, ­despite having used sarcasm and irony in the written word for hundreds of years, humans are simply too stupid to consistently recognise when someone has said the ­opposite of what they mean. The SarcMark solves that problem, and you can download it as a font for the reasonable price of $1.99 (£1.20). Our prayers are answered.
IBM's fourth quarter profits increased by 8.7% from $4.43bn to $4.81bn, the computer giantrevealed today. Revenues grew by just 0.8% to $27.23 billion, but were down by 5% when adjusted for currency changes. This suggests that corporate IT spending has yet to rebound from the recession, though IBM predicted that full year profits would be ahead of expectations.In a conference call, IBM's chief financial officer Mark Loughridge said: "We do see some encouraging signs in our business, but I'd like to get into the first quarter and get a little more validation this is an on-going recovery before we take this up further than we have."This quarter marked the first increase in revenues since September 2008, and continued the trend whereby declines in hardware revenues are made up for by increases in revenues from software and services (though revenues from Lotus software declined by 5%). However, IBM's numbers have become more consistent since it spun off or sold various divisions, including its PC division, which was taken over by China's Lenovo.For the full year, 2009, IBM's net income grew by 9% to $13.4bn while revenues fell by 8% (or 5%, adjusting for currency) to $95.8bn. Turnover was $103.6bn in 2008.
The ever-busy market research outfit, NPD Group, has hailed Activision's steel wheel-spinning music title,DJ Hero, as the most successful new IP of last year, in terms of revenue generation. At least, that'saccording to a press releasedistributed by - yes - Activision; a press release which gives no sales data, and which somehow both ignoresandtacitly acknowledges the fact that the game is a spin-off from the Guitar Hero series, and therefore not strictlynewIP."DJ Hero has transformed music gaming by marrying an innovative turntable controller and exhilarating gameplay with the biggest artists and incredible music from around the world," said Bobby Kotick the CEO of Activision Blizzard. In other words, DJ Hero has transformed gaming by being 1997 Konami title, Beatmania.This is also a rather dizzying turnaround froman interview apparently given to Game Informerin December, in which Kotick, then seemingly not so impressed with the title, said, "...if you're going to make a commitment to doing something original, the odds are that you're not going to get it right on the first chance [...] We'll stick with it and get it right." What a difference a month makes. Still, it looks like a sequel is definitely on the cards.But seriously, what wasyourfavourite new IP of last year? DJ Hero is a valid choice, of course, as would be Borderlands, Demon's Souls, Brutal Legend, Flipnote Studio or inFamous.What do you reckon?
I put a load of Word documents on a Sony MicroVault and have just tried to open them on my home PC. The files have all come out with the ".vem" suffix. Web searches don't give a clear answer on how to open or convert back to Word. Is there a driver I need to open them?Jonathan HaslamIt appears that some Sony MicroVault USB drives compress files automatically, to save space. In that case they should also uncompress files automatically, but it seems your home PC does not have the decompression program installed, and does not recognise them.TheMicroVault support sitehas a FAQ that mentions two programs, Virtual Expander and Decompression.exe, both of which run in Microsoft Windows. It says: "The Virtual Expander is only available in the MicroVault models that are pre-installed with the software." However, "the decompression program 'Decompression.exe' can also be used in other environments without the MicroVault."BothVirtualExpander_26.exe(719K) andDecompression_v26.exe(372K) are available for download. If you download Decompression_v26, I expect you will be able to uncompress the .vem files and retrieve your .doc files.Word, PowerPoint and similar files compress easily, and built-in compression must have seemed like a good idea when USB drives had relatively small storage capacities. It's generally not very useful today, so see if you can disable this feature on your MicroVault. You could still compress PowerPoint and similar files in Windows before moving them over, but use a more common format, such as Zip. Some files are not worth zipping, such as .wmv, .mp3 and .jpg files, because these formats are already compressed.
Some interesting quotes from Venezuelan president Hugo Chávez on news wire AFP today. Speaking out on his weekly radio show as part of his continued drive against the perceived westernisation of his country, Chávez has pinpointed videogames as one of the main corrupting capitalist influences on young people today (though strangely omitting Microsoft and Nintendo from his ire)."Those games they call 'PlayStation' are poison. Some games teach you to kill. They once put my face on a game; 'you've got to find Chávez to kill him.'"Chávez was referring to Mercenaries 2: World in Flames, a game featuring a villainousVenezuelan tyrant that bore more than a few similarities to the outspoken leader. It no doubt angered him further when the game turned out tonot be very good.He went on to say in his broadcast that any games that "bomb cities or just throw bombs," are sold by capitalist countries to sow violence so they can "later sell weapons."They "promote the need for cigarettes, drugs and alcohol so they can sell them. That's capitalism, the road to hell," he added. Something the thousands of us that became addicted to Buff Out after playing Fallout 3 can probably sympathise with.Venezuela, Chávez said, should be making "educational games," and also suggested designing "little indigenous dolls" to sell in place of dolls "like Barbie, that have nothing to do with our culture."Venezuelan lawmakers in October passed a law outlawing the sale of "bellicose" videogames that can be punished with up to five years' imprisonment.Bad news for any Venezualan Modern Warfare clans, and especially bad news for PlayStation owning Barbie collectors. Saying gaming makes us violent is something we've all heard before - but making us capitalist drones? Has Chávez taken it too far?
As we're picking through the last scraps of the Google-China story for any more insights, we have a new wrinkle in the search story of the Middle Kingdom. As was pointed out last week, Google isn't the top dog in terms of search in China, and some suggested that its loud threat to depart the country was a humbled company,tail between its legs, quitting a market it couldn't conquer: Baidu holds the top spot in terms of search in China.However, in the last 10 days, Baidu has seen both its chief technology and chief operations officers leave. COO Ye Peng left the company on 8 January, citing "personal reasons".  TheChina Digital Times said that the People's Daily also cited "personal reasons" for CTO Li Yinan'sdeparture and did not lay out his future plans. Blogger Uln at Chinayouren called the departure 'mysterious'. However, a comment on that post says thatLi is taking over as CEO at a subsidiary of China Mobile, a move that was alsoreported by Xinhua, theofficial news agency of the People's Republic of China.The departures come asBaidu's share of the Chinese search market is slipping as Google was gaining. BusinessWeek reports:"Baidu had 58.6 percent of China's online search market in the fourth quarter, down from 63.9 percent in the previous three months, according to researcher Analysys International. Google's market share increased to 35.6 percent from 31.3 percent over the same period, the Beijing-based researcher said."The Financial Times said that the departures from Baidusuggest "further disruptions ahead in China's Rmb7.5bn ($1.1bn) online search market". The company is the process of transitioning to a new search advertising platform called Phoenix Nest, similar to Google'sAdWords. As with Yahoo'scalamitous move to its new Panama advertising systemin the US from 2003-2007. The transition has been cited as one of the reasons behind Baidu's falling market share.Blogger Uln atChinayouren says this could be a missed opportunity if Googledoes leave oris banned as a result of its confrontation with the Chinese government:"Regarding the Google affair, if anything, this crisis in Baidu makes Google's move even more untimely, as they might have taken advantage of the situation now to catch up a bit on Baidu's market share."
Aleks Krotoskireturns to the hot seat for this week's podcast, and herds podcast regularsCharles ArthurandKevin Andersonthrough the latest in technology news.On this week's roster, security expert Graham Cluley delivers the most recent developments in the Google-China standoff, while Kevin details the innovations in new media that have emerged in the Haiti crisis.The creator of the CES best-in-show AR Drone helicopter, Henri Seydoux, talks with Charles about his prolific past as a tech entrepreneur, and why he swapped his job at a news desk for a life of invention.All this, plus the latest news and your feedback from the blogs.Don't forget to...• Comment below...• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Games with official sports licences are often lumped in with games of films: one instantly suspects they exist as items of supporting merchandise, rather than for any meritorious reasons. Vancouver 2010 does little to dispel that impression.While it has some impressive aspects, it shows clear signs of a rushed development cycle. Although it does just about contain enough quality to appease die-hard winter sports enthusiasts. It lets you compete in 14 events which will feature in next month's games, which sounds generous, but its event-selection is distinctly eccentric.For example, three of the events are bobsleigh, skeleton and luge, and while the latter imaginatively employs a different control system, they are essentially identical. The mighty curling has been eschewed in favour of two stultifying (and bafflingly hard) skating events. Ladies' aerials boasts impressively original controls, but there's no sign of a half-pipe, which will alienate snowboarders.By far Vancouver 2010's most impressive attribute is its graphical crispness, which is impressively true-to-life and endowed with a crucial sense of speed thanks to liberal use of motion-blur. Control systems err on the simple side, but are generally well thought-out and logical. If you are content with getting a sense of what competing in the Winter Olympics would feel like, Vancouver 2010 delivers at least.As a game, though, it frustrates. You can stack events in whatever order you desire, and there are plenty of fun challenges (such as snowboard cross with the steering controls reversed), but the single-player game lacks structure. It is undoubtedly best when played online against humans – especially given the difficulty of getting among the medals when competing against the computer. And when you do win a medal, the rewards are too paltry, consisting of a medal-ceremony in which, unforgivably, no medals are dished out.The overall impression is that effort was expended on recreating the events as accurately as possible, at the expense of thinking about what would make a good game. Worth buying at a discounted price, perhaps, but ultimately disappointing.
Jetpacks, Bermuda Triangle, alternate 1930s setting – on paper, Dark Void sounds exhilarating. Start playing, though, and any early enthusiasm feels misplaced. Dark Void isn't a terrible game, just painfully average. The start of the game is especially plodding and although things improve, you never quite shake the feeling of what might have been.Dark Void is a shooter adventure that will make fans of Flash Gordon and other B-movie sci-fi feel right at home. The alternate 1930s setting is a welcome change from the gaming norm – no real surprise given the developers past work on the similarly based Crimson Skies. And the storyline and premise, too, are full or promise – the Bermuda Triangle really should feature in more games. Unfortunately, the cliched characterisation and unenthusiastic vocal efforts soon scupper any potential hopes of an Uncharted 2-style acting masterclass.Unfavourable comparisons to that PlayStation3 classic are commonplace throughout the early part of Dark Void. The jungle that felt so alive in Uncharted 2 feels lifeless in this game. There is plenty of platforming action too, with ledges that need to be clambered up, or later on, hovered over. The camera doesn't always help though, with some particularly annoying angles used.Once the combat kicks in, though, it's the turn of another game to become an influence: Gears of War. The effect can be seen everywhere – from the use of cover to the sheer number of bullets it takes to down an enemy. Most of the assailants offer a fairly unsophisticated challenge, but some of the more enjoyable moments see you clinging on to a UFO-style opponent in mid flight or dive bombing land based attackers.After two or three hours of sub-Gears shooting, the game gets more enjoyable when you finally get access to the jetpack. Speeding through tunnels and hovering to take out flying opponents in hectic gunfights, you get the feeling for what the game was trying to achieve. Unfortunately, Dark Void shoots itself in the foot again with some over-sensitive flying controls that make success often due to luck as much as skill.The graphics are, like the game itself, painfully average. Occasional moments of beauty – soaring through a valley – are tempered by fog-bound vistas and poorly animated characters. Invisible barriers that bar exploration and the lack of multiplayer further add to the dated feel of the game.Average when it could have been so much more, Dark Void feels like a missed opportunity.
