If you can play with real people, why settle for robots? That's a sentiment which resonates with much of the gaming community, if industry trends and sales figures are anything to go by. Blizzard's online roleplaying game, World of Warcraft, reached 9 million subscribers in July. Microsoft's Xbox Live online gaming service was a major selling point for the Xbox 360. Most recent big-budget action games support multiplayer functionality. Even some largely single-player titles - such as Neverwinter Nights - enjoy continuing sales long after release due to the astonishing amount of online content available. Are single-player, AI-driven games becoming a thing of the past?New experienceChris Early, studio manager of the Microsoft Casual Games service and Live representative, is even-handed in his judgment. He thinks single-player gaming still has its place but that the execution is important. "There are narratives and stories you can tell through single-player experiences that you simply can't tell through multiplayer," he says. "At the same time, there are experiences you can't deliver in single-player that only multiplayer can achieve. More often than not, when you play a single-player game, once you're done with the game, you're done. But with multiplayer games, the content, in part, is created by the actions of the other players. It's a completely new experience every time you play."The presence of other players gives multiplayer gameplay a significant advantage over its AI-driven cousins in terms of replayability. But that doesn't mean developers aren't coming up with solutions. If there's one upcoming single-player title that could profess to provide a completely new experience each time you play the game, it's Flagship Studios' Hellgate: London. Built entirely upon randomised content, the virtual demon-infested London through which players will be traipsing will have a different layout each time. Essentially, Hellgate offers infinite replayability."We love randomisation," says Bill Roper, Flagship's CEO. "It adds so much replayability to the game, as there is always the chance that a player will find something new, or emergent behavior will create a new experience. When done right, randomisation doesn't come off as being random - which is kind of an odd way to think about it. Basically, you don't want your environments to feel haphazardly slapped together. You want them to feel cohesive and coherent. This sort of thing is the real challenge and art of creating a highly randomised game, and is why you don't see many of them. If you get it right, it looks really simple. But it's very hard to get right."Tellingly, though, Hellgate also supports an extensive multiplayer component. "One of the unique things about Hellgate: London is that it is both a standalone, single-player experience," Roper notes, "and an MMO when you go online. The single-player version of the game provides somewhere between 20 and 40 hours of play. When you go online, you get much more. The storyline remains - of course, you can go through it alone or with friends - but in addition to that are all the community and economy aspects of an MMO. That means you can form guilds, groups, buy and sell items to other players via an auction house and so forth. The game is a complete experience, both for single players and online gamers, but we wanted to have a model that also supported continuing content."Supporting continuing content makes sense from a commercial perspective. Anything that can keep a game selling after release is treasured. As Early points out, though, including this content is also necessary to capture the social gamers. "The primary appeal of gaming online is people," he says. "Engaging, competing, cooperating and participating in an online community filled with like-minded gamers is what brings players back online again and again."The social aspect of competing against more than just computer-controlled opponents is what drives the more competitive gamers, and MMOs wouldn't suck so much time from gamers if there wasn't a strong community and social aspect to gameplay. Far and away, the most appealing aspect of playing online are the people you're playing with."However, multiple players means that it is more difficult to tell a story. Single-player games, by contrast, are compelling in the way that the player interacts with well-crafted plotlines and characters. However, many would argue that allowing players total control over a game's story - by essentially removing story completely - cannot result in a particularly engaging narrative.Mitch Gitelman, studio manager on Shadowrun, a multiplayer shooter, disagrees. "Social gameplay absolutely lends itself to storytelling," he argues, "but it's going to be 'watercooler stories' about the amazing move or tight win your team made last night, rather than a story created by the game designers that you're allowed to interact with."When you discuss 'replayability' in any given game, that replayability is usually driven by one of two things: a strong multiplayer component that makes gamers come back because every time they play online, it's a different experience, or new content that continues to expand the single-player campaign. Typically, multiplayer drives gamers to come back again and again more frequently than any sort of single-player campaign."This is a step change for Shadowrun, where previous instalments in the franchise were highly regarded single-player RPGs. So does this move to exclusively online content suggest that single-player gaming is reaching its expiry date? Gitelman says that the move to online is the result of the team's experience with online gaming. "We leveraged the skills and knowledge of those great people to create an online competitive game with Shadowrun. It really played to our strengths and I'm incredibly proud of what the team accomplished."Challenge for designersSo will Shadowrun return to its story-based roots? "There is definitely a market and demand for a more conventional single-player action/RPG based in the Shadowrun universe," he says. "I'd love to see it get created. But what would really be cool is a meta game - story game, in other words - that could be affected by the multiplayer play. There's a challenge for game designers."Game designers may well take up the challenge, though the success of multiplayer gameplay could also ultimately have a beneficial effect on single-player titles as it forces developers to design more replayability.So will AI-driven games be rendered obsolete by the freedom offered in multiplayer content? One thing's for sure: those robots are going to have to get a lot smarter if they want to compete with their flesh-and-blood peers.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Real Time Strategy games (RTS) have historically been weighed down by the tedious resource management and lazy tactics of Command &amp; Conquer et al. World in Conflict changes all that by injecting a huge shot of adrenaline into the increasingly staid genre. Set in a re-imagined Cold War where the USSR invades the US, this is a visceral, intense experience that rarely lets up. Making tricky choices in the heat of the battle - hit them with napalm or with a nuclear warhead? - is the meat of the game, but equally as important is the sense of place. The feeling of being a small part in a wider conflict is expertly portrayed. It looks fantastic too, especially if you have got one of the latest graphics cards. The smoke effects work especially well, adding a grainy realism to the aftermath of battle. Traditional armchair generals may find it too intense, but World in Conflict has singlehandedly made the RTS game relevant again.
I was a religious affairs writer for many years, so I obviously don't mind people lying to me. But I do appreciate it when they do so efficiently, without using pictures; and, in particular, without using moving pictures. The important fact about words is that they are almost the most efficient use of communication ever devised; and reading plain text is the fastest way to absorb them. I can read faster than I can write; more to the point, I can read much faster than I can listen, and so can any normally literate person.So if I want to absorb something complicated quickly - or even, when I need to do so, slowly - the efficient way to help me is to write it out first. When you think of it, the time compression between reading and writing is quite astonishing: the thriller that lasts for half a plane journey will have taken half a year to write. Even The 39 Steps, which John Buchan is supposed to have written in a fortnight while convalescing, takes only a couple of hours to read.By contrast, audio and video are not lossy compression. They are lossy expansion. They take more time to convey less meaning. There are some things which print cannot easily - or at all - convey, and which sound and pictures can. But there are surprisingly few of them. Just for an experiment, try listening to the television news while not watching the pictures. You will be just as well informed and half your attention has been freed for other things. You will also notice - without the distractions - that hardly anything of any interest has been said at all. If you just read a transcript of what has been said, you will have learned even more, and in even less time.This may look like a deliberate attempt to ignore the riches of visual content. After all, the experience of watching a film or even a play adds something that just reading the script could never supply, even though that will take you a lot less time. But this is precisely because a worthwhile film or play contains a message that cannot be boiled down to words. The point of an advertisement, however, as of almost everything else that is published in journalism, is that it can all be boiled down to a couple of sentences. With an advertisement, the essential message is only ever two words long: "Buy this."The other huge advantage of text is that it is a much more naturally interactive medium. This was the insight on which the web was built in the first place. It was, primarily, pages of text that Tim Berners-Lee imagined people would edit and collaborate upon, and this is very largely what has happened. The whole phenomenon of blogging is built on people answering back. Whether they do so because they are stimulated by what they have read, rather than the prospect of reading their own opinions, is less clear.Rarely does anyone want to read anything online enough to pay for the privilege, a point underlined last week when The New York Times abandoned its attempt to charge readers for its opinions columns. From now on, they will be freely available, like the rest of the site. "Free", of course, means that they are paid for by advertisements.This is where Adblock Plus, the Firefox extension that Nick Carr wrote aboutlast week, becomes so important. I have used Adblock and its Opera equivalents for long enough that I can't bear to use a computer that does not have them. It is almost impossible to imagine anyone who had got used to the quiet web returning to the shattering confusion that Internet Explorer or Apple's Safari show you straight out of the box.But if advertising is the economic foundation of the web, and no one need ever watch again an ad that they don't want to, what will happen? The answer, however odd this may seem, is that Google, the great ad-broker, will become even more powerful. What makes ads obnoxious is not that they lie, but that they do so noisily, intrusively and inefficiently. Google's don't. There is hardly any ad worth blocking on any Google page, because none of it squirms or shrieks. The ads lie quietly, waiting to be read. Google - with its immense computing power, armies of brilliant programmers and unrivalled knowledge of its users - stands a chance of making ads more effective, because they will be in prose.thewormbook.com/helmintholog&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The "One Laptop Per Child" charity founded by Nicholas Negroponte is to run a "Buy One, Gift One" scheme in the US in an attempt to kickstart sales - which its founder admits have so far been disappointing.The "G1G1" scheme will last for a fortnight starting from November 12, and give people in the US and Canada the chance to buy one of the Linux-based laptops - designed to be used by children - for $399 (&pound;198), a price that will enable the project to give another one free to a child in the developing world.The XO laptop was designed to be as simple and low-cost as possible, while being adapted for rugged conditions. It includes a wireless mesh system (via the "horns" on top of the screen), a high-visibility 7.5-inch screen that can be read in direct sunlight (unlike most screens on more expensive laptops), moisture-resistant keyboard, 1GB of Flash-based storage, inbuilt camera and power consumption that is only about one-tenth that of commercial laptops. Due to its processor's limitations, it does not use a windows-based interface, but instead relies on "frames" to help move between "activities" (seewiki.laptop.org).But despite winning praise for the XO from many who have seen it in action, Negroponte admitted to the New York Times this week that sales have been slower than he expected. "I have to some degree underestimated the difference between shaking the hand of a head of state and having a cheque written," he said. "And yes, it has been a disappointment." Orders for 1m laptops each from Nigeria and Brazil have not been followed by the necessary money or contract. Peru, though, is buying 250,000, while Mexico and Uruguay have made "firm commitments", said Negroponte. Italy is also buying 50,000 XOs for distribution in Ethiopia.The new strategy is a reverse of that declared at the beginning of the year, when the OLPC charity said it would not sell the laptop in rich countries. One reason was thought to be that users might draw unfavourable comparisons with commercial machines; it would also use up production capacity.But now Walter Bender, head of software development at the project, said that input from richer users would be welcome - and that the new scheme will answer demand. "I don't know how many times people have added an entry in our wiki saying 'how do I get one?' or 'I'd gladly buy one for a child if I could get one'," he told the BBC. With the G1G1 scheme, "we see it as a way of kickstarting the programme in the least developed countries".&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In view of last week's cover story about antivirus software, what programs do you recommend to protect Windows against all the problems mentioned? Or to put it another way, what do you have for your computers?Bill FrostThere is no magic bullet, and things are changing. The biggest threat today is drive-by installation of malware from a website (read Google's The Ghost In The Browser: Analysis of Web-based Malware - it's apdf). These sites try to exploit unpatched holes in the operating system, so the most important defence for most users is to have Windows updates installed automatically.It's also essential to have a firewall installed, and to have at least one anti-spyware program. Windows Defender (formerly Giant Antispyware) and the free version of AVG Anti-Spyware (formerly Ewido) provide good defences. If you are willing to pay, pay for AVG Anti-Spyware and WebRoot SpySweeper. For antivirus protection, AVG Free and Avast! are good free scanners. If you are paying, go for Kaspersky AV or ESET NOD32.I also recommend running periodic checks with a different online scanner, such as Trend Micro Housecall or BitDefender. There are many others, including Panda ActiveScan, Kaspersky, Avast!, F-Secure, ESET and Symantec. It's worth trying a company's online scanner before you buy its software.You can reduce your chances of getting caught by using a more secure browser. Opera is probably the safest, followed by Firefox and then Internet Explorer 7. If you want a more secure version of Windows, then 64-bit Vista is much the safest, followed by 32-bit Vista, then Windows XP SP2. You should also run Windows from a standard user account, not as an administrator.Unfortunately, a lot of malware nowadays exploits users by social engineering rather than software defects. People are conned into installing malware by offers of fake antivirus checking or speed-up software, free music or pornographic videos that mysteriously require the installation of a new codec or ActiveX component. You can send people encrypted, password-protected viruses and they will still infect their own PCs.As a test, I've been running my always-on auto-updated desktop PC with IE6 and, later, IE7 with only a firewall and a NAT router. In almost two years, I have had only one minor exploit, which got me to install AVG Anti-Spyware. I also use SysInternals' Process Explorer and other software, so I know what my PC is doing, and can kill processes manually. This is definitely not a recommendation, but suggests that one of the most vital anti-malware defences is between your ears.
Having narrowly avoided a watery grave at the hands of assassins during the final and dramatic conclusion of Brighton and Hove's Street Wars watergun tournament, I was looking forward to returning to a quiet life again. Unfortunately, I've scuppered that. No, I've not signed up for a nationwide lemon meringue pie throwing competition; instead, I am reaping the wrath of a powerful group of people because I've neglected to bestow the correct amount of worship upon their digital deity.You see, yesterday Halo 3 arrived with a thud on the Xbox 360 and, according to its faithful, is expected to change the face of computer gaming forever.The saviour of gamekind, the first-person-shooter-to-end-all-shooters, Halo is, in a nutshell, a very popular game series. From the monsoon whipped up around this game's launch, you'd think the main character was going to singlehandedly save the day, the world, the cheerleader, the dinner from burning, our souls and the reputation of a certain high street bank, all while dealing with pesky aliens and marine mutants on a distant ringed planet.I perhaps foolishly suggested on the Gamesblog that this game wasn't worth the three-year wait. Sure, I said, it's a good game. But little has changed between the first version, released in 2001, and the current iteration. It is quite clear that over the lifetime of the property the makers haven't wanted to mess with a good thing. Such statements are not welcomed by gaming apostles who converge in angry mobs on heretics' digital front stoops to throw barbed comment pitchforks.From the reaction, I'm glad I stopped myself from proposing that the game might be transformed into something superior by including a knitting simulation level. (Come on, can't you see the Master Chief at a Stitch 'n' Bitch?) While the online daggers do sting, I anticipate I'll be better off during this fracas than during the water war, and my level of paranoia reflects that. Sure, I'm still checking out the strangers on street corners from the vantage point of my letterbox, but I know that this Halo thing will blow over after a couple of days. Besides, thanks to Street Wars, I've already stopped lifeblogging on Twitter, updating my status on Facebook and posting events to Upcoming. I'm currently a digital ninja.Once everything settles down again, thought, I plan on having no opinions whatsoever, and will fiercely decline from joining in amusing-sounding tournaments. I've had enough of this chaos. I'm very much looking forward to loading up my twin needlers guns and blowing away a few Covenant nasties in peace.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Infected by inaccuracyWendy Grossman maintains: "For at least a decade, the standard advice to every computer user has been to run antivirus software." (Does antivirus have a future?, September 20). Not true. That's the standard advice for users of the appallingly insecure Microsoft Windows OS. If you're lucky enough to run a Unix-based OS (like Mac OS X), virus protection is a waste of money.Simon Phillips,London&middot;It wouldn't surprise me if antivirus turns out not to have a future - I've never used it at all and the only viruses I've ever caught were a boot sector virus off a floppy and an internet worm that got in while I was updating a freshly installed Windows XP. I consider the cautious, informed approach to be safer than relying on what may be a false sense of security in antivirus protection.James Sykes,Cheadle&middot;It is true that Windows is dominant on the desktop. Apache is the most widely used web server, but it still has a better security record than Microsoft.John Halton,OrpingtonThe cost of free dataPresumably Robert Sproat (Letters, September 20) has never consulted an A-Z, looked at a road sign, caught a bus or had anything delivered? All make use of Ordnance Survey data somewhere along the line. And, on his selfish reasoning that one shouldn't pay taxes for other people's benefit, presumably he won't mind paying the full economic costs of his next visit to a GP or his bins being emptied, if I decide I "have no need" of services that benefit him?Don Keller,LondonThe best, but not goodVictor Keegan concedes that Linux still gives the impression that it's written by engineers for engineers - he can say that again (Ignoring open source, September 20). Linux crashes if you try and move large files by drag-and-drop. It wouldn't mount external USB storage devices until an expert gave us a line of hieroglyphics and it won't accept spaces in file names. If Linux is the best of the open source movement, we'll stick to Macs or Microsoft.Peter Sudbery,Sheffield&middot;I suggest that the Guardian places the promotion of open source software at the very heart of its activities. It is probably (in fact, I'm pretty certain of it) the only thing that can save us from the catastrophe we are heading for.Roger Hicks,Barkingside&middot;A free business model doesn't bring in money needed for support, marketing and usability a paid model delivers. The open source movement needs more than just good code to succeed.blogs.zdnet.comVoice of reasonI couldn't agree more with Laura Marcus (Technobile, September 20). Digital TV transmits radio. Why not vice versa?Norman Nicolson,CambridgeOnly themselves to blameThe advertisers only have themselves to blame by producing irritating animated adverts (Read Me First, September 20). I can recommend the FlashBlock add-on, which stops Flash content loading.Dave Parker,GillinghamI'm not a fanboy, but ...I'm not an Apple fanboy, but Kate Bevan's article simply fails to even confront the revolutionary nature of the multi-touch interface (Newly Asked Questions, September 20).Dr Mark Paterson,ExeterLeopard's new spotsFully 64-bit. HTML email. Tighter UI. Don't even get me started on Leopard Server (Why the world says 'meh' to Apple's next product, September 20). Just wait until you see what's possible on the application side of things.Gerald Buckley,Oklahoma
I have been using Super © video converter, which is freeware fromeRightSoft, and have had great results. It allows me to convert all the different video formats into every other one. Is this too good to be true?Iain DewarAs the site says, Super © provides a graphical front end to pull together some well known open source software such as FFmpeg, MEncoder and MPlayer, so you can consider it one of the benefits of the open source approach. There are plenty of comments on theVideoHelp.comsite along withA basic guide to video conversion using Super(PDF)
Watching a film used to be easy. You went to the cinema or waited until it was shown on television. The advent of chain stores such as Blockbuster enabled us to watch what we wanted when we wanted, while the success of online ordering through the likes ofNetflix.comorLovefilm.commeans we don't even have to waste shoe leather. Instead of going to the flicks, the flicks come to us. Every home is potentially a cinema. Now it is getting complicated. The disruptive forces transforming the music industry are moving into films offering multiple delivery methods and, most interestingly, the opportunity to make serious films from home and then distribute them world-wide. Home will soon be a studio as well as a cinema.What is happening? For years it has been possible to watch streamed films from the likes of Sky or Homechoice (now owned by Tiscali). Blockbuster, whose network of shops looks vulnerable in the digital age, has just joined the fray by acquiring the streaming company Movielink.Among dozens of companies hustling in this space isJoost.com. Set up by the founders of Skype, the internet phone company, it uses similar technology to harness spare capacity on our hard disks to build a global network of streamed video. It is a brilliant idea - as long as the network can cope with data-heavy video streams, and assuming people will watch streamed video content on a computer rather than a television set.Into this crowded arena come the startups that will not only let you watch but also upload your own films for potential global distribution. You can already do this through YouTube or even from your mobile phone (via Kyte.com), but they are overwhelmingly fun flicks, not serious cinema.Babelgum.comenables you to watch streamed video and (soon) to upload your own content to be viewed and discussed online.Jaman.comstands out because it has spent two years and millions of dollars developing a new method of peer-to-peer delivery. It enables a film from its library (actually extracted bit by bit from the hard disks of other people who have already downloaded it) to be stored for seven days on your own computer in "high definition" form.It may not match real high definition but it is better quality than most downloaded films. Jaman's business model builds on the fact that 90% of all films don't get global distribution. If a film is big in India or South America but not in Europe or America, then Jaman will provide an international platform. Ditto for indie films. It has 2,000 films, soon to rise to 10,000. It charges &pound;1 for a film for seven days and has an algorithm enabling a film to download on to your hard disk as you are viewing (avoiding streaming problems) so that you can begin watching it 10 minutes or so after it starts to download. It has a Last.fm-type community service linking you to like-minded people who enjoy similar films, including a facility to make comments time-coded to appear at the right moment during the film.More importantly, it enables would-be Spielbergs to upload their own films on to the site with the prospect of being upgraded to a special place where they can be downloaded for a price, with the creator getting a 30% share of the revenue.This week's Raindance Film festival in London claims to be the first simultaneously to show its movies via the web. Elliot Grove, its director, claims online distribution gives aspiring filmmakers "an opportunity to find an audience without having to go through the traditional Hollywood system". It is quite likely that tomorrow's film directors will emerge from sites such as these without having been through film school at all.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A poultry farmer finds a dead yet apparently uninjured swan on his land. He alerts the government's food security agency, which decides that it looks like a case of avian flu - which could be the one deadly to humans, and in turn might trigger a pandemic. As the vets swing in to action, the agency's IT systems trawl for data on nearby households. Within minutes, everyone living inside a buffer zone miles in diameter has received an automated phone call or a text message telling them what's going on and what precautions they need to take.Free accessThis hasn't happened - yet. But the contingency plan is possible because of a new arrangement through which different government agencies give each other free access to geographical, environmental and administrative databases. The government in question is Norway's, which - in a fascinating case study for those pushing for free access to government data - has swept away commercial barriers to exchanging information between public bodies in a way that Britain could usefully emulate.The Digital Norway plan requires all public bodies responsible for geodata to "collaborate in the establishment, operation and maintenance of a common national infrastructure". Data "must be clearly and easily available", the plan says.Instead of negotiating licences with each other, custodians of official data about Norway's environment, land and marine topographies make their data available to all their official colleagues through a national portal, geoNorge. So far, 40 government bodies, 93 utility companies, 17 out of 19 counties and 356 out of 431 municipal authorities have signed up to exchange data through the system. Some 260,000 data sets are available through the portal.Norway's national mapping agencyStatkart, last week demonstrated some of the mashup possibilities that arise. The bird flu contingency plan is already being piloted by the national food security agency, Mattilsynet, and will be extended nationally next year. Another idea superimposes real-time information on shipping movements, putting the name and speed of each ship as revealed by an onboard transponder on to a map of Norway's treacherous North Cape.Olaf Ostensen, the head of Statkart, says such ideas have become much easier to realise since a government decision four years ago that data should be shared between public bodies.He explains: "Instead of buying information from each other, we all put money in to a joint fund to finance an information infrastructure we can have for free."The contrast with the situation in Britain, where government bodies frequently have to negotiate licences to use sets of data created by other tax-funded bodies, is clear. Over the past 18 months, Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign has regularly reported examples of government information projects foundering because of the difficulty of licensing data such as postal addresses from one part of the public sector to another. Local councils and the Royal Mail, for example, have been at loggerheads over the licensing of address details - particularly who should receive payment for the selling-on of the Postcode Address File, which is derived in part from data at present provided for free by councils who then have to pay for a licence for the file.Norway is no nirvana of free data, however. Although the public has access to data on the geoNorge portal, anyone wishing to re-use data in a commercial product must negotiate a licence with the government information agencyNorsk Eiendomsinformasjon, or NE, a limited company owned by the Ministry of Justice. Our campaign argues that it would be better to make such data freely available to all comers, in the interests both of democracy and nurturing the knowledge economy.Taking shapeHowever, the Norwegian model may be of interest to the British government if it wants to find a way of migrating organisations such as Ordnance Survey from the  existing trading fund business model, under which all of their expenditure is funded by licensing and selling data and services, without imperilling their work. And it provides another source of economic data about what happens when one removes some of the pricing and bureaucratic barriers to the use of government-collected impersonal data.Under the change of law which enabled the creation of geoNorge, Statkart lost its commercial income stream three years ago, Ostensen says. The marketing division transferred to NE. However, "what we have gained is that it is much easier to collaborate with other organisations in the public sector". Geographical survey work, funded out of a central pot rather than from sales of commercial products, has not suffered, he says.Although still taking shape, geoNorge is already attracting international attention. It was one of 52 projects from around Europe selected to exhibit at the EU's ministerial e-government conference in Lisbon last week.And although Norway is not a member of the EU, it anticipates the mechanism for the free flow of environmental information envisaged under the Inspire European Directive (which was watered down last year following lobbying from Britain in order to protect the business of trading funds). Most of all, it points to the possibilities for cooperation that open up when government bodies are freed from the pressure of having to operate as profit-making digital businesses.&middot;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Grande Bretagne: nul points. Fans of the Eurovision Song Contest would have felt at home last week watching Britain pick up no prizes at the European Commission's e-Government Awards, organised to encourage IT-based efforts to modernise public administration across the EU and beyond.In fact, Britain did better than its lack of silverware (and the domestic reputation of government IT projects) would suggest. We contributed five of the 52 projects selected to exhibit at the EU ministerial e-government conference in Lisbon. Of 20 countries featured, only Belgium, the Netherlands and Spain managed more.Britain's exhibits covered an impressive spectrum of activities: e-petition services from Downing Street, the South Yorkshire e@SY Connects partnership, IT training for the socially excluded carried out by 6,000 UK Online centres, the city of Newport's impressively joined-up public service - and direct.gov.uk, heroically destined to replace 688 existing government websites by 2011.Unfortunately, none of Britain's finalists caught the judges' eyes. Certainly, the five winners each showed a bit of X-factor. The city of Besan&ccedil;on, in southeastern France, won its trophy for sustainable efforts to bridge the digital divide by handing out recycled computers and open source software. Amsterdam has reduced the bureaucracy involved in licensing a cafe or restaurant to a single online form. The German government - traditionally a laggard in e-services - picked up the "effective and efficient administration" for its success in automating connections between different arms of government.And Italy's national online police station was judged "most inspiring good practice" for enabling citizens to file reports online. Britain was in fact the first European country to enable citizens to report crimes online, but the service has now been suspended. This week, the UK police portal displays the sad message: "Not available at present. Please contact your local force".The project that really knocks the UK in to the second division, however, is from Norway - a self-service web portal called Mypage which not only allows citizens to carry out transactions across government, but also to inspect what data official bodies hold on them.Britain, in theory, is moving in the same direction. Gillian Merron, Cabinet Office minister in charge of e-government, told the Lisbon event of plans to develop a single sign-on service which will notify all relevant official offices when we move house, change jobs or suffer a bereavement.That concept, a holy grail of e-government for the past 10 years, now has new impetus thanks to the Treasury's enthusiasm for centralising IT systems. It will almost certainly be based on the Government Gateway, an authentication and secure messaging service built by the old Office of the e-Envoy. Presumably the ID card will also have a role - Merron made a point of praising efforts by Austria and Belgium to introduce multi-purpose chip-cards that act as authentication tokens to government services.What's missing from the British scheme for one-stop government is any acknowledgement of, let alone enthusiasm for, citizens' rights to see what information the system holds on us. A wander around the e-government exhibits in Lisbon last week showed how seriously this right is taken elsewhere in Europe. If Gordon Brown's government is serious about a renewing the relationship between the government and the people, it should follow this example.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
After one year of getting fed up with Norton AntiVirus 2007, pre-installed on my desktop Dell, I tried to uninstall it and replace it with Kaspersky. However, I got an error message, and the Kaspersky product will not install until it is removed. I am loath to go back to the internet with an unprotected machine.John HomerIf antivirus products were easy to uninstall, viruses would uninstall them. If the uninstallation isn't complete, you can remove Norton manually, from Safe Mode, but this is tedious. Instead, download and run theNorton Removal Toolfrom Symantec. This won't take long, and is not a significant risk if you have a patched machine and a firewall turned on.
Only if it were worth $237 (&pound;117) - or even $237.99 - to Google. The Redmond giant was this week in talks to acquire part of the social networking site, which Nielsen/NetRatings said on Tuesday is the most popular in the UK, with 6.5 million users (up sixfold since December), ahead of MySpace with 6.3 million (up 20%) and Bebo (4.5 million, up 64%).What Microsoft is after is a slice of the hottest site online, and it is prepared to pay somewhere between $300m and $500m (&pound;125m to &pound;250m) for a 5% stake.That would value the site as a whole at between $6bn and $10bn - and the site says it has 42m users worldwide. The upper valuation values each of them at a tidy $238.09 each. Slightly less, now that another dozen have joined while you read this sentence.The question is: where exactly does that value reside? Facebook is profitable, expecting to turn a profit of $30m on revenues of $150m. But those numbers hardly put it among the leviathans of online commerce. That profit works out to 71 cents per user (slightly less now ... ); to realise that $238 figure, either everyone will have to go on using Facebook for the next 335 years, or the site will have to dramatically increase the profit it makes per user. Charlene Li, an analyst with Forrester, thinks the numbers could add up: "Ad spending is roughly $2,500 per adult in the US. $250-$333 represents between 6% and 10% of ad spend. If people spend as much time as they potentially could within Facebook, those numbers are feasible." But that does assume that ad spending holds up and that people don't tire of Facebook in the meantime.Three theories are now swirling around the discussion: that Microsoft  is deadly serious, and sees Facebook as its entry into the new world of web  services which it has struggled against its ageing self to embrace through  services like MSN Live; or that Microsoft is trying to get Google and, possibly, failed Facebook suitor Yahoo! (which had a billion-dollar offer turned down by Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg last year) to pitch in with even more ridiculous offers for a tiny slice of the site; or that Zuckerberg is holding out for an offer that would value the site at $15bn.The second theory is interesting because a 5% stake would offer no control, while the money paid would fund Facebook for a long time into the future, to a stock market flotation - said to be Zuckerberg's favoured path. And Microsoft already has a lucrative contract to serve ads on the site until at least 2011.Yahoo!, though, is drawing in its horns from big acquisitions after ejecting Eric Semel as chief executive in June, replacing him with Jerry Yang, one of the founders. And Google's purchase of a 5% stake in AOL for $1bn in December 2005, narrowly beating off Microsoft, put a $769 price on every AOL user's head. Since then, AOL's value has plunged. Google might not get fooled. Will Microsoft?&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Here, then, is the biggest game of the year: a pop-culture phenomenon with a colossal marketing budget and aspirations to match: it wants to top the record opening weekend take of $151m  (&pound;74m) held by the movie Spider-Man 3. It's not going to win awards for originality;  Bungie has opted not to mess with the formula. But its execution is immaculate. The jump to the Xbox 360 has benefited graphics and artificial intelligence: the storyline, which neatly wraps up the trilogy, is compelling, and a host of tweaks have rendered the gameplay less homogeneous. New objects, such as the stunning-looking Bubble Shield, weapons and vehicles - notably the Chopper and giant tanks - add some freshness, too. Although the single-player campaign is disappointingly short, the ability for four people to play through it, with the difficulty level cranked up, via Xbox Live, offers replay value, and of course there is a bewildering amount of multiplayer action to be had. A worthy finale to the legend that is Halo.
Google has started redirecting me to advertisements when I put in a search term and go to one of the sites it finds.Nicola GroveYour PC has a malware infection. One common cause of this redirection is an adware trojan called WareOut, and there's a fix called FixWareOut.exe. A new version of WareOut can install a rootkit, which makes it more dangerous. It could be something else, but it's probably worth doing the equivalent of a thorough clean up by following TechSpot's longstep-by-step routine.
This is an an old-skool shoot-em-up that has had a reasonable paint job for this semi-sequel. Mind you, it still looks like one of those old laserdisc arcade games, but it plays well enough as 15 levels of UFOs stream towards you. Kill them and they drop icons you'll need to complete the game; don't kill them and either they'll overwhelm you with numbers or force you into the scenery as you try to escape. It's undemanding stuff to be sure, but it's lovely to look at and with more than 20 enemy types and 15 bosses, there are plenty of ways for you to die. Luckily, once you upgrade your ship it lays down some mean firepower and the two-player co-op mode isn't bad, either.
Ooh, a Javascript popup. "The website at O2shop says: Your browser is out of date. Would you like to update it? (Recommended)".Grr. My browser is not out of date – you are, you dim piece of web coding that wouldn't recognise a cutting-edge barely-out-of-beta browser if it came round to your house and stamped repeatedly on your foot while saying "OK? Cancel? OK? Cancel?".It is one of the curses of modern life only slightly away from the bleeding edge that if you use a browser whose names doesn't start with "I" or "F" then you're likely to find that many sites just don't know about it. Come on down, people whose browsers begin with "S"! You're included in the exclusion, people whose browsers begin with "O"! (That's the uncomfortable bedfellows of Opera and Omniweb covered.) And now, stand up those - like me - whose browsers begin with "C "! That's "C" for Camino, which is actually Firefox (or Mozilla) with Apple clothing on. Apparently we make up something like 0.22% of web use. But probably 99% of the ones saying: "Stop telling me to update my browser!"We've all got a story, of course; unless you're a confirmed Internet Explorer user you'll have had the experience where a site simply won't work in one browser, but will in another. The trouble is that when browsers talk to sites, often the sites don't listen. If your browser doesn't walk up to the website door and show a Firefox or Internet Explorer badge on its lapel, then the Javascript bouncer on the door assumes you're some out-of-date browser, probably called "Mosaic" or "Netscape", and tells you that your name ain't on the guest list, and that means you must be using a Zimmer frame, so could you go away and get a body transplant, now?Yes, I know that life is impossible for web designers: Internet Explorer for years ignored all the existing conventions about web design and layout; if you've ever poked around in the raw output that Word generates and calls "HTML" but which actually looks like a sort of font soup, you'll know that following convention was never something IE was hot on. Whereas Firefox follows conventions like XHTML and CSS with the zealotry of the first Puritans. Torn between these two sides, is it any surprise that web designers throw their hands up when people come along with browsers that are neither and which demand a whole new load of twiddling?Except that it's such a stupid thing to do. You might as well let people on to the site - who knows, they might manage to buy something. Warn them that there might be incompatibilities, and then let them continue. But turning people away from your site - &agrave; la O2 - is such a 1995 attitude to the web. People will either be able to make your site work, or they won't. If they can't, well, you've warned them. After all, if my browser were that much out of date, the Javascript popup saying "your browser is out of date" wouldn't work. Did you ever stop to consider that, Mr Ever So Clever Web Coder?&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
You'll believe a man can flyIs it a bird? Is it a plane? No, it's Sir Clive Sinclair, braving his dangling scarf to boldly leap over giant cardboard computers to advertise the new QL micro in 1984. (Thanks, David McClymont.)"People! We have work to do!"What if people treated business meetings like they treat online forums? Spam, strong language, random interjections, in-jokes, not-jokes - all internet pond life is here.Careful with that Wiimote!See what happens when you hook a Wii remote up to an industrial robot - and give it a tennis racket ... and a sword.>Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
When a computer game gets mentioned in the same breath as the Harry Potter series, everyone starts to sit up straight. Over the past few nights, breathless newsreaders have been trying to explain the Halo 3 phenomenon, despite the fact that they've obviously never heard of Halo 1 or 2. Such is the power of moolah. Never mind the quality; the fact that Halo 3 made $125m in 24 hours means that the mainstream media has to talk about it.Halo and me go back some, and I have to say that I'm a little surprised by all the excitement. I played the first in the series and found it a fun take on the first-person shooter with a lot of depth and a few nice surprises. The depth was not to be found in the story (soldiers v aliens), but in the engrossing, tactical gameplay. The battles were actually difficult, thanks to the lack of ammunition and the above-average artificial intelligence of the enemies.But there was something annoying about the Halo universe that meant I couldn't give the game my heart. It only hit me in the first few levels of Halo 2: basically, it all looks the same. Every room looks like the last room. Every alien looks like every other alien (I exaggerate, but only somewhat). Worst of all, the aliens look like the scenery and the spaceships look like aliens.Also - and this kills me - some of the aliens appear to be about three feet tall. They run around yelling at each other with squeaky chipmunk voices, blending in with the shrubbery. It's like a labour dispute at the Wonka factory, and killing the things just makes you feel like a bully.That said, I love videogames, and because the makers of Bioshock have made it impossible for me to play their game on my PC, I may end up returning to Halo. Whatever caveats I might have about the thing, in the end I'm a sucker for pulse rifles.
WOW, Windows Vista presentacion EspañaNo embedding: click the image to open the site in a new windowThe new MSN Video has impressed Marshall Kirkpatrick at Read/Write Web: seeSurprise: MSN Has Built the Video Site of the Future. He writes:There are big changes underway over at MSN Video, some of which represent a real look forward for the industry. It's hard to believe, and it isn't pretty, but this is a site you've got to check out. The site's design, full screen player and advertising model are big.I think he likes the way you can watch multiple videos without ever reloading a page, and the way it pushes ads at you. Or, as Microsoft'spress releaseputs it, introduces "a new time-based advertising delivery model".I'm not sure why he doesn't mention that the beta has been around for a year, as Soapbox (below).What impressed me was the performance. Turns out I can right-click, hit F11 and watch the news practically full screen in reasonable quality, without any pauses. (Click the screen grab below for the full-size image.) That's nowhere near possible with YouTube or Google Video, where I usually either let the whole thing download before trying to watch it, or just download the FLV file with FlashGet.Of course, that may be because YouTube is overloaded while MSN Video is a ghost town, but it's still pretty impressive.Either way, it would be a great demo for Microsoft's Silverlight technology.... except it's actually done in Adobe Flash 9!
My God, how did I miss this? Yesterday, Sega confirmed that cult arcade and Dreamcast rhythm action game, Samba de Amigo, is coming to Wii. The 1999 title, originally developed by Sonic Team, is apparently set to be ported to the Nintendo machine by...Gearbox. Yes, Gearbox, the developer of Brothers In Arms and numerous Half-Life spin-offs as well as the forthcoming (and really quite awesome-looking)Borderlands. Quite how a history of creating blisteringly intense first-person shooters will prepare this Texan team for camp maraca-waving jiggery-pokery is anyone's guess.If you somehow missed out on the Dreamcast era, this wonderful game demanded that you shake two maracas at low, medium or high levels to a series of samba-fied pop covers, while occasionally striking glorious poses. Along with Sega Bass Fishing, NBA Showtime, Virtua Tennis, Soul Calibur and the surreally bad Worldwide Soccer Euro 2000 Edition, this was an office favourite at DC-UK magazine, an unequalled Friday afternoon tension-blaster. Copies of the game in the original packaging fetch silly money on eBay, mostly because - outside of Japan - so few people got hold of it at the time.Of course, Wii is the perfect home for the title, the Wiimote no doubt set to take on maraca duties. It's not clear yet whether the Gearbox effort will be a straight port or a re-imagining. If it's the former, will they include the semi-sequel, Samba de Amigo Version 2000 with its fabulous Hustle Mode? Ah, it takes me back. Someone bring me a Cachaça and my sturdy samba shoes. And try sayingthatafter four shots of Brazilian liquor and a burst of Mas Que Nada.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Nokia's N800 Internet Tablet and Apple's iPod Touch are similar devices with very obvious differences. The Nokia, for example, has a bigger touch screen (4.1in v 3.5in), built-in FM radio, and is open (runs Linux), so you can install applications. It comes with Skype so you can use it as a VoIP phone. The iPod Touch has much more storage (8GB or 16GB v 128MB) and is a much better music player, but it's a proprietary system and lacks the Nokia's communications features. Which to choose?At TabletBlog.com, ThoughtFix has done an interestingcomparisoncomplete with photos, videos, tests and a table. To skip to the conclusion:The winner here depends on which application is more important to the consumer. If you want a richer internet experience, installable applications, and a wider variety of functionality, get the N800. If you want a slim, attractive media player with occasional light web browsing thrown in, get an iPod touch. For me, neither will replace the other.As people point out in the comments, ThoughtFix doesn't comment on sound quality, which is a significant factor for people buying a music player. Also, it would have been even more interesting to include one of the newbig-screen Archos 4GB to 160GB devicessuch as the 605 (4.3in screen) or 705 (7in screen).
At GNUcitizen, Petko D Petkov has just blown a hole in Google's Gmail by showing "how someone can install apersistent backdoorwithin your GMail account and snoop onto all your conversations. I repeat, it is persistent. It is very critical and very unlikely that you will detect it unless you are an uber user."xMoDx has responded with a useful roundup ofrecent Google security holeswhich include the Google Search Appliance, Blogspot, Picasa and Google's Urchin Analytics service.Google also "won"MOSEB-- the Month of Search Engine Bugs -- withGoogle dorks strikes back, along with Microsoft'sMSN Shopping.The field is not without its funny side. One hackerdemonstrated a holewith an example that "will make Gmail forward all new received emails to another email account, no user interaction required, well you just need to open a website while still logged to Gmail." Later, he added:Update: Google fixed this issue, I'd like to ask the people that looked at the second poc to disable forwarding if you have not done so, I'm still getting ton of email.The point is that if a hacker sets a Gmail filter with mail forwarding, this continues to work forever, even after the hole is fixed.
When Ultima, EverQuest and Star Wars Galaxies veteranRaph Kosterannounced a new MMO company calledAreaeearlier this year(thx StatusJones), the whole virtual worlds community anxiously awaited what this visionary designer had to say. After all, Raph is responsible for one of the leadingdesign booksin industry and has been doingquite a lotof talkingabout the convergence of web and gaming, so what in the world could he be planning? Hmmm? We challenged him toa few questionsabout these subjects back in January.Finally, they have unveiled what many people have been anticipating - a DIY MMO gaming development tool calledMetaplace, accessible via Web using an open platform which can be adapted for spaces like Facebook and other social net apps, mobile phones, blogs and other popular formats. The developers intend to bring game development to the masses like the Internet opened up information. Proprietary worlds be gone! A tall order, perhaps, but we have faith in the good folks behind Areae.Now, just because the company is helmed by a great game designer doesn't mean the sceptics who populate the gamesblog's comments section will be appeased at the presence of a Web-like application on this publication. So I'm deferring to their community managerTami Baribeauto explain just why gamers should be excited about a product like Metaplace:First of all, Metaplace is a platform that allows you to build any sort of world or game that you wish. Our tools will enable users of all skill levels to create games that can be played anywhere on the web that reads our open client standard - which includes cell phones, blogs, Facebook widgets, Myspace, etc. We host the servers for you and provide forums so you can interact with your players. You can start your own game from scratch, or you can import a stylesheet (shooter, RPG) to give yourself a base to work off of. It's all pretty simple - even *I* have made something -- and I don't know anything about programming!Secondly, Metaplace.com itself will be a virtual worlds portal that allows you to discover and play new games and worlds. Rate your favorite games, earn badges, connect with other gamers and hop from one world to another with ease. We expect all sorts of unique games and worlds - everything from your standard RPGs, to Tetris clones, to Amazon bookstores, and university lecture halls....Well, we're making this platform in an effort to improve the pool of repetitive MMO mediocrity that is out there right now. We know that MMO gamers as a whole aren't really 'feeling' the current choices of games that they have. There is a lot of subscribing and unsubscribing and resubscribing. We are out to change all that, and this is the way to do it. Far better tools, faster development time, lower budgets, and openness to new talent. There really isn't a limitation to what people can make with Metaplace - and there are a lot of creative people out there with limited access to expensive tools and large teams. We're simplifying things so that even you can make something totally awesome, even without programming skills.Eh? how dat? From the Metaplace website:You can inherit someone else's world (if they let you) and use it as a starting point. You can slurp whole directories of art and use them as building blocks. Cut and paste a movement system or a health bar from one world to another. Use an RSS feed for your NPCs. We made puzzle games, RPGs, action games... and set up doorways from one to the other.It sounds like Metaplace is theLittle Big Planetfor the Web. It's not on it's own out there, of course. AsAliceexplains,The great thing about Areae - and others; VastPark just recently announced something similar-sounding, and Multiverse might make the 3D MMO a little simpler in places, plus there's always StudioCom's stuff for MTV, and Whirled - is that it's rushing into the enormous empty space between traditional Gaming and the Web. Playful web, or gaming 2.0, whatever you want to call it, there's a ton that each area of expertise can draw from the other in order to create some new frankensteinian wonders.AsTerra Novacomments, this application isn't going to replace the walled garden MMOs, like WoW or even Second Life, but like Little Big Planet and the titles Alice mentioned, this will provide libraries of content for people to create things faster and with the need for less programming skill, in the same way that social software has allowed people interested in using the internet who couldn't tell an API from an ape, to create apps and sites for themselves.I've signed up for the alpha (though the questionnaire I had to fill out was aleeeetle bittechnical, which may scare Joe and Jane Bloggs away from such an enterprise) so will keep you informed just how I get on.
David McCandless, official friend of Techblog and erstwhilecontributor to these pages, has a new book out -The Internet In Handy Book Form.The name probably gives it away... it's a rather titter-worthy spoof of everything out there on the world wide web.And, handily, it's not just in book form but also on the aforementioned internet. That's where you can find joys such as "Bahoogle", "Poormatch.com" and this one, Crackbook, "an addictive social utility that makes you feel that you're connecting with people when actually you're just not".The book's available to buyhere.
Well, it's finally here. Halo 3 has launched and those of you who own a 360 are either playing or at work and counting down the hours. Sorry, I've clearly been caught in Microsoft's hype ray. But whether you think Halo 3 is the pinnacle of next-gen gaming or merely a beefed up Halo 2 with ambitious online elements, this game is big news. And I've enjoyed what I've played so far. It doesn't make you gawp in wonder like the first hour of Bioshock but that's probably because the characteristically intense action doesn't give you the time to admire the scenery.But quite frankly the single player is only the introduction to the game. Halo 3 is all about the online. There are numerous adversarial options that can be tuned to the nth degree but more interesting are the co-op and user generated elements. The Forge is a powerful innovation that takes UGC (user-generated-content) gaming out of the PC cul-de-sac and into the mainstream. Capturing the chaos, creating clips, level design - the number of customisation opportunities is ridiculous. The co-op is fantastic too, with four players able to play through the main story - I fully plan to spend most of my initial online time in co-op. It works surprisingly well and gives a welcome break from teenage assassins. Offline 360 owners are experiencing only half a game - albeit a highly polished and enjoyable shooter - but if you have signed up to Live and have any interest in shooters then you are in for a treat. Bought Halo 3 then? What do you think?
At first sight it is just another fantasy-science fiction-shoot-em-up, the staple diet of teenage computer gamers. But the launch of Halo 3 at midnight last night represents the latest shot in what is becoming the entertainment industry's most lucrative battleground.In just six years Halo has sold more than 15m copies worldwide and become the most profitable video game franchise in history. Thousands of gamers turned out at shops around the country overnight to get their hands on the final instalment in the series, underlining the growing importance of console games to the entertainment industry - and Halo's vital role in the war to control the £19bn market.Just 24 hours after it went on sale in the US on Monday, the game had racked up $125m (£62m) in sales. By comparison, Spider-Man 3 - which broke box office records when it was released this summer - made $151m in its first three days.The numbers underscore the growing value of the games industry, estimated to be worth $38bn worldwide. Although the movie business is still larger - thanks to DVD sales - profits made by gaming have quickly elevated its position. The launch of new games and consoles are now staples in the entertainment industry calendar.The success of bestselling games is even feeding back into the film world, with Lord of the Rings mastermind Peter Jackson signing up to create a new series of games based around the concept. A film is currently on hold because of legal wrangles.Fans have craved the arrival of the latest episode in the Halo series ever since its last outing in 2004. Costing £49.99, it is expected to ring up huge profits for the title's publisher, Microsoft, and could even help it outstrip the money made by record-breaking Hollywood blockbusters. The game cost an estimated $60m to produce. But its creators expect to swiftly recoup their investment with more than a million fans placing orders for Halo 3 before it was released.While Halo's premise sounds more like a B-movie than an Oscar winner - it follows the fortunes of a futuristic superhuman soldier on a mission to defeat aliens - the fact that players around the world can compete against each other over the internet has helped it sell more than 15m copies since 2001.Excitement was high at the US launch. Bill Gates, the Microsoft founder, was even on hand to sell copies of the game near his home in Seattle.Those gathered for the UK launch in London last night were treated to a party hosted by US producer Pharrell Williams. The high-profile launches underline Microsoft's hopes that the game's success will help its Xbox games console take on Japanese rivals Sony and Nintendo.Within hours of the launch, the game's secret ending had been revealed on the web. Early users uploaded the final scenes on to YouTube, potentially ruining the surprise for others. Neil Thomson, head of Xbox UK played down the damage. "It is disappointing when people do that but we think Halo 3 is about the journey through the game and that is more exciting than the last five minutes," he said.Microsoft also had to offer replacements for a limited edition version of the game as its special packaging scratched the disks it contained.
Cash-strapped students will be able to save their money for books and beer with the launch yesterday of a mobile service which offers free calls and texts if customers receive advertising on their phone.Blyk, a start-up run by the former president of Nokia, is targeting 16-to-24-year-olds with 217 free texts and 43 minutes of talk time every month. It has signed up 45 advertisers including McDonald's, Coca Cola, Boots and L'Oreal. "There's no contract, no cash, no hooks," said co-founder and chief executive Pekka Ala-Pietila. "This could mean no more phone bills for up to 4.5 million young people."The news came as MySpace, the social networking site owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp, announced plans to offer its own free mobile service, which it hopes will also make money from advertising. MySpace users will be able to update blogs, find friends and change their mood status using their mobile phones.The launch of Blyk will raise further concerns about the way that advertisers are circumventing traditional regulated advertising markets such as TV to get at the youth market. Industry analysts are also yet to be convinced that a business with fixed costs will be able to support itself solely with ad revenues.Blyk is operating an invitation-only basis, putting invites in fresher's week packs at 30 UK universities. If a user exceeds the free monthly allowance, the phone reverts to the basic Orange pay-as-you-go tariff. "While still a good deal, most customers will use their free minutes quickly, and then need to top up," said Jonathan Arber at analysts Ovum.
The British Stammering Association has strongly protested to the YouTube website over videos showing people struggling to speak which have been classified by the website as comedy.Leys Geddes, director of the association, said a number of YouTube videos show people fighting to make themselves understood, including three which he said appeared to be "malicious and stereotypical".In an email exchange with YouTube he said: "By categorising so many videos which feature people who stutter as comedy, I think you prove my point."Tell me, do you encourage your viewers to laugh at people who are blind, crippled or deaf? Are they part of the comedy show too?"YouTube replied that the videos did not violate its terms of use. Mr Geddes has now posted his own video on the website, arguing for greater understanding for those who stammer.MP Kate Hoey, one of the association's supporters, said: "For many people, particularly youngsters, stammering is not a joke - we need to ensure that help and support is given as early as possible and, most of all, we need to educate the public to understand the impact it has on people for the whole of their lives."Mr Geddes said that mockery was potentially very damaging. In 1994 26-year-old Dominic Barker killed himself because, even though he held two degrees, his stammer prevented him getting a job.
So Halo 3 is out in the States and the hype-smothered launch has not gone unnoticed by the mainstream media. And fortunately, news sources have made full use of all three key 'big videogame launch' clichés.And they are:1. Let's laugh at all the freaks who queue up at midnight to purchase a videogame.Take it awayUSA Today(an extra point for interviewing the first chap in the line),CNET(ten points for insinuating that violence was a palpable and imminent threat) andCanada.com(100 points for pointing out that many disks handed out to Toronto gamers were actually scratched due to faulty packaging - that's hypeandpathos!).2. These idiots are going to pull sickies, plunging the shaky economy into meltdown.Take a bowUSA Today(again!) andPennLive. TheWashington Postloses points for actually asking people who are thinking of taking a Halo sickie to email them - presumably so they can can gather evidence for an 'Idiots bring about economic collapse to fight aliens' piece.3. Jack ThompsonYes, the publicity-loathing attorney has apparently 'targetted' Halo 3. According toThe Registerand Game Politics among others, he's launching some kind of hair-brained lawsuit against the game. Frankly, I don't have the mental strength to investigate this any further.With all these initial bases covered, reporters can now move onto the second wave of 'big videogame launch' news stories including the classic 'was Big Videogame worth all the hype?', the tragic 'Man loses job due to Big Videogame addiction' or the female-orientated favourite 'sex life has gone down the pan thanks to Big Videogame'. Come on, we're waiting...
Amazon.com's newAmazon MP3store now claims "Earth's biggest selection of a la carte DRM-free MP3 music downloads". It has more than two million 256kbps MP3 files from more than 180,000 artists from more than 20,000 labels. From thepress release:"Amazon MP3 is an all-MP3, DRM-free catalog of a la carte music from major labels and independent labels, playable on any device, in high-quality audio, at low prices," said Bill Carr, Amazon.com Vice President for Digital Music."This new digital music service has already been through an extensive private beta, and today we're excited to offer it to our customers as a fully functional public beta. We look forward to receiving feedback from our customers and using their input to refine the service."Many people have said they would be willing to pay more for tracks that are not protected with DRM (Digital Rights Management) code: Amazon is selling most things for less than DRM-crippled tracks from Apple's iTunes store, sometimes for much less. More than a million tracks cost 89c with most at 99c, instead of iTunes's 99c and $1.29. While there are "featured albums" at $7.99 and most are $8.99, there's quite a selection at oddball prices such as $3.96, $2.67 and less.The Amazon selection looks reasonably good, with lots of tracks from EMI and Universal (which has fallen out with Apple), It doesn't appear to have anything from Sony BMG yet.You can download tracks directly (I haven't tried) but "If you wish to purchase an entire album, you are required to use the Amazon MP3 Downloader available for Windows XP or Vista and Mac OS X 10.4 or higher." This works with your default browser, and is part of the first download process. You don't need buggy, bloated iTunes software or a buggy, bloated media player. And you won't have an iPod lock-in problem, because you can easily copy the songs to any music player or phone.Finally, Amazon doesn't have to face the barrier that blocks most online music stores: getting people to sign up to pay for stuff. Hundreds of millions of people already have Amazon accounts, often with 1-click ordering turned on. They'll be able to buy downloads alongside books and physical CDs.Amazon.com isn't going to kill iTunes. However, assuming that not all iTunes Store shoppers will keep paying higher prices for an inferior product, it could well eat into its sales... at least until Apple drops DRM as well.Update: Daring Fireball's John Gruber, a Mac fan, has given Amazon a thumbs up.He writes:In just a few minutes of shopping, I found plenty of songs at Amazon that are only available from the iTunes Store with DRM. Given the Amazon MP3 Store's audio quality, prices, and user experience, I can't see why anyone would buy DRM-restricted music from iTunes that's available from Amazon. And given that Amazon is quite a bit cheaper than iTunes Plus, you might as well check Amazon first. I plan to.In alater post, Gruber adds some information from his readers. One concerns price differences:You can find some significant differences between Amazon's and iTunes's prices for the same music. DF reader Sunil Kapoor pointed to the album Cornell 1964 by Charles Mingus, which sells for $16.99 at iTunes and $8.99 at Amazon. Same with Pink Floyd's The Wall: $16.99 at iTunes, $8.99 at Amazon.
So, the fact that Microsoft is rumoured to be payingup to $500mfor a 5% stake in Facebook would indicate that the social networking site du jour is worth a tidy $10 billion.This is, conveniently, the same kind of amount that investor Peter Thiel has suggested the site might be valued at. And it's enough to keep Mark Zuckerberg amply supplied with those Adidas flip-flops he's so keen on.Given that Facebook currently has 42 million users, a valuation of $10bn means each user is worth $238 - that's about £120 in real money.Meanwhile, a new traffic report from Nielsen Netratings (reported here by fellow Guardianista Jemima) suggests that not only is Facebook now bigger than MySpace in the UK, but that each user spends two hours 32 minutes on the site each month.If we carry on our back-of-the-envelope calculations, that would mean that each hour that a Facebook user spends aimlessly poking ex-boyfriends is worth £48 to Mark Zuckerberg and pals.Does that seem drastically over the top? Or does it completely undervalue the amount of time and energy people spend farting around on the site? I'm not sure - but maybe you've got a better idea.
Latest developer notes on the (still beta) next version of OS X, codenamed "Leopard", used to say that it's for "an Intel processor or a PowerPC G4 (800MHz or faster) or G5 processor",according to AppleInsider.Now, apparently, that's been moved up to 867MHz.Why the exclusion? Ran too slow on machines below that. Which you can understand: it gets harder to get comparatively slower systems to perform some of the video (especially) and CPU work snappily enough to give a satisfactory user experience.AppleInsider again:Though seemingly mild, the 67MHz increase [from the previous lower limit] will exclude a handful of Mac system, namely the 800MHz PowerBook G4 (Titanium), 800MHz PowerMac G4 (Quicksilver), 800MHz iMac G4, 800MHz iBook G4, and 800MHz eMac.However, according tothis pagefrom the (unofficial) Apple Museum (which seems itself to have headed towards the site museum), Apple sold a machine - the eMac - that ran at 800MHz untilOctober 2003- when it also phased out G3-based iBooks to replace them with the (800MHz)G4 iBooks.So, is four years long enough for an operating system's life? In that period, anyone who bought one of those machines would haveupgraded to Panther(10.3) and inApril 2005 to Tigerand now has the chance tochug on with Leopard. That's not bad for some ageing kit, is it?Meanwhile, there are already rumours that the successor to Leopard - 10.6, as yet no codename - won't work on PowerPC-based Macs. But there's probably not much reason to worry on that score. By current progress, my guess is that 10.6 won't be troubling our doorsteps before 2010.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
It is the scourge of middle managers, who fear their employees spend too much time using it, and beloved by people with a penchant for gaining new friends and indulging in internet Scrabble.Now Facebook, the phenomenally popular social networking site, is at the centre of financial speculation, which, if it comes to fruition could value a company set up three years ago by a Harvard dropout at a staggering $10bn (£5bn).According to the Wall Street Journal, Microsoft is poised to buy a 5% stake in the firm for between $300m and $500m. That would make Facebook worth up to $10bn in all and turn its founder Mark Zuckerberg, 23, into one of the wealthiest men in California's Silicon Valley.Facebook began as a site where university students could stay in touch with friends by exchanging photos, messages, electronic "gifts" and tips. But since Mr Zuckerman threw it open to all entrants in September last year it has been gaining 200,000 new members every day. Of its members, five million are from Britain.Such was its popularity with workers at Medway Hospitals Trust that managers claimed they were slowing down vital hospital IT systems and banned it.Neither Microsoft nor Facebook would comment on the speculation last night. It is not the first time Facebook has been the target of interest from the technology industry's established players. Yahoo! tried to buy it for $1bn last year and Google has expressed interest in investing.The valuation would amount to $238 for each of the 42 million people who have Facebook profiles.Microsoft already has a contract to supply display advertising to Facebook. An investment would be a sign of the Seattle-based software company's keenness to strengthen its position on the internet - an area in which it is still considered to be relatively weak.Kim Caughey, a senior analyst at Fox Pitt Capital, said: "It would probably be pretty good for Microsoft since it has not had the best success in creating really hip, young-people-grabbing stuff on the web." Facebook reportedly expects to make profits of $30m on revenue of $150m this year.But its origin is the subject of a legal battle. Three Harvard classmates of Mr Zuckerberg have sued him in a Boston court, claiming that he stole the idea - which he insists he came up with in a college dorm - from them.Having been educated first at state schools and then the exclusive Phillips Exeter Academy boarding school, Mr Zuckerberg enrolled at Harvard in 2002. He was already keen on computing, having first started when he was 10.He tried various attempts to create networking software for the college population, eventually producing The Facebook. It was an instant hit, with half of the student body signing up within a fortnight, attracted by the way it allowed them to share information and keep in touch with friends, and the phenomenon soon spread to colleges across the north-eastern United States while its founder moved to California to run the site.Mr Zuckerberg, who is famed for his casual dress and love of open-toed Adidas sport sandals, is said to have remained down-to-earth despite the success of his creation. Now he looks set to become the latest young internet entrepreneur to be catapulted into the rich lists thanks to a major dotcom deal.Last October the founders of then 20-month-old video website YouTube accepted a $1.65bn takeover offer from web search firm Google.The deal turned Chad Hurley and Steve Chen, who set up the site in a California garage, into two of America's wealthiest businessmen at the ages of 29 and 27.
British video game fans were today preparing for what experts said would be the biggest launch in entertainment history.The latest instalment in the popular Halo games franchise hits the UK's high streets at midnight after months of hype and anticipation among gamers.Microsoft, the game's producers, claim it is on course to make more than £60m in just 24 hours, which would make it the fastest-selling video game of all time.Halo 3 follows the adventures of a superhuman soldier who is on a mission to defeat alien invaders.The final instalment in the series has been in development for three years, costing an estimated $60m (£29.8m) to produce. Microsoft's investment looks set to pay off, with more than 1 million copies of the £40 game already ordered around the world.Excitement was high at the US launch last night, with hundreds of gamers crowding outside shops.In Britain, tonight's proceedings will kick off with a launch party at London's iMax cinema, hosted by the US musician Pharrell Williams. Later, more than 1,000 shops around the country will open to satisfy demand for the game.Halo has become a critical weapon for Microsoft in its attempt to overtake Sony's PlayStation as the premier name in computer games.The franchise is exclusively available for its Xbox games console, which recently lost its position as the country's most popular next generation games machines to Nintendo's Wii.A Microsoft spokesman yesterday admitted that Halo 3's success was vital to the company's performance over the important Christmas period."This is a critical holiday in terms of winning the next generation console fight versus our competition, and nobody has anything to go up and match Halo," Shane Kim, the vice president of Microsoft Game Studios, said.
A computer intended to improve education for children in developing countries is to be offered to western buyers.Engineers at the One Laptop Per Child project, based in the US, have built a low-cost computer designed to work in some of the world's most undeveloped areas. Until now only governments have been invited to buy the machines, but in an attempt to jump-start the project, western consumers will soon be able to buy their own version.In return for spending $399 (&pound;197), customers will receive their own laptop as well as paying for a second computer for children in deprived parts of world. To begin with, the machines will be donated to youngsters in countries such as  Afghanistan, Haiti and Rwanda.The machine, conceived by researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, incorporates a number of innovations, including a high-resolution screen and low power consumption. It can be powered by solar energy, foot pump or a clockwork charger.The idea is that access to learning aids and hi-tech equipment will help children in some of the world's poorest countries learn skills that can lift them out of  poverty. The scheme will run for two weeks in November, and only in North America
Two years ago BT agreed to separate the millions of phone lines in the nation's skirting boards from the rest of its business to create a standalone company that would deal equally with any operator that wanted to get into the digital home of the future.Since then Openreach, as that new business became known, has handed over control of more than 3m of the UK's near 30m phone lines to rivals such as Carphone Warehouse's TalkTalk and Tiscali, so they can provide services from home telephony and broadband internet access to TV. A further 5m BT lines are being rented by rivals, using BT's wholesale product, for broadband services. As a result, the UK residential telephony market is fast becoming one of the most competitive in the world.But the set-up may soon change again since Ofcom is preparing a fundamental rethink of the UK broadband market. The regulator is asking the entire industry what is needed to prepare the country for the digital future as media move online. In this new world, broadband speeds must increase. Will the UK need to dump the copper lines that have connected households for generations? Will the industry have to enter a new era of infrastructure investment? If it does, who will pay for it?Tomorrow's launch of a wide-ranging Ofcom consultation on so-called "next generation access networks" follows comments last week from Stephen Timms, minister for competitiveness and formerly in charge of e-commerce, that the UK faces a "new challenge"."Other countries are starting to invest in new, fibre-based infrastructure, delivering considerably higher bandwidth than is available in the UK today," he said in his first major speech in his new role. "It is essential that the UK undertakes timely deployment of technology - we can't lag behind."Countries such as Korea, Japan, the US and Germany are spending billions building networks based on fibre-optic technology that can deliver broadband speeds far faster than anything possible on the UK's copper wires.Mr Timms raised the question of whether the government needs to inject funds, but the figures involved are unlikely to please the Treasury. Privately BT reckons that putting fibre into the roadside cabinets that dot Britain's streets and act as the first gatekeeper to the nation's telephone connections could cost anything up to &pound;10bn. Actually getting it into people's homes would cost at least the same again.In the days before the regulator forced through the separation of BT's local access network from the rest of the business, any discussion about the future would have pitched the former state-owned monopoly against everyone else. But Openreach's chief executive, Steve Robertson, believes times have changed since his business was created and when it comes to deciding where to invest, the whole industry must be involved.PartnershipThough some in the telecoms market are adamant that the connection between BT and its network is still too close, others such as Carphone Warehouse see Openreach as more of a partner than a competitor. It is a partnership that is becoming increasingly important. As companies offer more and more services over broadband, so the connection itself - as maintained by Openreach - becomes ever more important. Local loop unbundling - the process by which Openreach helps competitors take control of BT's lines - has been a big success. This means that if a person's broadband connection fails, not only do they lose their access to the internet, but their TV or video-on-demand service disappears and increasingly their home phone dies.New worldThe appearance of this new inter-connected market means it is time the industry stopped using Ofcom as a referee in disputes over particular issues and started to work together to decide where it wants this market to go in the long term, Mr Robertson believes."If we judge ourselves by historical standards we can make a convincing case to say we are probably delivering better than we have ever delivered," he says. "However, if we judge ourselves on the standards that we are going to have to deliver to support this new market, now is probably the time to be saying we need to rip up the rulebook."I think there was a time when it was BT and everybody else, but the new world we are creating is much more complicated than that. There are lots of substantial players who have a stake in this market now. We have to collaborate."The discussion about next-generation access networks is an obvious candidate for testing out this new approach. In countries such as Germany, the regulator has secured the incumbent operator's return on its investment in new networks by letting it retain any customer it connects. Openreach has no desire to go down this route and, as Mr Robertson puts it, "take the whole value chain". He wants to invest in next-generation technologies but make that platform available to all comers. He already plans to do so for new homes.The real problem, however, is what to do about upgrading the residential broadband network. The economics simply do not work unless BT Retail and rivals such as Sky, Tiscali and TalkTalk agree to make use of the new technology and pay for it. In essence, "the decision about whether to put fibre in is not just a BT decision", he says. "Our model says we do not take the whole value chain, we do make it available to everybody else and that means the financial case is even more demanding."The regulator is already examining the undertakings that BT signed up to when it formed Openreach, making sure that the company has met the promises it made during the telecoms strategic review. Those promises prevented the regulator forcibly splitting the network from the rest of the business.But John Pluthero, head of Cable &amp; Wireless Europe, Asia and US, is in no doubt that Openreach is far from perfect. "The telecoms strategic review was all about relinquishing powers in return for specific measurable undertakings from BT," he said. "Given the number of times BT has breached its undertakings, why would anyone believe that anything has changed?"Openreach has broken its promises more than a dozen times over the past two years although BT maintains that these breaches were not serious and mostly procedural. But there are certainly still some major issues with the company. In its most recent report, the telecoms adjudicator said Openreach was still too slow in dealing with some of the faults reported by its customers.Ever since it was created there have been questions about whether Openreach should remain part of BT. Its creation has arguably helped create a vibrant and competitive broadband market in the UK, but with Ofcom asking what the industry should look like, it remains to be seen whether Openreach will get to blow out its next set of birthday candles.Explainer: Next generationThe rapid rise in broadband usage across the UK has fuelled a boom in online content. From high-specification newspaper websites and music download sites to video content, the market is expanding. But to access all this digital content, internet users need ever-faster connections. This year the government's independent adviser, the Broadband Stakeholder Group, warned that by 2012 British internet connections will need to be about 10 times the speed they are now. The average UK broadband household gets somewhere between two megabits a second - 50 times faster than dial-up - and eight megabits. BT's copper wires are able to get up to 24 megabits a second in some cases and the company plans a nationwide 24 megabits service next year. But in cities such as Hong Kong and Seoul, 100 megabit connections are common. The question to be posed by Ofcom tomorrow is whether the network must be junked in favour of new fixed-line technologies such as fibre-optic cables or augmented by technologies such as high-speed wireless broadband.
Sling Media, the company that makes the Slingbox (a gizmo that lets you stream your TV signal to anywhere on the net) announced some big news last night:it's being bought.The suitor is EchoStar, an American satellite company that runs The DISH network. It's far from a household name in Britain, but it is the third-largest pay-TV operator in the States, and the deal is apparently worth in the region of $380m.What does this mean for Slingbox users in the UK? Well, in an interview withinterview with PaidContent, founder Blake Krikorian says it's "just the beginning" and emphasises that Sling has a worldwide product. But buying into one of the networks, rather than staying independent, could have potential implications on deals with broadcasters and other satellite companies around the globe.Related:Almost exactly a year ago we ran an interview with Krikorian: "Sling your telly around the world".
Games Radarhas put together a phenomenal list of 101 titbits of useless (but fascinating) trivia about games and the games industry. Their efforts should be commended. Quite a worthwhile way to waste the afternoon. Among the fascinating factoids include:7. The first ever product released by Sony was a rice cooker.16. There are 504 pieces of character equipment in Final Fantasy X on PS2.46. Before settling on its nonsensical 'Simlish' dialogue for The Sims, the game's creators experimented with languages such as Ukrainian, Navajo and Tagalog.73. 'J Allard' is actually J Allard's name. It was changed from James Allard.Head toGames Radarfor more frippery.
Arguably the most prestigious gaming gongs, the British Academy Video Game Awards (BAFTA's) have just announced the nominations. And while it's great to see the deserving likes of Crackdown (Gameplay) and Okami (Artistic Achievement) getting picked you have to wonder how the like of Crysis and Kane &amp; Lynch - both unreleased - can get nominated for Best Game. Heck, if we're judging on potential what about Mass Effect? Anyway, read on for the full list..Action and AdventureCrackdown (Xbox 360) Gears of War (Xbox 360) God of War 2 (PS2) Orange Box (PC) Ratchet and Clank: Tools of Destruction (PS3) The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess (Wii)Artistic AchievementBioshock (Xbox 360) Heavenly Sword (PS3) Okami (PS2) Ratchet and Clank: Tools of Destruction (PS3) Skate (PS3) Viva Piñata (Xbox 360)Best GameBioshock (Xbox 360) Crysis (PC) Gears of War (Xbox 360) Guitar Hero II (PS2) Kane &amp; Lynch: Dead Men (Xbox 360) Wii Sports (Wii)CasualBig Brain Academy for Wii (Wii) Cake Mania (DS) Guitar Hero II (PS2) More Brain Training (DS) SingStar (PS3) Wii Sports (Wii)GameplayCrackdown (Xbox 360) Gears of War (Xbox 360) Sega Rally (PS3) The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess (Wii) Warhawk (PS3) Wii Sports (Wii)Innovationfl0w (PSN) Okami (PS2) Super Paper Mario (Wii) The Eye of Judgement (PS3) Trauma Center: Second Opinion (Wii) Wii Sports (Wii)MultiplayerBattlefield 2142 (PC) Crackdown (Xbox 360) Guitar Hero II (PS2) Wii Sports (Wii) World in Conflict (PC) World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade (PC)Original ScoreFinal Fantasy XII (PS2) God of War 2 (PS2) Lair (PS3) Okami (PS2) The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess (Wii) Viva Piñata (Xbox 360)SportsFootball Manager 2008 (PC) Colin McRae: DiRT (Xbox 360) FIFA 08 (PS3) MotorStorm (PS3) Virtua Tennis 3 (Xbox 360) Wii Sports (Wii)Strategy and SimulationCommand &amp; Conquer: Tiberium Forza Motorsport 2 (Xbox 360) Medieval II: Total War Kingdoms (PC) Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas (Xbox 360) Wii Sports (Wii) World in Conflict (PC)Story and CharacterFinal Fantasy XII (PS2) God of War 2 (PS2) Heavenly Sword (PS3) Okami (PS2) The Darkness (Xbox 360) The Simpsons Game (Xbox 360)Technical AchievementCrackdown (Xbox 360) Gears of War (Xbox 360) God of War 2 (PS2) MotorStorm (PS3) Okami (PS2) Uncharted: Drake's Fortune (PS3)Use of AudioCrackdown (Xbox 360) Elite Beat Agents (DS) Gears of War (Xbox 360) God of War 2 (PS2) Guitar Hero II (PS2) Skate (PS3)BAFTA One's To Watch Award in association with Dare to Be DigitalRagnarawk ClimbActic Bear Go HomeThe PC World Gamers Award (The only award to be voted for by the public)Dr Kawashima's Brain Training (DS) FIFA 07 (PS2) Football Manager 2007 (PC) Gears of War (Xbox 360) Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories (PSP) Resistance: Fall of Man (PS3) Wii Play (Wii)
IVAN OOPSThe intro paragraph incorrectly states that the robot was devised by Ivan Bowman. It is used by Bowman, but it was devised by Ian McHardy who is a collegue of Bowman's at iAnywhere. Donna McHardy, Waterloo, CanadaPALM'S WOES&gt;&gt; can the company compete and survive for another 18 months before be able to release its new platform? That's got to be approaching two generations of iPhones, BlackBerries and others into the future. Uh oh…http://www.pocketpicks.co.uk/&gt;&gt; I believe there is still a window (all puns intended) of opportunity for Palm to create a compelling mobile platform. However, if it's not able to deliver the goods in 2008 (and I mean sooner rather than later), then that may very well be the end of an era in enterprise mobility.http://www.enterprisemobilitymatters.com/&gt;&gt; the delays in the next generation of the Palm OS mean that its fans will have another year of models running an operating system that first debuted in 2002.http://www.latest-mobile.com/&gt;&gt; Lets face it, if they didn't grab up those Windows Mobile licenses, they wouldn't even still be in business!http://dukecarico.com/&gt;&gt; watch the new executives kill the Palm OS and just got to Windows and be done with this delay.http://thelordshome.com/blog/TECHNOBILE: CHARGERSThe simple answer to Michael Cross's complaint is to label all your chargers, plugs and cables using the self-adhesive labels obtainable from all good stationers and covering them with clear Takibak. Patrick Ford, CarshaltonI agree whole heartedly, in fact I've blogged about your article on Iveswitched.co.uk, a micro campaign site aimed at getting people to use power strips with switched so that we can turn some of the multitude of black boxes off when we are not using them. I'm trying to get people to assess how many of these power supplies they really need to have plugged in all the time. Then to buy a new power strip with switches for the ones they can turn off, as no one unplugs them. Gavin Bell, LondonI completely agree with Michael Cross's article (Technobile, 13th September). It is ludicrous to have so many different types of chargers for all our electronic gadgets. Let's get the manufacturers to agree a common voltage standard and a common connector type. My Motorola mobile uses a mini-USB socket, which seems a good candidate. But if manufacturers were to adopt a common standard, not just for mobile kit but for every gadget that converts AC to DC, we could go further. Every new house could be built with DC cabling alongside the historical AC cables. A single, highly efficient, AC to DC transformer would supply power to your hi-fi, cable box, laptop, mobile phone, PC/Mac, halogen desk lamp, radio, DVD player - in fact to almost every piece of electronic kit in the house. The result should save power, as the central transformer would be more efficient. On a larger scale, Ultraspeed have built a DC-powered data centre in London and claims to save 30% of its electricity bill by doing so. Dave Berry, EdinburghMichael Cross has a very justified dig at wall warts (as I believe they're known in certain parts.) Douglas Adams wrote a very similar piece a while back; I think it's in one of the anthologies published after his death. Which of course leads me on to Apple machines of which D.A. was such a devotee, and reminds me that the only devices I own which have distinctive external transformers, I'll go further - that actually look quite pretty sticking out of your skirting board - are those from Mr. Jobs's workshop. Ed Walker, HalifaxADOBE AIR: GOOD OR BAD?Websites that dump applciations on desktops? er, hasn't this sort of thing been around for some time? Otherwise known as computer viruses? Am I being Luddite in being dismayed by the thought of yet another means of delivering unwanted crud on my computer? Robert Ward, Leeds&gt;&gt; Interesting, though one needs to wait and see whether this one finds more acceptability than similar efforts in the past with Java applets...http://www.eit.in/b/awe/WEB CENSORSHIP (FINKELSTEIN)&gt;&gt; a "Libertarian Model" - in which there is no government censorship - is much like the element Einsteinium: it doesn't exist in nature. All puns aside, this got me thinking: is the internet the closest mankind has ever gotten to a pure Libertarian media model?http://borntocritique.blogspot.com/HOW LONG IS FOREVER?I haven't been using personal finance software for years. Why when I can use a SAAS? My personal choice, Mvelopes Personal. No other application on the market (software or competitive SAAS) can compete with its targeted cash flow management tool. It's integrated bill pay feature brings yet another added value. I am consistently saving around 15% of my monthly income by using this service, so its inexpensive subscription fee has never phased me one bit. It in my mind is the leader in personal finance applications. They even have a localized version in your own currency, the British Sterling Pound! Ryan Ragazzo, Salt Lake City, UtahEXPENSE OUR DATA? Robert Ward (Letters 13 September) makes sound sense, but your "Free Our Data" philosophy is more deeply flawed than he indicates. Even if taxpayers have already paid for official data to be collected and analysed, making it available on demand free of charge is definitely not a zero-cost option. Have you asked us taxpayers if we're happy to bear the extra tax cost, or even tried to establish what that might be? Secondly, spreading such costs among all taxpayers is fair only if everyone makes roughly the same use of the service. I have no need for Ordnance Survey stuff. Why should I pay the costs of enquiries others make, particularly if they are making a profit on the deal? "Free" data? What time is the next flying pig? Robert Sproat, LondonMICROSOFT AND OOXMLI was interested to read Charles Arthur's piece on the problems Microsoft faces in supporting legacy formats (Microsoft closes ranks on Office Open XML, Sept 7). Mr Arthur is quite right, of course, that Microsoft has always valued backwards compatibility more highly that most other PC companies (the champions of the artform are probably IBM, where software written for a 1960s mainframe will often still run on a modern system today). Whereas Microsoft tortured itself trying to ensure that old DOS programs worked on Windows '95, Apple made far less effort with the move to Mac OS X and Mac users just had to lump it. This does seem to have been a winning strategy for Microsoft whilst, as noted in the piece, leaving them with piles of legacy cruft to support. Should this be reason to feel a little sorry for Microsoft's problems in getting OOXML as a recognised standard? Perhaps, but that seems to miss the main reason for Microsoft's problems, touched on by Mr Arthur and mentioned elsewhere by Jack Schofield (e.g. http://www.guardian.co.uk/technology/2007/jun/21/comment.comment1). It isn't that Microsoft has all the legacy formats to support that's the real problem; it's that they won't give anyone else the specifications for those formats. Of course, that's a direct result of Microsoft furthering its own business interests rather than helping consumers. We'd all have been much better off if we'd been able to convert documents flawlessly between WordPerfect, MS Word and WordPro back in the 1990s, but then we'd have been able to buy products based on which was the best for our needs, rather than because that's what most other people had bought, and Microsoft would never have established its near-monopoly of the Office Suite market. It could quite possibly be that these old formats are not documented in any sensible way even internally within Microsoft, and opening up the formats now would be more trouble than it's worth; but it seems a bit much for Microsoft to use secret file formats as a way to beat the opposition into submission ten years ago and now to ask for our sympathy over the problems they have producing an open format now. Iain Roberts, StockportONLINE CRIMEWendy M Grossman "Why small online fraudsters get away with it" (6th September) is right to highlight problems of investigating internet-based fraud, but is wrong to blame it on the "disappearance" of the National High-Tech Crime Unit into the Serious Organised Crime Agency (SOCA) where their role is largely unchanged. Calls for a central e-crime reporting mechanism are understandable but misplaced: We don't have a central unit for reporting mail-order based crime or malicious phone calls, instead each police officer is trained in how to deal with these commonplace crimes. Internet-based fraud is much the same and each police force already has trained experts who should not require a central unit's assistance. As Wendy herself found in her own case. The problems partly stem from many police officers (of all ranks) and businesses not knowing the basic workings of the internet and therefore preferring someone else to take on their problems, a perfectly natural reaction which can be changed with a few hours careful training. These problems are then exacerbated by the difficulty of obtaining evidence due to legislative bureaucracy and poor assistance from internet companies, for example even eBay could provide a faster and more pro-active service to combat fraud. (name &amp; address withheld by request)IPHONE KEYBOARD REDUXYes, people are fast NOW with texting because they've had years to get used to it AND they have the predictive text functionality. this test gave them only 30 minutes and no predictive text function? you can't call that a serious study. i think more people are complaining about the slow internet and poor telephone service which is more a problem of the one service provider monopoly that they have going right now. Let a couple more companies have access to the iPhone and watch how quickly the service improves. Ornette Coleman, London
Whilesomenews sources are happy just to spew Microsoft hype in the hours leading up to the launch of Halo 3, others are attempting to put "the biggest day in entertainment history" into some sort of context.The LA Times, for example, has aninteresting articlecomparing the shoot-'em-up behemoth with Spider-Man 3 in purely monetary terms. It begins by exploding the confused, unspecific myth about the games business being 'worth more' than movies these days:Movies also generate far more revenue, largely because they have sales outlets other than theaters. Games have one shot -- at retail. As a result, the movie business is projected to hit $84.3 billion globally this year, more than double the $37.5 billion forecast for the game industry, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers.So movies are big on revenue because they have lots of distribution channels - cinemas, video rental, retail. But games are top when it comes toprofit, because the costs are teeny in comparison. Whereas Spider-Man 3 can expect a profit margin of around 46%, Halo 3 can reasonably hope for a whopping 90%:In terms of cost, "Spider-Man 3" weighed in at about $400 million to make and release in 107 countries. Producing and marketing the DVDs cost an additional $100 million, and Sony spent tens of millions on such expenses as overhead, profit participation and residual payments. In addition, stars Tobey Maguire and Kirsten Dunst and filmmaker Sam Raimi are believed to get portions of the box-office tally... The total cost to Microsoft for "Halo 3": a little more than $60 million.Just imagine what Microsoft could achieve if it were able to target users beyond the "hard-core geeks who are into mature content" (in the words of Heroes producer and Halo fan, Jesse Alexander). Thing is though, the mainstream videogame industry - especvially in the west - is very much geared toward the big opening weekend; just like the blockbuster movie industry. But demographic groups beyond young males don't go in for this sort of hype-fest experience. Look at alist of biggest opening weekendsand they're mostly bloke films.Movies of predominate interest to women tend to be growers, because women trust word-of-mouth over soft drinks tie-ins, endless TV ads and the musings of professional reviewers. So if videogame publishers fancy taking a decent sustained stab at other groups, they don't just need to change the way theydesigngames, they need to look at how they're marketed and sold. Nintendo's Brain Training and Nintendogs titles managed to shift millions of copies to non-gamers without the marketing mega-bluster afforded to Halo 3.Comparisons with Spider-Man 3 are interesting, but we're still stuck in an entertainment ghetto. Microsoft is obsessed with beating the 150 million dollars made by the third (and worst) Spidey film in its first few days, but perhaps it should be thinking about the longer, wider spread of, say, High School Musical. Disturbing but quite possibly true.
It's not often a mobile phone is a hot story inWomen's Wear Daily, but at the Milan Fashion Week, Italian designer Giorgio Armani has announced a mobile phone and other devices produced by South Korea's Samsung.In a press release, Giorgio Armani, President and Chief Executive Officer of Giorgio Armani S.p.A. says:"Today fashion has expanded to encompass our way of life, not just how we dress, but how we design our home, the hotels we stay in, the car we drive and the technology we buy. In fact, we make as much of a personal statement with the mobile phones that we carry or the televisions we have in our living rooms as we do with the shoes and bags we wear or the furnishings we chose to place in our homes. These are all lifestyle decisions, where design and performance are the criteria. Samsung has successfully anticipated the growing role for consumer electronics in our lives, while recognising the importance of self-expression in the development of its products."It's a tiny credit card-sized device with a touch-sensitive 2.6inch QVGA screen, 3 megapixel camera and Bluetooth.By adapting a haptical UI, users can feel an immediate mild vibration when they touch icons on the display. Being the size of a credit card and a mere 10.5 mm in thickness, the Giorgio Armani-Samsung Phone fits sensuously into a user's palm.It sounds like an interesting phone but the cross-industry deal is not really surprising. Samsun's main rival, LG Electronics, has already combined with Prada, another Italian luxury goods designer, for a mobile phone.Tip of the hat to Unwired View, which announced on September 13 thatSamsung's SGH-P520 is the Armani Phone. Also, ThisNext published the spec inJuly, where jfang commented: "Samsung's answer to the iPhone or LG Prada? Maybe... "What Armani added remains to be seen....
The Wikigamers continue to play with the design of thetext adventure adventure(working title) and almost all of the locations have been decided and designed. Today, DennisChow and CunningStunt and I have been working on theTrain Stationand theTicket Office, introducing new characters and weaving new elements of the plot into the text-basedmise en scene. It's been a bit of good, creative fun. If anyone has suggestions fortourist leafletsto include on the sideboard of theTicket Office, please do suggest. We're also still looking for a few goodepitaphs.At the moment, everyone's eyes are on the coders: what will they do with the things we've dreamed up? There's been a rush to sign up and have a go, which may pose new challenges to the integration of the various locations.In terms of playability, I'm afraid I'm still having trouble getting out of theTown Squarein thedemowhich MichaelBruntonSpall has created, even with the hints and puzzles sections of the Wiki to guide me. Am I just being thick? What lies up theHilly Road? How can I get into theloo? What wonders does theStorehave for me? And please, when can I have a drink at thePub?If you'd like to contribute, head over to theWikiand have a go.
Have you ever tried one of those infuriating "chat to a customer service rep online" services that so many businesses offer these days? It's usually a nightmare - the staff on the other end - if they are real - are heavily scripted and rarely helpful. Forget the idea that everything's faster on the net - these things are more like a call centre in slow motion.A colleague sent me the transcript of an infuriating conversation witha leading computer vendor. The question - can I buy my mother a laptop for her birthday and get it delivered to her home address?The answer? Well, why not just buy it and take it to her... or, perhaps, it would be easier if she just bought it herself.The transcription:Customer:Hello, I need to buy a laptop for my mother, can I buy using my billing address but get it delivered to her?Agent:Hello.Customer:Hi.Agent:Which system are you buying?Customer:Inspiron 1501Agent:Due to security reasons we would ship to the system where the card is registered to. Once you receive the system you can give it to her.Customer:She lives 600 miles away, so that's not going to be possible.Agent:Its after you receive the laptop you will go and meet her and give her the laptop. So once you receive it you can go for your mother and give her the laptop.Customer:Thanks for the advice, but it's not possible to do that. Would you recommend that she should buy her own birthday present, then?Agent:That is more advisableCustomer:Thanks, I'll tell her that.Agent:On whose name would the order beCustomer:Well, it will be her machine, but I want to pay.Agent:Does she have a credit card?Customer:No, and it's a present for her.Agent:So when you receive it you can go for your mother and give her the laptop on her birthday.Customer:It's the other end of the country. It's 600 miles away. I can't go there.Agent:oh, which country is she?Customer:Scotland, and I'm in England. It's a very long way!Agent:All right. Then you can call the sales line and get it delivered to that place.So, the real answer was "yes, you can get it delivered to a different address". Of course, this sort of thing happens all the time in many walks of life.But there's a certain irony in a technology company creating a system which feels more like chatting toEliza- or getting stuck insideZork.
In the latest instalment of our weekly science and technology podcast, we welcome guestLucy Hawking, the daughter of legendary physicist Stephen, and co-author of a new children's book with him.George's Secret Key to the Universefollows the story of a child who is enthralled by space and, handily, has access to a supercomputer that can draw doors to anywhere in the cosmos - but what's it like trying to interest children in science and technology?Elsewhere we discuss the scientific tussle over the fossilised "Hobbit", hear from Chris Rapley - the new director of London's Science Museum - and discuss the UK's DNA database.Click here to listen now, or visit ourpodcast blogfor more information.
An interesting twist in the story of MediaDefender, the anti-piracy companywhich saw details of its tactics leaked online recently, as internet pirates start to use that information against media companies themselves.The team of campaigners behind torrent tracker The Pirate Bay now say they arereporting a number of companies to the Swedish police. They say these organisations - including movie, music and game studios - actively tried to attack The Pirate Bay, which is not illegal in Sweden.While browsing through the email we identified the companies that are also active in Sweden and we have tonight reported these incidents to the police. The charges are infrastructural sabotage, denial of service attacks, hacking and spamming, all of these on a commercial level.The big names include Twentieth Century Fox, Universal, Sony and Activision.Related:How three Swedish geeks became Hollywood's Number One enemy, my interview with the Pirate Bay a few weeks ago.
Everyone likes the idea of a "twofer" or BOGOF (Buy One, Get One Free) offer. Now there's G1G1 (Give One, Get one), which is presumably a geeky way of avoiding GOGO. In this case, it's a scheme that will enable a rich American to buy a One Laptop Per Child Linux-basedXOlaptop PC for $399 while the second one goes to a child in the developing world.According tothe BBC:The G1G1 scheme, as it is known, will offer the laptops for just two weeks, starting on the 12 November."From day one there's been a lot of interest expressed in having some way of people in the developed world participate in the programme," Walter Bender, head of software development at One Laptop per Child (OLPC), told the BBC News website.The machines will be sold viahttp://xogiving.org/or by phone on 1866 XOGIVING.It seems the project now has enough orders to start production. Or maybe it isn't selling as well as was hoped, but there are potentially enough paying punters to get production going.Update: Also seeThe New York Times, which confirms the sales problem:Orders, however, are slow. "I have to some degree underestimated the difference between shaking the hand of a head of state and having a check written," said Nicholas Negroponte, chairman of the nonprofit project. "And yes, it has been a disappointment."
