Nokia is set to launch a new phone that will enable consumers to scan a product at the supermarket and compare the price with other stores instantly, or even order the same product online if cheaper.Nokia's Point and Find software allows shoppers to use the phone's camera to scan barcodes and images, and access additional information on the product or service. The Finnish company is linking up with price-aggregating websites, such as PriceGrabber.com, which compare the price of products from different stores.The software expands an existing service: barcodes are used in Japan to allow users to look for additional information with a swipe of the mobile phone, such as cinema times from a poster, or flight prices from a tourism ad. But these depend on information provided by the maker of the product being scanned.Some independent developers have attempted to make scanner applications for the iPhone and other platforms but most have been slated in online forums for their inaccurate scanning and lack of efficiency in providing information.Nokia claims to circumvent these problems because its smart phones have higher resolution cameras with automatic focusing, which makes it easier to scan the image, and the tie-up with aggregators allows the user to compare retailers."Unlike other applications, it also allows the scanning of both 2D and 1D barcodes," a company spokesman said. Uni-dimensional barcodes are the typical type found on products, while two-dimensional, or QR, barcodes are slowly spreading as they can hold more information and be read faster. "We are also the first to tie up with price-aggregators to give you an instant response from a trusted source."It is to launch next year in all European countries. A test version is available in the UK but the full version will be launched soon and come pre-loaded on the phone. While it can only be accessed on high-end devices with internet capability, the company said that within the next two years half of all mobile phones in the UK would meet these criteria.The company is also looking to push other benefits of the product: it is linking up with property developers so potential homebuyers can scan a house for sale and instantly access more information, book viewings or contact the present owner."It integrates GPS [global positioning system] with the camera – so even if the house looks similar to another, the GPS pinpoints the location of the user and matches it with the picture of the house," the spokesperson said.The company will be hoping that the product will increase its visibility in the mobile phone applications sector. Apple's iPhone has much better brand-recognition in the west, while Nokia's Ovi suite is still relatively unknown.Purnima Kochikar, who manages the developer community for Nokia, said: "We do have a challenge in terms of improving how customers see our applications, though we have done very well in creating an ecosystem for the [applications'] developers."
The future of Oracle's $7.4bn takeover of Silicon Valley rival Sun Microsystems is in doubt, after European and American regulators were left at loggerheads over the potential impact of the deal.Officials at the European Commission have said that their preliminary investigation into whether the deal would damage competition had raised concerns - news which prompted the Department of Justice in Washington to issue its own, contrary, advice on the deal yesterday."After conducting a careful investigation of the proposed transaction between Oracle and Sun, the department's antitrust division concluded that the merger is unlikely to be anti-competitive," said Molly Boast, deputy assistant attorney general. "At this point in its process, it appears that the EC holds a different view. We remain hopeful that the parties and the EC will reach a speedy resolution."The primary concern appears to be whether the deal would adversely affect the huge and lucrative computer database market, by bringing together under one roof Oracle's proprietary database systems and Sun's open source database software MySQL,which it bought in 2008 for $1bn.Although Washington officials said they did not believe there would be any harm to consumers if the two companies - which command a significant share of the market - came together, European officialsopened a formal investigation in September."The commission has to examine very carefully the effects on competition in Europe when the world's leading proprietary database company proposes to take over the world's leading open-source database company," said competition commissioner Neelie Kroes at the time.The difference of opinion adds a further layer of complexity to the deal in which Oracle, the software maker, would bail out Sun and take control of its business - which also includes computer servers, workstations and software products.The surprise deal between the two companieswas announced in April, after struggling Sun had indulged in a long flirtation with other technology companies including IBM.Oracle said it would fiercely object to the position of the European regulators, which it felt had no merit."The commission's statement of objections reveals a profound misunderstanding of both database competition and open- source dynamics," the company said in a statement.
British web startupHuddlehas signed a ground-breaking deal with Hewlett Packard that it believes could herald a new chapter for its business.The London-based company, which offers web-based collaboration software, has signed a two-year deal with the world's largest computer manufacturer to put its software on 25 million PCs annually.The deal puts Huddle in a suite of five trial applications included on every HP business computer, beginning in the United States and later extending around the world.The other programs on offer include three HP-originated services and antivirus software from Symantec, the world's largest security software company - something that the company says should put it on the map."We think this is a real coup - having done such a great deal with a fantastic US firm and having been chosen in preference over companies in their own backyard is really, really great," said Andy McLoughlin, a co-founder of Huddle and the company's strategy director.He said that the move had encouraged the company to push forward plans to open an American office, in the hope of capitalising on the rising number of users in the United States."This will provide a huge kickstart to our revenues for early next year. Already we see that more than 40% of our paying users are in the US, and we expect that to skyrocket," he said.The deal is based on a revenue split with HP, in which the two companies will share the proceeds from every new signup to the service.The three-year-old company, which raised £2.3m in funding from British venture capital firm Eden in 2007, is believed to be looking for another round of financing to fund further expansion -"We're very close to break-even and we're examining our funding options at the moment," said McLoughlin. "If we do decide to take funding it will be expansion capital to really take the business global."
Modern Warfare 2 - you may have heard of it? - is finally released today. How has it been for you? Queue up outside your local supermarket/game retailer last night? Lucky enough to get to the launch party? Been up learning the maps already? Planning to grab a copy at lunchtime? Or simply too busy playing Dragon Age to even notice? And if you have the game what do you think? Worthy of the hype or more of the same? Post your impressions below...
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.Modern Warfare 2 is out today- ready to splash out? Or waiting until the price drops?
&bull; If you didn't already know, today is the release ofModern Warfare 2, the latest instalment in the Call of Duty franchise. Beyond thepredictable outcryover its violence from anti-game MP Keith Vaz (note: the game is rated 18) and aclash with fellow MP Tom Watson, the game has such gravity that it's convincing publishers to skip Christmas.Our review is here.&bull; The saga of theGooglebook settlement continues, after the judge overseeing the controversial casegave the parties until Friday to come to a new agreement.&bull; More snags forOraclein its ongoing attempt to get theSun Microsystems dealthe rubber stamp: American regulators saythe deal is good, but European ones say thatit could violate antitrust rules.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
I'm amused to see that I've been attacked by the DRDB (Digital Radio Development Bureau), which is a trade body whose purpose is apparently to help flog DAB to a somewhat reluctant British public. I certainly don't expect them to enjoy their marketing being undermined by an independent journalist, but you have to wonder why they can't manage to retain at least a dignified façade. "Another Schofield rant" says the subheading in "What the papers say", with reference toa comment piecein last week's Media Guardian.Of course, they could have informed the trade that pays them that I am much more in favour of digital radio's development than they seem to be, despite their name. I want it to develop into DAB+ as soon as possible, rather than hang on to creaky old DAB.This is even more important if "new figures showed DAB listening figures have been on the decline for the last three months," asBroadcastsaid, and13.5% of peopleare now listening via their mobile phones.While I'm grateful to the DRDB for raising my profile and sending me more readers, making it personal is always a good indictor that they're not coping with the facts. But I expect I'm easier to slag off than the likes of Kelvin McKenzie ("DAB was, is and will be a disaster")or Scott Taunton, managing director of UTV Media GB, which runs TalkSport, who told Media Guardian:"DAB is not necessarily a next-generation service," says Taunton. "There is already DAB-plus, and in order to launch DAB-plus in the UK you would have to make the vast bulk of DAB sets redundant. The future at the moment is FM – the next generation is about iPhones with FM receivers."While I love the idea that I'm capable of bringing the DAB radio industry to its knees -- which would make me more powerful than the BBC and its pro-DAB advertising -- that's just a fantasy. The reality is that the world market is starting to abandon DAB, it hasn't really taken off with British consumers (especially not in cars), and some radio insiders are now airing their own doubts about any over-hasty switchover.The DRDB says: "Schofield ignores the fact that most of the formats he cites are already covered by new chip sets that can easily handle DAB, DAB+ and DMB, as well as FM and AM."Well, I did point out that the World DAB Forum had agreed a new DAB+ standard and changed its name to WorldDMB (I can understand why it wouldn't want DAB in its name) and I'm wholly in favour of the WorldDMB standard. As a heavy radio consumer, I'd be perfectly happy with "DAB+ done right".Where I part company with the British radio industry is that they've sold UK consumers millions of radio sets that do not follow the WorldDMB standard, nor can the bulk of those sets be upgraded to DAB+.Will the DRDB tell the British public that they should not buy DAB sets unless they have these great "new chip sets that can easily handle DAB, DAB+ and DMB, as well as FM and AM" (and, by the way, should ideally be upgradeable).Don't hold your breath.The DRDB also says: "Schofield seems to suggest ditching all other means of digital radio delivery in favour of Internet radio."In this case, "seems to suggest" should be read as "doesn't suggest".My unforgivable thought-crime is simply to argue that the British radio industry should follow the lead of many other countries and the World DAB Forum: admit that DAB isn't up to snuff and announce plans to move to DAB+.The point I made at the end of my Friday post,Flogging a DAB horse, is that the world is changing. The BBC didn't seriously think about Internet radio streams replacing broadcast radio in the early 1990s, when DAB was being developed, and it's true that, for most people, Wi-Fi radio isn't a replacement today. In another 20 years, however, the world will be a different place. I am prepared to imagine that people may prefer access to tens of thousands of high-sound-quality streams over the much smaller number of low-sound-quality stations available on DAB.The rapid pace of change is something that computing has lived with for 50 years. It must come as a terrible shock to the radio industry, but frankly, they won't have a future at all if they don't figure out how to cope with change.  Or, indeed, criticism.As always, I don't care whether Internet streaming takes over the radio industry or not. If millions of people like the idea and buy Wi-Fi radio sets and Slingboxes and portable internet whatnots, then it will, and if they don't, it won't. Neither of those outcomes will make any difference to me, because I can wring just as many words out of "Wi-Fi radio wins" as I can get out of "Wi-Fi radio flops". I have no obligation to go down with the Titanic.If my job ultimately boiled down to flogging DAB radios, then I might take a different view. Which might be why the DRDB seems to be angry with me, whereas I just feel sorry for them.
Apple has released the second update to Mac OS X 10.6 (aka "Snow Leopard") - and claims that this gets rid of a serious bug that had deleted users' accounts and all their data.Thesupport note accompanying OSX 10.6.2mentions, at the top of its list, "General operating system fixes provided for: an issue that caused data to be deleted when using a guest account".That's the one whichwe mentioned in mid-October, but by then it had already beennoticed for more than a month.The problem arose when someone created a "guest" account - one dreamt up by Apple which lets someone log in temporarily to the machine, but where all the data created during the session is then wiped when they log out. It looks like the wiping got too excited, and wiped the data belonging to the administrator who created the guest account as well.But now it's fixed. We hope. (No, you try it first.)There's also now asneaky gotcha for those using POP3 email accounts:Mac OS X v10.6.2 and later changes how authentication works for receiving POP messages in Mail. Mail no longer will try a different authentication method if the preferred one did not work. This means if your POP mail server does not support the authentication scheme you have selected in Mail preferences, Mail will be unable to process incoming messages.Take note if you're still using POP3 (really, you should move toIMAP..).There is also aslew of security updatesincluded. Be safe - make sure you back up your data before you update. (Perhapsnot with Apple's Time Capsulethough...) And do tell us if the guest account problem is gone..
I wasn't going to post about Modern Warfare 2 again today, but for goodness sake, I can't resist. This afternoon, Activision's hype monster, was the subject of an astonishing parliamentary face-off between Labour MPs Keith Vaz and Tom Watson. Vaz, who'd already sought approval from his chums at the Daily Mail by providing an ill-informed quote for the paper'sbalanced article on the title, asked the following question in the Commons:"Given the recommendations of the Byron Review, what steps is the government proposing to take in order to ensure these violent games do not fall into the hands of children and young people?"The query is, let's be brutally honest here, staggeringly irrelevant and shamelessly opportunistic. TheByron Reviewhas been thoroughly debated and its recommendations heeded. The BBFC, an established ratings body with years of experience dealingfirst handwith controversial material (rather than merely reacting to tabloid conjecture), has rated the game and passed it as suitable for adults. Now it is up to retailers to ensure they do not sell the game to minors – just as it is up to retailers not to sellalcoholto minors. Perhaps Vaz would be better off spending his time asking questions about this considering the epidemic levels of underage drinking throughout the UK.Interestingly though, his latest tirade against the games industry – one of the British economy's biggest success stories over the last ten years – has fallen flat. Over on the Daily Mail site, a majority of readers have been supportive of Infinity Ward's shooter: "Articles like this really irritate me. THIS IS A GAME!!! It in no way reflects on real life, its rated 18 to prevent those who lack the maturity to decipher the difference between imagination and reality," raged one reader. Of course, the paper's online community cannot be held up as entirely representative of the readership as a whole, but it's an interesting sign of videogaming's penetration of the mainstream market.Better yet, Labour MP for West Bromwich East, Tom Watson, has launched a withering response to Vaz's knee-jerk comments in the shape of a Facebook pressure group entitledGamers' Voice. "Are you sick of UK newspapers and (my fellow) politicians beating up on gaming?" Watson asks. "So am I. The truth is, UK gamers need their own pressure group. I want to help you start one up." There is no clear directive for the group at present, but it now has over 4,000 members.Watson isn't alone in his defense of the industry – there are other supportive MPs – but this is a highly visible stance taken over a massively important game. It is also hugely encouraging to see Vaz taken on in this manner - although it is perfectly justifiable for an MP to pursue such an agenda (this is a democracy after-all, and some of the personal attacks made against Vaz  on the Gamers' Group page have been sickeningly counter-productive), negative commentary should at least be based on experience and understanding of the subject matter - and the opinions of voters. With over 24 million current gen consoles now in UK homes and sales of many millions expected for Modern warfare 2, surely one thing Labour can do without is MPs jumping aboard rusting bandwagons, heading nowhere slowly.
Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 is the Citizen Kane of repeatedly shooting people in the face. The storyline makes less sense than a gas ladder, but in terms of technical achievement, this is an undoubted masterpiece. The visuals, the soundtrack, the level design, the game mechanics … they're all second to none, and they work together to create something that's not so much a videogame as a borderline nightmare experience. The phrase "an assault on the senses" doesn't come close: it's thrilling, immersive, sometimes scary, always exciting, and occasionally downright overwhelming.A true marvel of construction, then. But that's all it is: a brilliant machine. It behaves like a Hollywood movie, piling one almighty setpiece on top of another until the audience is beaten into submission. It's a descendent of the original Call of Duty series, a set of period-drama WW2 shooters clearly modelled on Saving Private Ryan; they successfully harnessed the terrifying mayhem of that film's famous Omaha beach landing scene and turned it into a 6-10 hour gameplay experience.Modern Warfare 2, set five years in the future, doesn't seem sure which film it's trying to replicate, and hovers somewhere between Red Dawn, Black Hawk Down, and all seven seasons of 24. There's a plot, but it's incomprehensible.Ignorant non-gamers may scoff at the very notion of a videogame having a plot, but the medium has recently undergone an immense creative explosion. Last week, for instance, I finally got round to playing Flower, a stunningly beautiful PS3 game in which you "play" a breeze blowing petals around an impressionistic landscape. It's abstract, powerfully touching, yet impossible to describe; it simply could not exist in any other medium.With one notable exception, Modern Warfare 2 made me feel nothing but surges of adrenaline. Nothing wrong with that; that's what most games do. But this one has delusions of significance beyond its popcorn origins. When you die, instead of being greeted by "Game Over", you're presented with a bitter quotation on the filthy business of war from the likes of Goethe or Milton.The previous Modern Warfare title featured a chilling level set in the immediate aftermath of a nuclear explosion during which the player could do nothing but crawl agonizingly through the flaming carnage for a few moments before expiring with a gasp. Modern Warfare 2's big attention-grabbing setpiece is a terrorist atrocity in an airport in which the player (taking the role of an undercover agent) reluctantly takes part. It's upsetting, chilling and horrifying.You're supposed to be upset and chilled and horrified, of course – so on that level it succeeds. But if you must directly evoke the Mumbai massacre, it's probably best to do so with good reason. Since the rest of the game is effectively a dumb Tom Clancy romp (full of characters who say things like "I'll see you in hell"), it feels jarringly misplaced, like a cartoonish Bond movie containing a 20-minute scene in which Blofeld tortures his cat to death. Ultimately it's only there to make the game's main villain seem more "villainy". Not good enough.Don't worry. It won't turn anyone a killer. But it is a strange and misjudged lapse into tastelessness that would actually be less offensive if played for laughs – and an easy target for reactionary kneejerk critics of videogames. Called Keith Vaz MP.
With huge crowds awaiting a parade of celebrities in Leicester Square and the obligatory after-party, at which Dizzee Rascal was due to perform, the first night of Modern Warfare 2 appeared to be a typically glamorous West End premiere. The carpet, however, was camouflage, not red. And Modern Warfare 2 is a computer game, not a film.It is the first time Westminster council has granted permission for a games company to stage a launch in the traditional movie heartland. The council may have stipulated that the screening not be dubbed a "premiere" or "red carpet" event, but the message is clear that the gaming sector has moved into the film and TV world. Indeed, it has been forecast that 2009 could be the year in which the games industry clearly beats the film industry in global revenue-generation.But Britain's actors are making sure they get a slice of the action. Kevin McKidd, Craig Fairbrass and Billy Murray have been discussing their voiceover parts in the game ahead of the screening of sections of it tonight. Those who had tickets for the Vue cinema event, hosted by Vernon Kay and Dom Joly, were then treated to scenes from Modern Warfare 2.Activision, the company behind it, believes the game will smash previous records. In the UK games retailers – most of which opened specially at midnight – have taken more than 750,000 pre-orders, and in the US over 2.5 million units were pre-ordered. Activision believes as many as 3m copies could be sold in its opening week in the UK alone, bringing in a staggering £150m. Activision caused controversy by setting Modern Warfare 2's recommended retail price at £55 (hugely in excess of the customary £39.99) but even before launch a retail price war had broken out, with Sainsbury's offering it for £26.Whatever the price, it should eclipse Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, which tops the list of film opening weekends with revenue of more than £235m. Rockstar Games' Grand Theft Auto IV currently holds the opening-week record, bringing in over $500m, but will probably yield to Modern Warfare 2.Cllr Robert Davis, the deputy leader of Westminster City Council, said of the Leicester Square launch: "The creative industries as a whole play a hugely important part in our economy and the game's developers, software designers and writers are all based in the West End, and we are proud to do what we can to support them."Analyst Nick Parker, CEO of Parker consulting, said: "Events like this are hugely important for the games industry. When you talk to people who are potential investors they don't usually appreciate the scale of the industry until moments like this. If you tell people you went to the premieres, say, of Harry Potter or The Dark Knight, they go 'Wow', but the Modern Warfare 2 launch is potentially a much bigger entertainment event – it could be the biggest ever in terms of first-week sales."Modern Warfare 2 has also drawn criticism. It includes a mission in which the gamer plays an undercover CIA agent accompanying a terrorist on a shooting spree of civilians at an airport. But the game asks players if they are easily offended at the start; if they say yes, the mission is skipped.The scene prompted MP Keith Vaz to call for Modern Warfare 2 to be banned. But wading in against him has been fellow Labour MP Tom Watson, a former minister for digital engagement. Watson said: "Everything that comes out of parliament in relation to video games is relentlessly negative. There are thousands of people employed in this industry, there are 26 million people playing games. We should have a much more balanced view." And while agreeing that he found the airport mission "deeply repulsive", he pointed out that Modern Warfare 2 is 18-rated, and that the UK games classification system is increasingly well policed.Activision will no doubt thank Vaz for adding to the build-up – as if Modern Warfare 2 needed it. Even in a recession, the games industry remains successful. As staying in becomes the new going out, video games appear poised to take an even larger slice of the entertainment cake.
Nokia is recalling 14m mobile phone chargers, after it emerged that faults in the manufacturing process could leave users exposed to an electric shock.The Finnish technology company said today that it would replace millions of potentially dangerous chargers for free as a precaution, but that there had been no reports of injuries so far.Nokia said in a statement that the chargers in question were manufactured this year by Chinese electronics company BYD, and that anybody who owns one of the units in question would be eligible for a replacement."The plastic covers of the affected chargers could come loose and separate, exposing the charger's internal components and potentially posing an electrical shock hazard if certain internal components are touched while the charger is plugged into a live socket," said the company. "Nokia is not aware of any incidents or injuries related to these chargers."There are three models affected by the recall: the AC-3U and AC-3E chargers made between June and August this year, and model AC-4U chargers made between April and October.Details of how to find out if you are affected are on the Nokia website.BYD - the same group that hasvaunted its scheme to build millions of electric cars- said that it would pay for the cost of the recall after the defect was uncovered."During internal tests, we found the chargers could have some problems," a BYD spokeswoman told Reuters.Although the recall does not necessarily affect customers in every country, Nokia is the world's largest maker of mobile phones and the wide availability of its products means this is one of the largest in the history of the technology industry.In 2007, the company recalled 46m batteries after overheating problems, while a year earlier defects with widely-used laptop batteries made by Sony hit more than 6 million users of computers made by Dell, Apple and Toshiba. In 2005, meanwhile, Microsoft recalled 14m power units used with its Xbox games console.
London-based social gaming startup Playfish is celebrating after striking a $400m (£240m) deal to join the world's biggest games publisher, Electronic Arts.After months of speculation over the possibility of a buyout, the Californian publisher announced today that it was acquiring the two-year-old company, which makes popular Facebook games such as Restaurant City and Pet Society.Unlike traditional gaming studios, which tend to focus on single-player titles or large-scale multiplayer online games, Playfish's products are tightly integrated with social networking sites like Facebook, MySpace and Bebo. As a result, they have proved immensely popular, with more than 150m downloads and installations already and many of the most popular Facebook games.The deal, said senior EA figures, would add "proven expertise" to the Californian company's offerings as the shape of the industry altered."Social gaming, with its emphasis on friends and community, is seeing tremendous growth," said Barry Cottle, senior vice president of Electronic Arts Interactive. "This is the right time to invest to strengthen our participation in this space."Playfish chief executive Kristian Segerstrale said that joining the larger company would bolster plans to expand and become the undisputed industry leader."Joining EA is the ideal opportunity for us to push forward our goals to lead in the social entertainment evolution on a faster and much larger scale," he said. "Together, we are in position to be the company that defines new and innovative connected experiences that will change the way people play games."Electronic Arts, the maker of blockbuster titles such as The Sims and Fifa 10, has been pushing hard to try and move into social gaming, and earlier this year former chief operating officerJohn Pleasantssaid that it had a $1bn warchest for acquisitions and had"huge regard"for the company.The acquisition is initially comprised of a $275m cash deal and $25m in equity - with a further $100m in performance-based bonuses available if the company hits targets set by EA executives. Investors in Playfish included London-based venture capital firms Accel and Index, which has previously invested in Last.fm and Skype.The company, which has estimated revenues of around £45m a year, recently opened a new office in San Francisco - just a few miles from Electronic Arts HQ in Redwood City, California.Despite the widespread interest in the development of social gaming, however, the industry is undergoing a controversy after industry blog Techcrunchaccused a number of companies of unethically profiting from userswho were unwittingly encouraged to pay money for virtual goods for some social games.The row, which includedaccusations that some enticements resulted in children signing up to expensive mobile phone subscriptions, has hit Playfish but most of the opprobrium hit one of its competitors, Zynga, and its partners.MySpace chief Owen Van Natta publicly said that any game which scams would be blocked by the site, while Zynga chief executive Mark Pincus has said that he would betaking steps to improve the situation.
Dragon Age: Origins has been in development for five years, but the action is timeless. Set in a Tolkeinesque fantasy world, this is a traditional role-playing game complete with quests, chests (both kinds) and combat.The lengthy development time has affected the graphics though with the character faces way off the expressiveness shown in Mass Effect, the developer's other big franchise. Graphical pop up – think foliage and tress – is an issue too. More impressive are the blood stains on your characters after they have been in a fight. And the game itself is well worth any occasional graphical glitches. Dragon Age does take a few hours to really get going though.The initial sections are nicely scripted – there are six unique ways to start the game – but it takes a good four or five hours before things settle down into a rhythm of get party, go fight and start chatting. Yes, being a Bioware game there is a ton of conversation and reams of text to read through. The incessant chatter often throws up new plotlines and there can easily be as much conversation as combat if you want. The game setting is very familiar. English accents abound, so much so that some initial stages almost have a Carry On Medieval vibe.The script is only a "verily" or two away from pastiche but despite this it does sucker you in. The music is inspired, like much of the game, by the Lord of the Rings movies and does help create a Sunday afternoon blockbuster feel. From the enemies – the "Darkspawn" are basically orcs – to the pitched battles, the setting is pure Tolkein. But like the game as a whole this is strangely comforting, with the action familiar to anyone who played Baldur's Gate or Knights of the Old Republic. One of your in-game companions will often sarcastically shout "even more darkspawn" and there is certainly a repetitive feel to the initial combat. But things soon get tricky and more strategy is required.Some uneven difficult spikes don't help either, while the console versions suffer from a fairly clunky menu system. Dragon Age looks and plays the best on PC but is only marginally less impressive on the consoles. Modern Warfare 2 may win the sales war, but Dragon Age will be the real hit among more cerebral gamers this winter.
Well, Activision did all it could to dam the Modern Warfare 2 hype torrent. UK journalists reviewed the game last week at a controlled event in London, signing embargoes preventing them from running copy until 08:01 tomorrow morning. Retailers worldwide were given an official release time of midnight tonight – with thousands of stores committing to special late-night openings. But with record pre-orders, astronomical sales forecasts and considerable press coverage thanks to the airport carnage controversy, the floodgates haven't just opened, they've been torn from their hinges and ripped asunder.Over the weekend it became clear that shops around the world were breaking the sales embargo. On Saturday, Guardian columnist Charlie Brooker announced via his Twitter feed that he'd bought the game and proceeded to tweet throughout a mammoth gaming session:In summary: it's very good, but it's not the flippin' messiah or anything. And it has the intellectual depth of Die Hard 4He's certainly not the only reviewer to point out that the narrative lacks the poignancy of the original Modern Warfare.POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD DEPENDING ON YOUR SENSITIVITY – THOUGH NO PLOT DETAILS ARE REVEALED."The storyline is mostly preposterous in fact some ofit is pure fantasy," says George Walter, editor of GamesRadar, who compares the game to a Hollywood action blockbuster rather than a weighty war tragedy. "I wouldn't say that the story was 'good' in the same way that Con Air's story line isn't 'good' but it certainly keeps you entertained by constantly pulling the carpet from beneath your feet."The nature of the schizophrenic narrative is most likely down to Infinity Ward attempting to deal with the limited attention spans of modern gamers, and an ambitious desire to showcase as many different weather conditions, combat styles and set-pieces as possible in the seven and a half hour time frame."Meanwhile, you can check outthe Guardian review by Mike Anderiesz.Charlie also made reference toTHAT controversial scene:More I think about that airport bit the more I think Infinity Ward have lost their minds...I too have now witnessed the whole stage, and the civilian slaughter is staggering to witness. I won't be spewing out spoilers, but it's important to note that the player doesn't have to fire a single shot – although there is carnage all around you as a terrorist group blasts its way through the terminal.Meanwhile, stat crunchers have certainly been having fun with the game. MCV reported last week that Activision's rivals were preparing themselves for a Christmas sales whitewash, with Modern Warfare 2 expected to shift 1.7m copies within a week in the UK. Analysts are forecastingaround 12m sales worldwide by the end of December, generating $500m in revenue for Activision – sales from the rest of the CoD series combined stand at around 35m copes. The buzzhas also prompted a vicious price war, with UK supermarkets diving to undercut each other – Sainsbury is expect to offer the game at £26.So have you bought the game? Are you going to attend a midnight game shop opening? Or is this all-consuming monster driving you insane?
Codemasters' first use of its newly acquired Formula One license is F1 2009, out later this month on the Wii and PSP. Sumo Digital – risen from the ashes of Gremlin Interactive – is the coding-house behind the Wii and PSP game, but not the PS3 and Xbox 360 versions out next year. I spoke to Ned Waterhouse, the lead designer on the project, about the challenges of coding for the Wii.You have worked on lots of sports franchises; is this becoming a Sumo Digital speciality?I think Sumo's got a really diverse skill set. We do a lot of licensed products – driving games, other sports games like Virtua Tennis, and Track &amp; Field; obviously Formula One; we made the two DiRT games, also for Codemasters. So, sports games are something that we do. But we also made Super Rub-a-Dub for Playstation network, and Broken Sword 4 in conjunction with Charles Cecil. There's a really talented group of people, born out of Gremlin Interactive, who have been working in the games industry for 15 or 20 years, and they're able to turn their hands to most things.For Codemasters you're doing a lot of Wii and PSP games, and not a lot for PS3 or Xbox 360. Why is that?There's a different set of considerations that go into making a next-gen game – sorry, an HD game, if you like – as opposed to a game for what are maybe seen as lower-spec platforms. So I think it makes sense to branch the development out. I guess Codemasters took the decision that they'd be best off coming to us and asking if we could make the Wii and PSP versions.Do you find that you have to be thinking of casual gaming when working with these platforms? You want to get detailed, and then you have to tone it down?It was a massive challenge. We wanted to make sure that for the core F1 fans there were all of the tuning options: the exact circuits; the exact cars; the exact formats of the race weekends. You want to do a 72-lap full-length race on Interlagos as Jenson Button and win the world title, you can do that. But we're very conscious of the fact that we're making a game for the Wii, which has a perceived demographic of more casual gamers. So what we set out to do – and I feel we've accomplished – is to produce a game that, while retaining all of that tactical depth, is very accessible.How have the control systems on the Wii affected your decisions?To be able to control a car at 200 miles per hour with a Wii remote, getting enough subtlety in the control system was a real challenge. It's something that our car handling and input programmers spent a long time refining. I feel we got there, in the end. We support four control systems on the Wii: that's a lot more than you'd usually have to think about. You get an Xbox 360, you get an Xbox 360 pad, and there's a default way people play driving games. You get a Wii, you want to be able to play it with motion control, or with a nunchuk plugged in, or with the classic controller, and now Logitech are bringing out a race wheel, with paddle gear-changes and force-feedback. In trying to cater for hardcore and more casual gamers we felt it was important to support a broad range of controller options, so we went to great lengths to support all of them … but it was a challenge to get them all to similar difficulty levels against each other.So you can have two people playing against each other, each with a different style of controller, each on a different difficulty setting?The driving aids are specific to players, and players of different skill levels can adjust those settings independently. If you want to play your seven-year-old son – if I played my seven-year-old nephew he'd kick my ass – you can. If the game sees that someone's got all the driving aids enabled and is winning a lot, then it will encourage them to introduce a bit more depth and subtlety to the controls.Talk to me about the EGO engine.The EGO engine is Codemasters engine, which they use for next-gen titles. We were lucky enough to be able to use the car physics they developed. But what you see in the game, the rendering and so on, is bespoke for the game by Sumo … To get 60 frames per second out of a Wii when it's showing visuals like that, I think is something the team should be really proud of.Have you been frustrated occasionally by the Wii's limitations?Not at all. I think as a platform to design for, it's refreshing. As I was talking about with the controller options, it gives you as a designer a new set of challenges. You're thrown problems which other development studios, doing HD racing games, have got the solution to already. So it was unique for us, and I hope that we rose to that challenge.• Formula 1 2009 will be released on 20 November
Other developers must be getting sick of Infinity Ward pulling an X-Factor by doing nothing all year and then bagging the Christmas No1. Well, the bad news is, they've gone and done it again.COD: Modern Warfare 2's single player storyline picks up roughly from where the first instalment left off, casting you as several members of Task Force 141, a squad of heavily armed Rangers tasked with stopping a Russian terrorist named Makarov. Drawing on impressive AI for both allies and enemies as it races from one scripted set-piece to the next, MW2 takes you on a veritable world tour; from stealth based levels in Kazakhstan, to a running battle through Brazilian Favelas to rescuing hostages from a heavily defended oil rig.Each mission in the three-act campaign presents you with different challenges, abilities and controls, so left and right triggers are used for aiming and firing, swinging ice-picks to climb sheer cliffs, piloting a skidoo for an Endor-style chase through trees or controlling the new Predator droid to take out hostile targets by aerial satnav. Along the way there are twists and turns galore, including one controversial level that sees you joining Makarov to massacre passengers at Moscow airport. Graphically, the tweaked IW4 engine copes with up to 40 onscreen enemies at once – particularly impressive in the Brazilian levels where the Black Hawk Down-style action reaches almost multiplayer levels of intensity.Speaking of which, our limited time on the pre-launch servers revealed Free-For-All, Search &amp; Destroy, Demolition, Domination, Capture the Flag and Team Deathmatch modes for 8-12 players plus a new co-op Special Ops mode that can be played online or split-screen over 20+ extra levels. With two map packs already in the pipeline to compensate for some of the more formulaic designs currently included, you can expect this to be jamming servers for months to come.All in all, MW2 is exactly what fans were expecting. Yes, it carries a hefty price-tag, a shortish single player campaign and only adds a handful of genuinely new elements to the prequel, but you won't find a more polished, intelligent FPS this year. For non-stop action, superior AI and perfectly balanced weapons, it's a worthy chart-topper that hammers a nail into any hope of the COD franchise returning to its WW2 roots anytime short of the next round of console upgrades. And, on this evidence, you won't find too many complaints about that.
So how was your gaming weekend then? For me it was all aboutDragon Age: Origins. This role playing game is as traditional as they come and all the better for it. My review of should be up later but any game that makes a 5 hour initial stint feel like 20 mins has to have something going for it. I also had a couple of hours with the 3D version of Batman Arkham Asylum on the PC. More thoughts on this later in the week but 3D gaming may not be the cul-de-sac I initially thought. Anyway, how was your gaming weekend? Dragon Age get a look in? Or are you just waiting for Modern Warfare 2 on Tuesday?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox. How was Dragon Age for you? Or is it all about Modern Warfare 2?
The world is a very different place from 30-odd years ago, when a wave of hi-tech entrepreneurs including Steve Jobs and Bill Gates helped start the computer industry as we know it.But what would those look like if they turned up today?Well, here's one way to find out: I've agreed to be a judge in a competition called"The Next Bill Gates", alongside former Dragon's Den investorDoug Richardand Guy Bates, the director of IT supplier XMA, which is sponsoring it.The idea is pretty straightforward: if you're planning to go to university starting in 2010, and you're interested in technology, then you can put yourself forward as somebody who could really help change the IT industry. The best candidate wins!Although Gates notoriously never finished his own degree - quitting Harvard to go and start Microsoft - the winner will get a leg up towards completing their own studies with a prize including £3,500 towards their tuition fees, a computer, internship and mentoring. That's got to be a good cause.All you have to do is explain in 100 words - or a one-minute video clip - why you are the next incarnation of Billionaire Bill. We'll be watching the entries as they come in and narrowing it down to three finalists next year.The competition is up and running now atTheNextBillGates.co.uk/shamelessplug
&bull; Afterdelays to Rupert Murdoch's paywall strategyand questions aboutits Google search deal,MySpace's money management is once again under the microscope after it emerged that the struggling web company isstill paying $1m a month for an empty office complex in Los Angeles, reports the Financial Times. Ouch.&bull; TheiPhoneunlocking community took pause over the last few days, after somesome users with jailbroken handsets found themselves hit by a Rick Astley worm. What does this mean for ordinary iPhone users? Not much probably, since jailbreaks are basically built on security exploits and so more susceptible to attack. But the potential is still there.&bull; This weekend's food-for-thought came from Paul Carr,formerly of this parish, now writing for Techcrunch. In a post spinning off last week's shootings at the Fort Hood US military base, he accuses'citizen journalists' of indulging in a dangerous kind of selfishness. I have to admit I found his argument slightly odd, thoughI agree we all carry a responsibility to share accurate information. Still, it's engendered someinterestingandeloquent responses. Worth pondering.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Government plans to block paedophiles from using social networking sites such as Facebook and MySpace have been shelved because of fears that such a move would breach human rights laws.The Home Office announced in April that it was taking steps to restrict registered sex offenders from accessing the internet sites used by millions of children every day. The new law would have applied to more than 30,000 sex offenders on the register. Failure to comply would have carried up to five years' imprisonment.But it has now emerged that the Home Office has been forced to climb down amid concerns that the plan is incompatible with the right to privacy. There are fears that any move by the police to share the personal details and email addresses of registered sex offenders with the social networking sites would be open to legal challenges. The decision to shelve the new law followed a ruling by the Court of Appeal earlier this year. "We're seeking leave to appeal this decision to the Supreme Court," a Home Office spokesman said.Concerns about paedophiles using networking sites to approach children are growing. In its annual report, the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre noted there had been a marked increase in the use of webcams linked to instant messaging technology to incite a child to perform or to witness a sexual act.The CEOP report states: "Cases in the past 12 months range from instances where offenders have infiltrated social networking and other online environments to collect pictures of young children to examples of sustained grooming and blackmail with offenders seeking to meet a child offline for abduction and sexual abuse. The online and offline worlds are truly converged: the 'virtual' environment is simply an extension of the real, physical world and that is as true for young people as it is for offenders."Sex offenders are banned from accessing personal networking sites in the US, where the personal details of paedophiles are made public.
CHRISTMAS IS coming and you're wondering what to put on your wish list. How about anAmazon Kindle– the gizmo that enables you to download books, magazines and newspapers and read them on the move?According to the publicity blurb, this cool device "can hold 1,500 books and be read for up to two weeks on a single charge. Its electronic-ink display looks and reads like real paper and has no glare, even in bright sunshine". Sounds good, doesn't it? No more worrying about whether the piles of hardbacks you want to bring to Provence/Tuscany will fit within the miserly Ryanair baggage allowance. And if you ever find yourself stuck for something to read in the train, you can wirelessly order a book from the Amazon store and be reading the opening paragraph in just over a minute. And all for just under £170.At Amazon.co.uk you find that the Kindle is now available in the UK. If you order today, you can have it in a couple of days. Hooray! Add it to your basket and head on over to checkout.You're just about to click the "Place my order" button when a small, niggling thought pops up. Wasn't there something about Amazon and George Orwell a few months ago? Some kind of a row about consumer rights?Google those words and the first result is aGuardianstory headlined"Amazon Kindle users surprised by 'Big Brother' move". Ah, yes: now you remember. The report reads: "Owners of Amazon's Kindle electronic book reader have received a nasty surprise, after discovering that copies of books by George Orwell had been deleted from their gadgets without their knowledge. The books – downloaded from Amazon.com by American Kindle users – were remotely deleted after what the US company now says was a rights issue regarding the publisher, MobileReference.com." It seems that Amazon refunded the cost of the books, but told affected customers they could no longer read the books and that the titles were no longer available.Here's the translation: you go to Waterstone's, buy a copy of Orwell's1984and take it home. Two days later you get up and find that agents of Waterstone's have entered the house during the night and removed the offending volume. They've left a terse note explaining what they've done and enclosing a credit note for the cost of the book. Enraged, you phone the manager of Waterstone's, who explains that everything is in accordance with the service agreement you accepted when you bought the book.You don't have to be a lawyer to know that this would not be tolerated in the real world of physical objects.Yet it's commonplace – indeed universal – in the world of information goods. And what makes it possible is the "End User Licence Agreement" (EULA) that most of us click to accept when we first use hardware, software or online services.The Kindle EULA is a good example. Section 3, which deals with "Digital Content" (such as downloaded books), says that "Unless specifically indicated otherwise, you may not sell, rent, lease, distribute, broadcast, sublicense or otherwise assign any rights to the Digital Content or any portion of it to any third party, and you may not remove any proprietary notices or labels on the Digital Content." In other words, you are forbidden to lend or sell the book you've just "bought". In real-world terms, you can't lend your copy of1984to a friend or donate it to the school jumble sale.Under the subsection on "Use of Digital Content', the Kindle EULA says: "Amazon grants you the non-exclusive right to keep a permanent copy of the applicable Digital Content and to view, use, and display such Digital Content an unlimited number of times, solely on the Device or as authorized by Amazon as part of the Service and solely for your personal, non-commercial use."Translation: you can't back up your electronic books on to any other device – which means that if your Kindle packs up, or if Amazon moves on to another technical standard, you're screwed: your entire digital library has effectively been vaporised. Then you look round your house and note the number of electronic devices that no longer work.I could go on, but you get the point. Verily, technology giveth, but also it taketh away. And sometimes we don't realise until it's too late. Caveat emptor.
BILBO'S VW CAMPERVAN£32,103MILES PER GALLON: 35BERTHS: 4GOOD FOR: OPEN ROADSBAD FOR: CLOSED MINDSUnemployment, endemic corruption, the environmental time bomb… It seems we have little chance of solving the world's biggest problems, which is why we all delight in sorting out the small irritations of life. Change a plug and you feel good. Clean out the garage and you feel masterful. It is this urge to conquer our environment, to lord it over our short-sighted horizons, that leads a perfectly sensible person (that's me) to abandon his wife's dream of a week in a chic hotel in Lisbon so that he can squeeze his family into a campervan and spend the autumn half-term in a damp field in Norfolk, footering about to his heart's ease and finding solutions to a blizzard of self-imposed problems.Not since its heyday in the 60s and 70s has the campervan enjoyed as much attention as it's currently basking in. Fuelled by the popularity of "glamping" and this summer's "staycation" frenzy (though those hitherto unfamiliar with Devon's liquid sunshine will be reverting to proper vacations next year I am sure), VW's much-adored combie van is as in demand as a lip-synched performance from Cheryl Cole. Sales of both new and old models, from the original split-screens to boxy modern flat-screens (which makes them sound like TVs), is steadily rising.The genetic heir to those first campers (known as T2s) is the T5. It would be no exaggeration to say that down the generations almost all of the vehicle's charm has been lost, replaced by a can-do, reliable and rugged personality. The T5 is the Sunday morning to the T2's Saturday night, but at least it means you can now enjoy the freedom of the open road, as opposed to spending most of your time on the hard shoulder.There are a host of companies which specialise in customising VW's T5 base vehicle, but there are few who know more about it than Bilbo's. The award-winning firm was set up by campervan enthusiasts David and Moira Latham in 1977, and from their factory in Surrey they now sell between 12 and 14 vans every month, mostly to British buyers. They make a range of models, from the Komba to their bestseller, the Celex, but all offer variations on the same theme.The vehicle my family and I spent last week getting to know was the Nexa. It has a side kitchen, twin beds below and a double-bed in the pop-up roof. Everything is tiny, which strangely makes you feel very excited – my wife called it the "Wendy house" factor. Despite the lack of space, there was a usable fridge, three-ring grill and oven. And the central heating kept the chill at bay. However, four was a little ambitious – even our eight-year-old felt claustrophobic sleeping up "in the roof". However, it's the stuff of adventure and when else can you feel proud that you've cooked a full English in a foot-wide hall without scorching your bottom on the grill?Later, we made use of the Nexa's 4x4 capability and motored out into the vastness of Norfolk's coastline. We popped up the roof, folded out the chairs and had dinner under the stars in a wilderness of our own…★martin.love@observer.co.uk
1,000 Awesome ThingsConsumer angst has turned western civilisation into a morass of grumpy old men moaning about shoddy battery life of iPhones or the annoying omnipresence of accident claims adverts when you just want to watch a daytime quiz show. So sometimes, it's nice to remind yourself of life's sweeter side and the pleasures to be had  from the small things – like peeling the thin plastic film off new electronic gadgets, stomping on dry leaves, walking faster alongside cars stuck in a traffic jam, reuniting odd socks, and sneaking your own cheap snacks into cinemas. This site deserves its recent Webby Award; life really is awesome after all.ManituanaWu Ming is a collective of Italian writers who, although not entirely anonymous (they like to be called Wu Ming 1, Wu Ming 2, etc), refuse to be photographed or filmed. Manituana is their most recent work, written between 2003 and 2007 and just translated into English, an epic that spans the American civil war and the underworld of 18th-century London, weaving together real and fictional events. Like many recent event books Manituana has its own movie-style trailer alongside a wealth of online bonuses from Google Earth location maps to MP3 downloads of music inspired by various chapters alongside stories and articles connected to the novel. Once you've finished reading the book, a few questions unlock bonus levels of the site.BLOG ROLL: MIXMystery MixPlay DJ Bingo. Click a number and get a free downloadable mix. Number 15 is ace btw.Burning The GroundArchiving the 80s/90s 12-inch megamix era – from A-Ha to Wham!Mixtape MadnessIf someone posts a mixtape on microblog site Tumblr it'll end up here.SoundwalkA 24-hour soundtrack/iPhone application for famed French designer/loon Philippe Starck.PlaylistBuild your own music or video playlist and share it with friends, lovers and people you've never met.MixcloudSwish repository of radio shows, podcasts and DJ sets from Zane Lowe to the regular hoi polloi.WHAT WE LEARNED ON THE WEB THIS WEEK50's logos were beautiful...50s logoswere beautifulTalent isall about perceptionThe 101 bestmusic vids of the decade… not to beconfused with the top 50 videos of the noughtiesWhere towatch loads of old movies for freeThe incorrect wayto skive off work and other Facebook etiquette failuresWhat Disneyprinces teach menWhat happenedwhen the world's drunkest man went out for more beerJackostill lives, apparentlyThere's an alienin every episode of South ParkTen thingsyou need to stop tweeting about
Grand Theft Auto IV: Episodes From Liberty City,Xbox 360Bringing together both pieces of GTA IV's downloadable episodic content, now those without an Xbox Live membership or a copy of the original game can enjoy The Lost &amp; The Damned and the brand-new Ballad Of Gay Tony. The former follows the intense and violent brotherhood of Liberty City motorcycle gang The Lost, led by ex-con Jewish biker Johnny Klebitz. The latter (and better) casts you as Luis Lopez, associate and hired muscle of big-time gangster Gay Tony, whose dealings seem to land you in increasingly hot water. More frequent checkpoints make those dealings slightly easier, which is just as well given the episode's propensity for exploding skyscrapers and perilous, helicopter-based antics. They're tighter, more scripted experiences than the main game, showing different sides of Liberty City and shifting the game's emphasis further towards action and – at more than 12 hours each – comprise a generous package.Rockstar, £34.99Tekken 6, PS3, Xbox 360Tekken 6Tekken's original premise all those years ago was that the four face buttons on the controller mapped to each of your fighter's limbs, giving you a uniquely human control over the melee. Unlike its competitor Virtua Fighter, the reality of Tekken was always less about supernaturally subtle timing than it was about memorising long sequences of button presses, enabling cartoonishly incendiary flurries of punches, kicks, throws and head butts to be hurled towards your antagonist. After a couple of pretty duff outings, Tekken 6 is a return to form, featuring an embarrassment of 42 combatants (with new faces such as Lars Alexandersson and, er,  Bob), the usual plethora of online options and the return of Tekken Force, the never-more-than-distinctly-lukewarm plot-driven beat-'em-up mode. Without anything particularly new to say, Tekken 6 is a sort of Greatest Hits of the series, taking the fight mechanics, characters and silliness we all know and love and ratcheting everything up to 11.Namco, £49.99GAMES NEWSAnother new Nintendo handheldNintendo Dsi LLFar from the relatively sedate pace of its console hardware release schedule, Nintendo's handhelds receive updates with a frequency that will cause alarm to those responsible for shelling out for the increasingly desirable miniature devices. Naturally, it's happening again, with Nintendo's DSi, the camera-enabled dual-screen system released here in the spring already declared obsolete by the toy giant. The DSi LL (to be renamed XL in Europe) will add larger screens, have two brain training games pre-installed and feature different sized styluses for use on its touch screen. Due for release in Japan on the 21 Nov, Nintendo has said the system will receive a European launch in the first quarter of next year at around the same price as the current DSi. Those considering giving in to tiny demands for a Christmas upgrade to the current model might be advised to hold off.
Australian internet provider BigPond has become the latest internet company to be targeted by hackers on Twitter, after one of its accounts was hijacked as part of a phishing scam.The company, a subsidiary of Sydney-based telecommunications giant Telstra, said that theBigPondTeam Twitter account- which is used to provide information and support to customers - had been infiltrated by unknown criminal and used to trick users into handing over their passwords.Affected users received a private message from BigPondTeam saying "Hey, look at this," and directing them to follow a link that asked them to enter their Twitter password. The attack was part of an attempt to steal their credentials and potentially gain access to other services they use - such as their bank accounts or email services."Someone, identity unknown, used the BigPond Twitter account to send unauthorised direct messages to some of our followers," said a spokesman for Telstra in a statement. "The incident is under investigation with Twitter."It is not the first time that large telecoms companies have been targeted by hackers on Twitter, as a rising tide of attacks hit the social messaging site.Earlier this week BT users reported that they had been receiving phishing messages from a Twitter account calledBTCare, which is followed by around 3,000 people and provides helpdesk services.The company denied that its account had been hijacked by criminals, but said that some customers had been targeted."The BT Care Twitter account has not been hacked," said a spokeswoman earlier this week. "There is a suspected phishing attack which has affected a small number of our followers."Spam and phishing attacks have long been problematic for social networking sites, particularly because the messages usually come from people or companies that users trust. Earlier this year Facebook and Twitterissued public warnings to users after a string of attacks, and both services receive aregular stream of reportsabout similar activities.Phishing scams are believed to cost internet users billions of pounds each year, but such strikes could be particularly devastating for the reputation of companies that use social media maintain contact with customers without carefully considering the security implications.Meanwhile, BigPond said that there were important lessons for everyone about security."Yesterday reinforces how important it is to stay aware and secure online," said the company.
Ping! It's another email arriving in your inbox. However this one is rather different: it's called "Salary review" and it's come from a company you once communicated with, though you've got no association with them - no friends, no business."As requested, here is the salary list for the company for the pay review", says the message. And attached is a spreadsheet called "Company salaries".The bottom of the email has all that standard boilerplate stuff; "if you are not the intended recipient of this email you must destroy it and tell us" - that sort of thing. Though of course someonehassent it to you. Perhaps thinking you were someone else, but in a sense you *are* the intended recipient - look, it's got your email address on. Almost certainly the email program autocompleted the recipient's name. And yours came up first, a quirk of some bit of caching in a computer somewhere.The company has also been in the news: it's losing money but has been promising "cutbacks", though its board members seem richly rewarded, unlike the majority of its workers.Now you could destroy the email; or have a look at the spreadsheet, just for yourself; or send the spreadsheet anonymously to somewhere where it can be discovered and redistributed; or send it on, under your name, to a news organisation you think could be interested.What do you do, and why?
The first title from Codemasters since they obtained the Formula One license from Sony in 2008, and coded by Sumo Digital on Codemasters own EGO engine (of DiRt 2 fame), F1 2009 suffers from high expectations.This release is in some ways a taster for the PS3 and Xbox 360 versions, titled F1 2010 and due out next year, which will be much more sophisticated. This Wii version could therefore have been awful – a lazy stopgap, DiRt 2 with different tracks and skins. Not so.This one is being aimed at "F1 dads and lads", and boasts cleverly thought-out difficulty settings designed to allow a 30-something father to plug in and race with his son, regardless of differing abilities. If you both have saved driver profiles, it will take into account your previous races and suggest difficulty settings to keep the race even. That's a clever idea.There is a full F1 season mode, too, for single player, and all of this season's circuits and drivers including the brand new Abu Dhabi circuit and Singapore night race are included. It's not a stopgap at all, in fact, but a pretty decent game in its own right.Coders Sumo Digital have created a bespoke little gem for their Codemasters overlords, and have managed to squeeze every last graphical ounce the Wii has to give.The graphics are therefore excellent – for a Wii – if a little sparse, but there is no chance of them confusing younger players. It looks, assumedly with the youth in mind, very bright and cheerful. The sky is bright blue, the grass a beautiful green, and so on. It could have been clashing, but it's pretty pleasing on the eye.There are an overwhelming array of control options. Wii remote, Wii remote in a wheel-shaped holster (one of these will come with the game, a la Mario Kart), Logitech wheel, Wii remote and nunchuk and classic controller, each of which make for very different playing styles, but they're all balanced very well. None of them is a dud option; it is perfectly possible for dad to play the game with the more grown-up classic controller, while his seven-year-old son uses the Wii remote in the steering wheel cradle, with neither finding themselves at a disadvantage – although I did find the Wii's motion sensor made fine car control difficult.The PSP version is pretty much the same game, and it works very well. It's a serious chunk of game for a portable device.Sumo have achieved what they set out to achieve. Easy to learn, but with the driving aids turned off and all the customisation features – you can set the camber of your tyres and muck around with your shocks and springs, if that's your cup of tea – also pretty difficult to master.This is essentially a beginners game, but with enough content to keep experts interested and entertained until the meaty consoles get their versions next year.•On Monday, we will have an interview with the game's lead designer, Ned Waterhouse. Formula 1 2009 will be released on 20 November
Over the last decade there have been plenty of internet entrepreneurs and thinkers who have been recognised for the subtle - and not so subtle - impact they have made on the way the world operates. Larry Page and Sergey Brin of Google, web creator Tim Berners-Lee and even Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook, for example, can all claim some sort of influence on the way we think about the 21st century.But if anyone deserves a prize for being the sharpest, canniest operators of all, it may prove to be Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis - the Scandinavian duo whotoday wrestled back a $400m share in Skype, the internet telephony company they sold to eBay in 2005.In regaining a significant stake in the company - an agreement driven through a firestorm of legal threats and attacks - the duo have once again proven their astonishing ability to see a deal and find profit where others can see only pain.Over their careers, the pair have not only forged a reputation for building popular services, but also the most astonishing sense for business and tenacious deal-making that has turned them into a formidable force.In 2001 they created the peer-to-peer file sharing service Kazaa, selling it off little more than a year later - shortly before it wascrushed by an anti-piracy lawsuit.Their next trick was Skype, which also uses peer-to-peer technology to connect people online, and which was sold to eBay three years after it started for $2.6bn.The fact that they managed to sell the entire company butretain ownership of a crucial underlying technologywas either a masterstroke on their part, or an incredibly foolish move by eBay - depending on who you talk to.But their subsequent decision to use that technology as a lever to prize hundreds of millions of dollars worth of shares in the company out of the hands of eBay shows that mess with them at their peril.If anyone comes out of this looking sheepish, it may be Index Ventures - the investment group who werealleged to have used inside information to sweeten the deal. But most of all it will be eBay, which has managed to turn a surprise acquisition of a hot internet startup into something more akin to a circus.Indeed, Meg Whitman - the former eBay chief executive who oversaw the multibillion dollar buyout in 2005 - may find that her inability to realise the importance of buying the technology underpinning Skype is a stain on her reputation as sheruns for the governorship of California.These days the 53-year-old might be used to swimming with sharks along the campaign trail, but in truth she's already been devoured by opponents whose voracious appetite and scent for blood outstrips even the most hard-bitten political operatives.
The founders of Skype have regained a significant stake in the internet company after settling a contentious legal dispute that had threatened to derail its $2bn sale.The deal, which was announced today, will give Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis a 14% stake in the internet telephony service they originally sold to auction website eBay in 2005 for $2.6bn.Confirmation that the duo had settled their court action - which focused on the ownership of a core technology used by Skype to deliver millions of voice and video calls over the internet - means the duo have now regained around $400m of shares in the company."This is fantastic news for us, clearing the road ahead and making what was shaping up to be an exciting journey, an unbelievable journey," said Skype chief executive Josh Silverman.The agreement finally brings to an end an increasingly fractious argument over the future of Skype that even led eBay to suggest at one pointthat the service could be shut down entirely.The fracas began earlier this year, when Zennstrom and Friis tried to end a licensing to a technology they created called Global Index, which was part of the system that underpins Skype's popular online calling services. The duo had retained the rights to Global Index when they sold the company to eBay in 2005 - a surprise twist in the deal that shocked industry observers when it was revealed in court filings.The dispute continued through the summer as the two groups argued over the details of the licensing arrangement, but things came to a head in September when eBay announced its plan to spin off Skype andsell two-thirds of it to a consortium of investors for $1.9bn.While the move itself was not unexpected - eBay had consistently struggled to integrate Skype with its core internet auction business -  the nature of the sell-off apparently angered Zennstrom and Friis. Shortly after the sale was announced, they launched a fresh series of legal attacks, targeting both eBay and the proposed buyers.In particular, they focused on the involvement of London-based investment group Index Ventures and former Cisco executive Mike Volpi, who had been lined up to take charge of Skype under its new owners.The Scandinavian duo alleged that Index and Volpi wereplanning to use inside informationon the way Global Index worked to avoid the licensing dispute. Volpi had previously been chairman of video startup Joost, another company started by Zennstrom and Friis that used the system.As a result of today's agreement with eBay, Index and Volpi will drop their involvement in the deal in favour of Zennstrom and Friis. The other investors - including private investment group Silver Lake and recently-launched venture capital firm led by Netscape founder Marc Andreessen - will continue their part in the purchase.Skype will also gain ownership of the software that was previously licensed, ending any possibility of further confusion or litigation in th future.Details of the agreementhad been widely reportedahead of the announcement, but executives said it was a relief to have finally ended the arguments over Skype's future."We are very pleased to have the litigation resolved," said Silver Lake managing director Egon Durban. "We remain confident in a great future for Skype and we look forward to working with Niklas, Janus and the other investors as partners to help the company achieve its full potential."The company's new owners will hope that it can put the problems behind it and focus on maximising profits now that it is freed from the constraint of being a division of a larger company."There was some drama along the way, but we came out with everybody in the same boat rowing in the same direction," investor Marc Andreessen toldTechCrunch.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?Well, that's a difficult one for me as I am a self-confessed gadget anorak, but it has to be the iPhone – surely the must-have gadget of the last few years.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I'm using it now to do this Q &amp; A.What additional features would you add if you could?I suppose to be picky I would want faster browsing speed. The wealth of applications one can access ensures that it updates itself over and over again.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?The iPhone revolutionised the mobile industry, rather like the iPod before it with the personal music player. The iPod seems to still rule the world, so why not the iPhone?What always frustrates you about technology in general?It's more a frustrating trait of mine when buying technology. I am always buying things with features which I know I will never use, but you trick yourself into thinking you need them.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?A PC. We just didn't hit it off.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Wait to buy for a while and see whether it's still around in six months. This is something I never do myself by the way.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Nerd.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I suppose the hybrid system in my car – Lexus RX 400h – counts as technology, then it's that.Mac or PC, and why?Mac. Ease of use. Compatability. Quality.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? And what was your last purchase?I still buy CDs and DVDs, but generally for more obscure material. I download TV shows more and more especially from the US. My last purchase was a DVD of East of Eden with James Dean.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Terrible.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I read recently of the advent of a completely wireless house. Having just moved house and being drowned in billions of cords and cables that sounds like a great thing to have.•Julian Ovenden is starring in Annie Get Your Gun at the Young Vic theatre in London
Any PC manufacturers who have been looking for Windows 7 to boost sales appear to be out of luck, according to a report from DigiTimes in Taiwan. The story (time-limited link) says:Demand for PCs and hardware did not turn strong after the launch of Windows 7 in late October and is unlikely to do so in 2009 due to most Windows Vista users not needing to replace their PCs in order to upgrade to Windows 7, while some users are waiting for Microsoft to release Windows 7's first service pack, according to sources at PC vendors.It's hard to see what sort of effect Windows 7 might be having. Were PC sales slow because people were waiting for Windows 7, or because of the economic recession? Will pre-Christmas sales increase due to Windows 7? They would increase anyway, regardless of Windows 7.Another factor is that most people take months to buy a new PC, and businesses can easily take 18-24 months. The appearance of Windows 7 ought to produce some sort of spike because of pent-up demand, but the long-term trend is more important.It looks as though Microsoft boss Steve Ballmer was right when he said the sales bump would "probably not be huge". However, DigiTimes says:Some notebook vendors are also facing surplus inventory as they placed a lot of Windows 7-based notebook orders in the third quarter hoping to satisfy demand during the peak season, but market demand has turned out to be weaker than some expected.Microsoft itself may not be as strongly affected, because Vista users have been able to buy heavily-discounted in-place upgrade versions of Windows 7. And although there's an internet meme for kicking Vista, it has millions of users, according to NPD's2009 Household Penetration Studyof computer-owning US households.Stephen Baker, NPD's vice president, industry analysis, says: "25% of [US] households have a desktop running Vista and 40% have a notebook with Vista, so there are a lot of folks to move". For comparison, the number forApple computersis 12%.NPD has just issued a press release (already referenced here by Bobbie Johnson:Microsoft boosted as Windows 7 sales outpace Vista) that covers the US retail market, including suppliers such as Amazon. It says:According to NPD's weekly tracking service, Windows 7 software unit sales in the US were 234% higher than Vista's first few days of sales. Revenue growth was not as strong though. A combination of early discounts on pre-sales and a lack of promotional activity for the Ultimate version resulted in dollar sales that were only 82% higher than for Vista.Like DigiTimes, NPD notes that "PC hardware sales had more of an uphill battle". NPD's press release says:Total Windows PCs, however, were up 49% in shipments on-year and were up 95% over the week prior to launch. But, PC sales growth during the Vista launch was stronger, soaring 68% over the prior year's sales and 170% over the week preceding the launch. Windows PC sales were down 6% compared to PC sales during the Vista launch week.As always, it's a question of expectations. If your Windows 7 PC production was based on US retail sales increasing by 50% over the prior week, you'd be happy. If you were banking on something better than Vista's 170% spike, you'd be miserable.
Bluebeat suddenly has far fewer Beatles tracks for downloadA judge has ordered Bluebeat, the US website that had been selling the Beatles' entire discography for digital download - and which justified its doing so on the basis that the tracks were "re-recorded" using "psycho-acoustic simulation" - to stop selling the tracks at once.According to Wired.com, "a Los Angeles federal judge set aside arguments from Hank Risan, owner of BlueBeat and other companies named as defendants in the lawsuit EMI filed on Tuesday."EMI is understood to have the rights to publish Beatles songs digitally and in physical form in the US. Bluebeat began selling the back catalogue on Monday, at the low price of 25cents per song - a substantial discount against normal song prices almost anywhere online.The catalogue now available - including "Love" and "Let It Be.. Naked" - is the sort of thing that appeals to collectors, but has unproven attractiveness to the general punter. And if you search the iTunes Store, although you'll find The Beatles, you won't find them singing any of their songs; just interviews.There's also no mention of the decision - or the constraint, or why Bluebeat has suddenly decided not to sell any more of the Beatles back catalogue - onBluebeat's news page.But we have found some more background (courtesyMo McRobertsin a spare moment) on Media Rights Technologies, the company that putatively owns Bluebeat.In May 2007,according to Ars Technica, Media Rights Technologies claimed that Microsoft's Vista operating system, Adobe's Flash, Real Networks RealPlayer and Apple's iTunes were "infringing [its] products under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act" and that MRT had sent cease-and-desist letters to Microsoft, Adobe, Real, and Apple."Together these four companies are responsible for 98 percent of the media players in the marketplace; CNN, NPR, Clear Channel, MySpace, Yahoo, and YouTube all use these infringing devices to distribute copyrighted works," said MRT CEO Hank Risan in a statement. "We will hold the responsible parties accountable. The time of suing John Doe is over."Risan's argument was that the companies hadn't used the correct digital rights management technology DRM (a technology which Media Rights Technologies happens to make..) to encode their streams, and that therefore they were enabling piracy by not using the correct DRM. And which DRM should they use? Why, the DRM that Media Rights Technologies made.According to Ars Technica,The real crime of the four targeted companies appears to be the fact that they are "actively avoiding the use of MRT's technologies," and "failure to comply with this demand could result in a federal court injunction to any of the above named parties to cease production or sale of their products.There's no evidence that any court action actually followed. As Microsoft, Real, Adobe and Apple have all shown themselves adept at writing DRM products of their own, it's hard to see how Risan's claim could have stood up in a court.The latter may be a feeling that he's getting used to.
Video games, they say, lead to social problems. The debate is still raging about cause and effect, and the influence of violent games, but in one area the issues are plain to see. Football management sims CAN damage your health. And your relationships.They can also damage your education. I know of at least three students who destroyed their copy of Championship Manager to save their degrees; they realised they were addicted when one came home unexpectedly and discovered a housemate giving a press conference in the living room ...In a rivalry similar to that of PES and Fifa, a publishing debate saw Championship Manager spawn Football Manager and instant competition for the fan dollars. Like the PES and Fifa rivalry, both CM and FM have their passionate supporters, although FM has generally been seen as the "purists" game. Unsurprisingly, this latest incarnation is business as usual, an addictive game of incredible depth and detail – or a tedious exercise in the pointlessly anal, depending on your viewpoint and, possibly, gender.It's not a particularly attractive game, however. If you want surface sheen and the beautiful game to look like a beautiful game, then Fifa or PES are your options. If you think the beauty is in the details though – the statistics, the back-room politics, the wheeling and dealing of young players, the massaging of player egos, the incessant tweaking of tactics and squads – then Football Manager is probably already in your collection.Compared to previous incarnations, FM2010 nudges rather than pushes the envelope. The 3D engine for the simulated matches is a visual improvement on 2009's, but it's still rather buggy, with annoying lag an inevitability in, apparently, every match. However, the "traditional" 2D view is still an option, and smoother than before.The other major addition is a "touchline command system" which allows changes of team tactics or instructions to individual players during the game. It's a great, realistic device that can pay instant results or, of course, see your team spanked out of sight in a matter of minutes. The rest of the interface is also appealing and instinctive to use, whether you're a seasoned FM player, a newbie or, ahem, only recently coming back to the series after the threat of divorce.After the disappointment of FM2009, FM2010 is a step in the right direction. Unless you had social plans between now and next July, that is.
For the last few years an increasing number of developers have grown frustrated with the standard methods of telling stories through games. Animated sequences have gradually evolved to use in-game visuals, but now these intrusive cinematic artifacts are being abandoned altogether as designers toy with new methods of narration. Half-Life was an important benchmark, its story told through in-game dialogue as the player retained control of the lead character. Now, sandbox titles like the forthcomingCrackdown 2andAPBleave players to interpret the plot themselves, or just make is up as they go along.But in some ways the really avant-garde work has been going on elsewhere – in the realm of the ARG, or alternative reality game*. Here, proponents like42 EntertainmentandDarklight Interactivecreate interactive experiences by placing information around the internet, on faked websites, forums and Wikipedia entries, encouraging players to work together to decipher the clues. Until now, the ARG has existed more or less independently of the mainstream industry – EA's ground-breaking attempt at the genre –Majestic– being a notable exception. But a Vancouver-based studio namedSmoking Gun Interactivemay be about to merge the worlds of console and alternative reality gaming into one experimental new form. The team has yet to announce a name for the project – its codename is currently X, and there's an intriguing online preview named,Exoriare, a title drawn from Virgil's 'Exoriare aliquis nostris ex ossibus ultor' – let an avenger arise from my bones.What you'll find at the website is a snippet of an online graphic novel, beautifully drawn by in-house artists, Cheoljoo Lee and Younger Yang, and scripted byDouglas Rushkoff, the author and pioneering analyst of cyberculture. The story concerns a small US military team investigating the tunnels beneath a Maltese temple for unexploded munitions. In the labyrinthine depths they're attacked by some kind of supernatural being, but are whisked away by a shadowy armed force. Later, one of the soldiers goes missing, and the story snaps ahead to 2011; his daughter is at college, becoming involved with an arcane study group researching universal linguistics. Then we're at an army research facility where an unknown artifact is being fed electrical energy until it suddenly explodes, sending a shaft of light into the night sky. To be concluded…Here's the interesting bit. On page 13 of the online comic, it's possible to click on a computer monitor in one of the frames. This plunges you into a sort of old school text adventure, which borrows the first line from classic of the genre, Zork. This is followed by another mini-game based around assembling genetic codes. So what exactly is going on? John Johnson the Creative Director and CEO, isn't giving much away. Apparently, X will eventually be a cross-platform retail game release, which will include consoles. It will also turn up as a printed graphic novel and an online community-driven ARG. Somehow, they will all align and interact."More and more publishers, as well as movie studios, are looking for media that can be marketed 360 degrees," says Johnson. "What we're focusing on more here, is that cross connection between these stories, and the depth to the interactions so the lines that separate each are much less visible. We've introduced a world inside a graphic novel that people can come and explore at their own pace, go as deep down that rabbit hole as they want, and join and interact with a community of other people all doing the same thing."Now, once you have a global universe evolving, and the player's experience unfolds within that universe, you have some real potential for complementary, parallel stories. It's an interesting problem, and one that we're very interested in tackling. There is certainly still a lot of evolution that needs to take place here and we feel we're just touching that right now."The story set up, which Johnson says has involved hundreds of pages of backstory documentation, mixes ancient technologies, military conspiracies and that old favourite, covert alien invasion. One section of the online game 'reveals' a coded message in the American declaration of independence, which warns of extraterrestrial forces aligning with Earthly governments. It's sort of X Files meets Dan Brown, with a dash of academic research. I ask about influences and Johnson briefly namechecks theYear Zeroproject, an interesting ARG experiment by Nine inch Nails and 42 Entertainment, the company behind legendary Xbox promotional ARG,I Love Bees. Here though, it seems the Exoriare website is more of a conceptual open beta – a way of building and engaging with a community."We wanted to find a medium between an ARG and an online game," says Johnson. "We felt this would create a more timeless piece, as the experience itself should be captivating enough to go through, despite whether or not you know all the answers. For us, the whole 'ARG' thing just means an opportunity to share something with the community, and allow the community to share with each other.  It can be three years for a game to go from something on a napkin to something on a box, that's a long time to be huddled in the dark, and we needed to share."ARGs have been used as marketing tools since they first started gaining recognition as a medium almost a decade ago; indeed, perhaps the first widely known example, The Beast, was designed to publicise the movie AI. But it's rare that they've been used in conjunction with game releases – THQ created one for Frontlines: Fuel of War, and Bioshock 2 was teased withSomething in the Sea. X would appear to be a step on from those -  it's not just about using an ARG to flag up a forthcoming console release; here, the ARG and the console game will, in some way, interact, or at least tell different facets of the same story."We see the online experience and comics simply as ways of exploring this universe that we're building," says Johnson. "That said, the console game will share similar themes and ideas. Storytelling and interactively in games have always shared an odd opposing force.  I want to play the game, move around, yet when the story occurs I must stop, wait, read or listen, this really limits the amount of story you can deliver unless you want to start impeding why the player picked up the controller in the first place."Introducing story telling methods that cross media boundaries can allow for that rich interactive experience, and still let the player delve as deep into the story as they want to go, at their own pace and, if this is on different devices, wherever they are. Imagine characters you develop are now sending you messages, blogging, and letting you know what's going on in the world even while you are away and the game is turned off. Through this they are revealing their personal journeys that you've taken them on, posted for all to see. Then imagine, you tell them to do something that will affect the world. The opportunities here are endless."If this hyper-ambitious vision was being spun by a twenty-something tech geek looking for venture capital suitors, I'd be cynical to say the least. But John Johnson has form. Before setting up Smoking Gun he was a Design Director atRelic, and producer on the hugely successful RTS titleCompany of Heroes. But that was an authentic, gritty and relatively straightforward WWII strategy shooter – seemingly a very different proposition to this seamless, multifaceted paranoid drama. Johnson though, sees vital parallels. "In Company of Heroes, our vision and tagline was 'Real Soldiers. Real Battlefields. Real War.' We attempted to deliver a heightened emotional experience of these citizen soldiers that anybody could relate to. What we did not try to do was to rewrite World War 2. It's somewhat the same with X. We're finding the story that wants to be told, and we're telling it from the perspective of everyday people who are caught up in things much larger than themselves."Whatever happens with X, the ideas are vitally important. We're getting past the age of entirely self-contained videogame experiences; elements such as downloadable content, the interconnection with social networks and the creations of dedicated communal environments (PlayStation Home, for example) are expanding the experience beyond a game disc that you slot into an optical drive, play and then discard. EA was maybe ten years too early with its Majestic experiment, a science fiction thriller from 2001, which used email, fax and instant messaging to extend the cryptic story line. Before we started welcoming applications like Facebook and Twitter into our lives, it all seemed a little too intrusive and complex. But now that pervasive social technology is the norm, the ARG concept has become second nature to us without anyone really knowing it. Late last year, Smoking Gunreceived millions in private funding, for its singular take on videogame development. Somebody somewhere knows this is the future.*For more information on alternative reality gaming, check outArgnetorArg reporter.
A couple of weeks ago, my girlfriend stumbled across this Star Trek tricorder toy at a jumble sale down the road.I had a bit of fun ironically unboxing it (here's a set of pictures on Flickr) but since I've never been a massive Star Trek fan, my curiosity really came from a different angle: as an example of what our past selves thought future technologies would look like.Star Trek has, of course, been hugely influential on the technology industry (compare withthis talk by Nokia researcher Julian Bleeckerat this year's eTech conference). And even though I've watched my fair share of the shows and films, it always astounds me precisely how much of our idea of "the future" was shaped by the ideas outlined by Rodenberry and friends.OK, it's a toy, it's clunky, it's drab. There could have been millions of them in circulation over the years. But I love the fact that even though it's based on a fictional 1960s design, it looks an awful lot like a clamshell mobile phone. I wonder if the kids who played with these toys back in the day ever thought they would have to deal with patchy network reception and dodgy 3G deadzones?
Early sales of Windows 7 suggest that shoppers are switching to Microsoft's new operating system in their droves, shrugging off the cloud cast by its predecessor, Windows Vista.Analysis of sales figures by research firm NPD Group suggested that sales of Windows 7 in the United States were 234% higher than when Vista launched in January 2007."In a slow environment for packaged software Windows 7 brought a large number of customers into the software aisles"," said Stephen Baker, a vice president at NPD. "Vista had a slight advantage at launch, as January traditionally has a bigger sales footprint than October."The positive news was backed up by comments yesterday from Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer, who said that sales had been "fantastic".High interest in the launch was already clear when Windows 7 hit shops on October 22nd, with Amazon UK saying that the software was thebiggest pre-order in the its history, outstripping phenomenally popular books such as Harry Potter and Dan Brown.Ballmer also suggested that the surge of interest in Windows 7 had breathed some life into the troubled PC market."People don't buy operating systems, they buy computers with operating systems on them," he told an audience in Japan.NPD's figures suggested that the system's launch had created an initial 49% surge in computer sales compared to the same point last year - a figure that is lower than the equivalent boost created by the release of Vista, though the disparity could be partly attributed to the slowdown in computer sales caused by the recession.Figures from another research firm, IDC, suggested that computer sales had increased by 2.3% in the third quarter of the year - but most industry executives expect that number to increase significantly as customers consider buying new Windows 7 PCs in the run-up to Christmas.Whatever the case, the numbers will come as a relief to Microsoft, which recently announcedanother problematic financial quarterand announced that it wascutting 800 jobsearlier this week.
Dragon Ageis out today. The long awaited RPG from Baldur's Gate creators Bioware is – from what I've played so far – hugely engrossing, if a little clunky control-wise. More thoughts on that next week but so far it looks like a must-buy for RPG fans. But if Dragon Age sits at the hardcore end of the gaming spectrum then one of today's other big releases sits at the opposite end. Yes, Singstar Take That is out today. Ok, it's unlikely to trouble those end of year games awards lists but seeing as it's Friday I thought it deserved a mention. Also it allows me to ask a simple Friday question – what should the next Singstar be? Judging by the cringeworthy Dragon Age trailers EA would argue that Singstar Metal would appeal to RPG fans...Just in case you care, or maybe just to get ready for the inevitable post-pub Christmas karaoke, here is the tracklisting:A Million Love SongsBabeBack For GoodBeautiful WorldCould It Be MagicDo What U LikeEverything ChangesGreatest DayHold Up A LightI'd Wait For LifeIt Only Takes A MinuteLove Ain't Here AnymoreNever ForgetOnce You've Tasted LovePatiencePrayPromisesReach OutRelight My FireRule The WorldSaid It AllShineSureUp All NightWhy Can't I Wake Up With YouSo any Take That fans here? Happy with the listing?Anyway – back to the Friday question. What do you think the next Singstar should be? Singstar Britpop maybe? Singstar One Hit Wonder? Singstar Nursery Rhymes!? Or have you moved over to Guitar Hero/Rock Band and given up on Singstar altogether?
When Google's CEO Eric Schmidt sat down on Thursday evening at the MIT in Boston,one topic that came up in the discussion with the audience was the future of news. As was reported by several journalists, Schmidt appeared to have a lot sympathy for newspapers and magazines and, well, interest. This might be no surprise, sincedelivering the news in the future seems to be an issue that Google is brainstorming about.Their interest in news grew from a nice small idea that Krishna Bharat had about story ranking in 2001 to something which obviously keeps its CEO busy as it became a part of their future business. Indeed, Schmidt talked of "about 10 news stream ideas" they have for the future of news. What could they be?To answer that, we need to understand fundamentally how Google addresses the issue, which is very much in a technology-driven way. As Schmidt joked at the Gartner Symposium, thatin order to study the consumption of information in the future, you should find an early technology adopter, hence a teenager in your house, or borrow one, if you don't have one. So how can news be consumed in the future? The points Schmidt comes up with are convincing, although not totally new.Always online:"...the reading will presumably be online not offline, just because of the scale of it."Mobile:"The Kindle is a proto of what this thing could look like. People will carry these things around."On a smallish display:"...probably on a tablet or a mobile phone"Personalised:"It'll be highly personalised, right? So you'll know who the person is."Semantic:"capable of deeper navigation into a subject"Cross-financed:"It'll be advertising-supported and subscription-supported, so you'll probably have a mixture."While we have heard of most of these ideas, there are two aspects which seemed to be new and less decrepit: integrated storytelling and differentiated news display."There'll be a lot of integration of media – so video, voice, what have you," said Schmidt rather briefly, but indeed, integrated storytelling might be the next step after the convergence of television, radio and newspapers. Since the way we told a news story has changed in the past, it is quite certain that it will change in the future as well.While now we display text, video and audio next to each other there might be a future where the stories are told in a new medium that emerges out of a deep convergence of these three. Indeed, the development of integrated formats might change journalism fundamentally in terms of how to set out the line of a story, what to begin with and where to end, or how to provide additional information. The ways video games structure stories might give us a slight hint what could lay in front of us."...show me the differential. Since you know what you told me yesterday, just tell me what changed today. Don't repeat everything." What Schmidt is talking about here is a rather useful feature in a world of information overload. Indeed, every news site should have a button to mark articles as read or seen. Think of something like the "I like" button on Facebook, which would send an article to be stored in your personal archive.In addition, the unsatisfied experience you make today when reading a news website could vanish by this feature. A list of looked at articles gives you a feeling that you have actually done something while now the only feeling that is left after scanning a website is that there is soo much more which you missed.Of course, a flipped-through magazine or newspapers already gives you that satiesfied "been there, seen that" feeling today. Sometimes the future lies in the past.(ViaNiemanLab.)
Welcome to Chatterbox Friday. Dragon Age is released today, so is Singstar Take That - which one are you getting? Also, don't forget to indulge in someChamp Manager reminiscing.  On with the chat...
&bull; If Peter Mandelson wants to push through a three strikes law against alleged filesharers, he's might find himself at odds with the courts inEurope- after acompromise to a proposed new telecommunications bill was thrashed out yesterday. The draft bill scuppersFrench plansto ban filesharers without giving evidence to court, and gives consumers more rights too.&bull; TheGalleon case- an insider trading scandal that is making waves on Wall Street and in Silicon Valley - has extended its tentacles, with theFBI charging 14 peopleamid accusations that they passed on information about companies including Google and Intel.&bull; And here's something for the weekend... no, notthatsort of something. Labels on fruit could be on their way out, thanks to a new systemfor laser etching information into the skin of food. The technology, currently under review, basically involves engraving info directly into your oranges, lemons and others.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
The Beatles songs are available for digital download, apparently legitimately. You have to go to an American site calledBluebeatwhich has possibly one of the worst download systems ever (a weird Java applet that insists on getting access to your computer), but they're there. And they really sound like the Beatles. In fact, hell, itisthe Beatles.This is puzzling, because the Beatles songs haven't been licensed for digital download to other sites. And, if you read the very extensive coverage on Wired, it seems that Apple Corps, the Beatles' management company, probably hasn't either. (I contacted Apple Corps earlier today but have not received a response.)EMI (the Beatles' publishers) has filed a lawsuit, Wired explains.According to Wired, Bluebeat is claiming - in a bizarre court document - that it has made "re-recordings" of the songs using "psycho-acoustic simulation".That was probably aGooglewhacka few days ago. Not so much now, of course, because everyone is storming over to Bluebeat to try to get a few Beatles tracks. Well, the whole lot, actually.If you recall how often hopes have been raised ahead of every Apple Inc (formerly Apple Computer) announcement that "I heard a rumour that this is going to be the one where Steve Jobs announces that the Beatles are coming to the iTunes Music Store", then you'll know that there's great eagerness among some people to write about that.Less eagerness, I suspect, at EMI and Apple Corps. They are minting it from re-packaging and re-selling the Beatles: look at the price of the CD package (about £200). Look at price of the USB stick with all the Beatles' tracks on. Why would they go to digital downloads for a generation which never grew up with the Fab Four? Those who want them will either buy the CDs, or find them on file-sharing networks.For Bluebeat, though, it's a precipitous route towards calamity for a company that had probably been doing OK on its own. The lawsuit looks indefensible, will cost millions that it probably doesn't have, and is only going to give it short-term attention. Possibly this is what the company behind it, the mysterious Media Rights Technologies, Inc.	of "PO Box 8447, Santa Cruz" (to quote the domain registration) is after.Last word back to a lawyer contacted by Wired:"They're hosed. That just doesn't make any sense," said Scott Mackenzie, a Dallas copyright attorney. "I don't even see the basis of their theory."If you know, do tell.
Independent media analyst Grant Goddard has just posted some excerpts from last week's DCMS (Department of Culture, Media &amp; Sport) committee meeting on his Radio Blog. One of the prime quotes is used as a headline:Let us get on this horse or get off it.The pain caused by DAB in the commercial sector is right up front, with  RadioCentre's Andrew Harrison saying:One of the fundamental issues the sector faces right now is the appalling cost of dual transmission. Ultimately, right now, this is a small sector and very many of our stations are simultaneously paying for the cost of analogue and digital transmission. That clearly does not make any financial sense.Later, Steve Fountain, head of radio at KM Group spells it out:KM Group does have a digital platform. It is currently costing us over £100,000 a year and we get absolutely nothing back from it.Travis Baxter, managing director of Bauer Radio, still supports DAB as "a bespoke broadcast platform" (ie as distinct from Freeview, satellite, Internet radio etc) but says:  "It has, however, taken 12 to 13 years of very slow development for that platform to get to its current state. Therefore, our proposition to Carter's Review was: let us get on this horse or get off it. We think we should get on it."One problem is that getting on it will be expensive. Harrison puts the capital cost of building out the DAB platform as roughly £120 million, or £10 million a year. Commercial radio wants DAB's biggest user and main promoter to fund most of it. "We cannot afford it but we absolutely believe the BBC can," says Harrison:the current Licence Fee settlement for the BBC at around about £3.5-£3.6 billion a year is that over 12 years that is £43 billion. The £100 million infrastructure cost for DAB radio is less than a quarter of one per cent of what the BBC's income will likely be over the next 12 years. So it is eminently affordable if there is a public policy decision that it is important to do that build-out.Harrison also makes a good point in saying that the DAB build out is "designed to meet the BBC's obligations of universality rather than the commercial sector's obligations of viability." It's not in commercial radio's interests to spend pots of money it doesn't have to get DAB fishing and farming forecasts and government news to remote areas. It makes its money from breakfast shows and urban traffic jams.Of course, the BBC is also coming under financial pressure to stop spending money on things that some would argue it really doesn't need, or shouldn't be doing anyway. (I probably have colleagues who don't think the BBC's web site represents fair competition for Guardian Unlimited, for example.) Whether the BBC Trust would frown on DAB radio is another matter.So, we seem to be left with three broad choices:(1) Ride the DAB horse, which is financially painful, and hope the public finally clambers on behind.(2) Adopt DAB+(or, more accurately, the WorldDMB standard) as the solution and announce a multi-year migration policy. DAB+ is several times more efficient so it will allow more stations (good) and better sound quality (good) while reducing transmission costs (good).(3) Abandon DAB and stick with FM, because (a) FM already works well for most people and (b) there are other ways to get digital radio, including cable, DVB-T (Freeview), satellite, Wi-Fi/Internet streams, WiMax, LTE (next-gen mobile broadband), DRM (Digital Radio Mondiale, where mondiale is French for "worldwide") and so on.I've spent a few years banging on about option (2), and several countries are now adopting it. What I want is "DAB done right". I gather the UK radio industry doesn't like it because it makes a few million current DAB sets obsolescent. To which I respond: "You shouldn't have been so stupid as to produce a digital system that can't be upgraded, especially since you were also stupid enough to use a codec that predates MP3."Over the past few years, I have noticed that there has been a shift of opinion away from option (1) and towards option (3). That's reflected in my latest DAB piece,published in Media Guardian on Monday.None of us knows exactly how things will look in 2015, but I'll be quite surprised if the tide turns back towards DAB.
With the release ofFootball Manager 2010last week, I thought this might be a good opportunity for a bit of good old fashioned nostalgia on the Games blog. While the Football Manager series has become a bit too difficult and time-consuming for many of us its predecessors were games that defined large chunks of our lives. Allow me to bore you with three of my best games - what were yours?1. Roma, Championship Manager 99/00The first game I really got into - and the first after I realised that couldn't manage a team in the Premier League and still enjoy the game. It's hard enough to witness grimly predictable defeats at Old Trafford in real life without having to put up with them in my gaming time as well. So, thanks to an upbringing of Football Italia I decided to try my hand at management in Serie A.Roma, for reasons I can't quite remember, were my favourite Italian team at the time and seemed a good choice. They had a decent transfer budget and a very talented squad. My first great Champman team was built in those first couple of seasons chasing the Scudetto - Saviola and Owen up front, Aimar, Bakircioglu, Totti and Joe Cole prompting from midfield, and a back four built around twin colossuses Sol Campbell and Walter Samuel. Consecutive titles, adulation from the fans. I was hooked.2. Plymouth Argyle, Championship Manager 4One of many lower league games I particularly enjoyed, but my Plymouth game was the source of probably my finest moment. Other than still being captained by the legendary Paul Wotton, my Argyle team was chock full of Champman legends. A barely pubescent Freddy Adu, Kim Kallstrom, Cherno Samba - a great team, who cemented their greatness by outclassing Real Madrid 4-1 in the Champions League final. I may have managed this with a downloaded tactic, but it was a proud moment nevertheless.3. Eastleigh, Football Manager 2006My last great Champman game, in what I consider to be the last fun incarnation of the series before things became a little too complicated. Lower league management had long been my sole Champman interest and Eastleigh, a small railway town near Southampton in Hampshire, was a team close to my heart, stalling near their ground every week during my much-loathed driving lessons.Starting in the Conference South, over 8 ardous seasons I managed to pull the minnows all the way up to the Champions League - although their small stadium meant once I reached those heights it was always difficult to compete financially with the big boys. The game was my sole act of recreation during a self-imposed exile in the run-up to my then dissertation deadline. I didn't do very well on my dissertation, but a statue of Jack Arnott was erected in virtual Eastleigh, so I have no regrets.
Got Windows 7? Yes, we knowan increasing number of you have. But you'll still need antivirus protection. A test by the security company Sophos has found that Windows 7 is, out of the box, vulnerable to 8 out of 10 viruses that dropped into its feed (its feed being gnarly viruses picked from the internet). But of those 8, the User Account Control (UAC) - meant to save you from yourself, you button-clicking obsessive, you - did stop one.As Chester Wisniewski at Sophosreports,Unfortunately, despite Microsoft's claims, Windows 7 disappointed just like earlier versions of Windows. The good news is that, of the freshest 10 samples that arrived, 2 would not operate correctly under Windows 7.It's not clear why Sophos's team was disappointed at the failure here, because if Windows 7 were to block or otherwise thwart every virus, their business would be under threat. That doesn't of course change the reality here: on a system with User Account Control (UAC) set to the default and no antivirus, you're still at risk.As of October 31st www.netmarketshare.com states thatWindows Vista has a 19% market share against Windows XP's 70.5% and Windows 7's 2%. Approximately 1 in 5 Windows users is using either Vista or Windows 7. These users often have newer computers, automatic patching, and firewalls and anti-virus software in place.With millions of hosts still infected withConficker,ZBot and Bredo, it is obvious a lot of unprotected machines are still out there, and it is no surprise that most of those are XP. As the chart above shows, Windows 7 users need not feel left out. They can still participate in the ZBot botnet with a side of fake anti-virus. Windows 7 is no cure for the virus blues, so be sure to bring your protection when you boot up.Microsoft does of course offer itsMalicious Software Removal Tool(MSRT), and recently launched itsEssentialstool. But it looks too as though Sophos, Symantec, Sunbelt et al aren't going to go out of business any time soon.Related: themalware map of the world
Feast your eyes. Then let us know what you think...
Cross-platform convergence is something games makers are getting increasingly excited about, and it's easy to see why; release a song, game, action figure set, movie or television series all at once all under the same branding and you can just sit back and watch the money roll in.The novel based on a video game, however, is something of a strange beast. Literature ties in less well with gaming culture than other mediums – and a brief inspection of this Wikipedia list ofbooks based on gamesshows that, for the most part, game fiction has been aimed solely at the science fiction and childrens genres.Ubisoft and Penguin books hope to buck this trend with the release of Assassin's Creed Renaissance, a novel based on the popular slash-em-up series – an exclusive extract from which we'll be putting up on the Games blog tomorrow. The book will hope to tap into the ever-expanding Dan Brown historical fiction market, as well as add an extra touch of legitimacy to the Assassin's Creed universe. Combined with theLineage set of short filmsreleased under the franchise, such projects could well be the tip of the iceberg for related projects across different media.As you can see above, we've also got our hands on a new trailer for the game itself, to be released on 20 November – with the book following a week after. The first game received mixed reviews so hopefully the developer will have put as much effort into improving Assassin's Creed's gameplay as they have getting people talking about it.
Welcome to Thursday's edition of Chatterbox. While you're here, you might like to take a look atthe trailer for Assassin's Creed 2, which is out on 20 November, or catch up withour latest game reviews?Meanwhile, on with the chatter ...
