Intel's long-awaitedNehalem* processor has hit the net with a bang, andChannelWebsays it is "so powerful that it simply destroys previous CPU benchmarks. An early look at the company's new chips shows they have the potential to drive current data center-class performance onto the desktop. … Early results show nearly historic levels of improvement over previous generations of processors."Indeed, YoYoTech, a UK-based supplier, has just announced "the fastest, single-processor, production machine ever," on SPEC benchmarks. ItsFi7ePower MLK1610(sic) has an Intel Core i7 965 processor and 9GB of high-performance Corsair DDR3 memory on an Asus** P6T motherboard, and looks like an 8-core system (with hyperthreading) to your standard 64-bit Vista. YoYoTech (which has a shop at 30 Windmill Street, London, W1T 2JL) claims its £3,995 machine beats the fastest thing from Sun or IBM by more than 50% -- but they'll soon have Nehalem based systems as well.There will also be much cheaper systems.For example, Custom PC has just published a rave review of the Scan 3XS X58 Core i7, a pre-overclocked PC running on anAsus P6T Deluxe. It concludes: "The PC industry moves forward at an often frightening speed but sometimes huge jumps in performance occur. With the arrival of Core i7, we are witnessing such a jump."If you want the details,AnandTechhas a comprehensive 20-page review (which shows performance isn't so good with media encoding), whileGuru3dcrams it into 19 pages.Chips should be on sale around November 19. Sorry, Nehalem won't work in your old motherboard: it needs a new Socket B, aka LGA1366.* Nehalem is pronounced Na-HAY-lum, to rhyme with Salem. Nahalem is a river inOregon, which is a common source of Intel US code-names. These include Deschutes, Klamath,  Prescott, Tillamook and Willamette. It is not one of theIsraeli lab's codenames-- which include Banias, Dothan, Golan, Merom, and Yonah -- even if it looks like it.** Pronounced Ah-SOOS.
Adobe's chief executive has attacked Microsoft for "opening its chequebook" in an attempt to muscle its way into the web video market.Just weeks after the release of a new version of Silverlight – Microsoft's competitor to the hugely popular Flash Player –Adobeboss Shantanu Narayen said that theSeattle-based software giantwas failing to get a foothold on the web, despite heavy spending."Either you have full penetration or you don't," he told a group of journalists at Adobe's headquarters in San Jose, California."If you look at the number of partners who are signing up [to use Flash] despite the fact that Redmond opens its chequebook and tries to get companies to move to Silverlight, we're winning."The BBC moved over, the NFL [National Football League] went live with us using NBC. Microsoft and NBC have had a long standing relationship, but they picked us."Flash is on around 98% of all computers connected to the internet, and has a commanding position in web video thanks to its use by sites such asYouTube.Recent figures suggest that Flash is used for around 86% of all streaming video viewed in the US, compared with Silverlight's 13%.Narayen said that the extensive adoption of Flash meant that it could withstand any push from Microsoft."Something like 90% of the internet moves over to the next generation of Flash within a year," he said. "I think that's a little quicker than the speed by which Vista is being adopted."Despite glowing figures, however, Flash has yet to make inroads with one high-profile platform –Apple's iPhone.Apple has consistently rejected the idea that it would allow Flash to run on its high-end mobile handset, despite speculation that it might change its mind. Referring tothe revelation in September that Adobe was working on a Flash player for iPhone, Narayen said he was still hoping that Apple would change its stance."Everything that goes onto the iPhone when it's shipped needs their cooperation," he said. "What we really want is Flash built as a plug-in to Safari on the iPhone. But it's working; I've seen demos of it."Such a move would mark a significant turnaround for Apple – not least because it would potentially allow iPhone applications to be developed using a third-party system rather than its own Cocoa platform.Despite the rivalry, Narayen – a former Apple executive – said that his relationship withApple CEO Steve Jobsremained intact."I don't think I've pissed him off ... he still answers my calls," he joked.Narayen added that Adobe was in a good position to weather the economic storm that has seen thousands of workers laid off by technology companies across Silicon Valley."We've always taken a long-range look," he said."Clearly we're in uncertain economic times, but we've never made decisions as a company that will impact our long-term strategic future. We look at it and say that strong companies are going to become stronger in an environment like this."
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Yesterday over at Comment is Free, the writer and recentScience Weekly guestAriane Sherine took the time tohave a pop at the linguistic deviantswho are destroying the world by using (cue dramatic music)teh internet speak.OMG, IMHO and the ubiquitous ROFLMAO now litter the world's inboxes, baffling anyone with the sense not to learn what they mean, and giving false hope to singles everywhere who think LOL stands for "lots of love". And, like a computer virus, they're proliferating: in the apocalyptic future, people will be able to write whole emails using these things, communicating like two fax machines and rendering words obsolete.She probably wouldn't want to seethis TED talkby the poet/storytellerRiveswhich, while I can't decide whether it's insufferably lame or actually a little cute, would definitely get filed under punctuationally perverse.
Interesting developments on the Blu-ray front: it seems that it may have been hacked. That at least is the interpretation that seems (if you look at it sideways and narrow your eyes a bit) to emerge from the discussion on theDoom9 forum, though if you find the 11-page going too heavy there ("I have had a look at the difference of the output of dumphd and anydvd for a bd+ movie. Using vbindiff i compared the 00001.m2ts") you could get the simpler versionvia Adrian Kingsley-Hughesat ZDnet:what's happened here is that the researchers have recreated  BD+ virtual machine, similar to that which resides inside a normal Blu-ray player. The forum posts are highly technical in nature but fascinating to follow - it's quite amazing to see this mechanism being unraveled over the course of a few weeksThe real weakness for BD+ has been that Blu-ray works with both hardware and software players. This break, while not easy by any stretch of the imagination, would have been much harder if it had to be carried out on hardware.There's actually a very good encapsulation of the challenge in the Doom9 thread itself:BD+ involves the player running a small virtual machine whenever a BD+ disc is inserted. The virtual machine is a small BD+ content code interpreter that includes 100 lines of code and 60 different instructions. The VM loads additional code from the Blu-ray disc, which can perform one of three functions:- Transform code, which is used to correct sections of video data which are deliberately corrupted on the video stream part of the disc. If hackers strip out only the video code itself, it will display corrupted sections without the application of transform code. This code may also be used to add digital watermarks to certain discs, which can then be used for forensic investigations of leaked copyrighted material.- Basic countermeasures, which can check a player that is known to have had its hardware hacked for example, a patch to the drive's firmware and detect and respond to this hack. This allows new discs to disable playback on standalone players that have been hacked, without having to revoke the license keys of the entire model or line of players.- Advanced countermeasures, which can load native code that runs directly on the Blu-ray player during the playback process. This code can do any number of things, but is designed to provide additional methods of protection should the basic countermeasures fail.Once the disc is removed from the player, the virtual machine unloads and is no longer present in memory. This returns the Blu-ray player to its initial state, so that even if a machine fails to play a BD+ title, it should still (again, in theory) play previously-released Blu-ray titles that do not have BD+ protection.According to the Blu-ray Disc Association (BDA), for hackers to successfully attack the BD+ system they would have to first extract the AACS keys (which has already been done quite successfully) and then overcome title-specific security code by reverse-engineering the BD+ virtual machine. While this last bit is definitely an additional challenge, it is by no means impossible.Which brings us to the main question. If BD+ has been cracked, is that good or bad for sales of Blu-ray players?Well, first it means that those Blu-ray discs can be pirated. It also means that people can copy their own discs for backup purposes. (Given that the elements on a Blu-ray disc aredown to 138 nanometres, a backup might be nice - what would Marmite fingers do to your precious Blu-ray disc?)But if the discs can be pirated, then they can be sold to people who will have to play them on... Blu-ray players. Not much extra money for the studios (people who buy pirated discs aren't that likely to buy many extra legitimate discs; else why are they buying pirated discs? Give me your links to academic studies refuting this with DVDs, if you can) but arguably plenty of extra money for hardware makers, because you need a Blu-ray player to play them.And there might be a group who at the moment won't buy Blu-ray because they can't make backups. (I'd count myself among them. Though it might be very small. Even just a group of one.) Having a cracked BD+ would actually benefit both the hardware makers and the studios in that case, if that group is large enough.But what do you think? Is it better for Blu-ray if BD+ is cracked, or closed?
Well, it's all over for another year. I'm not sure how many Gamesblog readers made it to the three-day GameCity festival in Nottingham, but believe me it was worth the trip.Sadly, I missed Thursday, but arrived just in time on Friday afternoon to meet the creators of Geometry Wars (an interview I'll post on here later this week) as well as Ike Adams and Alex Navarro from Harmonix, who were lovely chaps, and really excited about their trip to Nottingham castle the day before. They weren't saying much about the Beatles game announced a couple of days before the festival, but it seems that the whole of the Fab Four's musical career will be explored, rather than just a specific period, and I get the feeling it's going to be a very different experience to Rock Band.It was also great to witness the main square filled with hundreds of people in zombie face paint...The organisers set out to break the world record for the most zombie dancers gathered in one place – and they succeeded, launching 1227 people into the record books. I loved the fact that it wasn't just kids and teenagers – there were whole zombie families hanging around out there lumbering about to Michael Jackson's Thriller.Friday evening saw a great Halloween event at the Britannia Hotel. It started with Rock Band on the main stage with dozens of kids (most still with zombie face paint) queuing to rock out in front of a small but enthusiastic audience. Adams and Navarro themselves got up for a couple of songs accompanied by event organiser and ex-Edge editor Margaret Robertson on bass. Their rendition of Don't Fear the Reaper was wonderful.Later, Paul and Storm, the backing band for Portal soundtrack provider and acoustic geek legendJonathan Coulton, provided a triumphant set, filled with witty songs and japes. Coulton himself was on later, pic-n'mixing his own back catalogue with some great covers. The fitting finale was 'RE: Your Brains' his wistful ballad about an office stand-off between zombie marauders and terrified survivors. At one point, Coulton implored the kids in the first few rows to loom at the stage like real zombies, then regretted it almost immediately – 'hey, zombies, you're crushing my laptop!' he screamed uselessly.Meanwhile, Rob Yescombe of Free Radical Design created a brilliant Resident Evil Live experience in a darkened service corridor. Festival-goers were ushered in one at a time and told to get down to the end of the corridor, grab a party hat, then get back. Each victim was given a torch and told that if they encountered a zombie they had to 'shoot' it by shining the flashlight in its face and counting to seven.And sure enough as you crept through the dark, Rob's zombie helpers would start lurching in from side rooms and beneath tables. It was bizarrely scary, and also extremely videogame-like - I found myself strafing around corners and scoping darkened corners like a cross between Max Payne and Fox Mulder. Sadly, about three-quarters of the way through I tripped over a zombie I'd already shot, straight into the arms of another lumbering monster. Game over. (I bet Leon Kennedy will never go out like that).Saturday saw two great talks, both of which I'll cover in more detail later. Jonathan Smith from TT Games, the publisher of the Lego Star Wars, Indy and Batman titles, chatted about the birth of the Lego game concept and about the responsibilities developers have to provide a rewarding educational experience. Later, Alex Evans of Media Molecule delivered the event's 'Vision Statement', covering the genesis of LittleBigPlanet and its immediate future. All fascinating stuff.Then, Saturday night was Gamesblog curry quiz night. The day got off to a dodgy start when I discovered half the prizes hadn't turned up. Luckily, we managed to scrape together quite a decent bounty, including a Wii! People seemed to enjoy the event, which mixed retro trivia with a couple of creative rounds and a videogame sound challenge. I managed to alienate the Harmonix guys with some really stingy marking (sorry guys!), but the winners certainly looked happy at the end. Thank to all who turned up.There weren't as many people as there should have been at some of the events, especially the closing gig (you should have been there for the awesome Swedish NES covers band, Powerplay), but this was partly down to the clash with the London games Festival, and partly due to the expense of staying in a large city for three nights. Co-organiser Iain Simons told me that they're planning a radical shake up for next year's event. I hope whatever they do, it doesn't alter the festival's easy-going, haphazard charm.
DespiteYahoo's travails, Flickr continues to do some very interesting work. According tothis post on the Flickr blog, they're now reverse-engineering the geodata on squillions of photos to create ad hoc maps of the world. The accuracy will depend on the quality of the tagging, as always, but could we ever harness human-powered information like this to helpFree Our Data? (via)
Three weeks ago Greg and I attended a Gears of War 2 press event in London. A dozen or so journalists were put up in the St Martins Lane hotel near Trafalgar Square and allowed to play the game all night. The multiplayer modes were running downstairs in a large conference suite, but we also had an Xbox 360 and a copy of the game in each of our own rooms. The results were embargoed until today.Here's what I took from my ten or so hours with the game.Greg's point-of-viewwill be different, I'm almost certain. This isn't a review, because I didn't finish it, it's a sort of first response, written a day afterwards.Just to give you a hint: I bloody loved it.At the beginning of Gears of War 2, humanity isn't so much on its knees as face down in the space dust, with a Locust foot pressing on its skull. The remnants of the population are hiding out in Jacinto, the only city that the alien hordes can't burrow under. But here, survivors are being eaten away by a new pest – a disease known as rust lung, caused by the Lightmass Bomb detonation at the close of the first game.And this is by no means the last moment where humanity must face up to the consequences of its own actions. Weirdly for such a visceral, balls-out blaster, the value of human existence provides a bit of an ongoing theme, lurking in the background as you chainsaw aliens to pieces. Right at the start of the action a politician delivers a stirring speech to the gathered gears, lamenting mankind's atavistic need to fight, but then insisting that the only way forward is a counter-offensive against the Locust masses, taking the battle into their subterranean homeland.And that's your job in Gears of War 2, inhabiting the blood-splattered boots of Marcus Fenix and leading Delta squad into the unknowable underground hell. But as you go through the game, both the nature of the Horde and the attempts to 'save' humanity are brought into question. Someone somewhere has a hidden agenda and your military commanders are keeping it from you. There's something rotten in the state of Jacinto; there have been… experiments.In general, though, you're pretty much where you were in Gears of War: fighting your way through an obliterated landscape, facing greater numbers of ever more vicious and heavily armed Horde monsters. This is everything you loved about Gears of War, polished, heightened and exaggerated. The visuals are amazing, not just for the incredible design detail – the charred landscapes, the devastated research stations covered in rust and broken glass, the weird alien vegetation – but for the extraordinarily accomplished use of dramatic lighting. Gun metal glistens and glints, while looming shadows swallow lurking enemies whole and explosions sear your retinas like burning phosphorus. It's a brilliantly solid, gritty world – like a war documentary, filmed on a camcorder by terrified soldiers.The pace is relentless. One minute you're ricocheting down a valley manning the gun turret on a massive tunneling rig, the next you're blasting into the depths of the earth aboard a hideously dangerous grind lift. Levels mix claustrophobic tunnels with vast chambers, often allowing you glimpses of far-off locust battalions as they swarm in your direction - or toward stricken comrades. Guns, as in the first game, feel perfect, with semi-automatic rifles providing measured, controllable fire, while shotguns splatter death across the walls.A couple of things, though. While the cover system has obviously been improved and tends to work well, there are still a few fiddly moments. Encasing the run option within the cover mechanism can make things tricky, because while running, Marcus has a really wide turn circle – not great for navigating labyrinthine tunnels at speed. There are also a couple of stages that seem to pastiche well-worn videogame clichés (at least I hope they're a pastiche) – these don't work well and draw you out what is an incredibly immersive experience for most of the time.Away from the single-player campaign, me and Greg spent a long time playing Horde, the frantic new co-op mode, in which five human comrades battle together through waves of locust soldiers. The aim is to kill a set number of enemies within the strict time limit, and any soldier downed during the effort is out of the game until the stage is beaten. The fights take place over a number of locations festooned with gun emplacements, burned out vehicles and withered trees. It's an absolute blast, a sort of turbo-charged sci-fi version of Assault on Precinct 13. Locust troops of every kind charge at you, including loads of GoW favourites and all the newcomers. And the really cool thing is, when you are killed, you get access to a god mode that lets you explore the whole area, informing your still-living mates about enemy positions.The new Submission mode – or as Epic calls it 'Meat Flag' - is a killer too. It's essentially capture the flag, except, you're out to capture a 'stranded' - a civilian human – who must be shot to his knees, then grabbed and dragged to your base. The carrier can only use a handgun to protect himself so teamwork is essential. Also, if the guy with the stranded gets taken out, the freed civilian turns into a bad ass killing machine, slaughtering anyone caught nearby with his shotgun. "It was an idea that probably came up while we were drunk one night," explained Epic's Mike Capp to me the morning after the press event. "A flag with a gun…"So, yeah, amazing. An utter screaming headrush of a game, which provides totally and unapologetically ceaseless entertainment. There's lots I haven't sampled yet – the drop-in/drop-out co-op sounds fun, allowing players of different abilities to jump into each other's games, with the difficultly level altering accordingly. There are intriguing narrative strands developing in here too, including – strangely enough - an ongoing love story.There's also a question that keeps coming back throughout the game, in plot points, and dialogue and artifacts discovered during your journey. Is this desperate, nightmarish tragedy of an existence really worth all the effort? It's like the 2029 scenes from Terminator – just violence and death handed out by a totally alien intelligence. Gears of War 2 could well be the most nihilistic shoot-'em-up ever created. The great thing is, whatever you're fighting for, even if it's worthless, it's terrific fun.
The polls in Seattle, Washington, are closed and a Diebold AccuVote electronic voting machine is chattering its way through the results. Votes cast using its touchscreen ballot have been captured on an encrypted memory card and duplicated on a continuous printed paper roll.So has the city chosen Senator McCain (Republican) or Senator Obama (Democrat) for president? Neither, as it happens. The only votes recorded on this AccuVote for the highest office in the land are for one Mark Harris (Independent).Fortunately for America, this is only my test run of voting technology that will be used for real by around a third of US voters tomorrow. But before Americans rejoice at their narrow escape from four years' rule by a technology writer, they might want to listen to Dan Wallach, associate professor of computer science at Rice University in Texas.Last year,Wallach conducted an in-depth review of the Diebold AccuVote for Californian election officials(PDF) and discovered its software was littered with vulnerabilities."We found all kinds of problems," he says, "Our study showed that you only need to apply an evil software patch — forcing the machine to swap votes between candidates — to a single machine, and you can arrange for that patch to spread to every machine in the system. It takes a relatively modest effort to corrupt every voting machine in the county."The study found similar vulnerabilities with voting machines from two other manufacturers, leading California's secretary of state towithdraw her approval for all three devices(PDF).Nevertheless, these machines will be used by millions of voters across the country on election day. "There are no nationwide legal requirements for electronic voting machines. They vary from state to state and even from county to county," explains Professor Edward Felten, director of the center for information technology policy at Princeton University. "Even for states that follow federal guidelines, its testing and certification processes have lots of problems."These problems are starting to be revealed by early voting in some states. Voters in West Virginia, Texas and Tennessee have reported electronic "vote flipping", where their touchscreen selections flip unexpectedly to rival candidates. It seems particularly prevalent where 'straight ticket' selection of the entire ballot along party lines is allowed. (Avideo by the makers of the Simpsons about such flippinghas gone viral.)This is probably not an organised attempt to defraud voters, according to Wallach: "If the machines were maliciously flipping candidates, you wouldn't be seeing it on screen, it would be happening silently behind the display. It's most likely poor programming, user confusion and calibration errors."When mass voting starts, more such bugs are bound to emerge. During the presidential primary elections earlier this year, thousands of votes were erroneously switched or lost entirely when software and hardware errors affected machines from South Carolina and Florida to Ohio and even Washington DC.Ironically, electronic voting was originally adopted in an effort to reform problems with archaic punch-card and lever machines. These were responsible for theinfamous "hanging chads"that helped swing the close-run presidential elections in 2000 in favour of George Bush.In 2002, the House and Senate passed the Help America Vote Act, which gave states $3.8bn (£2.4bn) to modernise voting technology and improve access for the disabled. Individual states chose different technologies, some of which have proved more secure and reliable than others."There seems to be an inherent problem with any system that keeps only electronic records," says Professor Felten. "It makes it very difficult for election officials and voters to verify their votes." Twelve states currently use paperless electronic voting machines, and 16 more have been judged by the non-partisan Brennan Center for Justice to offer "inadequate" post-election manual audits.Both Felten and Wallach are calling for voting machine manufacturers to make their software open source, as is already the case in Australia's Capital Territory. "Revealing source code should be mandatory," says Wallach. "It's really important for transparency and it doesn't reduce security."Wallach is also working on a next-generation voting machine called VoteBox that uses sophisticated cryptographic techniques to allow voters to challenge whether machines are recording their votes correctly."The technology to build a fundamentally better machine is available today," he says. "But it's unclear whether there is the money to develop it. The Help America Vote Act gave a one-time deluge of cash to upgrade systems. When the money runs out, we're heading back to paper."Wallach's predictions appear to be coming true. Alaska, California, Florida, Iowa, Maryland, Tennessee and New Mexico are ditching electronic voting machines and this election will see a decrease in their numbers nationwide for the first time.The only technology growing in popularity is optical scan voting, which combines a simple paper ballot with uncomplicated computer scanners. Almost 100 million American voters will vote via optical scanning tomorrow — around 50 million more than by touchscreen.Washington state is going one step further. When my Diebold AccuVote is packed up at 8pm on November 4, its memory card and paper roll carefully dispatched to the voting depot, Seattle's polling stations will close their doors for the last time — because Washington state is moving to a vote-by-mail system for all future elections.It's a sure solution for electronic voting fraud. But now I can't help wondering: exactly how secure is my postman?
If any game can be said to have established the archetype of theXbox 360owner, it was2006's Gears of War.A hardcore, innovative third/first-person shooter with a prominent cover system and the opportunity for two people to play through it co-operatively, it was clearly designed to appeal to a clientele that was almost exclusively male, aged in its 20s and 30s and had been gaming for years – in other words, exactly the demographic thatMicrosoft's console rivals deride it for attracting. Microsoft, one senses, wouldn't have minded that, as it sold a staggering 5 million units.Its successor,Gears of War 2, arrives in a different climate. The Xbox 360 is a great success, and Microsoft is assiduously pushing the console at a more mainstream audience. Nevertheless, Gears of War 2 is its biggest gun this Christmas. So will it repeat its predecessor's success – and even make inroads beyond the hardcore faithful?Yes is definitely the answer to the first question, while it may just have the ammunition to get some of those casual gamers hooked on something a bit stronger. Mike Capps, president ofGears of War 2 developer Epic, pinpoints three areas in which the new offering improves on its predecessor: the ability for two people to play co-operatively with different difficulty-level settings, including one catering forsuper-casual gamers("We tried to make something this time that when yourgirlfriendplays it in co-op with you, she'll enjoy it too"); a much better storyline ("This is the space in which we stepped up – we're not afraid to say it's almost a love-movie"); and a new "party system" easing the process of setting up online games with your mates ("It's so easy to get two or three of your friends, play for four hours in Gears of War 2 and have fun, and who cares that you're all on different servers on the internet?").That may not sound revolutionary, but the end result is mighty impressive. We're a tiny bit sceptical about the new super-easy difficulty level: it makes you much more difficult to kill, while the fearsome Locust enemy succumb to a few bullets whereas normally they don't drop until they've been foiled with a large quantity of lead. It rather goes against what Gears of War 2 is all about, although it will open the co-op mode to those who have never played a proper shooter. Capps betrays a lack of enthusiasm for it when he says: "It's better to play with you than to watch you play it," and at least it means the Gears of War franchise can no longer be criticised for being socially exclusive.Epic's concentration on the storyline pays big dividends, though: Gears of War 2's single-player game is vastly more three-dimensional, varied and involving than that its rather one-paced predecessor, which consisted predominantly of vast amounts of corridor shooting punctuated by the odd boss-battle or vehicle-based gameplay. Gears of War 2 mixes things up to great effect: right at the start of a game you find yourself manning a fixed gun in a convoy of huge troop-carriers, but later you encounter a gloriously squishy sequence in which you have to hack your way out of the belly of a stone worm so giant its burrows cause entire cities to collapse into the ground. Even when you're inside, you often have to, for example, solve puzzles disabling security systems, and there's some surprisingly good sniping to be done. The storyline, involving protagonist Marcus Fenix's mate Dom's search for his missing girlfriend, the origins of the Locust, the progress of rookie Carmine and the fate of the tattooed Tai adds a certain amount of emotional involvement thoroughly lacking in the original.The visceral, full-on gameplay that made the original such a success is largely unchanged, although there are new enemies such as the exploding Nemacyst (essentially mobile mines) and the quasi-religious Kantus, and the odd new weapon, most notably a mortar. It's very much a case of not fixing something that was never broke, but the enemy AI is noticeably subtler, and it's more important to tailor your tactical approach to each different enemy you face.But where Gears of War 2 really eclipses its predecessor is in the multiplayer side. Quite simply, it will take Xbox Live by storm. Especially with the new Horde mode in which, rather than "worrying about how tough some random kid on the internet is", as Capps puts it, you and up to four of your mates have to see how long you can survive in the face of an onslaught of wave after wave of increasingly fearsome Locust. The Horde really captures the "you and your mates fighting to save the world from terrifying aliens" essence of Gears of War.Two other new multiplayer modes stand out: Wingman, in which you find a partner and take on other teams of two players until the last man is standing; and Submission (which Epic wanted to call "Meatflag" but Microsoft wouldn't let it), which is a capture-the-flag game, except that each side has one player designated as the "flag", who must first be killed and then carried back to your base.Gears of War 2 should be just as successful as its predecessor: even if it doesn't feel like it's pushing the envelope as much, it is a far superior game. It remains to be seen whether it will be the game to take those casual gamers who have graduated from the Wii and herd them onto the path to hardcore. But there are an awful lot more Xbox 360s out there than there were two years ago, so we reckon it will have no trouble outselling the original Gears of War.
Microsoft is about to release its twice-yearlyreport on security(downloadhere, and according to pre-briefings, the top 10 browser-based exploits for Windows Vista all use non-Microsoft security holes. RealPlayer provides two of the top five entries, and Apple's QuickTime provides one. AOL SuperBuddy also makes the top 10.Vista contrasts with Windows XP, where half the top 10 security problems are Microsoft vulnerabilities, according tographics published at ZD Net. The key security fixes to install areMS06-014(which is by far the most important), MS06-057, MS06-067 and MS06-055. With XP, Apple QuickTime and RealPlayer also feature in the top five vulnerabilities, and WinZip makes the top 10.Third-party vulnerabilities are targeted by 94% of the browser-based attacks on Vista, and 58% of the attacks on XP.It's important to note thatthere are no unpatched insecurities in QuickTime, according toSecunia, and only one "less critical" inseurity inRealPlayer 10.x. Whether you can increase your security by uninstalling these particular programs, rather than updating them, is open to doubt. (I uninstalled QuickTime because of its many annoying attempts to sneak itself into my start-up sequence, and its mediocre performance. However, I'm lucky enough not to own an iPod: Apple installs QuickTime along with iTunes.)The New York Times storysays:The company said improvements in security for its Windows Vista operating system and security updates to the previous Windows XP system had made such software a less attractive target for attackers. Instead, they have shifted their attention to security holes in individual programs.During the first half of the year, 90% of newly reported vulnerabilities involved applications, and only 10% affected operating systems, according to the report.The story also highlights geographical variations:The current report indicates that malware infection rates are generally higher in developing countries and regions than in developed ones. Infection rates range from 1.8 for every 1,000 computers in Japan to above 76.4 for every 1,000 in Afghanistan. The United States had an infection rate of 11.2 infected computers for every 1,000 scanned, an increase of 25.5% in the last six months.Clearly it's important to install security updates for third-party applications, and to have Windows Update picking up patches. Fact is, the most-exploited vulnerability in XP wasfixed in April 2006, which is 2.5 years ago. If people are still getting Trojan downloads via this flaw, whose fault is it?You can check if your PC's patches are up to date by running a scan at Secunia:http://secunia.com/vulnerability_scanning/I just ran the desktop version, Personal Software Inspector, and it found eight insecurities in: WinAMP 2.x,  ZoneAlarm 6.x, Adobe Flash Player 9.x (General Plug-in), Sun Java JRE 1.6.x / 6.x (two), VLC media player 0.x, WinRAR 3.x andWinZip 9.x, giving me a system score of 93%. PSI provides links to download new versions. Oddly, I don't have ZoneAlarm or WinZip installed, so it may be finding old downloads.Update: It was finding a backup of my son's previous laptop, stowed away on an external hard drive.
While the Game BAFTAS are – in theory - concerned more with quality than hype theGolden Joystickawards are unashamedly populist. Not surprising really seeing as the Joysticks are voted for by gamers rather than  industry types.This years awards – dished out last Friday – are short on shocks with no sign of anything even vaguely leftfield. The big winners were Call of Duty 4 and GTA IV, with presumably Beautiful Katamari running them both close. Or maybe not. But let's not get snooty here. COD4 is a genuine classic and deserves the accolades. GTA IV has aged less well – the "try, die, restart from beginning" is getting tired – but is still impressive.The rest of the results threw up few surprises – although Keef may despair at Bejeweled 2 winning the mobile game of the year – although Call of Duty: World at War's  award for being the "one to watch" was a liitle unexpected. Is it really more anticipated than, say, Gears of War 2, LittleBigPlanet and WoW: Lich King? If so then it's confirmation that Call of Duty has overtaken Halo, Half Life and the rest to become the number one first person shooter brand.Anyway, read on for the results.  Oh and when the awards are clearly "wrong" I've stuck in some handy "what should have won" comments.The Sun Family Game of the Year:Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock(Surely this should have been Mario and Sonic at the Olympics?)Bliss Handheld Game of the Year:The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass(Good choice, though probably not the type of game Bliss expected to win when they sponsored the award)Activision Blizzard Retailer of the Year:Play.comThe E4 Talent Mobile GOTY:Bejeweled 2(Mobile game of the year? No, me neither.  Keef? Anyone else who should have won this award?)Nintendo GOTY Sponsored by Official Nintendo Magazine:Super Smash Bros. Brawl(Mario Kart Wii surely?)Nuts All-Nighter Multiplayer GOTY:Call of Duty 4: Modern WarfareBBC1Xtra Soundtrack of the Year:Grand Theft Auto IV(Ok, I guess, but GTA IV's selection hardly matches up to Vice City)ARVATO Xbox Game of the Year:Grand Theft Auto IV(If only Fable 2 had been out sooner…not that it would have won the votes of course but it is clearly the 360 game of the year)PC GOTY Sponsored by The United Kingdom e-Sport Association:Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare(e-Sport Association??)The Play.com One to Watch:Call of Duty: World at War(What no Alan Wake??)CVG.co.uk UK Developer of the Year:Rockstar(Media Molecule for 2009…)PlayStation GOTY Sponsored by Official PlayStation Magazine:Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots(Not a tricky choice this year, considering the paucity of quality PS3 exclusives…)Publisher of the Year:ActivisionEdge Most Wanted:Fallout 3(What no Alan Wake??)E4.com Grand Master Flash award:Stickman MadnessGames Radar's Online Game of the Year:Call of Duty: Modern WarfareVirgin Media Ultimate Game of the Year:Call of Duty: Modern Warfare
Monday's what did you play this weekend edition of Chatterbox
According tothis storyfrom CNet - based onfigures from ComScore- the iPhone is "gaining ground with lower-income fans".The median household income in the US is$50,000- and 48% more people in the $25,000 to $50,000 earnings bracket are buying iPhones now than they were before the launch of the iPhone 3G.The implication - that the iPhone is now a big hit with ordinary people, not just high spending gadget lovers - is definitely there (and no surprise, given that the handset itself is now subsidised). But like all numbers stories, this one requires context. Percentages are great, but what about the base figures? How many more iPhones are being sold to lower income households? How many lower income individuals had bought iPhones before? What are the hard numbers?That's a context that ComScore doesn't give us - an omission which has itsownimplications...
Journalists who went to Microsoft's Professional Developers Conference picked up pre-beta copies of Windows 7, and several have reported on it. Bear in mind that this preview version isn't feature complete, doesn't have the final interface, and still contains a load of debugging code, so you can't judge the performance. However, since Windows 7 is likely to ship on more than 200 million computers a year from 2010 onwards, even incomplete information is interesting.Paul Thurrott's SuperSite for Windows has probably the biggest analysis: hisWindows 7 Previewis in five parts, four of which have been posted so far. He says: "Clearly, Windows 7 is to Windows Vista as was Windows XP to Windows 2000. And that's true on a number of levels."Active Winalso goes to town, with more than 13,000 words on a single page. There, Andre Da Costa excitedly concludes:It's safe to say I am overwhelmed, overjoyed and most of all excited about Windows 7. This is the release of Windows everybody has been waiting for, it's what Vista was meant to be and beyond that. Windows 7 puts the user first; it's about going back to the fundamentals of what an operating system must do. Managing and maintaining your PC is exceptionally seamless in Windows 7 and users will appreciate the tremendous improvements and advancements this update will offer on both existing and new hardware form factors in the future.Gizmodo also has a long page,Windows 7 Walkthrough, Boot Video and Impressions, with lots of illustrations.Ars Technical has several pieces, includingFirst look at Windows 7's User Interface,Understanding Windows Live Essentials in Windows 7,Windows 7's streamlined UAC,Windows 7 management features will make IT admins grin,More on the Windows 7 UI: new taskbar will be mandatory, andWindows 7 Libraries under the microscope.Ars accepts that "Windows 7 will not contain anything like the kind of far-reaching architectural modifications that Microsoft made with Windows Vista." However, it says: "the new UI takes the concepts that Windows users have been using for the last 13 years and extends them in new and exciting ways," and "the extent of these interface changes makes it clear that this is very much a major release."The Windows Team's blog hasPost PDC Keynote: What are people saying about Windows 7?, with links and a selection of favourable quotes.Finally,Charlie Owenhas a comprehensive and useful walkthrough showing the Media Center aspects, but bear in mind that he works on the product.
About 18 months ago, I pointed out that Microsoft was working on a version ofSilverlight for the Macthat would play WMV movies, and that included a DRM option. Silverlight could thus offer a sort of "get out of jail free" card for Mac users who can't access content because Apple has failed to licence Microsoft's DRM (which is easily done over he web: small Asian companies can manage it), or to provide a viable alternative.Now it turns out thatNetflix is testing the Silverlight approachfor both PCs and Macs. Last week, GigaOM postedWatch Netflix on a Mac (Thanks, Microsoft!)-- reposted byThe New York Times. The service lets some Netflix subscribers stream movies to Intel-based Macs. Why Microsoft? Netflix points out:"Apple does not license their DRM solution to third parties, which has made this more difficult, but we are working with the studios and content owners to gain approval for other solutions. As soon as a studio-approved DRM for the Mac is available to us, whether from Apple or another source, we will move quickly to provide a movie viewer that enables you to watch movies from Netflix instantly on your Mac."Silicon Alley Insider has tried the system, and reports inHands On With Netflix's New Mac Streaming Player: A Good Start (NFLX). It points out several problems with the beta, but says:It this as good as HD on-demand from your cable company? No. But it's free if you subscribe to Netflix. Will this replace renting DVDs in the mail from Netflix if they're available online, too? Maybe. Especially for movies that you aren't watching for the visuals. Will this stop us from renting movies from iTunes if they're available in both places? Probably -- again, depending on the type of movie.Another intention for Silverlight is to deliver HD movies, which could also be interesting, depending on whether you will ever have enough bandwidth.Silverlight supports the SMPTE VC-1 video standard(aka Microsoft's WMV9) which is mandatory for Blu-ray and HD DVD players. Sadly, Apple doesn't support that either, and Macs still can't play BD/HD movies. According to Microsoft:Compared to the other standardized advanced codec, H.264, VC-1 is able to push about 2x as many pixels per second to the screen when using equivalent profiles. This means using VC-1 instead of H.264 can cut CPU requirements in half, or double the frame rate or frame size.Presumably this means H.264 High Profile (HiP) version used on Blu-ray discs, not the widely-supported Baseline profile of H.264.)If or when Silverlight might stream HD movies with or without the draconian copy-protection are different matters….
Citroen 2CVOriginal Price: &pound;500 (&pound;10,000 Today)Miles per Gallon94Engine Size375CCGood forLes nouveaux pauvresBad forLes nouveaux richesThe Citro&euml;n 2CV made its debut 60 years ago this weekend at the 1948 Paris Salon as the realisation of Pierre Boulanger's dreams for a small car that was 'an umbrella on wheels' and which 'could carry two peasants and 50kg of potatoes at 60kmh using no more than three litres of fuel every 100km'. Monsieur Boulanger, the company's managing director, also insisted that, 'The vehicle must be capable of running on the worst of roads and of being driven by a debutante.' And it would have to be able to carry a crate of eggs over a ploughed field...Indeed, every aspect of the now iconic 2CV was designed with practicality in mind - the raised roofline meant that the four occupants could wear a hat and heating was simply hot air from the engine piped directly to the driver's feet. To save weight, the boot lid was literally a roll of fabric, and the full-length sunroof was designed not for frivolity but to facilitate the transportation of bales of hay, livestock, tall relatives, etc. The colour choice was any Citro&euml;n shade of grey and, as an early example of energy conservation, the speedometer drove the windscreen wipers. There was even a pair of handles situated under the dashboard for occupants of the passenger seat to 'assist' the wipers when travelling at slow speeds. Given that the engine was a mighty 375cc, this often proved a very welcome item of equipment.Over the years, decadence inevitably set in with the basic 2CV concept - the pull-starter &agrave; la domestic lawnmower was replaced with an actual key in 1953, and indicators were added in 1955. By 1958, Citroen was thinking big with the arrival of its 2CV Sahara, a version fitted with an extra engine in the boot that essentially created the world's lightest 4x4 saloon. The Sahara's top speed was 40mph with one engine and 65mph with two, although with the petrol tank located beneath the front seat it was advisable to avoid even the most minor of knocks when driving.A small number of right-hand drive 2CVs were assembled by Citro&euml;n at its Slough HQ between 1953 and 1959, but while the motoring press raved about the Deux Chevaux the great British public avoided in droves a vehicle that seemed to be made of corrugated iron. And this despite Citro&euml;n's careful pandering to British tastes - ie semaphore trafficators and opening rear windows. Between 1960 and 1973 no 2CVs were officially marketed in the UK. It was only the oil crisis that prompted the car's return as the regulation transport for the environmentally conscious and the nation's woodwork teachers.But the little Citro&euml;n also appealed to anyone who appreciated the sheer genius of its engineering, as demonstrated by the fact that as the 2CV was air-cooled, it had no coolant, radiator, water pump or thermostat to malfunction. When production of the 2CV finally ceased in 1990, it may have boasted luxuries unknown to a 1948 motorist (such as an ashtray), but its passing marked the end of an era; it was the last car sold in the UK with a starting handle as standard equipment. Today, the 2CV remains a vital part of European motoring. And every survivor is still capable of carrying a crate of unbroken eggs across a ploughed field at 40mph
I'm blogging live from Gatecrasher in Nottingham where we're preparing for tonight'sGamesblog Game quiz, which takes place up the road at the Mogal-e-Azam curry house, starting from 6pm this evening. (You'll need a GameCity day pass to get in).Sadly, many of the prizes that publishers promised to deliver haven't shown up! We're not sure if they just haven't arrived, haven't been sent or have somehow got lost in transit. So if you can come tonight, bear in mind you're most likely playing for fun and curry, rather than amazing game goodies. Oh dear.I'm sure nothing else can go wrong!GameCity has been great fun so far and I've got some cool stuff to post - I'll be starting that tomorrow.
Naming a car model a "Superb" is a bold and, some might say, fate-tempting move. Rather like the proud parents who decide to christen their son Genius, it creates a daunting expectation to live up to.But attach "Superb" to the maker's name, Skoda, and suddenly it seems less a reckless boast than an example of the sort of mordant wit for which the Czechs are justly renowned. One thinks of Milan Kundera's Unbearable Lightness Of Being, a piece of inspired oxymoronic wordplay that, in terms of pure comedy, the Skoda Superb may well surpass. It's as if Genius's surname was Dullard.That's unfair, of course, to Skoda, which has come a long way since the days when it was the butt of all those jokes about the poor quality of the Soviet bloc's consumer goods. Samples: What's the difference between a Jehovah's Witness and a Skoda? You can shut the door on a Jehovah's Witness. How do you get rid of a Skoda? Apply rust-remover.With that rib-crushing weight of mirth dragging on its name, you can appreciate Skoda's desire to puff out its chest and update its image. But, in fact, the first Superb dates back to 1934, when fuel prices were rocketing and the global economy was in ruins. So the auspices appear promising for a relaunch. Actually, the Superb first returned in 2001, but it was widely dismissed as a poor man's Passat, which is, after all, a not-quite-so-rich-man's Audi. For Skoda, like any number of other brands, is just another part of the sprawling VW conglomerate.This new Superb doesn't look superb. Bland would be the word that comes more readily to mind. The Bland, alas, is unlikely to be a name that emerges from a creative meeting of Skoda's marketing department, though I suggest that the Skoda Bland would carry just the right combination of integrity and irony to give the car a discernible modern edge over rivals such as the meaninglessly named Ford Mondeo.That said, the car is not bland to drive. It has the same jaunty gear shifts as the Audi or Passat, and, as with that pair, an engine so finely tuned you could test your piano with it. Nor does it feel as heavy as you might expect, given that the chassis is only slightly shorter than a bendy bus.The limousine length may look a little awkward, like one of those people whose height goes beyond imposing into the more absurdist realm of unnecessary, yet it makes for a spacious interior. And not just for the driver. A fully-grown adult could sit in the back on a long journey without fear of deep-vein thrombosis - something that can be said of very few cars in my six-foot-two-inch experience.The true mark of this model, however, is that it is a hybrid. Not the kind that runs on petrol and wind power or yogurt. This is an altogether more revolutionary concept: half saloon and half hatchback. The boot looks like a normal saloon boot. But don't be fooled. There's a Batman button that transforms it into a full rear opening. OK, it's a facility that, strictly speaking, doesn't qualify as superb, but it is useful. The Skoda Useful? Nah, sounds too much like a joke.Skoda Superb 1.8 TSI dieselPrice£21,075Top speed136mphAcceleration0-62 in 8.6 secondsAverage consumption37.2mpgCO2 emissions180/kmEco rating6/10At the wheelJan KollerBound forStanstedIn a wordVolkswagen
The outwardly sweet and cartoon-like, massively multiplayer, online role-playing game MapleStory is an unlikely enough setting for a crime, let alone one committed by a 43-year-old lady piano teacher. Having met and "married" the online avatar of a fellow player, the woman from Kyushu province in southern Japan had lived a happy in-game life as a virtual wife with her virtual husband. When one day she logged on to discover he had "divorced" her character without warning or explanation, she used her knowledge of him to hack his account and "kill" the avatar he'd spent years building up. In a bizarre twist, she was then arrested and taken more than 600 miles to Sapporo, the home of her make-believe ex-spouse to face charges, presumably of pretend murder, for which she could be fined more than &pound;3,000 and face an entirely non-simulated, five-year prison sentence.
Anyone who has triedlast.fmor any of the other music networking sites might enjoy the simpler, more fun approach employed by Blip. Here, you sign up to become a DJ then start searching for tunes that you can play online, add to your page or "blip" to a friend. It all works well on a number of levels - for starters it's an easy way to listen to free music and discover new songs as searches are culled from the entire internet and load quickly. It's also a fun way to contact friends or wage wars over who has the finer music taste, as anyone can follow your picks and give you "props" if they like what they hear. New bands, meanwhile, can spread the word by uploading their own music.
•Not muchhas changed in Snoqualmie Valley•All classicmovie posters have floating heads•What happenedto Tron Guy•What booksgo well with gin•As soon asWestminster Council take Banksy down, he strikes again•New York lovesPeaches Geldof•How to cooksteamed pork Bloc Party-style•The internet loveszombies•The 10 bestproduct placements in movies
Fable II, Xbox 360Peter Molyneux, the exuberant svengali behind pioneering titles such as Populous and Theme Park, has often been rounded on for talking up features that fail to turn up in his finished games. It's safe to say that won't be happening with Fable II, which is as close to participating in your own interactive fairytale as technology allows. Playing a budding hero growing up in the land of Albion, your quest to uncover dark goings-on is constantly and pleasantly interrupted with millions of diversions, from the fruit machine-style pub games available pre-launch to a range of jobs and a profusion of missions on the side, some of which are nice and some of which are deeply nefarious. Earn the love or fear of townspeople, pamper your dog, get married and have children, buy property, invest in local economies or destroy them and generally enjoy a staggeringly brilliant and involving bit of escapism.• Microsoft, &pound;44.99LittleBigPlanet, PlayStation 3Every console needs a killer application, a game so good it makes you buy the hardware just to play it. Xbox has Halo and now PlayStation 3 has the monstrously hyped LittleBigPlanet. In it you control a hessian-skinned "sackboy" in a series of elegantly realised, platform-hopping kinetic puzzles that rely on physics and trial and error to overcome them. Its biggest point of difference is that gamer-created content sits at the very heart of the experience, with the same wonderfully refined tools developers used to make the game available to players. While incredibly likable and expressive, the sackboy's controls aren't quite as precise as Mario's, but this doesn't detract from what is a breathtakingly joyous thing to play. Offbeat, endlessly ambitious and spectacularly good fun, no PS3 owner should be without it.• Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, &pound;44.99
Those missing Stephen Fry's Dork Talk page in Weekend magazine may wish to momentarily turn their attentions to his official "frysphere", which has had a fancy web 2.0-style adjustment. Currently filming in Africa, our man from QI is keeping us up to date with his life via a weekly video podcast (the Afrycam). For those who need to know what he's doing from minute to minute, he's also posting updates via his iPhone with such trivia as "vulture outside my window. An omen? Had boiled egg and soldiers for breakfast. Feel better." Those less technically savvy can enjoy a brilliant argument about American cheese in the forum.
Have I over-used the phrase 'better late than never' in relation to this regular round-up? I have? Okay. But this week, I had an excuse - I was being blown off a medieval castle in Rome by the city's worst storm in 50 years.But anyway, Fantomex was on writing duties and managed to track down some game talk! I'll leave you a second to recover yourself...Back with us? It's okay, it's okay - it didn't last long.Make some strong tea, unwrap a Blue Riband bar and settle in...Part one: A fabled beginning...Monday kicked off a week of Fable 2 chatter. Excitement is reaching fever pitch. Umboros23 posted his huge and very detailed review (which we won't include here) and this stimulated more discussion.Then, of course, came the proper chatterboxness!Tonyhayers reviewed Umboros23s Fable 2 review:The quality is higher than almost all of your posts. The prose crackles and fizzes with wonder, delight and sheer gay abandon. "Typical NPC fashion" is a cracking new term for the modern rash of badly uniformed toy cops running around our streets. "Got a love groove down in the bedroom" paints a lovely picture of the post-coital state of the mattress.An enthusiastic 9.Then, ever the post-modern, post-structuralist, Beardofbees reviewed Tonyhayers' review of Umboro23's Fable 2 review:Hayers, if I may be so bold, let me review your review of the review:Unfortunately Hayers tone here is not completely discernable. Despite the outwardly positive nature of the review, clear traces of sarcasm leak through as, after all, we feel they really deserve to. One assumes we are on the same level as the reviewer of the review, but can never be entirely confident. A bleak commentary on the faceless communication of the Internet age to be sure, but a necessary one.The illogical paradoxes and sheer mind-bending oddness of Chatterbox have all but worn off for regulars. We're now merely jaded misanthropes. Or "gamers", if you will.On Tuesday, Chubster2010 posted a rather wonderful critique of Channel 4's interviewing techniques in regards to games.Did anyone see Shigeru Miyamoto on Channel 4 news last night?Now - I love the bloke - he's amazing, and you really couldn't ask for more from a gaming figurehead. BUT, last night was the first time he's actually managed to slightly irritate me (an irritation that was exasperated by Channel 4 handling of the segment).He was going on about how too many developers are relying on violence to sell games and then (surprise, surprise!) Channel 4 put up a montage of scenes from GTAIV and described how violent it is.I know Miyamoto (and Nintendo) have always been focussed on family friendly game design, but this kind of statement (to me) seems to have a total disregard for huge swathes of the game development that is out there.Do the majority of developers really rely of violence to sell? Sure there are a lot (or, should that be A LOT?) of violent games out there, but what about racing games? Sports titles? Puzzle games? The list of successful and high quality non-violent games is huge.I guess I just find it a bit disappointing that someone as high profile as Miyamoto should be used to permeate the 'videogames are rotting our child's minds' message, and that he didn't convey a more balanced perspective on the industry.Also, maybe he should have commented that too many developers are churning out gash mini-game collections and Brain Training-clones...Quite a fabulous commentary on the state of mainstream journalism you'll agree, but is this anything we're not already familiar with? I'm sure Miyamoto and most developers are also quite used to journalists using the words "violence" and "GTA4" in every interview, but surely people are getting tired of this OTT shock-horror handling of a respected pastime and art form? Opinions at the bottom, please..Smellavision then came up with another opportunity for the blog to create a new word:You know that feeling, when you think you've got to the end of a game, and another level springs from seemingly nowhere...Unfortunately, we agletted out on it.Tuesday, BeardOfBees commented on the forthcoming Sherlock Holmes movie with Robert Downey Junior..Yeah I heard Downey Jr was playing the great detective too. He said in an interview that they're exploring some sides of him found in the novels but generally not in film/TV so far - e.g. his love of martial arts.... Robert Downey Jr playing a kung-fu fighting Sherlock Holmes? Who thinks these things up.I'll tell you who, Guy bloody Ritchie!"Does anyone have an iPod FM transmitter thingy for the car? If so, what model have you got and would you recommend it?" asked OfficePest kicking off a brief discussion. Apparently, no, nobody would, and they are poor. Believe it or not, you can get an MP3-CD playing car radio with USB port in Lidl for £50..OfficePest also reposted for a couple of days in a row about an online Warhawk grudge between himself and some best-in-the-world-type player. You know the type, ladies and gents, the ones who will cuss and bark at all and sundry for their own lack of ability when not spawn-camping or being a whiner and logging off before a game ends.Without posting it all, he heartily encouraged everybody to mass-brawl the guy back to the Stone Age. Bloggers, it is never worth fighting fire with fire. Except in this case, where it is, of course, in the highest sense of honour.We are (mostly) genteel British gamers, after all, so do it for the maidens and fillies, chaps!Zooey74 came up with a good point on the problem:According to stats he has played around 117 days worth. Warhawk has been out just over a year (400 days-ish) So he has spent over a quarter of the past year playing Warhawk. Leave it - the man is blatantly insane.On Wednesday discussion turned to Harry Hill, and a very clear Marmite-style divide emerged. Some love him, some hate him, though by far the best comment was from BeardOfBees:Entertainment value would definitely go up with a slight mix-up of the show's format. I suggest a Roman-style arena and the releasing of various wild (possibly hungry and drugged up) animals. Let's see if gurning and weird impressions can defeat a bear on crack.Best. Suggestion. Ever. And for what it's worth, I think Harry Hill is gash.Crispycrumb later regaled us with a home tale:Girlfriend relayed a conversation with her flatmates in which they stated that any man wanting to get in with them could not like football, or sport generally. Choice quotes were "I've converted several men with a trip to the theatre" and "Well, people who like ballet are culturally superior to sport fans". This caused the girlfriend to spit feathers and go ballistic as she's both a trained ballerina and a lifelong Hammers fan.Chat eventually turned to oldskool metal, and the expected dirge that will be the new Guns'n'Roses album. Unfortunately, the impending release means that I can no longer make snide comments that China actually will be democratic before Chinese Democracy arrives.Craggyisland let his feelings be known:Not so impressed to see so many metallers in here. It's all just a little too close to stereotype. Sad, lonely geeks listening to horrible music whilst playing with themselves. Perhaps that's why Guitar Hero sells so well. A crossing of the demographics.Not quite a fair assessment, but a relevant one nonetheless..Then, a brief dalliance with "who's-been-on-the-blog-longer" one-upmanship. Nobody wins at this. Ever.On Thursday, Chubster2010 lamented on a purchase:I had the pleasure of playing 'More Games Party' on the Wii last night. Now, I didn't expect much from this title, but feck me, it really is astoundingly awful. One of the minigames has you throwing virtual beanbags at a plank of wood.Is this the most uninspired game concepts ever? Can you think of anything more mundane?Answers included this gem from Umboros23:How's about Wii Paint? You can go round to people's houses and use the Wii mote to paint their walls in an up/down motion. It would be realistic so every foot you move your arm covers a foot of the wall, but obviously it will need a couple of coats. You could start out with creosoting a shed, then build up to a fence, before finally becoming a professional painter. Money earned can be spent on successively better means of transport to jobs in the neighbourhood, from your first bike to an eventual white ford transit.Then Lazybones suggested something that will probably end up being made:How about Wii Shake! Shake the Wii remote to make your Mii's jump up and down on screen. Then take photos to send to all your friends.Well, can you think of worse?Discussion quickly moved on to bad 4x4 drivers and useless cyclists, leading to a safety suggestion from CBPodge:During the driving test you should be made to open and drink from a bottle of water, receive a text on your phone and read it, take a call and tell them you're driving and will call them back, and change the station on the radio without using a preset station. It's all things you're going to do while driving, so you may as well be judged on your ability to do them.Also, all tests should involve you being led to a very out of the way part of the town/city you are doing the test in and finding the way back to the test centre without the help of the instructor. Asking pedestrians is fine.Driving between the lines, looking in your mirror and parking are things any moron can do. It's the other stuff that causes accidents, so you shouldn't be able to drive unless you can do 'em properly.This man talks sense.Part two: Stop! Ham time!Sure, it's not directly Chatterbox related, but a large portion of the bloggers this week migrated over tothis post, all about using your home power lines to transfer the internet. Keith's article attracted a horde of enraged Ham Radio geeks, almost as much of an anathema to Chatterboxers as zombies.Nonetheless, it is a haven of maddening banter and ultra-nerds, though the hoped-for one-on-one duel to the death between a Chatterbox leader and a Ham-ster (I'm so witty) never arrived. Boo.Product of the weekFor the bravest Chatterboxer confronting zombie hordes, we recommendthis stylish bedside table.Video of the weekChubster2010 gives usChimp Riding Segway. 'Nuff said.Quote of the week"Paralympics: Do disabled gods live on Mount Paralympus?"Lazybones strides confidently past the political-correctness checkpoint intoquote-of-the-week territory.Have I got quotes for you?"We heard mention of it, but decided that it would only be worse if we went out and told the fans they were absolutely not allowed to throw dildos on the ice"ImperfectRex quoting fromfunny news story of the week."Quick tip for you: if you're ever doing an after-dinner speech, you say,'My Lords, Ladies and Gentlemen, sorry I'm late, I just popped to the toilet. And while I was there, I saw some graffiti and it said 'I used to be indecisive, but now I'm not so sure''". Straight away you've got them by the jaffas.TonyHayers comes out with another slice of his well-lived life, possibly in quote form."Great, now I know that it's got a shotgun weapon in it. Why not just tape my eyelids open and force me to watch the whole game beginning to end why don't you."BeardOfBees, this is what ProPlus and Red Bull cocktail chasers were invented for!"Just so you're fully spoilt, I should mention that Crysis involves a crisis. I did originally spell 'crisis' as 'crysis', then realised that's moronic."CBPodge and the perils of purposeful game misspellings."The chatterbox used to be a lot funnier."ImperfectRex on the gradual state of decline. You mean, we used to be funny?"Packs of dogs should attack you like a pack of dogs, not run after you like 5 year olds playing football. Now imagine you are the ball, you hate five year olds, and you have a pump action shotgun with 12 rounds in the chamber. Game over."Umboros23 on Fallout 3 AI."I love to advise everyone on how to live their lives. I also believe that commenting here gives me sufficient social standing to judge absolutely anyone. I fully intend to keep doing this from now until the day I die. If I happen to be joking at any point, I firmly resolve not to indicate this with any kind of smiley. If people are offended by my comments, then that brings a tiny glow of satisfaction to my otherwise cold, dead soul."Last but not least, Limni shows off his happy-go-lucky side.
There's no shortage of websites about gaming, but for professional and serious users, one stands out:Gamasutra. It was launched in 1997 by Game Developer, a print magazine for computer and video games developers, but appeals to a wider audience. Might that have something to do with the punning name, which hints at the Kama Sutra? Either way, it won Webby Awards in 2006 and 2007, and was nominated in 2008.Gamasutra says it's about "The Art &amp; Business of Making Games" rather than playing them. Its green and beige colour scheme looks dull compared with consumer-oriented games sites. And while it leads with news, it's serious stuff: profits and losses, layoffs, industry events, interviews. The front page also carries lists of jobs and companies offering services. If you want a game converted to Flash or ported to the iPhone, it's one place to look.But hidden in the mix are the features that make Gamasutra a compelling read.One of the most popular series, which originated with Game Developer, is Postmortem. One or two game creators run through something they've produced, providing top five lists of What Went Right and What Went Wrong.Many other features are based on interviews. In October, for example, Gamasutra talked to Peter Molyneux about Fable II, Cliff Bleszinski about Gears Of War, Ultima creator Richard Garriott, Parappa co-creator Masaya Matsuura, and many more. Gamasutra can get the people who matter.The site also covers broader topics. Recent examples include The State of the Casual Games Industry in 2008, The Birth and Death of the Election Game, and Are Games Art? (Here We Go Again...). It has also published some excellent pieces abut the history of companies such as Atari. However, you may want to skip Debugging Memory Corruption in Game Development and similar technical articles.Readers can leave comments, and this can lead to interesting debates. Last month, however, the site started to block anonymous comments. The price of popularity is the attention of the web's lowest form of life: the insult commenter. Now you have to register and log in.AsGamasutra publisher Simon Carless said: "If you're going to criticize someone out of hand, going forward, you'll need to do it with your real name."Gamasutra is part of Think Services, which is owned by United Business Media. Think also runs Game Developer, the huge Game Developers Conference (GDC), and the venerable Dr Dobb's Journal. Related sites include Worlds In Motion.biz, Game Career Guide, Serious Games Source, Games On Deck (mobile phone games), and a handful of blogs such as Game Set Watch, Indie Games, GamerBytes, and FingerGaming.Whether the games programming market can usefully be split into so many subgroups remains to be seen.Not every movie fan wants to hear what the directors, scriptwriters and camera operators thought about what they were doing, and not every gamer wants to read about the designers, artists and programmers behind the games. But for those who do, Gamasutra is worth a click.
What's your favorite piece of technology?TheApple II computer, circa 1980.How has it improved your life?It gave me something to do in secondary school instead of going out on dates.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Summer 1984. Along with two friends, I completed several years of work developing a cutting-edge graphics programming language to facilitate development ofvideo gamesfor the Apple II. Note: this was the exact second the Apple II was deemed obsolete by society.What additional features would you add if you could?Lower-case letters (seriously).Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No.  It's obsolete now, but I'm predicting a comeback.What one tip would you give to non-Apple II users?The Apple II had approximately one million times less memory than today's computers, so you might want to stick with what you're using.Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?Big nerd.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?My five-year-old large-screen plasma TV. For some reason it seemed rational at the time to buy that instead of a car.Mac or PC?Mac. It's the closest living descendant of my old friend.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?"30 Century Man" performed by the Jigsaw Scene, written by Scott Walker. Originally, the title intrigued me due to its apparent relevance to Futurama. Then I got addicted to the song and we actually used it in the Futurama DVD "Bender's Big Score".Will robots rule the world?Robots already rule the world. Apparently you missed the press release (it was in binary).What piece of technology would you most like to own?A pedal-powered submarine.David X Cohen is executive producer and co-creator ofFuturama. The direct-to-DVD movieBender's Gameis out on Monday November 3
Microsoft has made itsAzurecloud computing announcements at PDC, so now we know what it's doing: it is extending Windows 2008 Server into the online market so that programmers who develop applications in Visual Studio (and other things, see below) cantest them locally and deploy them globally. Azure runs the same code but uses a hypervisor to distribute it across multiple machines and, next year, multiple data centres on different continents. Application management is automatic. It's not clear how you'll pay for it, but there will be some form of pay-by-use based on processor time, disk storage and bandwidth.One of the questions that inevitably came up was whether Azure was justHailstormrevisited. See, for example, Ina Fried'sAzure manages to avoid a Hailstorm of criticism, and Mary-Jo Foley'sOzzie responds: Is Microsoft Azure just 'Hailstorm' revisited?Hailstorm was the codename of Microsoft's last attempt at cloud computing, which was based on its .Net programming platform, but it was based on using Microsoft services (such as Passport for identity management) rather than Microsoft servers.The .net framework has been a success, but in2001, world+dog threw a wobbly at the whole idea of relying on Microsoft services. Also, hosted applications such as Microsoft Office -- which was available over the net -- didn't get any traction. But Azure is a different proposition. As Ray Ozzie tells Mary-Jo:"In that era (Microsoft) believed in pure centralization in 'true integrated storage,' the middle. My DNA tells me — and you can see this in my past and what I've done before — that it's a world of decentralization and that you synchronize the truth amongst many things, both in the center and at the edge on the devices where you need them. So, that's very architectural different."Whether Azure is actually any good is another matter, but it does take the cloud computing idea into distributed and multitenant applications. As Microsoft says:The fundamental assumption in Windows Azure is that there is no single point of failure. No computer by going down will take down your application. If your app is not written in that way ... then fundamentally the application pattern does have to change.Dion Almaer, one of the Google Gears developers who went to the show (but who isnot speaking for Google, of course),blogged:Everything that was announced we pretty much knew was happening. From the cloud, to the Web (Silverlight 2 / IE 8), and beyond. But, even though we knew about this, I don't know if we thought they were this far along.Microsoft is executing.He concludes:If you are a Microsoft developer you are probably very happy at Ray Ozzie's coming out party. Others on the fence may be interested. For those of us who worry about handing Microsoft control of the browser, plugins to other browsers, the cloud, the server model, and more…. I won't lie to you. I am cautiously observing. Silverlight adoption worries me.We can't fight Microsoft with "don't choose them, remember what they did to you before?" Fear is lame. Instead, this is a wake up call to Adobe, Google, Yahoo!, Amazon, IBM, Sun, [insert other developer / platform players] to get kicking.We can't just be Open, we have to be better!When it comes to being open, Microsoft will argue that Azure is open. Windows Server 2008 and Visual Studio aren't open, of course, though having them in the cloud is a major attraction for companies that already use them. However, asSam Ramji, the director of Microsoft's Open Source Software Lab, points out, developers "will also be able to choose from a range of open source development tools and technologies, and be able to access Azure services using a variety of common internet standards, including HTTP, REST, WS* and Atom."The Azure platform's goal is to support all developers and their choice of IDE, language and technology. We are also providing programmable components that can be consumed by other applications, and Microsoft is funding and sponsoring open source software development kits to enable Java and Ruby developers to take advantage of Azure.This is significant as this is the first time we are delivering cross-platform software development kits at the same time as Microsoft Developer Network software development kits.One key thing for Microsoft is that it already hosts a vast amount of "cloud computing" through services such as Hotmail, Live Search, Live ID (formerly Passport), MSN, Spaces, SkyDrive, BizTalk, Windows Live, Office Live, CRM and so on -- probably including Windows Update. Like Google, it is already big on the web. Microsoft has a huge incentive to make Azure work well in order to support its own 160 or so services. And if it can do that, it could offer Azure services to the rest of the world at marginal prices, which is essentially what Amazon does now.
Sony has recalled more laptop batteries that may be a potential fire hazard, but this time it's a small one: only 100,000 batteries, compared to the 9.6 million recalled in 2006. According toReuters:The recall affects around 74,000 notebook PCs sold by HP and 14,400 from Toshiba.The faulty batteries are also used in laptop PCs from Dell Inc, Acer Inc and Lenovo Group Ltd, Sony said.TheUS Consumer Product Safety Commissionalso issued "a voluntary recall" of about 35,000 products that could be affected. It has model names of about 32,000 HP models sold "from December 2004 through June 2006", about 3,000 Toshibas (April-October 2005) and about 150 Dells (November 2004-05).
Therecent newsthat entertainment retailer HMV is entering the pre-owned games business has provoked yet more debate about the age-old issue of trade-in.  Outspokencritic of the trend towards pre-owned, Elite co-creator David Braben is now accusing shops of "defrauding the industry.""The shops are not giving us a way of distinguishing between pre-owned and new," he said. "So the shops are essentially defrauding the industry."And you can see his point, after all publishers and developers make no money from second-hand sales. And game stores do often resemble jumble sales. Of course, you could easily argue that if games were cheaper, or better, or packaged with free badges then the issue would go away. But I doubt it. Braben fears games could very soon all require online validation."I love single-player games. Getting a beautifully crafted single player experience is something that's going to be killed if we're not careful, because the online validation of online games means that they tend to get pre-owned a lot less."We've been here before but it's Friday so what the heck. Trade-in then - what do you think? A harmless way to make new games affordable or the gradual defrauding of an industry?
Friday's post-apocalyptic edition of Chatterbox
So, okay, this is the last time I'm going to plug it. But Saturday night sees the second officialGamesblog pub quiz, taking place at the Mogal-e-Azam curry house in Nottingham from 6-8pm. It's part of the fabulousGameCity festivalwhich kicked off today.Last time I mentioned it, I wasn't sure about what to do for a prize. So I called up a few game publishers - and they've beenamazing*. The winning team will stagger away with a massive pack filled with games and other paraphernalia including copies of Fable II, Quantum of Solace and Lego Batman (all TBC at the mo) and the latest SNK fighting game anthologies, including Fatal Fury Battle Archives Vol 1, World Heroes Anthology and the brilliant SNK Arcade Classics Vol 1 (ah, Metal Slug...). You'll also get to fight over Fallout 3, LittleBigPlanet, GTAIV and Lego Batman T-shirts - as well as a GTA pool cue! A massive thanks to the publishers who've contributed prizes.There's more on the way too - I just won't know what it is until I get there tomorrow. I'll post a full inventory on Friday evening.You'll need a festival pass to get in, but that'll also get you into all the events of the day and the closing party.Hopefully see you there!*UPDATE:It's now Saturday and unfortunately some of the prizes still haven't arrived. I'll endeavour to post the prizes to the winning team if they do show up! Sadly, I'm at the mercy of the prize providers on this! But it'll still be fun?
Microsoft were showing off their Christmas games in London today and the highlight – for me anyway – was the new dashboard for the Xbox 360, snappily known asNXE. ActuallyLips, the 360's answer to Singstar, looked quite amusing – the ability to sing along to your own tracks, as long as you know the lyrics, and get rated on pitch and tone is a great feature – andBanjoappeals more each time I see it. But the NXE was the star.The "New Experience" launches on the 19th November and will update any Live connected Xbox (silver and gold membership).  Once installed – the download is apparently around 150MB – the advantages over the old blade system are obvious. Content is easier to find, and presented much more vibrantly. Think packshots rather than text, and lots of nice swooshing noises. Videos, photos and other non-gaming features are bought to the surface too as Microsoft pitches the console further into mass-market entertainment territory.The clearest march to the mainstream is the introduction of avatars. From what I saw today these are clearly going to divide 360 owners. Some won't bother, seeing them as an necessary distraction before COD4. Other will spend time playing with – you can make your avatar "burp" – and customising. Me? I could be tempted when they start dishing out avatar rewards – ie a virtual guitar for achieving 1000 achievement points on Guitar Hero – that let you show off but for now it smacks of novelty. But the NXE as a whole is clearly a huge upgrade for the 360.Jack over at Technology blog hasrounded upthe generally positive reception to the new dashboard.  But how does it look to you? Excited by the change or is it all a pointless distraction from Gears 2, Fable 2 and the rest?
Last week I mentioned Nokia'sGameing Innovation Challengein which mobile developers were invited to submit their wackiest concepts for the chance to win a publishing deal and 40,000 euros toward development costs. The three finalists got to show off their wares at the Nokia Game Summit yesterday, and during a rain and wind swept evening event at the stunning Castel Sant D'Angelo (in which we were almost blown off the balcony by a collapsing gazebo) the winning title was announced. I had a chat with all the entrants, and if you're at all interested in the new direction Nokia wants to take mobile games, here's the lowdown on the three titles…Ghost Wire, by the accurately named Swedish studio,A Different Game, was the eventual winner of the top prize. It's a ghost hunting sim inspired by TV shows like Most Haunted, but based around a Pokemon-style collection dynamic. Players must locate and capture 40 different ghosts, some easy to find, others much more rare. The thing is, there's no onscreen game world – instead it's an augmented reality-style experience in which your phone display becomes a ghost-tracking device, which you must tune in to the spectral frequency and start grabbing spooks.Ghost Wire fully integrates with your mobile clock, so some ghosts will only appear at certain times, or on specific days of the week. Cleverly, others will only materialise if you are completely silent – the game utilises your handset's microphone, so you'll need to shut yourself in a very quiet room. In a nod to Sixth Sense, every ghost has a problem that you need to solve via a dialogue-driven interface (Tom Söderlund of Different Game name-checked Monkey Island as an inspiration here) – some have become separated from loved ones, others require you to unite them with certain objects. I'm not sure how this element is going to work, but, again, it sounds very much like the Pokemon titles.When a spectre becomes available for capture, Ghost Wire has another technological convergence trick up its sleeve. You need to switch on your phone's camera display, and the ghost will appear, transparent and hauntingly abstract on the screen, as though hovering in real-life, right in front of you – a really quite spooky effect. Söderlund told me the idea with the game was to make players believe the ghosts were really there.The runner up was Melokey from fellow Swedes,Jadestone, a rhythm action-style game with some interesting riffs on the genre. It begins as a sort of musical RPG. You play a music student who must learn various instruments and playing techniques from different masters, before auditioning for bands and eventually becoming a fully-fledged pop star. In typical music game style, there are a number of licensed tracks and during a music session you must hit the right keys at the right times to play along.However, according to the dev team, the system is slightly more flexible – as in WII Music, you're not punished for missing beats. Also there's a free play mode, which allows you to choose an instrument and just create your own tunes – it's even possible to build chords and assign them to hot keys, so you're not having to jam your fingers on multiple buttons. Friends can then get together, select different instruments and have their onw mini-jam sessions. And as in Wii Music it should also be possible to upload your tunes to the web.The last of Nokia's Innovation finalists was Watcher by Manchester studio,Eclipse. This is an alternative reality conspiracy drama incorporating just about every trendy mobile/web 2.0 technology going. Though there's no discernible plot yet, it looks like players will need to check websites and fictional Facebook profiles for clues, then go outside to hunt down leads in the real world. Director of Marketing, Ann Garner, talked about players being able to geo-tag specific locations with clues or disinformation, so that passing competitors/collaborators can pick up on game content when they're out and about.There are also plans for a community-generated narrative element – Eclipse want the players to start dictating the story through their actions – there's talk about a branching plot, delivered in episodic chunks. At the moment, it sounds like a jumble of trendy technology features, without a cogent design or game implementation, but it's definitely worth looking out for – especially as Garner referred to the game as 'X-files meets Coronation Street'.
Psystar, possibly Apple'sleast favouritePC manufacturer, has put out apress releaseto say it is "shipping Blue-ray and 9800GT equipped computers before Apple's release of these peripheral products on their own computers."Update: As Alan Audio points out in a comment, Psystar systems still can't play Blu-ray movies.Psystar's FAQsays:Blu-Ray video playback requires support from the media player software.There is no Blu-Ray software capable of playing back Blu-Ray video for Mac OS or Linux.Apple's tardiness is odd since Apple has been on the Blu-ray board for years, and plenty of Windows PCs have also had Blu-ray drives for years. This is even odder when you remember that Apple co-founder Steve Jobs is a big cheese at Disney (which bought Pixar from him), so Steve Jobs's home computer can't play his own Disney movies on BD -- unless he has a Windows PC, like 95% of the world's microcomputer users.Psystar's president Rudy Pedraza is understandably bullish about Blu-ray:"Blu-ray has already won the format war. Not only is there fully functional and mature support for Blu-ray in other operating systems but you can now rent Blu-ray discs from almost any rental chain. Blu-ray has become pervasive technology that is being widely adopted by consumers everywhere," says Pedraza.Pedraza also pointed out that "Blu-ray is not just for movies. The ability to burn 25-gigabyte discs is a feature that can help users in media editing or enterprise environments keep archives of large file sets. Our systems, regardless of configured operating system, can now provide this functionality."So isDisney. In plugging its new Platinum verison of {corrected] Sleeping Beauty on Blu-ray, Disney says"Platinum titles are only released on a new format after it has proven to be technologically sound and popular with customers."Perhaps Steve Disney Jobs should take Steve Apple Jobs into a back room and ask him why he's so slow to get the message. In return, Steve Apple Jobs will no doubt give Steve Disney Jobs an ear-bashing about why you have to agree to a legalese-packed 57-page EULA before you can watch the blooming thing.ZD Net blogger Robin Harris is a bit less convinced, exclaiming:Blu-ray is dead - heckuva job, Sony!Basically, he reckons up-scaling DVD players mean that Blu-ray has lost most of its quality advantage, and the movies cost too much. He also summarises an article fromDigital Content Producerthat explains why Blu-ray licensing and production costs are too high.Sony has lost billions shipping Blu-ray drives in its loss-making PlayStation 3 games console so as to squeeze out the industry standard format voted for and supported by theDVD Forum. It certainly won't be happy if Blu-ray slips into the ranks of failed Sony formats such as Betamax, Mini-Disc and SACD.Frankly I have no idea whether Blu-ray is going to be successful or not. However, I do think we still need optical discs, and that the ability to back up 25GB on one disc is a feature worth having on a PC… if there's some guarantee of being able to read it a decade later. But buying a standalone Blu-ray player? There's no danger of me doing that, because I don't have an HDTV, and at the moment, I have no plans to buy one.
Crowdsourcing is one of today's hot topics, and Intel and Asus havelaunched a projectto use it in the design of innovative PCs, via a Web site atWePC.com. The headline view is:You dream it. Asus builds it. Intel inside it.The site has sections for notebooks, netbooks and gaming PCs. As with Dell'sIdeaStorm, users can vote on other people's ideas. There's also a Community section for blog posts.I've had a quick browse, and it seems to me that most of the suggestions are either obvious and therefore dull, or too futuristic to be practical or affordable. There may be some good stuff in there, but we're still waiting for it to be voted to the top of the sorted list.Incidentally, if you've got today's printed paper, there's an article on crowdsourcing on the front of ourEnterprise small business supplement. Of course, it's also online. SeeThe customer knows best.
Human rights campaign groupAmnesty Internationalhas criticiseda new human rights organisation backed by technology giants Google, Microsoft and Yahoo.The attack comes after the formal launch of theGlobal Network Initiative, a scheme to bring  the technology industry together with human rights campaigners to help protectfree speechin repressive countries.Google,MicrosoftandYahoo– which have all been heavily criticised for their conduct in countries such as China in recent years – were among the first signatories.The group has been backed by several high-profile human rights organisations, but yesterday Amnesty said that it could not offer its support.In a statement, Amnesty said it had been involved in earlier discussions over the group but had dropped out after receiving final drafts of its principles in August."Following careful consideration of these documents, Amnesty International has come to the conclusion that – while they represent a degree of progress in responding to human rights concerns – they are not yet strong enough to allow Amnesty International to endorse them," the statement said.It went on to attack what it said were "weaknesses" and said that "several critical issues could not be resolved" despite more than two years of talks.Rebecca MacKinnon, an assistant professor at the University of Hong Kongand prominent freedom of speech campaigner in China who has backed the GNI, said that the people involved "would not be putting their reputations behind this thing if they did not think it was meaningful"."That said," she said, "the initiative must prove its value in the next couple of years."The support from Google, Microsoft and Yahoo is a sign of a concerted effort to change the companies' image after several years of intense criticism over their human rights records.All three have been accused of cooperation with Beijing's censorious regime –most notably Yahoo's role in the imprisonment of journalist Shi Tao in 2004.The companies joining the initiative have agreed to follow a loose set of principles, including a commitment to consider fighting unwarranted government demands in the court. However, it is unclear precisely what the guidelines will mean in the long term.It is hoped that the high-profile backing will bring more technology companies into the group, and discussions are already said to be under way with British communications company Vodafone and France Telecom.Amnesty's criticisms will come as a major blow to the initiative's plans, but it is not the only group to voice its concern."What's disappointing is that the amount of effort didn't produce something more substantial," saidMorton Sklar, the executive director of the World Organisation for Human Rights USA.
Thursday's one day before Fallout 3 edition of Chatterbox
Spinning off a big PR push by the TV websiteHulu(sort of like iPlayer, but for American commercial TV) a few pundits are throwing around the idea that less might be more in advertising.It all comes out of some figures put out by Hulu - repeated by the New York Times' Brian Stelter, suggesting thatfewer ads might mean each ad is more effective. The implication? Perhaps running fewer ads might have the same affect on ordinary TV. Even that venerable tomeValleywagis behind the idea - usually cause for concern).It's an easy call to make - after all, American TV is plagued by advertising (a lot of it, frankly, terrible). And Hulu is a really good service: I've only started using it properly since I moved to the US and it's been a revelation (certainly just as important as iPlayer has been in the UK). I'd love to get rid of all those ads, but suggesting it would balance out in the long run is precisely the sort of 1+1=3 web perspective that leads to bad decisions and bankruptcy.After all, Hulu still doesn't turn a profit even when its not paying the millions it costs to produce the TV shows in the first place. Advertisers might like the idea of more effective ads, but will they pay more money for such a service? And, unless they can find a way to show fewer spots and actually turn that intoprofit, why would you bother?
I have Virgin's most powerful broadband with a Netgear wireless router. My laptop runs XP and has no problem. My daughter's has Vista and the broadband signal lasts only a short time before the connection fails. Using the Virgin software to fix the connection, the signal is low and unusable, then cuts out again.Steve GilbertNetworking problems like this are notoriously hard to solve unless you can get a knowledgeable person on the premises, so try to find a local expert. You may be able to find one via the Usenet support group, virginmedia.support.broadband.cable but it's clearly not me. I "solved" my own problems with a Virgin/Netgear Wi-Fi system -- it would only work if I kept re-installing Virgin's CD -- by discontinuing the service. However, it did work via a Cat5 Ethernet cable, so get your daughter to try that. (I bought a pair of Solwise 85Mbps HomePlugs and used the mains wiring to take the connection to a different room.)Also, Vista's SP1 service pack has cleared up some networking niggles, so it might be worth installing that, too. We've not had any connection problems with two Vista laptops at home, perhaps because we've learned not to install any software supplied by an ISP. In our experience, Vista just works. However, problems have been reported with some routers that have Stateful Packet Inspection in their firewalls, and sometimes a solution is to turn off SPI. There have also been a few problems with Vista's use of IPv6 as the default instead of IPv4. Microsoft has a support document:How to disable certain Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6) components in Windows Vista.Microsoft also offers anInternet Connectivity Evaluation Toolthat checks your NAT router to see what it can do, and that might find a problem. It's best run using the Windows Firewall and Internet Explorer. The Windows Connection Wizard will also have a good go at trying to diagnose connection problems.
I have been trying to find an external hard drive for my Mac and have read too many accounts of models that are not compatible, or which break down too easily. Any suggestions?Peter KingI don't use enough external hard drives to have a view, and by the time a view has been formed, the market has already moved on. The best you can do is search the web using model numbers -- preferably the model number of whatever drive is inside the external enclosure.Otherwise, all USB 2.0 storage devices should work with either Mac OS X or Windows, but you can increase your chance of success by buying devices that are specific about their support for Macs, or that offer FireWire as well as USB. Most Macs produced this century have a FireWire port, and relatively few PCs, apart from Sony's.Also, for preference, choose an EHD that has its own power supply, or connect it via a powered hub. Some 2.5in external drives -- especially portable ones -- may have problems drawing enough power from the USB port. Smaller external drives that have 1.8in drives should be fine, but their smaller capacities and lower performance tend to make these less attractive.
I have a Fujitsu-Siemens Lifebook B2130 with a 6GB hard drive. It is groaning under the weight of Windows XP Pro. I would like to install Linux but it does not have an optical drive.Eddie ShinksThe Lifebook B2130 only had 64MB of soldered memory, which could be upgraded only to 192MB, and a 400MHz Celeron, so it's surprising that XP Pro runs at all. A current Linux won't be much better, but there are lots of small versions such as Puppy Linux 4.00: there's a list atbengross.com/smallunix.html. At 94MB, Puppy is small enough to download or to copy across from a USB thumbdrive (puppylinux.org). However, the B2130 is not really worth the effort. If you can afford it, buy an Asus Eee PC, Acer Aspire One or similar netbook instead. If you shop around, you can also find good big-screen notebooks for less than £250.
Occasionally the Magnifier pops up in Windows XP. I have not figured out how I elicit it or how to get rid of it, other than rebooting.William Van der KlootThe Windows Magnifier, provided to help those with poor eyesight, is in the Start menu's Accessibility folder, under Accessories. You can also run it by pressing the Windows key plus U. I don't know how you can run it by accident, unless it has been assigned a special key. To close it, right-click inside the magnified bar and select Exit from the drop-down menu. (Golden rule for Windows: always try right-clicking!) Alternatively, look for the Windows Magnifier entry in the Task Bar, click it to open the window, and click Exit.
Far Cry 2 is an epic 40+ hour yomp through jungle crawling with rival warlords, who help or harass you according to the alliances you make. Battles are tense, frantic and unforgiving, thanks to limited weapon slots, brutal enemy AI and some bizarre design choices (you can drive a jeep or shoot from one, but you cannot do both at the same time).But the real problem is that non-linear plot; a steady stream of identikit battles with enemies you thought you'd killed already, whose abilities barely change throughout the game. Outside of the main plot, everything soon feels both repetitive and random.
British gadget fans will be able to get their hands on the first mobile phone powered by Google today, as the much-anticipated G1 goes on sale in the UK for the first time.The G1, which is being sold by the phone network T-Mobile, will be available from the company's shops from as early as 7am – with thousands of people expected to queue in order be among the first buyers.A T-Mobile spokeswoman told the Guardian that the company was not sure how great demand would be today, but said 25,000 people had registered their interest since the phone was unveiled in New York last month.The G1 comes free with a £40-a-month contract and boasts a number of high-end features including global satellite positioning, wireless internet access and built-in support for a number of Google applications.It is the internet giant's backing which has generated most interest, as the California company attempts to move into the lucrative mobile phone market and take on rivals such as Nokia, BlackBerry and Microsoft. But the G1's major competition looks set to be Apple's iPhone.The launch represents a big gamble for Google, which has only recently started producing full-blown software rather than internet-based applications. But engineers based in California and London have been working on the phone system, called Android, for the past three years, and the company hopes that a number of manufacturers will sign up to use its software. Wider take-up will have to wait until next year, though, since T-Mobile has negotiated an exclusive 12-month deal to run Android on its phones.Despite the excitement over the launch, reaction to the G1 so far has been mixed. Leading gadget blogGizmodosaid that it was not the finished article but represented "a good start", whiletechnology review site CNETcalled it "weird"‚ and said it was "not quite there yet".In the US, where the handset went on sale yesterday, retailers are already starting to slash the G1's price to boost sales.
Creating a Real Time Strategy (RTS) game for consoles is no easy task, but EndWar manages it by streamlining options and enabling voice control. Battles are fought with straightforward commands - simply "who", "what" and "where" - while the move from top-down to third-person view allows for full immersion and accessibility. Highly addictive solo play is cemented with a Clancy story-line that follows the prelude to the third world war and beyond. But the game comes into its own with the massively multiplayer online Theatre of War. Battling against human opponents, territories are fought over in day-long encounters, with your performance affecting the following day's front line. EndWar's intuitive system works well, aside from the occasional voice recognition blip, and its fast-paced, action-fuelled gameplay will bring a new form of RTS to the console-loving masses.
