Hans Snook, founder of Orange and chairman of Carphone Warehouse, hasn't used his fixed-line phone for years. "I don't even know the number," he says. "I only use the fixed telecoms network for connecting to the net and I may not even do that when high-speed third-generation mobile comes along."The mobile industry may be struggling, but as mobiles start to displace all sorts of products and services, it is other industries that should be afraid. Already, competition from mobiles has forced down payphone prices and prices for compact discs are under pressure too.Mobiles could displace compact discs (CDs), warns Snook. He says: "Once MP3 technology gets easier to use, people of all ages will be downloading music and plugging their MP3 mobiles into the car stereo."He also expects mobiles to become a kind of e-wallet,   displacing cash for small items like buying a coffee or a newspaper. "At present," he says, "banks don't let people pay for small items with credit or debit cards because their IT infrastructure means it costs them 50p per transaction."But mobile operators are used to billing for millions of small transactions every hour and can pass on a tiny transaction fee to the shopkeeper - not the consumer."Under threat, too, are the makers of laptop computers. With the xda organiser-phone (Online, June 20) and soon-to-be available Sendo phone (Online, June 13) running Microsoft software, there is going to be even less reason to carry a laptop to connect to the net, check email or create documents and spreadsheets.These devices don't have proper keyboards yet, but you will be able to buy a large or small plug-in one for the xda. Israeli company VKB has gone one better by developing a keyboard "contained" in a device the size of a cigarette lighter.It can be linked to a mobile   and Palm personal organiser. "You stand it in front of you and it projects a full-size qwerty keyboard on to a flat surface," says Snook."You can type on it and it works, using laser feedback technology." Panasonic is also expected to bring out a phone with a revolutionary keyboard. It's an alphabetical keyboard with raised keys next to the mobile's keypad.People who have tried it say it works surprisingly well. And   with better keyboard options, will all but serious number crunchers bother taking their laptop PCs on trips?Already they can leave their calculator behind as most mobiles have these built in, and with higher-resolution colour screens becoming standard on new mobiles, mobile-based games are becoming more appealing. Earlier this month, O2 demonstrated Java games on the Sharp camera phone it   will launch this autumn.TV isn't too much of a long shot, either. The same Sharp phone connected to the Sky television website gave clear enough pictures of the latest Middle East car bomb. Some mobiles also come with built-in radios - potentially replacing the Sony Walkman and global positioning devices.Camera phones account for a significant proportion of the digital cameras sold worldwide, with handset makers expecting two-thirds of mobiles sold next year to include cameras, according to Steve Davies of 02. Such picture messaging could mean curtains for the postcard, and competition for old-fashioned cameras. The Sony Ericsson P800 due in October, like the Nokia 7650 due sooner, will include a camera, a personal organiser and a phone.But Snook argues that: "displacement does not necessarily mean replacement."   He says: "People don't carry their cameras everywhere."They will use their camera-phones in a different way, as a form of communication, and will still take a real camera when they need a professional picture. Similarly, early video over 3G mobile will be used to watch a film trailer of the latest Tom Cruise flick, not the whole of Minority Report."Lars Vestergaard, wireless research manager at analysts IDC, says mobiles themselves could be displaced, with their SIM cards being built into other devices. "Car makers are putting so much mobile technology into their cars, why not just insert a SIM card and turn the car into a mobile itself?" he asks.
&#183;Small traders struggling with credit card fraud by internet users will be relieved at the launch of a new website atcybersource.com. Aimed at providing guidelines on safeguarding a business against this form of deception, the paper has been made available free of charge to anyone who wants it from Cybersource. You'll need a copy of Adobe Acrobat Viewer, which is available - once again free of charge - from adobe.com. In an unrelated move, security company Preventon has launched a free service to test your PC's security atwww.testmysecurity.com- any problems and it offers to sell you the company's own firewall product, but it's useful as a simple test.&#183;People wanting a relatively cheap typing solution on the move will be pleased to hear that Alphasmart has released the Computer Companion, essentially an electric typewriter that stores 100 or so pages of text and hooks up to a computer through a USB slot. It will spell-check, although it lacks a word count, and will hold 10 documents at any one time, as long as they fit into the overall 100-page limit. A PDA with an external keyboard or a laptop will certainly offer better functions but they won't cost £234 including VAT and delivery. Available only from UK distributor Seventh Sense on 01932 222 722.&#183;Access Accounting believes it will reduce the cost of highly specified accounting systems in a couple of months with the release of DimensionsLite in September. It will cost £1,173 plus VAT per user and is a five-user system. The package should compete against the established market leaders at a lower cost than similar products. The way this has been done is to base the product on Microsoft's MSDE, the free version of Microsoft's SQL Server database. Other systems are based on the paid-for version. Presumably more releases based on the same technology will follow rapidly.&#183;Businesses wanting to publicise their operations may want to consider a look at the Internet PR Company's new product, PressOfficeXpress. Basically an online press office you can attach to any existing website, it will store news releases, distribute them by email if you wish and is all managed by a simple cut-and-paste action on the customer's part. The cost is £75 plus VAT per month and the website is attheinternetprcompany.com. You can buy it online.&#183;The problem with office suites, and technology in general, has been found at last, according to research from Office Angels and Microsoft's Mouse Team. Senior managers don't know what to do with their computers; 60% of personal assistants believe their boss would make the entire business more efficient by becoming more proficient with a computer, with 12% believing their bosses would think Bluetooth was a new virus (it's actually a wireless networking standard). Microsoft is using the information as a hook to sell its application-specific and wireless keyboards, which it believes will help.&#183;IBM has released some new ThinkPad notebooks and NetVista desktop computers aimed at the smaller business. The machines are designed to offer as many different sorts of connection as possible while keeping prices down - so no flashy sound or DVD drives but Firewire and WiFi connections are all possible. The desktop systems include the A30 and A30p models which have Pentium 4 chips, six USB ports and an optional USB drive for backup.   Top of the range is the M42, which is IBM's fastest desktop offering and is the company's first mini desktop. The Thinkpads have been upgraded with the latest processors and IBM's new security technology.&#183;Networking specialist NetGear has released the first of its Platinum range, the dg814. Aimed squarely at the home ADSL customer, it combines not only the ADSL router (the broadband equivalent of the modem)   but also the router and a   four-point switch in one unit. It should be simple to install thanks to the company's   setup wizard which configures the network for you, and costs £159 plus   VAT.&#183;Useful websites: Two   we have come across in our travels in the last 30 days include mail2web.com: wherever you are and no matter whose computer you're using, or what sort,   tell it your email ID and your password and it'll show you any unread email you have on a web page; you can also use   it to reply to your mails. Another useful site for people telling others about web links is makeashorterlink.com, which does what it says on   the tin: if the website to   which you want to send people has an interminably long name, you can use this site to make a shorter one, which will be easier to remember - or write down.
In those moments of mindless office boredom you may have looked at your beige computer and wondered why they all look the same. Yes, the iMac brings a little colour to our lives, but overall it's the same trodden-snow plastic repeated, ad nauseum.It doesn't have to be this way. Wood or clear plastic cases, flashing neon bulbs and even water-cooling systems are a few of the options available to turn your proletariat computer into a work of art."People nowadays want something personal," says Anthony Main of the UK's main customising website (see link below). "They want their computers to be more interesting."Main began his site in July after emailing several friends who were also interested in computer modifications. They're known as "modders" and the process as "modding". The site is now the main one in the UK and a gallery has just opened where users can post photos of their creations.Modding has its origins in multi-user gaming events, where hundreds of people converge with their computers to play against each other. Gradually, these events became a showcase for computer modifications. Some of the modifications were taken from the trend in America for car customising, such as using cold cathode lighting in neon and UV shades.But people will try anything, says Main. "I've seen computers built inside a toaster, microwave oven, even an aquarium."The same pieces are always used inside, so what you put them in is up to you. If you're a carpenter, create a design from wood. If you like metal, use that. How about stained glass? Virtually nothing is off limits, so long as it keeps its shape, doesn't catch fire and allows for good ventilation."The average customer doesn't know what you can do," says Ian Simpson, a computer manager at Staples in Plymouth. He's become a dedicated modder and built "Hydro" in just three hours. First, he spray-painted the case, then used a jigsaw to cut   his own design in the side, exposing the computer's innards. His friend had a water-cooled system, so he decided to try that as well, and drew attention to the piping with coloured lighting."So many people are scared of water and electrics, but if you take your time, it's as safe as putting a fuse in a plug."We'll take your word on that, but watch out for leaks.The water feature isn't purely aesthetic. It's also more effective than fans at keeping the computer cool. Mostly, however, modding is about the aesthetics of computers, whereas "overclocking" deals with computer performance. Sometimes, the two overlap, as with Simpson's water-cooled system.If you don't fancy getting the jigsaw out yourself, there   is a growing number of companies who supply custom cases and other accessories. One of the main ones is Cool Case Mods run by Bill Cochrane and his brother Don. He began, like all good entrepreneurs, in his garage near Watford, using a jigsaw to cut designs in the case. He took it to gaming shows, and as people saw it, they wanted their own.If they couldn't do it themselves, they asked Bill to do it for them. He was soon doing two to three cases a month, more than his garage could handle, so he and his brother set up a business and moved to a bigger space in Scotland."A lot of it was destroying a load of cases," he admits, but soon they were building five cases a week. They also sell a range of accessories from   lighting kits to UV fans.The iMac has definitely pushed the idea of more aesthetic computers into the mainstream, and manufacturers are wising up to the public's growing desire for more personalised and attractive computers.Bill Cochrane says he was recently approached by Panasonic to design their laptop cases, but had to decline due to lack of time and manpower.In America, there are already many manufacturers who build customised cases or offer to airbrush any piece of artwork on the case. One of the most unusual case designs, though, comes from the Belgian "Frozen Case" company, started by a man who decided to build his own aluminium cube computer.But if you're not keen on all these metallic monsters, you can always follow the path of 18-year-old Scott Minns. He nabbed a swath of blue spotted fur from his employer and, with the addition of two red horns supplied by his sister, made his own version of Sully from Monsters, Inc. After all, there's no reason hardware can't be soft and cuddly.
An interestingnew mobile servicefrom Freeserve launched this week... called TextMail, it allows you to send and recieve text messages from your PC, and boasts a groupmail facility that lets you send out a text to lots of people in one go. You pay through your mobile bill, and Freeserve claims texts sent via the service are cheaper than most mobile phone tariffs.
Wired Newsmeets the people who make sound effects for new computer games. "Trying to create the sound of a walking 8-foot computer-generated alien, Foreman had pulled up his shorts and had been prancing on a sand-covered concrete slab in what looked like a slow-motion chicken dance. While the gravel-crunching sounded about right, something would have to be done about the faint scraping sound emanating from the friction of [his] pants." That's the American definition of "pants", UK readers.
No, nothing to do with playing "Vienna" lots and lots of times - no amount of Midge Ure is going to help internet radio get over its biggest problem: the more listeners a station has, the higher its costs. Unlike conventional radio, where costs are fixed whether one person or a thousand listens within a given radius, internet radio stations need extra server and bandwidth power for every set of ears. All of which makesthisstory from CNET News.com interesting. It seems AOL Time Warner - a company with something of an interest in making its audio and video available over the net cheaply - is looking at ways to make streaming cheaper, faster and better, by putting streaming software on to the internet's routers. It's a pretty radical move, and it is bad news for RealNetworks, which has provided AOL's streaming technology for some time.
Weblogging has quickly become one of the net's most popular pastimes: more and more net users are not just consuming the web, but contributing to it. Be it cat pictures for friends, or political polemics for all, weblogs can get the message across. In recent months, Online has shown how to create your own blog (see links at the foot of this story) and we've been running our weblog - Online blog.com - since last year. And this week, Onlineblog was relaunched to incorporate a few of the new gizmos that are making the weblog world such an exciting place.Robert Taylor, pictured, is responsible for one of those new services. The 18 year-old from Wrexham has just launched a simple but fully featured web service called Enetation   which makes it easy for webloggers to collect the comments of readers on their pages. Remarkably, he has put the system together in just weeks - since he went on exam leave at the start of the month - and by the end of last week, more than 1500 webloggers had signed up."The way I got into web programming was by picking through other people's source code and learning from that,"    he says. "The internet has been very good to me, and I want to make a career from it, so it's time to give something back."Luckily for us, a dedicated community of amateur (and moonlighting) programmers has a similar motivation to Robert - and is creating features you can add to your webpage to boost interactivity, make your pages easier to read, and make the experiencemore useful for readers. Here are just a few.Smart commentsComments mean that, suddenly, instead of the blogger lecturing the audience, readers have a chance to bite back, usually through a link at the foot of each blog entry, which leads to a special discussion page. You shouldn't expect them to always be polite, but they will come back for more. Until the arrival of Taylor's Enetation service this month, finding a commenting service that did not have limits or bars on new users, and didn't require lots of technical knowledge, was difficult.  Enetation might lack a track record because of its youth, but it looks like a good bet for bloggers wanting to hear from their readers. Setup is a doddle, and the design is highly customisable.Updated linksLinks are what make weblogs work. Obviously, links in what you write provide routes to the gems you've unearthed online. But the more permanent list of links - the blogroll of other websites you enjoy - can be neglected, because it's often part of the site's precious template, and so a little trickier to update. Blogrolling (see link below)  is a simple web application that takes the strain. Once you sign up and insert    the relevant code in your template, you can manage the list from Blogrolling.com, making it easier for you to keep your blogroll fresh, and even see who is linking to you.Clever templatesIf web design is not your strong suit, you might be looking for some help. Luckily, some community-minded souls are happy to help, so long as you acknowledge their assistance. Onlineblog uses a slightly modified version of one of the templates at Eric Costello's blogger (see 'Glish' link below). His designs employ a technology called CSS - cascading style sheets - that separates the content of your pages from the formatting. This should make your pages work better across different computers and web browsers, and raises the possibility of using nifty gadgets such as the "Customise" feature, where the reader gets to pick the font and type size. All this is great for readers - especially those with bad eyesight. Costello also provides details of how to make his designs work on your site.Fingertip searchAdding a search box to your page opens up your archives, encourages people to look around and generates more visits. For Onlineblog, I opted for Google's free search box. Google allows a decent degree of customisation if you follow the step-by-step instructions, so the results can appear on a page that fits with your site's design.  When you finish customising the look, Google supplies the necessary code to create a functioning search box on your front page - just paste it into your template. With a little knowledge of HTML, you    can also tweak the code so the box fits your design. The biggest problem is if your site is new: if Google hasn't already indexed your site, your site search won't work very well, if at all. If that's the case, take a look at FreeFind. This site search engine is more limited than Google but still offers enough features to keep webloggers happy. Atomz also offers a free, cut-down version of its search engine at the link below.Here is the newsPutting a news feed on your blog means there will always be something new there - even if you haven't posted for a while. Moreover.com's service   is popular. It scans hundreds of publications and creates lists of headlines fitting your preferences. An installation wizard makes it easy to decide what kind of news you want to appear and how you want it to look. You then get some code to paste directly into your template .The Guardian offers a wide selection of feeds direct headline  service, although you will need some technical expertise to "harvest" the headlines from the Guardian servers. Some help is available.
The most entertaining aspect of the government's U-turn last week on its data-snooping proposals was the home secretary's "we got it wrong" interview on the BBC. But it was not the most surprising element in the saga. The most remarkable aspect was that the proposals got as far as they did.It has been less than two years since the government found itself in deep water over the introduction of the regulation of investigatory powers (RIP) bill, which forms the primary legislation for the recent proposals. The government should have learned from its mistakes. That bill provoked uproar in the House of Lords, schisms in the Commons and an icy response from business and civil liberties groups. In a well-organised series of campaigns, the government    found itself outflanked and had to withdraw the most contentious parts of the bill.Politicians may be too busy to remember back that far, but surely that is why they employ political advisers. It should have been obvious to any amateur that the same groups and political opponents would intensify their campaign and streamline their tactics in the face of this month's proposals.From the perspective of privacy, the government has acted with appalling disregard for rights. From a strategic and tactical perspective, they made unforgivable errors. At the most basic level, the government should have understood as a matter of pure logic that the electorate is far more savvy now about the implications of such surveillance measures, as is the House of Lords.But even in the absence of such potential political opposition, Blunkett's advisers should have known instinctively that the notion that a wide spectrum of Quangos, government agencies and local authorities could have access without warrant to the entire communications data reserve of the UK is a far sexier campaign target than, say, the seizure of decryption keys or the reversal of the    burden of proof set out in the original RIP bill.Still, it was an extraordinary moment. The idea of David Blunkett delicately climbing down his ladder would have seemed as unlikely as a visit by aliens. But there we were, listening with disbelief as Blunkett gingerly withdrew his communications surveillance initiative, citing his deep regard for democracy and public opinion. Blunkett conceded the government had "dug itself into a hole"."We believe we got it wrong and we need to address fears people have," Blunkett continued."The proposals were intended to provide protection and regulation of the access to data. The rest of the world interpreted them in entirely the wrong direction."Maybe he was not so contrite after all. But Blunkett was well advised to suspend the initiative, and now he should be thinking about exiling his political advisers for    holding out as long as they did. "This is a remarkable state of affairs," says Dr Ian Brown, director of the Foundation for Information Policy Research."The government's original RIP proposals were torn apart because of arrogance, lack of consultation and a single-minded obsession that defied logic. Now his department and his advisers have repeated the same mistakes." Brown, whose organisation spearheaded the campaign, shakes his head in disbelief at the idea that the home secretary suggested "as an afterthought" the proposition that the public should be consulted on such matters as communications surveillance.The lack of consultation has been a hallmark of government proposals. The original RIP bill was drafted after six hours of closed-door consultation with the internet service provider industry. Business groups and civil liberties advocates hardly got a look in. The order that was to be laid before Parliament last week appears to have been drafted in a vacuum. It is possible that the government's latest piece of work suffered from some bad drafting (not unusual when there is little or no consultation).The drafters might have been having a bad hair day   when they defined "local authority" to mean any body "within the meaning of section 1 of the Local Government Act 1999". Did they realise this definition would include parish councils or, in their absence, parish meetings? The notion of a local fete organiser being able to seize communications data would be a gift to opponents.Now that the proposals have been put on ice until the next session of Parliament, the key question for government is whether to take a risk that the media will take a second bite at the cherry. It is rare for newspapers to attack twice when even minor concessions are made. So, the old Whitehall political formula may be adopted: "A sprinkling of concession; a pinch of modification; a grain of consultation; leave to settle for as long as possible, then serve on a heavy news week." Or is that prognosis too cynical?&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk&#183;Simon Davies is a visiting fellow in the department of information systems of the London School of Economics, and is director of the watchdog group Privacy International
Have things moved even slower than usual when you've been online recently? Has your computer crashed more often? Have those pop-up ads seemed even more intrusive? Just the way the web is, you may think.But there could be another reason for the hassles you're experiencing.  You may have downloaded software that is secretly taking liberties with your computer power, bandwidth and personal information.Somewhere on your computer, a program may be operating, carefully logging what you do online, then sending that information to a marketing company, who may sell it on, or use it to send    you ads while you surf. Without your knowledge, you may have let a piece of spyware into your life.Spyware: it's an eye-catching term, almost purpose-built to spook users who don't really trust computers. It has caught on online, with anti-privacy activists using it as a tag for all sorts of problematic software.  Bill Webb runs a pro-privacy site, Counterexploitation. He says: "I believe the term was first widely used by the software developer/privacy activist Steve Gibson of Gibson Research Corp. He defined it as 'any software that employs a user's internet connection in the background (the so-called backchannel) without their knowledge or explicit    permission.Others have defined it more narrowly, as software that transmits 'personal' information without permission, and I believe use of the term has been slowly drifting in this direction." Webb's site features advice on how to deal with potentially malicious programs - adware, spyware, homepage hijackers and more (for definitions, see box). Before activists began focusing on spyware, adware was the big concern.In the late 90s, as software developers looked for ways to fund the development of online tools that people expected to get free, they began to add programs that either displayed ads or tracked the user or both. Popular programs for managing downloads or "speeding up your surfing" were tagged as "adware" when it was discovered they were collecting information for marketing/ advertising purposes. Most privacy activists accept that using advertising to fund freeware is a legitimate business model."There have been some very well-behaved ad-supported programs," says Webb. "The key element is informed consent: the software must make the user clearly aware of these components before activating them, and allow that user a choice of whether or not to continue." Unfortunately, many of the companies don't reveal what their software is doing, often because it's doing more than simply display ads.Webmasters were among the first to raise the alarm about adware, in part because some programs changed the content they'd created on their sites. For example, once installed on a user's machine, eZula's TopText would insert links to ads under certain key words when they appeared on a webpage. It was also claimed that early versions of another program called Gator/Offer Companion inserted its own banner ads on top of the ads a webmaster had sold on a site. Such programs were labelled "scumware" (see link below).More recently, attention has focused on programs that gather personal information about users. Many of the companies whose programs have been labelled spyware claim they aren't collecting identifiable information, just general demographic data. Theyinsist they inform users about what they're doing.  Not strictly true, says Mike Healan, who runs Spyware Weekly. He points out that disclosure information is usually provided in the lengthy user agreement/license shown before you download/install the software."Most people don't read these statements because they are too long.    This is done deliberately to bore the user into skipping it. If they would take 10 minutes to read and look for such phrases as 'from time to time, we may make your personal information available to our partners and affiliates' or 'we use the information to present you with specials and deals that we believe will interest you', they could spot a possible privacy invasion."How bad can spyware get? By general agreement, the worst offender is the VX2/ Transponder. "This thing is horrendous," says Healan. "It installs with no disclosure. There is no user interface. There is no privacy statement or any documentation. It integrates with Internet Explorer and is able to read every keyword the user types, every website they visit. Then it uses their bandwidth to download ads." Webb points out that it collects the user's name and email address too, adding that "one of the companies involved, Mindset Interactive, was recently sued after selling the collected email addresses to marketers."Not something you want in your life, though if you downloaded the file-sharing software created by the now defunct AudioGalaxy sometime last autumn, it may be on your computer. Many of the post-Napster file-sharing companies fund their businesses by bundling their own product with various pieces of adware/spyware. Consequently, the huge growth of outfits like KaZaA, AudioGalaxy and the rest has helped spread spyware much more widely. Webb believes that the file-sharing companies should vet the software they bundled with their own products."Several file-sharing companies, including Grokster, Bearshare, LimeWire and KaZaA, bundled a product called ClickTillUWin, which several anti-virus manufacturers classified as a trojan horse. Their response? 'We didn't know.' Neither Cydoor Technologies, who distributed the trojan to the file-sharing companies, nor any of the file-sharing companies, had performed even a preliminary inspection of the software to find out what it did."For privacy activists, the worst file-sharing company is probably KaZaA. Though AudioGalaxy came with Gator/Offer Companion, users had the option of not downloading it. KaZaA insists that users download its partner programs, which in the past have included New DotNet (which sells domain names but also causes crashes and net connection problems when installed), SaveNow (full-blown spyware - see box) and Cydoor (which displays ads and causes pop-ups), all worrying programs according to privacy activists.  If you downloaded KaZaA    this year, you may also have installed software used to create a kind of private peer to peer network (with other KaZaA users) called Altnet, which is run by Brilliant Digital, a partner of Sharman Networks (who now owns KaZaA)."That whole thing is ridiculous," explains Healan. "They want to use people's computers to process and serve its advertisements to other people, effectively laying the bandwidth cost of providing advertisements on the users of KaZaa."It's not    surprising that users have created a hacked spyware/ adware free version, called KaZaA Lite. Indeed, hacked versions of most of the big file-sharing programs are available online.  If you're worried about what might be lurking on your machine, download Ad-Aware. Created by Lavasoft, this is probably the most popular spyware removal program: Lavasoft claims more than 1m people have downloaded it. Ad-Aware will scan your    computer looking for programs on its list of offensive software and will help you remove them.All very easy, though things don't look so good to the people relying on the programsto fund their business. Recently, the Slovakian company Radlight took action against Lavasoft. Its multimedia viewer comes bundled with two programs on the Ad-Aware removal list (SaveNow and NewDotNet). By targeting these, Radlight claimed, Lavasoft was under  mining its business model. Recent versions of their multimedia viewer secretly checked to see whether a user had a version of Ad-Aware on his computer, then deleted it, without permission. "They claimed they did it to make a political statement," says Webb."Had their product been titled 'Radlight Ad-Aware Remover', I might have believed them."  Other companies have taken more considered action, visiting the Lavasoft message boards to argue that    their software has been unfairly targeted. Lavasoft wields a measure of power online. Some critics say its definition of spyware is not clear.  Lavasoft didn't respond to requests for an interview, but Webb, while pointing out that he doesn't speak for the company, says Lavasoft relies on reports from conspiracy activists."Programs found to transmit personal information without consent will be added to the detection list. Recently, some other malicious programs have been added, even though they do not transmit information." The latter include "drive-by-downloads" - programs that download and install without a user's permission or knowledge. Healan believes that, over the past year, privacy activists and companies such as Lavasoft have helped companies get the spyware problem reasonably under control.Most companies that want to be seen as legitimate businesses now make some attempt to inform the user of what they're up to (albeit via long user agreements). They offer opt-outs, limit the amount of information they collect and feature details about their privacy policies.  However, a few are resorting to more extreme measures. "One thing getting worse is advertising trojans," says Healan. "For example, browser hijackers (aka homepage hijackers) redo homepage settings without permission and spawn pop-up ads, usually to pornographic websites." Webb also mentions dialler programs."These use the computer's modem to quietly dial an expensive pay-per-call number." You need to take care online. Check in regularly with anti-spyware sites such as Counterexploitation and SpywareInfo. Look out for sites that keep tabs on what software installs what adware/spyware. Healan recommends Spychecker. Be careful when downloading "free" software. See what programs are bundled with the thing you want. See if you can opt out. If you can't, read the user agreement carefully. Finally, download Ad-Aware and run the occasional check on your computer to make sure you haven't picked up anything nasty.  Remember - you need to keep an eye on your machine. Otherwise it may end up keeping an eye on you.Know the enemy: dodgy programs definedSpyware:Software installed with no disclosure that gathers information about the user of the machine then sends this back to another server. Some adware programs fit this term.Adware:Software installed, usually with limited disclosure, that mainly delivers ads. Some adware programs fit the definition of spyware if they also gather data about the user, either   to sell to others or to make the advertising more relevant.Malware:Software such as trojans that harms files on the disk, or attempts to place control of the machine in the hands of whoever distributed the software.Homepage Hijacker:A kind of advertising trojan, these redo homepage settings without permission and spawn pop-up ads. Some edit your computer's   registry to load themselves on restart to make it difficult to change things back.Drive-by-Downloads:Programs that download automatically when you visit the host site, without informing the user.Six worst programs:Blackstone Data Transponder/VX, FTapp/FlashTrack, and Web3000 have no install disclosure, display ads, cause browser pop-ups,   track web usage and collect personal information.SaveNow, Gator/Offer Companion and GoHip/ Internet Fuel do the same as above but come with an install disclosure.This chart was assembled using data from Download. com's adware scorecard. For more info, go to  the Download.com link below.
This year's Webby awards for the best of the web were held in the California Palace of the Legion of Honour, the stately museum of art in San Francisco that houses Rodin's Thinker (or to be more accurate, one of Rodin's Thinkers.) Having the Thinker so close to the proceedings seemed appropriate for this year's slimmed-down event because people at the gathering were in a thoughtful mood: where does the internet go from here?In the six years since they were started by 32-year-old Tiffany Shlain, the Webby ceremonies have come to symbolise the health of the web and the world of dotcoms: flashy extravaganzas with 3,000 raucous guests in the boom years and a quiet, more sombre event with a guest list of 320 this year. The theme was the quotation   from Arthur C Clarke: "When it comes to technology, most people overestimate the impact in the short term and underestimate it in the long term." So what can we tell from the list of this year's winners and nominees?Shlain said that one of the striking features of the nominations was the shift from business and money-making sites towards non-profit making ventures. This was, she felt, a sign of the internet getting back to its roots."It is not the one big idea any more," she said, "but the small connection points, the links." While people were concentrating on all the spectacular falls from grace of the start-ups, millions more people - 500m worldwide - were now hooked up. "People are still getting such satisfaction from the crash," said Shlain, referring to the relish with which the dotcom disasters are reported. "That was last year's story. I can't wait till the Webbys and the web are not just in the business section of newspapers, because what is happening is so much bigger than that."The fact that the number of entries was up by 20% and came from 36 countries was, she felt, a sign that the health of the web had little to do with the health of the dotcoms that had crashed and burned so spectacularly over the past few years.The theme of the future of the web was taken up the following night at a forum held in downtown San Francisco. For some, the crash had been salutary. David Rumsey, whose historical atlas site,   davidrumsey.com, won the Technical Achievement award, said it meant he could now afford to hire people. He also felt that sites were becoming more visual, having been word-based for too long.What was interesting was seeing the survivors. Salon.com won the magazine prize at a time when many online media ventures have disappeared. Old hands such as Amazon.com took the Commerce award, Google the Best Practices and the BBC the Radio and the News prizes, but many of the winners were sites that have survived because they never had high overheads. Ami Dar of the New York-based Idealist.org, which won the Community prize, said: "We never had any money so it made no difference to us. I think it was an advantage: there was nothing to come down from.""It is a more sombre time   since 9/11," said Sergey Brin, of Google. "There has been a pruning of the companies that aren't viable and that leaves us with companies that are healthy and growing."Other awards indicate the web's campaigning value. The Committee to Free Lori Berenson, the American woman jailed in Peru for alleged terrorist offences which she denies, won the Personal Web Site award for freelori.org. The winner of the Rising Star award, Emode.com, may also point to a future direction of the internet. This self-testing psychology site has 125 self-assessment tests so that you can test everything from your IQ to what breed of dog you are. Emode's James Currier believesthe success of the site shows that the growth of interactive sites is one of the directions in which the internet will go. Ashley Day, whose site, Tolerance.org, won the   Activism Webby, agreed: the most popular feature of her site tests our hidden biases on everything from homosexuality to gun ownership.The categories expand every year but there is no prize for pornography, one of the most active parts of the internet. But Shlain did note how pornography has been at the forefront of technical advances, from peep shows, which were among the first films made, through the video boom to the internet.Hovering over this year's Webbys has been, of course, September 11 and its aftermath. At the winners' forum, the issue of how much web sites should cooperate with the FBI came up. Should sites turn over the information they held? "We had the question of should you work with the FBI," said Emode's Currier. "We decided the answer was no _ We would destroy the database."Other sites may not be so unequivocal. Four out of five Americans in a poll this month said they would give up individual freedoms for greater security. Now that the FBI is being given greater powers, the next challenge for the internet may be over the protection of information, which would certainly be worth fighting for.Finally, Doug Engelbart, the inventor of the mouse, was a guest of honour. Had he envisaged the current world of the internet when he was ploughing his lonely furrow so many years ago? "I keep saying - why has it taken so long?"
When shopping for a new computer for your business, there's a huge choice of brands and specifications. When it comes to picking the software, however, there appears to be only one name on everyone's list: Microsoft, and its ubiquitous Office software.There might be several versions of the package, but as far as many customers are concerned, Microsoft is office applications in the same way that its name is synonymous with Windows operating systems.And yet for people willing to give it a try, there is plenty of other stuff out there: from mainstream suppliers such as IBM Software and Lotus; from unexpected sources like Sun (traditionally associated with the larger system) and more recently from open source people releasing free software on principle.The advantages can be many: for a start, you don't necessarily need to run Windows. "Our company is very much in the operating systems field," says Patrick Lawton, chief executive of Digital Union, which develops marketplace software. "We needed the Wintel platform but also Linux." The clear answer was to move away from Microsoft, which tends to usher customers towards its own products.Instead, the company spoke to IBM and standardised on Lotus Smartsuite. Cost benefits became apparent immediately; last year the company did a comparison exercise in which its 30-strong staff appeared to be costing 80% less per work station in terms of software.Compatibility with documents that might be sent in by clients wasn't a problem. "You can open Word and Excel documents easily," says Lawton. PowerPoint presentations were more difficult, however, and the company has in fact bought in separate PowerPoint software.More important than the application software itself, though, was the environment in which it would be sitting. Microsoft Outlook, an excellent email and contact manager that works OK on a network, wasn't a candidate so they standardised on Lotus Notes, this being a database and email program."It's real groupware," says Lawton. "Instead of mailing a document to someone, you update it on a central database so every copy is always up to date; it's true workgroup computing."Outlook often comes in for stick due to alleged security problems and other issues. This isn't entirely fair; if thousands more people have one email program than any other, that's the one at which the hackers will take their aim in the greatest numbers.But again, there are alternatives. RT Labs develops The Bat! which is very much a minority system. Freelance journalist and The Bat! devotee Murdoch MacTaggart speaks highly of the ability to set up hierarchies of emails into folders: "Under Outlook, if I got an email which was placed in the Press/ Writing/IBM/DeveloperWorks folder, then the only way I could tell that I had an unread message there was by having everything open right down to that level," he says."That is, Outlook would not mark the closed folder 'Writing' to indicate that it contained something new and this meant that the only way I could manage matters was by having all 200 folders always open -  tedious and utterly daft."This is why Edinburgh-based internet cafe eCorner allows its machines to boot either to Windows or Linux, from which they can use not Microsoft Office but KDE Office."People have read about Linux in the press and they want to try it without having to install it on their own machines," says operations manager Subhi Hashwa. "Response has been very positive; it's easy, there's no huge learning curve."The absence of learning curve is because - whatever manufacturers tell you - there is rarely a great deal to distinguish the various products on the market. If something calls itself a word processor then the chances are it's there to process words and it'll do it efficiently enough. Reasons to go against the trend are rarely in the product; serious motivators other than working away from Windows can involve the cost and its functions.In terms of cost, it's worth looking at some of the larger companies using systems other than Microsoft. David Lane, research and development director of food distributor Pauleys, has 100 Sun "Ray" computers running Star Office to control the business. This, at least in version 5.2, worked as a complete substitute for Microsoft Office, although it has shed its organiser, email and web browser since."It's saved us £2m over five years, which is a significant amount just from the selection of a product." The functions question is more elusive: Sun says it asked its customers and they didn't want the scheduling or contact manager; Lane admits he'll have an issue when it comes to upgrading.Actually, listening to users can be a bit of a mistake as they rarely buy stuff with only the functions they need, and sometimes complain about systems lacking functions that are actually available."I was reading an article recently where someone was saying 'wouldn't it be great if a PIM &#91;personal information manager&#93; could cross-reference by any category you wanted?',' says Matthew Jones, technical director of Banxia Software. "And I thought 'ECCO does that'. But ECCO didn't sell because it was seen as too complicated by users."Other products seem doomed to remain small because of the marketing resources behind them - SmartAddress, a PIM from Oakley Data Services, offers some really useful views and ways of getting at information and in its next release will work alongside a PDA - but at £20 a throw, it's not going to raise the marketing budget to make it compete with the bigger guns (it's at sa2k.com for anyone interested in evaluating it).Functions are an issue mainly for people with specific objectives from the address book/organiser/word processor staples. Developer Chris Hermann is poised to launch a new one for the PR/professional service industry, whose selling points - as well as being able to associate one contact with different areas (so they can be a supplier, a contact and a customer without retyping) - is that an accounting system will be included in version 2. Contacts can also have correspondence and email attached to them.The bedrock of support for Microsoft Office remains strong. As Dave Morgan, MD of web developer Morgan Bishop, puts it, Microsoft Works was free with his company's computers, and staying in the MS fold ensures a certain compatibility of documents as long as you don't use anything pre-Office 97.He is unconvinced of the compatibility of non-Microsoft alternatives. "That may well be a flawed perception," he says, "created by marketing, or it may be sometimes we perceive that because Microsoft products all have pretty much the same user interface they feel like they should be compatible."It's a fair analysis, and it locks the customer into Microsoft, which is where they're likely to stay for now. Whether or not Filemaker makes a better database, or whether Eudora or IPSwitch iMail make elegant mail systems, the big marketing spend Microsoft has for its solid and useful products appears to have the market sewn up. Which is a pity as other suites have plenty to offer, often for a lot less money.Help panelJargon-busters&#183;Linux: A computer operating system, an alternative to Windows.&#183;PDA: Personal Digital Assistant, hand-held computer.&#183;PIM: Personal Information Manager - usually address book, diary and task list, often combined (for example in Microsoft Outlook) with email programs.A (Micro)soft target?There can be good reasons for businesses to consider alternatives to Microsoft. To begin with, the ubiquity of Microsoft software tends to make it a natural target for hackers and virus writers. The opening or at least previewing of attachments makes this a bigger problem than perhaps it needs to be.It does, however, presuppose a certain level of knowledge and the ability to do something constructive with the emails after they've been received. Likewise, a number of the other office packages available on the market; OpenOffice has the obvious advantage of costing absolutely zippo while being fully licensed, but you pay in terms of scant help files.This is reasonable though; it tends to be the more technically savvy who'll do something like download an entire office suite from the internet. You can assume they'll know more about what they're doing than the average punter.By the same token, these are the people who understand exactly how little of the higher-spec Office suite they're likely to use, and will resist paying high prices for the extras.
If we were to believe all we read about Larry Ellison, the founder of Oracle, all he has on his mind is money. Not whether he is worth $51bn or $61bn. Those figures mean little to him, we are told.His company, set up in 1977, with three rogue computer programmers, now employs 43,000 people. Though it nearly collapsed at one time when it promised more than it could deliver, its fortunes have soared since.He is not concerned if he has enough to support three ex-wives, or his own private air force or even his custom-built Mercedes cars and the drop-head Bentley. The figure that Ellison is reputed to have in his mind is how far ahead or behind Bill Gates's net worth he is on any one day.Jim Clarke, founder of Netscape, Healtheon and Silicon Graphics had something similar on his mind, as he was building and selling three separate billion-dollar firms. Sure he was interested in having the biggest computer-controlled yacht in the world. But he also wanted to be richer than Larry. That was when Ellison was worth a mere $11bn.Money is seen as the driving force in the e-world. And yet money as a motivator has the shortest shelf-life of all, and has perhaps the least predictable set of outcomes.Most entrepreneurs still believe that their employees work for money, and their key staff work for more money. Pay them enough and they'll jump through any hoop. This view is not born out by most of the research, which ranks pay as third or even fourth in the reasons why people come to work.David Pottruck, co-CEO at Charles Schwab believes that "the business leader has to show empathy and respect for the people who are performing a critical function for the company".A growing business depends critically for its success on everyone giving of their best all the time. And on few resources being diverted into overhead activities which push up costs. They also need to out-think larger competitors as they cannot outspend them.One of the biggest mistakes you can make is to assume that money alone is the way to motivate staff. In fact, the problem is not so much that of motivating people, but of avoiding demotivating them! If managers can keep off the backs of employees, it is quite possible that they will motivate themselves. After all, most of us want the same things: a sense of achievement or challenge, recognition of our efforts, an interesting and varied job, opportunities for responsibility, advancement and job growth.Even money can be made to seem more interesting and motivational if you put a bit of thought into it. Microsoft has handed out extra large stock options in order to retain key staff. They reportedly gave some high-level executives options to buy as many as 200,000 of its shares, worth $14.5m at the time.But they didn't merely wave a cheque book. They promoted more than 30 managers to vice-president, not an action to be recommended in a new dotcom (it might confuse the switchboard). But that action is clear recognition that some people have egos, and titles stoke egos. Microsoft also encouraged top executives to take as much holiday as they needed to balance their work and family lives.One final observation on money, especially in the form of employee stock options. More than 70% of these schemes are in the red. New accounting rules mean that repricing them down will count against profits, which will in turn hit profit bonuses. Employees could be tempted to do some of their own repricing and move on elsewhere.Potential recruits will be more sceptical in future about taking a large slice of "pay" in the form of possible options to come in after a possible Initial Public Offering. For a start the IPO may never happen, and if it does, they can't sell for six months, during which time the shares could slide, causing misery rather than motivation.Motivators such as recognition and advancement bring satisfaction. In a growing company it should be possible to create a virtuous circle, with well-managed people producing excellent results, which in turn allows scope for recognition and advancement. This improves morale further and acts as spur to greater achievements.Keeping these four ideas firmly in mind should help you get even better business results and retain key staff for longer. Once committed to a goal, most people at work are capable of a high degree of self-management. Job satisfaction and personal recognition are the highest "rewards", and result in the greatest level of commitment.Under the right conditions most people will accept responsibility and even welcome more of it.  Few people in business are being "used" to anything like their capacity. Neither are they contributing creatively towards solving problems.&#183;This article is an extract from How to Survive the E-Business Downturn, by Colin Barrow, published by John Wiley &amp; Son, available from Amazon at £9.59
Microsoft Works SuiteThe basic thing to remember about Microsoft Works is that you could argue it's slightly misnamed: it's not so much a working product as a home product that does a bit of workhorse stuff on the side.If you want to plan a wedding, catalogue your CD collection or any of a number of other domestic tasks, it's exactly what you need. If your aim is instead to use the word processor and spreadsheet, then fine, it'll work. It's just that you'll have to get past the bit that presents itself overtly as a car loan tracker, fitness tracking worksheet and the other items for domestic use.That said, it works and it costs £47 plus VAT from dabs.com and elsewhere. If it's all you need, don't pay more. Or better still, go the extra £22 plus VAT and pick Microsoft Works Suite instead, which contains all Works has and adds Word, Money, Encarta, Autoroute Express and Picture It! photo editor.The version of Money you'll get isn't the deluxe one with invoicing on it, and Encarta, the encyclopedia, is a domestic rather than a business product. Autoroute Express is a nice mapping program that will draw you a road map to anywhere you need to go in Europe. Picture It! is strictly a home user's product but the full copy of Word means that if you're into doing anything swish with your documents then you won't lose any functions.Given that the ordinary cost of Microsoft Word by itself is over £200, and even if you think you don't need the other functions at the moment, there's a slight chance that you just might, so you could argue it's silly not to buy it if you're determined to go with Microsoft. And it synchronises with either Palm or PocketPC systems quite happily.OpenOfficeWhatever you end up thinking of OpenOffice you're bound to conclude that it's value for money because other than the hefty download time it doesn't cost anything. It's fully licensed and it's 100% legal, available fromwww.openoffice.org.Version 1 contains a spreadsheet called Calc, an overall template called Global, a presentation system called Impress, a scary-looking maths program called Math and self-explanatory programs Write, Draw and HTML Editor.And it's not half bad, even if it misses key areas. The wizards - sorry, the Autopilot in OpenOfficespeak - takes you through a number of tasks like writing a basic website or setting up a spreadsheet, and doesn't have to do much more. Presumably the assumption is that anyone downloading the product at this stage will have a good idea of the technology and what they can do with it. Perhaps this will change as the product develops.The frustrations are with the gaps. There is no database, for example, although not all companies use one, hence Microsoft doesn't include it in all versions of Office. More serious for many will be the absence of a personal information manager or email program. Developers of other systems maintain that their customers don't actually want these things, and for the larger customers this will almost certainly be true. The smaller trader, with less time to shop around, is likely to be a bit more frustrated.StarOfficeSun has been offering Star Office as a free suite for some time now, the idea presumably being to annoy the hell out of Microsoft. Actually that's glib; it runs on more software environments: smaller businesses outside the technology field might not have heard of Unix, but it's important, as are Linux and others outside of Windows and Apple Macintosh.And it works, which, given its price (a snip at £47.69 including VAT from Amazon), is as good as it's likely to get. Basically an evolution of OpenOffice it offers drawing, formulas, HTML, presentation, spreadsheet and text and it does all of them competently enough.The biggest problem is the absence of the email and personal information manager. Sun reckons its customers don't want these functions which means more shopping around for an email system; that's fine if you're a corporation with a dedicated IT support team, but they're selling this in PC World.It's a good package at a cracking price, but in excluding so much after providing it in previous versions, Sun is missing a trick or three in what could otherwise be a big market.Lotus SmartSuiteOr "The one that doesn't look exactly like all the rest". Lotus SmartSuite comprises Word Pro, the 1-2-3 spreadsheet, the Organizer personal info manager/email program, Freelance graphics and the Approach database. Fastsite is a nice web editor as well, and all of the wizards help you to get to grips with the system very quickly.It synchronises with Palm PDAs and does all that the Microsoft offering does, with one major advantage: it actually looks a lot of fun. During the 1990s Lotus bought up a lot of "best-of" products and incorporated them into what eventually became SmartSuite (the word processor and the organiser originated elsewhere ), and they look as though they're designed to be used by actual people.The organiser certainly looks like an organiser, so anyone who is more accustomed to a paper organiser will find it easier to use than Microsoft Outlook or whichever other organiser you might be using.If anything, it looks a little over-designed. When starting your computer using this suite you get a picture of some drawers from a filing cabinet, from which you can start various applications, but do we really need the sound effects? And whereas the organiser might well be better for people who have little or no experience of Microsoft Office products, that's not likely to cover many people.These are niggles though. This is a good product, worth buying, and its integration with Lotus Notes makes it a good buy for a fully networked company. The price is very appealing indeed: RRP of £49.99 including VAT, and as this issue went to press Amazon had it on offer at £24.99 plus postage.For a fully working, appealing, easy-to-use office environment there's really very little competition. It's strange that it's not marketed more aggressively to the business rather than consumer market. Amazon, for example, is selling it even more cheaply, bundled with DVD copies of Bridget Jones' Diary, which tells you they think it's a lifestyle rather than business item.Tip: In the past, Lotus has been in the habit of putting previous editions of Smart Suite on to cover disks of various computer magazines - fully licensed, just not the very latest versions. These always work and are an excellent free acquisition.Corel Word Perfect OfficeIt's ironic that one of the smaller sellers on the market is the one that gives the smaller trader exactly what they're going to want when starting up: a glance at today's tasks and diary automatically, without slowing the starting-up process much at all. This is called Corel Central.There's a decent email program in here too, Corel Central Mail, which is as manageable as Microsoft Outlook. Unfortunately it doesn't resize itself around the diary bar, but it's manageable enough. The database isn't included until you upgrade to the Professional version, when you're offered Paradox, one of the longer-lived workhorses in the market, predating Microsoft Access by a number of years.The system looks simple - there's none of Lotus's design flair, which could be useful if you're using older computers as it will require less processing oomph. Explanations of how to do things are more basic than you'd find in the Microsoft or Lotus equivalents, but they're clear nonetheless.At £369.19 inc VAT for the standard version (from Amazon), you'd save money as compared to Microsoft Office XP (£405.99, again from Amazon), although if your staff is used to Microsoft then the retraining might be more hassle and expense than you'd want to go through. You might also want to consider whether buying Star Office and an organiser or the Lotus suite, then using whatever email program that came with your systems, doesn't save a lot more cash without compromising on getting the job done. It also didn't like the PocketPC computer we tried to set up with it very much.ConclusionThe difficulty with Microsoft being so pervasive is that any review inevitably ends up comparing the competition with it and using it as the de facto standard. This isn't entirely fair, since it presupposes that customers will need a reason not to buy Microsoft before they have a reason to look at the competition. Each does a comparable job for a fraction of the price.The Lotus offering is probably the most appealing initially, even if only because of its completeness: database, information manager and email all present and correct. The look and the virtual giveaway price of Organizer is also worth considering, but none of them should be dismissed out of hand.
Tidy drawersLast October, webmaster Matthew McClintock set off to document everything in his house, and put the resulting (exhaustive) record on the web. Since then, Matthew has been building up his photographic tour. His website lived quietly until last week, when the hugely popular Metafilter community site picked up on it and started - virtually - rifling through his painstakingly labelled belongings. They even managed to find his collection of erotica. His site is a delight - obsessive behaviour has never looked so well designed, or strangely compelling - but you worry when you learn that his immaculately ordered drawers really are that tidy all the time.Family lifeFamilies affected by adoption might be interested in an online service due to launch officially on Monday. In contrast to existing adoption contact registers, Adoptionmatch offers free registration to those looking to reunite with lost family members. The company behind the site, Peopletracer UK, hopes that by not charging, more people will register information, leading to a higher success rate than rival schemes.Winer is backDave Winer is one of the web's best-known figures: a long-standing and controversial weblogger whose company, Userland, makes popular content management and weblogging software. So the shockwaves were felt across the web when Winer's weblog abruptly ceased publication (it's barely missed a day in the past seven years). It    emerged that the "lots of non internet stuff going on" he'd referred to in his last entry was, in fact, his going into hospital for heart bypass surgery. Naturally, most people expressed their support for him via a specially created weblog, and this week Winer was back at his desk. His weblog is likely to be dominated, at least for a while, by talk of pursuing a healthier lifestyle.SuperheroesEver wondered how Spider-Man walks up walls? How Wonderwoman's lasso could tell you're lying? Or where the X-men got their powers? The BBC has launched a site that should have some of the answers. Timed to coincide with the arrival of the new Spider-Man film, the Science of Superheroes site features an "are you a superhero?" game and an exclusive interview with Stan Lee, the creator of Spider-Man.US scandalThis month marks the 30th anniversary of the start of the Watergate scandal that brought down President Nixon and had a profound effect on American public life. Watergate.info provides some welcome context for those of us too young to have lived through the series of scandals, with details of what happened, the investigations by the Washington Post and Congress, the impeachment of Nixon and the aftermath. The impressive resource has been put together by Malcolm Farnsworth, an Australian school teacher.Cup fightAs we wait for the climax of an amazing World Cup, it's worth getting a sense of the history of the competition from the World Cup Archive. You quickly discover that controversial refereeing decisions, bickering between nations and Fifa (football's governing body) and complaints about playing conditions have been around almost as long as the tournament itself.
Anonymity is central to our political system, with our voting records usually remaining a matter between conscience and the ballot box. The principle of anonymity is also part of the internet's appeal, which accounts for the popularity of chatrooms - particularly among young people. Finding a common thread that links the political and social worlds can offer new ways of connecting those same young people to politics.Political commentators have been quick to point out that more people voted in Pop Idol than voted for the Conservatives at the last general election. But the conclusion that new technology is the best way to interest young people in politics is wrong. The real message from young people is that it is not the gadgets that appeal to them - it's the anonymity.The anonymity afforded by online chatrooms boosts confidence and provides a nursery slope for young people to try out their political ideas without fear of being shouted down by louder and more articulate voices. They gain confidence in front of a computer screen in a way they don't in a room full of adults.Prejudice associated with   gender, race or religion tends also to be filtered out by anonymity of online communication, and the internet is now being used as a neutral cyber-venue in areas of conflict. A series of online conferences involving young Protestants and Catholics from East Belfast allowed them to speak freely about sensitive issues.As Matt Milliken, the conference organiser, points out: "Bringing young people together can be difficult in East Belfast. When a contact is established, a protocol of politeness can mask the hostility that lies just below the surface." The project created alternative debating opportunities where young people could discuss politics outside the arena used by adults.Undoubtedly, there are risks associated with young people's use of the internet. Cases of paedophiles using chatrooms to obtain personal information about young people so they can contact them in the real world are regularly reported. However, a very different kind of threat is posed by adults who play on concerns about young people's safety as a justification for censorship."Those who want to carry on thinking about the internet in the same terms as 10   years ago or more, when it was still, essentially, an adults-only medium, are foolishly risking much that is truly valuable about the internet and is truly worth preserving," says John Carr of the children's charity, NCH.Of course, young people may be tempted to use the internet to find porn, but that's no argument for preventing them from surfing any more than the existence of Playboy should prohibit   them entering newsagents.Research has shown that many young people are conservative in their internet use, often visiting just a few sites and never straying far from the homepage. High-profile campaigns by a number of children's charities have helped emphasise the importance of not giving out personal information online, but a greater degree of internet literacy is also required.There is a clear require ment for the internet industry to develop much more sophisticated firewalls that can distinguish between potentially offensive sites and valuable educational resources. "Sex" is the word most frequently typed into search engines, but for every pornographic page such a search produces, there are many useful educational sites about sexual health that young people are prevented from accessing by firewalls.Interchill is a cyber drop-in centre in Liverpool that has taken a very different approach to online risk management. Young people who use the facilities are asked to sign a contract and the arrangement of the computer screens in the technology suite means it is always possible to see what is on screen. At Interchill, the risk is countered by giving young people responsibility for their online behaviour, rather than leaving it to adults and software to ensure they can stay safe in cyberspace.Political empowerment means giving young people the freedom to make their own choices - both in politics and in cyberspace. If the internet is to become a place where young people are politically empowered, then offering a degree of trust in return for a measure of responsibility is absolutely vital.&#183;Logged Off? is published by Demos in partnership with the Carnegie Young People Initiative. To order copies call 020 8986 5488. Lydia Howland is a researcher at Demos
How has Slashdot's aim changed over the years?Our aim has pretty much remained the same - to post a dozen or so interesting stories and talk about them. The Slashdot community has changed in size and interests over the years. At the outset it was probably 90% open source programmers, now it's a very diverse group of students, IT workers, gamers and programmers. I think Slashdot continues to be popular because we have interesting discussions and a reasonable discussion system.Who are Slashdot's main heroes and villains?I can tell you "my" heroes and villains, but my opinions aren't those of Slashdot. At some point I think I stopped having "heroes" _ obviously there are folk who've done stuff that's cool like Linus (Torvalds) and some who others see as being "villains". Bill Gates being the obvious answer there, but I don't really think that way any more. The IT universe is simply people doing what they think is best. Thinking of them as good or evil, heroes or villains, is silly.Why Linux?I just love it. It's beginning to make real inroads in the US too. The plus points are the open source core, the stability, and the higher level of customisation. The negative is still the lack of vendor support.Should Hotmail and Yahoo "opting-in" their users surprise us?I don't think it should exactly surprise us, but it definitely shouldn't sit well in our stomachs. A certain amount of outrage is appropriate. Then again, services that you don't pay for, you have to accept certain tradeoffs.How did you get started with computers?The TRS-80 (  was the first box I coded on. IBM PC was the first PC I used a lot. The first computer that was "mine" was a 286. I now have a P4 desktop and an IBM Thinkpad T21.Were you worried about proposing to your girlfriend on Slashdot?I was confident that she would agree to marry me. I was less sure on how long it would take her to read the proposal!Is your MAME cabinet nearing completion?It's basically done. It needs hinges on the coin door but it works great. MAME's been around for years and I love it. I used a Linux box via wireless LAN. I wrote my own GTK-Perl front-end for it, which is simple but extremely flexible, allowing me to add numerous emulators and ROMS.What's your take on 3G?I think 3G  is nifty but I don't know if it's too soon - or not enough. I think the concept is inevitable, but it'll be some time before the technology is ready. People will always work at a desk, but what sits on it might not be a desktop machine, as we know it!
Feeling overwhelmed by life? That you're never going to manage to tidy your desk, walk the dog, get the car serviced, collect the dry cleaning, clear out your guttering, make dental appointments for the kids_ because it's all just too much?  The answer, or rather, the start of the answer, could surprise you. It's a shiny sink. Yep. Shining your kitchen sink is the very first baby step to getting organised, according to Fly Lady.FlyLady is a great believer in baby steps, as well as shiny sinks.  After all, "your home did not get dirty in a day, and it is not going to get clean overnight". So gently does it: you start with a shiny sink, and you work up to a "27 fling boogie" (when you start flying through the house with a bin liner, and don't stop until you have chucked 27 items into it) and carry on until your life and your house is divided into zones, each with a mission. You're kept on track with a bombardment of emails, telling you to keep motivated, and de-cluttered.  FlyLady is Marla Cilley, author of books on household organisation, and now    famous in the US through TV appearances and book signings. The accent is on supportive sharing of tips, and friendly motivation, not judgmental posturing - and the site and related mails are witty and fun. The relentlessly upbeat tone is probably a matter of taste.  Rival to the FlyLady is Maria Gracia, author of Finally Organized, Finally Free, at Get Organized Now.Gracia sends you an introductory Idea-Pak by email, with 50 top organising tips ranging from the bleedin' obvious ("keep all paperwork that pertains to a certain project together in one large folder"), to the unrealistic ("Enlist your friends! Does your house need to be painted? A great way to get the job done quickly is to throw a painting party.") ... and all the way to not a bad idea at all ("Magnetise your medicine cabinet. Mount a    long magnet along the back of your medicine cabinet to hold tweezers, clippers, little scissors and other small metal objects."). For a UK take on organising, see June Jackson's Hints and Things which is 300 pages packed with useful advice.Jackson describes herself as "a plump, old, grey wrinkly living in the south of England", and offers a free monthly e-zine to subscribers.  If it's your working life that needs de-cluttering, get in touch with Tracy White, who offers her services as a virtual organiser (see link the virtually organised link below). "Lots of people who run small businesses don't need an office or a secretary," says White, who started her business through the website because she wanted a job she could do from home, and which made use of her ability to be very organised."I love starting off with a mess, and working out how I can get it all into place." She takes on project work, accessing her client's computer systems when needed, and offers "lifestyle" management, buying and sending gifts, arranging travel, household maintenance - all at &#163;20 an hour, calculated in 15-minute blocks.  You can try organising yourself with reminders and updates with Yahoo!'s useful interactive features of diary, calendar and briefcase. The diary and calendar will email you your appointments each day, and give you warnings of    upcoming birthdays and meetings.The subject line of the email contains the date and the event, plus time. One drawback is you need to get used to the American order of written dates, where the month is written before the day, so 5/10/02 is not October 5, but May 10. That's the case even if you sign up from the UK site.If you're serious about sorting yourself out, though, you'll want a life coach. Life coaches are the personal trainers of the soul, helping you set goals in your work, finances, relationships and health. Read about what they do at Stressbusting (see link below) and find a coach that's right for you at Firework, or at the Life Coach Clinic. You can be life coached online. Charles Bentley, who offers the "authentic experience in UK life coaching", offers a web-based service combined with phone sessions "that will transform your present approach to life and your relationships with others".Basic fee ranges between &#163;200 and &#163;300 a month. Or go to studentUK for their tips on how to "sort your life out" - applicable to all of us. Things they suggest include telling your friends and family how special they are, loving yourself and making one dream come true. Sorted!
Musical chairÛ   When I read reviews of the new services, I'm usually surprised to see eMusic.com left off the list (Online, Real music to Europe's ears, June 13). Emusic is the service that started as a pure play back in the boom and was bought up by Universal in the crash.They have an enormous catalogue of mostly non-mainstream stuff from hundreds of independent labels (I just downloaded a Woody Guthrie album) with the odd mainstream star (usually their early stuff on a smaller label).The best thing, though, is their simple terms. Unlimited downloads in un-protected MP3 format - download as often as you like from as many machines as you like - all for US$9.99 per month. A model of openness and courage. I don't know much about the firm, so maybe Universal is about to shut it down or change its terms but, in the meantime, it looks to me like a model for the majors to follow.Steve Bowbricksteve@uk.another.comMac and CDsKjell E Eriksson's warning that Apple Mac CD players could be destroyed by the new "CDs" is a bit of hysteria generated by Apple's (correct) warning against playing these discs, after all they are not CDs (Feedback, June 20).This is standard corporate legal self-protection. The CD mechanisms inside a Mac are the same as any other PC, the potential problem on Macs is caused by the software eject (drag the disc icon to Trash).It is possible for the alien discs to confuse the OS, consequently they cannot be ejected by logic. Most Macs have a physical eject "button" alongside the CD slot or tray, which can be activated using the standard Apple tool kit (a paperclip!).However, some newer iMac models do not have this button, which means that in an extreme case, the iMac will have to be opened, which could invalidate the warranty. Before doing this it would also be worth holding the (left) mouse key down at startup, which is the old way of ejecting floppies and now works for CDs.Brian Seaversbrian@bsweb.co.ukBand wagonIn response to Second sight (June 20) I write to tell you that one regional development agency has already taken the initiative with    regard to satellite broadband. South East England Development Agency launched a satellite broadband pilot on May 3, in Hastings and Rother (a sort of pilot within the pilot) and has received more than 130 applications for the grants, which are worth up to &#163;1,066 for a year. More than 20 have been approved in a range of sectors including IT, financial services, security systems, architects, lawyers, publishers, journalists, holiday lets, e-learning developers, and embroidery/screen printers. Grants are allocated on a first-come, first-served basis to business organisations within designated areas that do not have access to landline broadband (ADSL). The Seeda pilot is a regional initiative. Selected areas for the regional pilot are Hastings and Rother, Isle of Wight, Thanet and rural Kent, Winchester, and Oxfordshire. The chief executive of Seeda, Anthony Dunnett notes that, "We want to support smaller organisations in the take-up of broadband as they tend to get overlooked by the major providers.  "Of the 250,000 companies based in the south east, over 95% employ less than 10 people. These are the people who really need our support in terms of realising the benefits of broadband."Jonathan PD BuckleyWeber Shandwick PR on behalf of SeedaMore time BTAs a BT Openworld Anytime subscriber (someone has to be), a few days ago I had dial-up problems (it eventually turned out to be a dead modem), so I called the service status line to check for glitches in the system. I got a message saying that if Anytime customers were experiencing dial-up problems, there was now an alternative number to dial. "Details," I was brightly informed, "are on our website."Ron Gravesron.graves@btinternet.comVisible inkI purchased the Jet Tec (see link below)  refill system for my HP720C. The refills come in packs of two for about &#163;11. I now refill them with Quinck (black, &#163;2.82 per bottle) via a syringe and then pressurise the refill with a small cycle pump with a soft rubber seal. I have lost count of the number of times I have refilled one refill?!Mike Smithmandag.smith@ntlworld.comSmart talkingContrary to what I wrote in Mobile Matters (Nokia launches a phone that clicks, June 6), the Nokia 7650 smart phone does work automatically as a speakerphone, when you place it on a desk. Nokia explains that the feature on the top left of the phone, which it    was unable to identify at the time, is a proximity detector, which stops the speakerphone feature from working if your face is too close. This could be an early example of the phone being smarter than the reviewer.Jack Schofield
Use your PC as a faxThere are a number of software programs that allow you to use your computer as a fax machine, many of which will arrive alongside the system or as part of an office suite. There are also a couple of free services, such as those found at yac.com or hitoori.com, that will give you a number to which people can send faxes, and the result will be forwarded to you as an email attachment.Remember these are based on premium rate numbers so you're unlikely to make many friends among your consumer customers; if your goods or services rely mostly on corporate clients then these should appeal to you. Receiving your faxes will be free of charge. Other services, such asefax.comandj2.com, will give you a fax number and messaging service you can pay for; the costs are not high and the customer doesn't get a premium rate number.Design your own stationeryMicrosoft Word and most of its competition contain pre-designed templates with spaces for your company details and these will look reasonably presentable as letterheads. That said, the more experienced contact will recognise the design, so if you want to impress someone with your look  then they're not a substitute for a design agency.If that's not important, there is cash to be saved. If you have design flair yourself, or in-house, then it can be worth using the drawing tools within the packages to design your own.Remember to look to the quality of your printer and particularly the paper on which you're printing - smudgy letterheads look dreadful. You can get pre-cut cards from larger stationers if you wish to design your own business cards as well.Free or cost-effective adviceNever forget that the Business Links and the DTI's UK online for business (ukonlineforbusiness.gov.uk) are there to offer advice - free in the first instance and designed to be cost-effective as you move forward.VideoconferencingVideoconferencing sounds big and scary and it isn't. Web cameras are commonplace for less than three figures and the most basic conferencing system, Netmeeting, comes as part of the deal with most of them. Depending on the equipment the suppliers/ customers have onsite, you can be communicating with pictures using an internet connection within a very short while. This saves not only on telephone charges (and yes, if your contact is overseas you can still use videoconferencing over the internet) but travelling time and fares.PrintingPrinting is an area in which serious savings can be made. Specialist Kyocera Mita suggests a number of simple points:- Make double-sided copies wherever possible;- Use proof and hold technology so that all copies are corrected before going to print in quantity;- Send all internal documents in draft mode to save on toner;- Set your printer's sleep mode so that you're not paying for power while it's not printing.Manufacturer Oki has undertaken a lot of research into bringing printing in-house as opposed to outsourcing and believes it is cheaper to do your own once all of the costs are taken into account.Resources for freeLook out for items for which you'd normally expect to pay going cheaply or better still, free; jobsworth.com, for example, offers standard employment contracts for £40 and other documentation from £5. The company's surveys claim the same documents would cost £400+ from solicitors, and in addition the organisation has won a Crystalmark clear English award.  Also on the subject of free resources, for business cards you can look at vistaprint.com - the basic cards entail only the shipping cost, and even though you'll pay for dispatch from the US they are good quality for the cost.LicensingDo a software audit and see how much software you're paying for needlessly. For example, many businesses have unused copies of Microsoft Access around because it came as part of the Office Professional installation they bought. They may also have bought copies of Windows XP Professional to take advantage of this.Had they known they wouldn't be using it they could have bought Windows XP Home instead. When it comes to upgrading, don't upgrade everyone - check who's actually using the software you're paying for.Customer careAssuming your company has or is going to have a website, consider putting up a chunky FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions) page. This has two advantages.From the customer's point of view, when they want to know something they won't be kept hanging around on the phone. This saves them time and money.And from the business' point of view they won't be tying up your phone lines, nor will they be taking your employees' time. From both points of view, the fact that they can be researching their purchase even if not actually buying (which is by no means impossible) out of office hours is again in your business' advantage, albeit not strictly a cost saving.Support contractNever assume you're going to save money by not paying for a service contract. Call-out charges, parts and other considerations can disprove this quickly, as can losing valuable time waiting for the repair contractor.E-procurementOr just "buying stuff on the net" if the jargon sounds a little high-flown. While larger companies will find it comparatively easy to invite tenders from suppliers electronically and have the means to respond to them, smaller traders can still look to sites such asshopsmart.comfor electronics and other goods, as well as alternatives like pricerunner.com, which claims to have saved customers 83% on cameras, for example.Co-buying schemes and auctions are also a means of saving money, although these are less suited to businesses wanting products quickly.
The features included in a number of office software suites suggest that there is some confusion over whether email and personal information ought to be included in them.Indeed, most PCs and Apple Macs have their own email programs installed when you buy them. To the extremely small company there may seem little or no reason to change, but reasons there are - good ones, too.For example, many viruses are spread by people opening attachments, and the default position for Microsoft's email software is to preview attachments automatically. This is fine as long as you have an up-to-date virus checker installed, but not everyone has one.For the smaller business the choices are relatively few. Lotus Notes and Novell Groupwise are excellent network systems but are chiefly aimed at larger organisations. Individual traders might have tied themselves to AOL, which doesn't work with email applications other than the company's own. But there is a bigger world out there.The smaller office might like to look at Eudora instead, available from its website for free at eudora.com. You'll get adverts with the unpaid version but will find yourself able to sort your mail into folders and categories and set rules to exclude junk mail as you can with the professional version of Outlook. PDA users needn't worry: it can work as the default MAPI email program, which means that any PDA set to work alongside the default will communicate with it.A program that receives less publicity is The Bat, distributed in the UK by RT Labs and available for a trial download atritlabs.com.The look takes you straight back to basics, but like Eudora there's no problem with sorting mail into different folders, setting rules and the like. The company also makes a play of its product being immune to large numbers of virus attacks disseminated through email.It does this by using neither the Windows address book nor a Windows-dependent HTML viewer, and by integrating with a number of antivirus packages. However, it is less than PDA-friendly; there are routines in the Frequently Asked Questions area for linking up with the Palm system, but Pocket PC users should probably accept that they've more or less committed to Microsoft.Likewise, near-independent is Ameol, designed to work with the Cix conferencing system but which will work happily with other ISPs. It has a useful set-up wizard: just select Internet Only, enter your ISP's details and it will do the rest.Synchronising with a PDA is less easy; one of the Cix members has developed a utility called Amusync which synchronises mails with Palm systems, but there is nothing for Pocket PC as yet; it's conceivable that Ameol's developers will build this in at a later stage. Download for free atameol.co.uk.On the organiser side, there's a little gem called Time and Chaos atisbister.com. It looks neither like an organiser nor like the calendar in Outlook or any other PC but it's smaller, more configurable and extremely clear to work with. Its only disadvantage is that setting up multiple users is clunky; the company freely admits it wants to sell to individuals and shared workgroups rather than larger collections of people.The licensing is appealing too: you pay $45 and you're able to use it at home, at work and on your laptop and stay legit. The same company also offers an email program.Lotus Organiser is available for just over a tenner - it does everything your Filofax ever did and looks just the same, and will synchronise with your PDA. The only frustration is that it looks so unlike your PDA. If you're considering buying a PDA then much of the advice on organiser software will be redundant. Assuming you don't want to spend money unnecessarily, Palm computers come with their own organiser - the design is a little basic, but it works.Meanwhile people buying many Pocket PCs software will find they come with Microsoft Outlook, which includes an organiser and email application.People doing further research into the organisers and email programs available could go totucows.comorzdnet.com, where there is a great deal of software to download; a search at Tucows for PIM (personal information manager) threw out 183 programs, for example. It's worth highlighting these two sites as they make a point of virus-checking all of their software. Happy searching...Help panelEmail on the moveUsing a PDA or laptop it is entirely possible to pick up mails while out of the office. The technologies you'll need are:&#183;Mobile phone or mobile card adaptor for PDA/laptop&#183;Data-enabled mobile phone account&#183;Either a mobile phone with a built-in modem or a PDA/laptop modem card (or laptop with built-in modem)&#183;Cable to connect computer to mobile phone&#183;Software to enable mobile phone to recognise modem.  Then set up the laptop/PDA's email account as for any new account, selecting the mobile phone or card as the modem.
Using a credit card to bankroll a small business flies in the face of all conventional wisdom. But conventional wisdom has never had much to do with the entrepreneurial spirit needed to start a business. A recent survey by the Federation of Small Businesses (FSB) discovered that 18% of businesses were funded using plastic.As Stephen Alambritis, head of parliamentary affairs for the FSB, notes it's a disturbingly high figure. "We would have expected the bank or people's own retained earnings," Alambritis says, "but we found to our horror that some of our members, especially the younger ones, used their own credit card to finance the business. That's very worrying because it is normally a very expensive way."The FSB survey discovered that the use of credit cards was highest among the 22-34 age group, and that the figure dropped sharply among older business people. But why are young entrepreneurs turning their backs on more conventional means?"There's a greater familiarity with plastic, and a greater need for speedy decision taking," says Alambritis. "So the younger generation is not into the business of creating a long-term relationship with a bank manager."Justin Cooke, founder of interactive agency Fortune Cookie, used plastic to fund his fledgling company in 1997."What I wanted was access to capital, but not capital that I couldn't manage on a month-by-month basis," Cooke recalls. "There wasn't ever the need to take out a large enough amount of money at one time. It was more having the facility to tap into when I needed it. And I suppose I didn't want the reassurance of having a loan facility, because I thought, if I did have that, I'd use it."Barely out of university, Cooke operated his then £60,000 turnover business out of dingy basement offices in Pall Mall. However, he'd been preparing his credit card strategy while studying, building up his credit limits, which then totalled £4,000."I'd used my credit cards quite a bit and been advised that the more I used them, the larger my credit limit became, because you built up a credit card rating," Cooke says. "And I made sure I paid off my bills at the end of the month."Cooke also valued the protection for faulty goods or non-delivery that comes with a credit card, and points out that it can be much cheaper to use a card when purchasing via phone or the web. "It costs you about 50p- 60p to issue a company cheque."Today, Fortune Cookie has a turnover of around £2m and it secured incubator funding in 1998, so Cooke's gamble paid off. However, nobody would advise that this is a wise way to fund a business.One obvious danger with plastic is that interest payments can eat into profits unless the card is paid in full each month. There's also the risk that those with no real business plan can bypass conventional financial checks and get into real trouble. And, while it's a legal grey area, you could potentially be prosecuted for taking out a loan or using credit if the money has been advanced for a different use.It's no surprise to find that the banks' position, according to Andy Brenan of the British Bankers' Association is that there are "better and more structured ways" to finance a small business. He advises using the BBA's Business Account Finder (moneyfacts.co.uk) to find the best banking deal.Nevertheless, is such reliance on credit cards partly the banks' fault? With web and phone banking becoming more common, many people have no direct dealings with their bank managers. In the early stages of a service business, when turnover and risk are comparatively low, this needn't be a problem. However, when a company begins to grow, most need access to more conventional borrowing facilities."Half the problem is that the small businessman doesn't prepare his case before he goes to see the bank," says Barry Dunn, who works as a business mentor with the Institute of Business Advisers. He advises going to see your bank manager as soon as you set up a business, if only to build up a personal relationship for a time when you will need credit facilities.The importance of access to credit is emphasised by Cooke who, ironically, has been advised to use his company cards more often. "The other day my bank manager said I could save myself a fortune if I increased the credit limit on my company credit cards and paid my suppliers using them. I thought, 'We're going full-circle here.'" But only because Fortune Cookie is now running along more conventional business lines.
You should not have to wait if you want a LampMac, according to a CNet report, which reckons Ingram Micro, a big US distributor, is sitting on more thanthree months unsold inventory. It seems the whole desktop computer market is struggling, though only 10 days ago, market research company IDCraised its worldwide PC shipment forecastfor 2002 from 3% to 4.7% growth. It could just be that buyers have noticed the iMac is a little expensive. (In the UK, prices start at £1,249 for a machine with a 700MHz processor, whereas Dell's starting price for a flat panel PC with a 2GHz processor is currently £879.) It could be that more buyers are turning to Apple's retail shops or Apple's online store, where Apple competes against its own distributors and retailers. Or it could be that with the economy threatening to collapse around their ears, consumers have other things to think about than computer upgrades that don't actually deliver anything like $1,400/£1,250 of extra value.
Palm Inc, the market leader in handheld computers, has reported annual sales down by a third (from $1.56 billion to $1.03 billion) and a loss of $82 million. There's apress releaseand anAP report.
Java's futurewas debated at a conference alongside this week's PC Expo in New York, with the man from Borland revealing the results of a survey of high-level corporate executives. The predominant response from those surveyed was "Java is over." I don't think we need to take this literally, but it could become common currency if Sun -- which owns Java -- continues to make mistakes. Sun's main problem is that it has lost its ability to think straight because of itsanti-Microsoft paranoia. History shows that companies that take this approach always lose, because Microsoft plays this game much better than anybody else.The way to beat Microsoft is to focus on delivering better products to customers as, for example, Intuit has done. If Sun had spent less time and energy in court and more on providing what customers wanted then maybe it wouldn't have been outflanked and outsmarted by C# and VisualStudio.net. At the moment, Sun is just repeating the mistakes made by companies such as Lotus Development, Netscape and Palm. Being tied up in court didn't stop Microsoft from delivering C#, VisualStudio.net, Windows XP, Office XP, Offfice for Mac OS X, PocketPC 2002, Stinger mobile phone software, MSN Explorer (with a revamped MSN service) and Xbox, to name but a few.
The Vietnamese government is to spy on internet cafe customers to prevent them from accessing documents it considers politically and morally objectionable.Increasing numbers of people in the Communist country having been using the internet and are able to see stark differences between reports in state-controlled media and foreign news.The state-controlled Vietnam Economic Times newspaper reported the ministry of culture and information as saying the country now has 4,000 public internet cafes.The ministry said: "No authorities have been responsible for monitoring the shops after their owners receive licenses, resulting in abuses."The newspaper said young people could access pornographic material on the internet, but that the ministry was more worried about the spread of state secrets and "reactionary" documents.The government there has already tightened controls on access to other types of information, including foreign television broadcasts, as the country opens up economically to the outside world.Some Vietnamese people living abroad, as well as dissidents inside the country use the internet to circulate documents critical of the government. Although Vietnam's constitution provides for freedom of speech and the press, in practice both are restricted.In March, a Vietnamese doctor, Pham Hong Son, was arrested for translating and circulating on the internet an article about democracy taken from a US state department internet site.In February, a computer science lecturer, Lam Chi Quang, was detained for posting on the internet an essay critical of a border agreement signed with China in 1999. Critics say the agreement, which has never been released, favours China unfairly.   Both men are still in detention.Internet service providers in Vietnam are responsible for filtering websites that are considered undesirable, but the culture ministry said the large number of sites made that difficult.In its report, it said internet cafe owners should be required to monitor customers to ensure they do not misuse the internet.The Vietnam Financial Times reported on Monday that Prime Minister Phan Van Khai had ordered local authorities to inspect and assess all internet cafes and report back to the government by July 7.Last week the prime minister issued a directive prohibiting all citizens, except for top Communist Party and government officials and a few others, from watching international satellite TV.The party's top ideology official also instructed all newspapers to limit their coverage of a corruption scandal in which senior officials and dozens of police are accused of protecting a notorious underworld gang.He said newspaper stories about the scandal had revealed state secrets and caused internal divisions - both of which are punishable by long prison terms.
The next edition of Online safely off to press, I've been reading through the lengthyPew Internet &amp; American Life surveyon broadband (link downloads a PDF file -Adobe Acrobat readerneeded to view). It makes for very interesting reading.My favourite bit so far? "...there is an emerging broadband lifestyle. Those living that life do more work at home, less TV watching, more online news-gathering, and spend less time shopping in stores... the sheer scope of things that the broadband elite do online suggests that the term 'killer app' is a misnomer for this set of internet users."I'm all for spending less time watching TV, and shopping (and I know all those things are true for me since I got broadband at home). But I'm not sure how broadband has changed these users' behaviour - the "broadband elite" may be the kind of early adopters already immersed in the internet, and broadband has simply allowed them to indulge their passion for unearthing and sharing knowledge without running up a vast phone bill.But I don't doubt that this broadband elite exists (you'd suspect most of its members write weblogs), and it poses some interesting questions, not least: could a new digital divide open up, not just between the wired and unwired, but between the "broadband elite" and everyone else plodding along with dial-up?
Theshortlist for this year's NetMedia awards, which I've been helping judge, is published today. The gongs will be handed out on July 4 in London, at a ceremony that (like the Webby awards last week) will be rather smaller than in previous years (disclaimer: I didn't mark any Guardian Unlimited entries, and didn't know in which categories GU had entries). The BBC's sprawling online empire is likely to dominate proceedings: I count 18 shortlisted entries across 12 categories. The Guardian, whichscooped an armful last year, has four entries in the final cut, in four categories.Of the judging: I'll expand on this another time. Each judge was given a basket of entries to mark, and there was some very good journalism on show in the submissions I looked at. The examples of really good online storytelling, however, were much harder to find, bar one or two crackers now on the shortlist. Four prizes won't be awarded this year, because none of the entries made the standard: nobody will get the outstanding contribution to online journalism in Europe prize, or gongs for financial reporting, best use of mobile connectivity or weblog of the year.
"Microsoft hopes to use its Windows monopoly as a launching point for making its file formats the de facto standard for digital content," reportsCNET News.com. But it may face still resistance from device manufacturers, movie studios and record labels, who all fear having one company dominating the technology they use to deliver their content.
Telecoms watchdog Oftel has provided a boost to BT's broadband rivals by ruling that the company must allow them to access its network of high-speed lines at a reasonable price.Competitors such as Freeserve have long complained that BT enjoys a dominant position in the race to persuade web users to upgrade to high-speed broadband connections.Although BT cut the wholesale price of its broadband lines to £13.75 in February, Oftel has now ruled it must also make it easier for rivals to tap into the whole of BT's network at "non-discriminatory" prices.Oftel's director general, David Edmonds, said he estimated there would be 700,000 broadband customers in the UK by the end of the month, with demand rocketing thanks to lower prices of around £30 a month.BT and cable companies NTL and Telewest have benefited most so far but other companies, including AOL and Freeserve, are hoping new pressure on BT from Oftel will enable them to catch up.BT's chief executive, Ben Verwaayen, is banking on increased broadband take-up to drive growth at the company. He hopes to have 1 million connections by next summer and 5 million by 2006.Today's announcement is a further boost to the provision of broadband services in the UK. It will enable operators to offer consumers a wider range of products."Prices for these new services will be set by Oftel at a level that encourages competition between different providers of broadband services, and ensures that other operators still have an incentive to invest in alternative broadband delivery mechanisms," said Mr Edmonds."The best way to support take-up of broadband services is through a thriving and competitive broadband market, where consumers have choice of products and prices," he added.
I'vesaid it before, and theSan Francisco Chroniclepicks up on it today: anti-virus software vendors are hyping up every passing half-idea for a virus in the hope it'll panic more people into buying their software. You'll notice from the timeline on the link above that the Code Red drama played out in late silly season - sorry, July - last year, and we're entering that time again, so you can expect the rate of hysterical virus warnings to pick up again soon. In whipping up this storm, the vendors run the risk of making us all so cynical about their warnings we blithely ignore them next time there really is something to shout about. Check outVMythsif you want an antidote to all this virus madness.
The cartoon this week in a Chinese newspaper is crudely to the point. Two young boys are shown creeping up to the door of an internet cafe - one is holding a can of petrol. "The staff here are worse than those women my Dad picks up", says the boy with the petrol. "Anyone who keeps us out will get flattened," replies the other.Early in the morning on June 16 in Beijing, as widely reported in China and abroad, two boys aged 13 and 14 firebombed the Lanjisu Cyber Cafe in the Haidian university district. Two dozen of those inside, mostly students surfing the web or playing games on a cheap night rate - more than half of the clients - died.The cafe was illegal: its door was locked and most of the windows were barred. Initial reaction dwelt on these tragic circumstances. There have been several fatal fires in places of public entertainment around China which were operating illegally and without proper safety precautions.Very soon another aspects of the tragedy loomed larger when the police picked up the two boys who confessed to setting the fire.  Aged 13 and 14, they had bought nearly two litres of petrol from a filling station with no attempt at concealment and lived nearby. They had a grudge against staff at the Lanjisu who had barred them on a previous night. After pouring the petrol in the hallway and lighting it, the two went off to play video games at another cybercafe.Juvenile delinquency has long been acknowledged in China but this case has brought it into unusually sharp public focus. Both boys came from broken families: the background of Song, the 14-year-old, is the grimmer of the two and more fully reported.When he was only one year old, his mother left his father who then gained custody and refused to let her visit the boy. Over the years, the father had at least three live-in girlfriends. Once one of them beat the boy with her high-heeled shoes till he fainted. Another beat him on the hands with a rolling pin, said the grandfather, "until his palms swelled up like bread."The father earned a reasonable sum as a driver but became a drug addict and last September was sent by the police for compulsory treatment. His girlfriend at the time took off, abandoning the boy.   Released in December, he resumed taking drugs and this time was sent away for "reeducation through labour" for eighteen months. (In both cases, the police took action under "administrative" regulations which allow those deemed to be harmful to society to be detained without going to court).Young Song now lived alone in his father's home: his grandfather, who lives nearby and suffers from cerebral thrombosis, kept a vague eye on him and gave him supper every evening. The grandfather became suspicious that the boy was not going to school and asked some neighbours to check up. "It's the parents' responsibility, not ours, to make sure that children attend school," they claim to have been told by the local headmaster.Young Song then moved into another room occupied by Zhang, the 13-year-old, whose parents were also divorced while the father had no fixed job. "He was a good boy himself, but easily led," say the neighbours.Most press comment on the case has stressed the lack of parental supervision but the role of the school and of the neighbours is also brought into question. The boys lived in the kind of courtyard community where in the past everyone took an interest in everyone else's affairs. Such communities are losing their permanence now, geographically isolated as redevelopment takes place, while the social fabric is weakened as families break up and become more mobile.The immediate response in Beijing was to close all cybercafes for inspection and - in the small number which have licenses - re-approval. The authorities say that out of some 2,400 cafes believed to exist, only 200 have proper licenses.Many foreign reports - including one filed for The Guardian by this correspondent - have highlighted the Chinese government's tight controls (at least on paper) on internet use. There is no doubt that such measures help to drive the cybercafes underground where they then operate with even fewer safety controls.The owner of the Lanjisu is said to have lock the door routinely, once clients for the all-night session had paid their entry fee, to stop prowling policemen from looking in (although also to prevent theft of his computer equipment).Yet the political factor here - Beijing's desire to prevent web surfers from accessing foreign news - seems to be fairly minor. Only a minority of the cybercafe clientele actually go online and many of them may be looking for pornography. Most users go them to play computer games which are immensely popular among young people from secondary school age onwards.One Shanghai student at Fudan University has described how cyberbars nearby may have several hundred terminals, most of them used for electronic games. "It's a place where we go to meet friends in the evening and perhaps stay till early morning, gaming and eating snacks." He argues against wholesale closure of the cafes which would deprive his generation of a harmless venue for social relaxation.While restrictions have been tightened elsewhere as well as in Beijing, similar voices urging caution have been raised elsewhere. "Yes, there are minors who are addicted to the Internet", says the China Daily today, but the cafes if properly operated "can do more good than harm, &#91;offering&#93; a globally wide access to information..."As for young Song and young Zhang, the same question is being asked as in comparable tragedies involving youthful offenders in western countries. Who is to blame - parents, schools or society, or all three?
Newsweek's deadlines (below) would certainly have prevented it from reading last Wednesday's story in the New York Times, but it adds context the Newsweek story ought to have picked up. TheNYT storyis about a paper given by Ross Anderson, my hero the UK security community, attacking "theTrusted Computing Platform Alliance, an organization formed in October 1999 by Compaq Computer, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Intel and Microsoft". This leads me to believe that, far from being an isolated Microsoft stunt, Palladium is part of Microsoft's implementation of the TCPA strategy, and Intel is the driving force behind that. Interested readers candownload Anderson's paperfrom his home page at Cambridge University.
IBM, the world's biggest computer company and the biggest backer of so-called "open source" software, isdropping support for Linuxon its popular ThinkPad range of notebook PCs, according to Keith Frechette, who was working on the project. He is now looking for a job.
Newsweekhas an exclusive report on Microsoft's plans for Palladium, a security system that will involve building an ID chip into every PC. Not only will this help stop all sorts of nasties, it will take Microsoft much closer to one of its long-term goals -- it will allow it to tie a copy of the operating system to a single PC. Hollywood should also love the idea: it will help to provide secure digital rights management. The time when almost anybody can copy almost anything on a PC could be drawing to a close....By the way, before you have an attack of privacy-related hysteria, you may already own and use a PC that has a similar system built in, especially if it is fromIBM. Maybe you forgot to ask, or just didn't read the fine print. And if you are a Mac user, also bear in mind you have no alternative source of supply.....
Users who are offline can now getinstant messages sent via SMSto their mobile phones -- as long as they are using Microsoft's Instant Messenger and use a participating operator in Belgium, The Netherlands, Switzerland, Denmark, Austria, Turkey or Norway, reports Reuters. The US has enjoyed a similar service based on AOL Instant Messenger (AIM) and Deutsche Telekom's VoiceStream since November.
It's not very often I feel sorry for Bill Gates, but he is never going to escape from having said 640K of memory ought to be enough for anybody (below), even though he denies it and there is -- as far as I know -- exactly zero evidence that he did. But for the record, it's not even true that Microsoft was responsible for what we used to call "the 640K barrier". There was a 1 megabyte barrier, created by Intel, with its processor: that was the maximum address space. IBM then created the PC's 640K limit for applications through the design of the memory map, but other versions of MS DOS, besides IBM PC DOS, were not bound by it. Some versions of MS DOS provided users with more than 700K, so clearly Microsoft already wanted more than 640K if it could get it. In sum, not only is there no evidence Gates said it, there wasn't even a reason for him to say it, except possibly as a joke at IBM's expense. Of course, it didn't matter at the time: most people had 64K or 128K. When I added 512K to an IBM PC XT (with its fast 4.77MHz processor and huge 10 megabyte hard drive) it came as 18 chips and cost £999 plus VAT -- about a month's salary.
How nice to get back after three days without an Internet connection (we went to a family wedding in Yorkshire) and find the old place so splendidly redecorated. Well done, Neil -- a terrific job. I hope you all like it as much as I do.
Consumers risk becoming the victim of internet fraud by not changing passwords on a regular basis, a study published today warns.Industry experts advise users to alter passwords to get on the net and access confidential information such as bank details at least once a month.A new survey has found 1 in 10 fail to do so and that the passwords they use could be far too easily guessed.Of the 1,000 people asked, 23% said they chose the name of their child, followed by 19% who went for their partner's name.Birthdays were next, with 12%, then a football team, 9%, celebrities and bands, 9%, favourite places, 9%, their own name, 8%, a pet's name, 8%, and then others.When asked why they failed to change their password on a regular basis, 27% said it was because they did not like remembering a new one, 14% said it was irritating, 13% were sentimentally attached to their old password and 12% just forget.     The report, from internet bank Egg, contains tips on passwords to avoid others using it.Apart from changing it at least once a month the study also suggests making passwords at least eight digits long, not writing it down, using more than one password for different websites, and avoiding common themes.Patrick Muir, director of marketing at Egg, said: "The internet is as safe a place to shop or bank as the high street. However, there are a number of simple steps that consumers can take in order to improve their personal security."Robert Schifreen went on trial in 1985 for computer hacking but was acquitted and now works as a security consultant.He is quoted by Egg as saying: "You wouldn't choose to leave your keys in your car ignition, your front door open or choose simple numbers for your cash point PIN or home alarm."So why would you use your name as your online password or keep it publicly on the side of your PC?"
San Francisco Chronicle:The battle over royalty rates for web broadcasters rumbles on. The latest US government decision cuts the once-huge bill facing net broadcasters, but some smaller stations may still be forced out of business.
ZDNet UK:Tablet PCs starting to take off
We've all seen thosehilarious quotesabout the future of technology, delivered by people who Really Should Know Better. "There is no reason anyone would want a computer in their home," attributed to the chairman of Digital in 1977 (and look what happened to them). Or how about: "640K ought to be enough for anybody," attributed to Bill Gates in 1981 (and look what happened tohim).So why are people still predicting the sudden halt of technological progress? Well, getting stuck into third generation mobile telephony (3G) has proved a great way for tech pundits to prove that they are past the cheerleader stage of the tech boom. This technology sucks, they say, and it'll bring down telco after telco. So we shouldn't be surprised at another piece appearing, this time atCNET News.comwhich tells us: "Don't believe the hype" (what hype? It all died two years ago, didn't it?). Oh well.What the pundits don't tell you is that few of them have seen the early versions of the technology, which work fine at speeds close to ADSL. And when the pundits tell you there's no "killer application", you should consider the possibility that it's just a failure of imagination on their part which has led them to say that.In the field, those experimenting with 3G say there's unlikely to be one "killer app" (speech is, arguably, the number one use for 3G devices, after all), but a range of uses for different people. 3G PC cards, hooking laptops up to the net wirelessly at broadband speeds, are likely to go down well with businesspeople. Games are likely to draw a younger consumer. And, asJohn Naughtonof the Observer wrote yesterday, people tend to find uses for massive amount of computing power - uses that are not obvious early on (although he seems slightly disapproving of the trend). It's the same for bandwidth. Mobile broadband is unlikely to go away, even if the 3G pioneers implode. And you can quote me on that.
One-time Online columnist Douglas Rushkoff used to have a blunt technique for getting rid of telemarketers - he's simply shout down the line: "I'm bleeding" (they'd be sure to get off the line after that, he figured). Now he's come up with an interestingnew methodthat's a little less brutal.
West Bromwich Albion chairman Jeremy Peace could be among the directors sacked at troubled internet company e-primefinancial this Friday.In a vote that is likely to go to the wire, a group of rebel shareholders, led by investment banking boutique Recovery Partners, believe they will win a shareholder mandate to sack the board of e-prime and transform the firm, and its &#163;18 million cash pile, into an acquisition vehicle.Alex Jurshevski of Recovery claims that the company, which raised &#163;22m two years ago, has burnt &#163;4m of its cash, has no direction and has destroyed shareholder value.Jurshevski also believes that Peace, the West Brom chairman, has links with an offshore vehicle, Hamilton Trustees. Hamilton Trustees has appeared on the share register of four of the five public companies of which Peace has been a board member.But a source close to Peace emphatically denies there is any 'beneficial interest' between Peace and Hamilton.Jurshevski's alternative board for relaunching e-prime includes Jack Wrigglesworth, the former chairman of Liffe, and Rod Sinclair, a former director of the Securities and   Futures Authority.But e-prime, which last week announced preliminary conditional approval from US authorities to open kiosk banks in Florida supermarkets, argues that its American ambitions offer a clear growth strategy. In addition, sources close to e-prime say that Recovery Partners wants to buy unconvincing financial software products owned by Recovery's associates.The company also believes it has successfully cut costs after the departure of Gene Grant, its former chief executive, who still holds e-prime warrants.The internet company was floated right at the end of the dotcom boom at 20p in 2000, with plans to build an internet bank. It has twice faced wind-up proposals from Grant that would have triggered the exercise of 150 million shares. Grant has now thrown in his lot with the Recovery Partners cause.Peace was appointed West Brom chairman just 11 days ago after a lengthy boardroom battle at the recently promoted Premiership club. His fate at e-prime will be sealed at an extraordinary meeting in London, which he is expected to attend.
Walk into any branch of Dixons or PC World and you will be able to purchase more computing power than NASA possessed when it put men on the moon.  The entry-level PC at the moment has a 1 Gigahertz or better processor, at least 256 Megabytes of RAM, a 40 Gigabyte or bigger hard drive, a CD-ROM/DVD drive, a sound card plus speakers, an onboard modem and a 17-inch high-resolution screen.Who is buying this computational horsepower?  Particle physicists computing the trajectory of neutrinos?  Geneticists working on decoding the human genome?  Econometricians applying chaos theory to stock market behaviour?  Answer: none of the above.  The strange thing is that the computational requirements of the folks who are carrying these boxes out of the shops could be satisfied by a well-tempered abacus.They may do a little word-processing, perhaps, or use a spreadsheet to keep track of household budgets; they probably intend to use e-mail and browse the web, but beyond that their need for processor cycles is as great as that of the average chimpanzee.  They are like men buying a Ferrari in order to take stuff to the council tip.  In fact, they could probably find a computer adequate to their processing needs at the tip.Yet computer manufacturers continue to turn out absurdly powerful machines, and customers continue to buy them.  Why?The answer was unwittingly provided by a friend of mine, a lawyer who had recently been made redundant and was setting up on his own.  Although he is a technophobe by temperament and would be satisfied by a manual typewriter which had an email facility, he decided that any self-respecting 'home office' should have a computer.  Accordingly he telephoned Dell to order one. How much RAM would he like, inquired a call-centre lady with an Irish accent?  My friend, conscious of my view that one can never be too thin nor have too much RAM, said "a lot", which the lady interpreted as 512 Mb.  What size hard disk would he like?  "Big", he replied.  She typed in "80 Gb". Would he like a rewritable CD drive?  "Yes".  Would he like a drive that would enable him to play and watch DVDs?  "Yes".  Would he like a sub-woofer with the speakers?  'Yes'.  And so it went on.Three days later, a courier arrived bearing the mandatory three boxes, and my friend found himself the proud owner of a small supercomputer for which he had himself no real use.  When I came upon him after it had all been assembled, he was making nervous moves with the mouse, like a man poking a tiger with a stick.Yet two months on, this fearsome honker of a machine is fully stretched - not by my friend, but by his kids.  First they 'ripped' (copied in compressed format) the family's entire CD collection onto the hard disk, and then began "burning" (writing) customised collections of songs onto compact disks.  Then they hooked up a scanner to the machine and began pulling in family photographs, pictures of Britney Spears in various unladylike poses and other equally interesting images which they doctored in Photoshop.  Finally, they discovered that a family friend had a digital video camera, so they borrowed that, hooked it up to the PC and are, even as I write, editing home movies (and adding daft sound tracks, I shouldn't wonder).And the point of all this?  Simple: everything my friend's kids are doing is computer-intensive in that it requires fast, powerful processors together with lots of RAM and big disks.  But they don't see it as computing.  To them it's just record production, image manipulation or video editing.  We are looking at technology's version of the old principle that work expands to fill the space available.  And that is what explains why Dixons sell - and we buy - those absurdly powerful machines.john.naughton@observer.co.ukbriefhistory.com/footnotes
Welcome to Onlineblog 2.0, a complete overhaul of our weblog which we hope will make the site more useful, easier to use and easier on the eye. In terms of the gubbins going on in the background, it's a pretty radical change: a move from a hacked-together page created in Adobe's GoLive to a CSS (cascading style sheets) design which I have adapted from code by the remarkableEric Costello. He has a host of templates at his site which you can copy and use for your own efforts - much kudos to him.If you are reading in an old (pre version 5 for Internet Explorer and Netscape) this page will not look as good as current versions, but I'm afraid our stats show those older browsers account for a tiny number of visits. CSS, which works in more recent browsers, brings lots of benefits, not least better display across lots of different browsers, and different computers. We know from readers' feedback that the text size was a problem with our first effort: now you can pick your own text size, and font, using the controls in the right column. I also felt a little shabby about not including more links; now we have a list of some of our favourite weblogs, and direct searching of Google from this page, for both Onlineblog and the wider web. We'll be adding some useful resources for webloggers over the next few days - watch out for a piece in this Thursday's Online detailing some useful tools you can use for your own blog.Finally, largely thanks to improvements at Blogger Pro, we now have proper RSS syndication, which allows you to use a variety of tools to keep an eye on the page, and be notified when we've posted something new. Why notget yourself an RSS readerand try it out - it's cool, and it makes keeping up with your roster of weblogs much easier.In the meantime, we hope you like the changes. I'm always keen to get further feedback - my direct email is Neil dot McIntosh at Guardian dot co dot uk. Do stay tuned!
CNET News.comreports that software companyMediaFourwill launch xPlay on Monday - an application to let PC users hook up Apple's stylishiPod MP3 playerto their machines. The story also quotes an analyst who claims Apple will release its own software to do the same job soon, and that the move could lift Apple's share of the MP3 player market to 10%. There will doubtless be grumbles among the Mac faithful about this being a bad move - the device was intended to draw people to the Mac platform - but it was always unlikely that many people would buy a £1500 computer system in order to hook up a cool MP3 player. It's maybe just a little more likely that PC users will, over the medium term, be tempted to take a second look at the people who made their MP3 player when they come to replace their Windows box.
They took off in the late 90s as an alternative to registered car dealerships with the promise of piling 'em high and selling 'em cheap.But in the current climate of widespread falls in car prices the strain on car supermarkets is beginning to show and the jury is out on whether their advertised discounts are as good as they first appear.Car supermarkets sell low price cars in a "no fuss" environment without the hardcore sales techniques associated with conventional manufacturer linked dealerships. They operate in direct competition with dealers, in a similar way to internet car importers such aswww.jamjar.com, hoping to undercut them on price.The logic goes that they can sell cheap because they either buy ex-company fleet cars at massive discounts, take surplus stock off UK manufacturers hands, or they import cheaper makes and models from the continent, passing on some of the savings to the buyer.Go into a supermarket and the price on the car windscreen is what you'll be expected to pay. It is not a list price which can be negotiated down as with traditional dealerships.The benefits are: what you see is what you get, you can pick up the keys and drive away on the same day, and although warranties may be shorter, most cars will still be under some form of manufacturer's guarantee when they are bought.However, turning your back on the comfort zone of buying from a dealership with all the confidence brought by a strong after-sales service in favour of chasing a discount at a supermarket may end up costing more than you think.For one thing, as the average price of cars has tumbled, the supermarkets' potential for offering really big savings has diminished. According to the Alliance and Leicester Car Price Index with What Car? magazine, the average cost of new cars has fallen by over 15% since 1998.The supermarkets - along with the infamous "Rip off Britain" campaign and public uproar at the gap in prices between the UK and the rest of Europe - convinced manufacturers and dealers to cut prices. Ironically, the cheaper cars at dealerships have reduced the gap between list prices and deals on offer at supermarkets."Supermarkets have forced dealers to look at their prices, but the consequence is that if dealers do reduce prices, we have to react to that accordingly and this will have an effect, yes, on the deals we can offer," says Mark Thornber who runs ABC car supermarket in Salisbury and Andover."The prices of new cars have been coming down," says a spokesman for the Retail Motor Industry Federation, (RMI). "Car supermarkets probably didn't anticipate the falls in car prices and they are having to position themselves accordingly."Paul McKenna, of Alliance car supermarket in Accrington, Lancashire, says: "The fall in the price of smaller cars in particular has had an effect on supermarket prices. It makes it more difficult to import and pass on the same level of savings as before. There is less room for movement."There are no precise figures on how big a chunk of the market they account for, but supermarkets can be found across the country with most making their money from imported cars registered by the supermarkets, and sold as nearly new.But don't expect to go in and get exactly what you are looking for. Unlike dealerships, they do not have access to a comprehensive list of makes and models.But despite the new pressures on discounts, there is cash to be saved - even on smaller models.Jobs &amp; Money visited some supermarkets, such as Ignition in Burnley, Lancashire, to see exactly what we would pay for a 1.2 Fiat Punto with twin airbags, electric windows, central locking and power steering. There were plenty available for less than &#163;6,000 - about &#163;1,500 off list price.But, the experts warn, such savings should not be taken at face value. "No doubt about it. There are deals still to be had and they are a very cheap way in many cases of getting a nearly new car," says David Motton of What Car? magazine. "But," he adds, "we always advise people to look behind the price. A lot of the cars don't arrive with UK specification and buyers could find themselves having to pay charges on top of the advertised price to comply. They may not come with immobilisers, for example, or alarms."The face value discount doesn't take into account any potential saving off list price by negotiating with dealers either.And there are numerous other hidden extra costs which could cut the initial saving even further.Alliance's Paul McKenna says: "Not all supermarkets are the same. Some don't advertise on-the-road prices for example. This can be misleading."Some will add on charges for road tax, valeting and ad min and these can add up," he adds.Mark Thornber of ABC says: "Buyers should find out about any additional, un-advertised costs. Some supermarkets will charge you &#163;40 for a valet, for example, or even &#163;10 a day to hold the car until you pick it up."The no-frills supermarkets are not for everyone. But that doesn't mean they can't be used by any car buyer. As with internet importers touting cheap deals, at the very least they are worth checking for research purposes.Finally, find out what price the car that you want is on offer for, and then use it to negotiate with a registered dealer - and you'll still be quids in.
By special request from a reader, we're happy to promote the cause of the tens of thousands attending the Glastonbury music festival next weekend who want to watch the World Cup final. The organisers say it's an artistic and musical festival - and football's neither - so have decided not to show the game on any big screens. We - and lots of others - reckon they just haven't watched enough of the beautiful game to realise that it can be an art form, oh yes. Join the online campaign by signinghere.
Business 2.0 poses the question: Is Apple ripe for takeover? And then it answers straight away: "Probably not". Somehow they manage to squeeze another few hundred words out of the notion - noting that the company has bags of cash and a depressed share price - before concluding, sensibly, that one of the reasons many people buy Apple is because itisn'tpart of a giant multinational (even if you can hardly call a company like Apple - with billions in revenues, and vast profit margins - a minnow). Buying the goose that's laying the golden (or translucent) eggs might just kill it.
We all know about the bore that is spam: those unwanted bits of email that jam up our in-boxes. But that promises to be but a nasty itch compared to the full-blown disease of search-engine spamming, which could bung your query results up with links to irrelevant websites. The latest search engine to be hit is AOL Search, asCNET News.comreports today. Rivals, including Google, are also having to take action against people trying to skew their results for commercial gain.
