A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSolar Interference: the cause of dropped calls? &gt;&gt; OpenSignalThe study, published this week in Nature Physics, shows a causal link between solar storms and dropped calls. Solar storms produce bursts of radio waves which can interfere with the radio networks used to provide cell phone service. The finding is especially interesting because it's the first time that the link between solar storms and solar radio bursts has actually been proved."Sorry, the sun's come out. You're breaking up."School districts grapple with glitches in computer tablets &gt;&gt; WSJ.comMeanwhile, officials in Fort Bend Independent School District in suburban Houston scrapped a $16m iPad initiative after an audit this month found, among other things, teachers complaining the curricula on the tablets were incomplete and didn't align with the district's instructional goals. The district had given out about 6,000 tablets with an interactive science curriculum to fourth- through eighth-graders as part of an effort to boost science test scores.Jim Rice, president of the school district board of trustees, said schools are "seeing a sea change in how children learn and schools need to keep up with that," but, he added, "the devil is in the details and districts should understand all the moving parts before they jump into technology."Officials in Guilford County Schools in Greensboro, N.C., suspended a $30m effort that gave 15,000 middle-school students Amplify tablets after students or school staff broke about 10% of the screens either by dropping them or placing them in backpacks or purses, and some of the cables that connect the devices to keyboards broke.iDiot &gt;&gt; Pixel EnvyIn a research note Wednesday, Brian White of Topeka Capital Markets says the 'iTV' will be…No, read on, really. You'll howl. (From April, but still funny.)US Senator Markey calls for FTC investigation over Google's "Shared Endorsements" &gt;&gt; Marketing LandMembers of the FTC are furloughed and so cannot initiate an investigation right now. Regardless, this is a situation where an FTC investigation may be unwarranted. There isn't any "deception" going on.The larger issue of opt-out vs. opt-in is worthy of discussion in a broader context: when do consumers need to opt-in vs. being permitted to opt-out? As mentioned there's substantial survey based evidence that most consumers would not opt-in to most online advertising programs, which would compromise the ability of publishers and ad networks to serve more targeted ads and maximize revenue.Would be fascinating to see how it would go if Google were to make such changes opt-in instead. After all, if people approve of the idea, surely they would happily opt in?Facebook ad profit a staggering 1,790% more on iPhone than Android &gt;&gt; VentureBeatA study of 200 billion ads on Facebook advertising says that mobile ads on iPhone generate 1,790% more return on investment than ads on Android. Even worse, advertising on Android actually costs more than it returns.The study is by Nanigans, one of the biggest buyers of Facebook ads, and it focuses on retailers, saying that in the past year on Facebook's desktop ads, clickthroughs are up 375% and overall return on investment is 152%.But it's when the report focuses on mobile advertising that the really surprising numbers pop up.Advertising on Android returns only 90% of what it costs. However, it might take some time for the first-order effects of this - whatever they actually are - to come through.Akamai: half of all internet connections now at 4Mbps+, Safari remains most used mobile browser &gt;&gt; TechCrunchAkamai notes that when it looks at access from mobile devices over cellular networks, Android Webkit is just edging out Mobile Safari, with other browsers trailing quite a ways behind. Webkit, it notes, accounted for 38% of requests, while Safari 34%. When usage was tracked across cellular and other networks (for example, broadband via WiFi), Safari shot into the lead, with 54% of all requests and Android Webkit at 27%+. This could partly be attributed to iPad usage; perhaps also just to the fact that while iOS owners may be proportionally smaller than Android device owners, when you take into account all kinds of usage, they are simply just using their devices more.Odd.Open-source everything: the moral of the Healthcare.gov debacle &gt;&gt; BusinessweekPaul Ford:Put charitably, the rollout of healthcare.gov has been a mess. Millward Brown Digital, a consulting firm, reports that a mere 1% of the 3.7 million people who tried to register on the federal exchange in the first week actually managed to enroll. Even if the problems are fixed, the debacle makes clear that it's time for the government to change the way it ships code — namely, by embracing the approach to software development that has revolutionized the technology industry.Top 10 phones in August: Galaxy S4 sales drop but still leads the pack &gt;&gt; Counterpoint ResearchPremium smartphone (above US$400 wholesale) category sales are showing signs of stagnating growth as most of the sales in the premium segment are coming from replacement sales from existing smartphone users. But the overall smartphone market is still growing at the rate of 40~50% a year with major growth thus coming from burgeoning smartphone sales in the sub US$200 price segmentsSeptember month sales are very important to shape the holiday season demand trajectory, a decisive moment distinguishing which phones are going to be top-sellers. Galaxy S4 sales might – pick up again with special holiday pricing though we expect the flagship model to sell 80% more than its predecessor the Galaxy S3 from launch till year end, instead of our previous view of 100% more.SGS4 sell-through (ie bought by end users) was 5m in August, it says; it counts the iPhone 516GB as a different phone from the iPhone 5 32GB, which seems odd.When will the European Union Five reach smartphone saturation? &gt;&gt; asymcoIf we define saturation as the end of the "Late Majority" period then the number of new-to-smartphone users remaining for the combined EU5 + USA markets is 110m of which 59m will adopt in the US and 51 million in Europe. They will all join ecosystems in the next two years.Plan accordingly.Current US + EU5 adult consumer smartphone population: 315m. Which will grow roughly by a third. Note his caveat: "The population is defined as adults using phones for themselves. Meaning it excludes children and phones purchased by companies."Question is whether that is headroom or legroom for growth.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Samsung is offering a trade-in program on batteries for its flagship Galaxy S4 smartphone after some users complained they were draining rapidly or even swelling.Some reports in Germany claimed that one carrier there had seen up to 30% returns from users who bought the phone. Samsung saidin a statement to TrustedReviewsthat "We are aware of this issue, which has affected a limited number of customers." It didn't elaborate on how many have been affected.The company added: "We ask all affected customers to please visit their nearest Samsung Electronics service centre, where they can receive a replacement battery for free of charge. We remain committed to providing the best possible user experience for our customers."The German site Mobiflipclaimsthat it has "found many users with this problem".However Samsung declined to put a figure on the number of phones affected, or to specify whether it is only some regions or variants of the Galaxy S4 which have been affected.The Galaxy S4 waslaunchedin March, bringing a number of features including an eight-core chip, an eye-tracking system and non-touch gestures to control the screen. Samsung has not offered any sales figures for the handset, though analysts reckon that it was the best-selling smartphone worldwide in August.Anecdotal reports of problems with battery drain are not unusual on new phones which are made in large numbers. But Samsung's introduction of a wide-ranging replacement program suggests that the difficulties affect more than a few handsets.There have been some reports since April on users forums of problems with rapid battery drain, such asone on Android Central in Aprilwho said that their new S4 discharged within an hour without any use. Similar problemswere reported in May, with some users saying the phone was getting hot.Other users have complained of the battery swelling,so that the phone doesn't lie flat. A number of users have chosen to buy replacement batteries from retailer sites - which is possible because the S4 has a user-replaceable battery.Affected owners can find a service centrevia Samsung's UK website..Samsung had not replied to a request for further comment from the Guardian by the time of publication.• Samsung's Galaxy Note 3 reviewed:is it a tablet, or a phone?
It's Thursday.
Rural homes stranded without broadband will soon be able to plug into the web via the 4G mobile network – by planting an antenna on the roof or simply switching on a router in the living room.EE, Britain's largest mobile operator, is planning to throw down the gauntlet to BT on 11 November by launching what it says will be the UK's first commercially available 4G home broadband service.Initially available in Cumbria, the offer will roll out to other hard-to-reach areas over the coming months."We think 4G can become an affordable alternative to fixed broadband in rural areas," said EE's chief executive, Olaf Swantee. "The government is fixated on fixed, but mobile can provide a solution economically."As with Wi-Fi, several devices, including laptops, tablets and phones, will be able to connect to the internet wirelessly via a router placed in the home. The only difference is that the router will be connected to EE's 4G mobile network, rather than a fixed broadband line.EE has been trialling home broadband over the airwaves in apilot projectin the Northern Fells district of Cumbria since 2012. EE will announce prices next month, but those participating in the trial were charged from £15.99 a month for a connection of 8-12 megabits a second. The speed is equivalent to a typical copper wire broadband service.With an area of over 100 square miles and a population of 2,600, the Northern Fells is one of the most poorly connected areas of the country. Local MP Rory Stewart has been at the forefront of the debate over rural broadband, and nearly 900 out of the 1,400 premises have signed up for the service when it launches.The government has come under fire for its management of the publicly funded project to bring broadband to the countryside. Delays mean the deadline to reach 95% of UK premises has now been extended to 2017, with no target for 100% coverage beyond then.Mobile firms are lobbying now for a share of the £250m in public funds set aside to reach the most remote 10% of homes, saying 4G may offer a cheaper solution than digging cables over long distances.
What makes a smartwatch smart? If you&apos;re Samsung, then you&apos;d say it&apos;s the inclusion of phone connectivity and apps, albeit with a hefty price tag (and heft to match) in the form of itsSamsung Galaxy Gear, launched in September. If you&apos;re the Californian startupPebble, it&apos;s offering notifications from your phone, and a couple of apps, and a low price. If you&apos;re Sony, with the Smartwatch 2, then it&apos;s apps plus telling the time, all the time.But industry experts reckon none of the current crop - of which the Pebble is by far the best-selling, claiming more than 250,000 shipped - has truly &quot;smart&quot; functionality. And that leaves the door wide open for something that multiple sources are murmuring about: a Google Now-powered wearable.According to Juniper Research, &quot;smart wearables&quot;, which includes smartwatches and glasses, will have raked in $1.4bn during 2013, rising to $19bn by 2018. That&apos;s more than 50% annual growth, making the segment a lucrative addition to the smartphone and connected devices category.The Pebblecame to notice as the most successful Kickstarter project ever, raising $10.2m last year. After shipping to its 85,000 backers, it has gone on general sale for around £100 at outlets such as Best Buy.But what every smartwatch lacks right now are truly intelligent features that make them a compelling purchase, argues Benedict Evans, telecoms and tech analyst at Enders Analysis, who calls the current crop &quot;pre-iPod&quot;.&quot;In the same way lots of digital music players existed before the Apple iPod, theyjust weren&apos;t good enough; they didn&apos;t do what the iPod did and revolutionise the sector,&quot; Evans says. &quot;The iPod of smartwatches is needed to really turn the smartwatch category into something useful.&quot;Google Time concept by Adrian Maciburko of how a Google smartwatch could work. Photograph: Adrian MaciburkoHow &quot;smart&quot; a smartwatch appears to the wearer depends on how you define &quot;intelligence&quot; - is displaying notifications and simple apps enough, or does it have to learn from the wearer&apos;s routines and actions?The competitionSony’s latest wrist-borne device, the £150 Smartwatch 2, is actually its third iteration of the form, predated by 2010&apos;s Sony Ericsson LiveView and the 2012 Sony Smartwatch.The Smartwatch 2 is more of a second screen for an Android phone than a separate smart device. For the most part it simply displays notifications, your Twitter feed, text messages or provides music controls for changing track remotely playing on your phone.Despite supporting third-party applications, without an Android smartphone the Smartwatch 2 simply tells the time and provides timers and alarms; it has no built-in capability to connect to the internet or access the third-party apps, which are serviced from the smartphone.The Pebble&apos;s primary function is also to display notifications: it connects via Bluetooth to an iPhone or Android phone and shows who&apos;s calling or texting, and can also be used to change music tracks. There is an SDK (software development kit) to let developers write apps.Samsung's Galaxy Gear smartwatch is tied to the Samsung Galaxy Note 3. Photograph: Michael Sohn/APSamsung’s much-hyped £300 Galaxy Gear is equally tied to an Android phone – exclusively theSamsung Galaxy Note3 for now.It can run third-party applications like Path and RunKeeper, but currently lacks any features that could truly beconsidered “smart” or intelligent– the Galaxy Gear will not learn what you want and when to bother you with it, for instance.&quot;The Samsung Galaxy Gear is not that product, it&apos;s not the iPod of smartwatches - the iPhone or iPod of smartwatches has yet to come,&quot; said Maude.Learning time, context and location-sensitive informationEnter Google, which is reckoned to be working on a smartwatch of its own, according to two separate sources with connections to the company who the Guardian has spoken to. The codename is said to be &quot;Gem&quot;. But what can Google bring to this problem?&quot;Just mirroring your smartphone&apos;s screen isn&apos;t enough. A smartwatch needs to add more value, providing the wearer the right information, but also delving into the health and wellbeing potential of a sensor-packed device on your wrist,&quot; said Ben Wood Ben Wood, chief of research at CCS Insight.ButGoogle Nowdoes exactly that: with your permission (which has to be given explicitly), it learns from your actions, your travels, your searches, your emails, calendars, text messages and hobbies and notifies you with &quot;cards&quot; carrying information that is time, context and location-sensitive.At the end of your work day, it will start telling you about routes for your commute home, and whether trains are delayed or roads congested.Google Time concept by Adrian Maciburko of how a Google smartwatch could work. Photograph: Adrian MaciburkoIt can pull your flight information from your email and calendar tracking delays, popping up notifications for when to leave for the airport from your current location given the current traffic levels.Google Now also helps you on your commute, notifying of likely delays to your usual journey and suggesting various travel routes from which to choose based on your habitual modes of travel, and offering to keep people of your choosing updated on your progress automatically.When travelling outside of your hometown, Google Now becomes even more useful. It can pull in restaurant and attraction suggestions, currency conversion rates, public transport routes and maps guiding like a local would in a foreign land.It also tracks certain preset conditional information, such as the sports scores of your favourite teams, popping up alerts when someone scores a goal or wins a race.All these notifications are displayed only when deemed necessary by the event, your location, the time of day and even the day of the week.&quot;Google Now is useful. It&apos;s Google&apos;s evolution of search, trying to predict the information you might want- rather than waiting for you to type your query into a search box, it sends you suggestions and recommendations based on what it knows about you,&quot; explains Ian Maude, at Enders Analysis.Given more data such as a heart rate monitor, pedometer and activity tracker, Google Now could add physical wellbeing information to its data set.Truly worth wearingA smartwatch that not only collated but also learnt from its wearer&apos;s routines, only popping a notification when necessary – that would truly be worthy of the “smart” moniker.And that&apos;s the expectation - that “Gem” will rely heavily on Google Now, providing “serendipitous” information as well as phone alerts, while allowing push-button access to Google’s voice search.Google Now could be the making of an Android smartwatch, with access to a wealth of the user’s data to make it intelligent enough to learn what’s required and when.Google Time concept by Adrian Maciburko of how a Google smartwatch could work. Photograph: Adrian Maciburko&quot;What sits behind this is that the smartwatch could be the end point for a new wave of services like Google Now that leverage prediction based on the measurement, tracking and recording of where you are,&quot; explains Evans.&quot;Whether the piece of glass that shows you that information is in your pocket, on your wrist or strapped to your head [like Google Glass] is almost secondary to the collection and display of that data,&quot; he concludes.Google isn&apos;t the only company in a position to create this kind of experience, of course. Apple&apos;s Siri digital personal assistant works in much the same way, although it has far less focus on serendipitous information and more on providing answers to questions. Google Now relies on the enormous processing power, public data (such as transport timetables) and personalised information that Google can focus on the question of &quot;what does this person want to know now?&quot;Siri, by contrast, waits to be asked.Yet with its latest mobile operating system iteration, iOS 7, Apple has started displaying unprompted context-sensitive information based on your location within Notification Centre, including how long it will take you to get home. (Again, it&apos;s a permission-based system which requires the user to enable a &quot;favourite locations&quot; setting.)Apple's iOS 7 provides context-sensitive information within its Notification Centre on the iPhone.&quot;Apple has got smartwatches in the lab, but its executives are looking at them and asking &quot;do they make sense? Do they add value? Would you recommend one of these to your friends?&quot; The current answer is obviously, no, not yet, otherwise we&apos;d have an Apple iWatch strapped to our wrists,&quot; said Evans.Apple has long been rumoured to be working on an Apple iWatch, although itfailed to materialisein September at the launch of the iPhone 5S and 5C.Nor is Microsoft out of the running. Windows Phone devices will tell you how long it will take you to get to your next meeting, based on information from your calendar and location. (Again, it&apos;s opt-in.) That&apos;s driven by Nokia&apos;s maps information. The key is the back-end services, which have to understand what you&apos;ll probably want to do or know at any time. Arguably, Microsoft got there first with its SPOT watches - introduced in 2004, killed off in 2012 and turned off in 2012, just as the smartwatch revolution was beginning to get into gear.Smartwatches could be the smartphone of the wrist&quot;Smartwatches could be to the watch what the smartphone is to the phone - it could replace traditional timepieces and connect to a whole range of devices, not just phones,&quot; says Maude. &quot;But, for that to happen, smartwatches either need to provide something genuinely novel, something that adds value to your daily life that your smartphone, tablet or computer can&apos;t,&quot; he continued.There are certain conditions, both technological and economical, that need to be met first.The primary driver of a truly &quot;smart&quot; smartwatch will be battery technology, explained Maude:&quot;Battery technology is the key limiting factor right now - it&apos;s improving, but not anywhere near the rate of processor technology, which means that a device that could be powerful enough to do everything we want would only last about 3 hours on a single charge.&quot;The other condition is the price of the watch, &quot;at £300, the Galaxy Gear is a novelty - it will never be mass market,&quot; said Maude.&quot;Until the price of a smartwatch comes down to the point where it&apos;s actually competing with Swatch watches [£40-£100] or something like that, it&apos;s not going to be a mass market product,&quot; Maude concluded.• Samsung&apos;s Galaxy Gear:doomed to fail?
As an IT professional, I’ve been working with BlackBerry since its debut in black and white around the turn of the millennium. Once, BlackBerrys were the hottest property in my department, literally being worn out through overuse. Now? I’m seeing devices being returned by staff that are still in “as new” condition.So what went wrong for the company formerly known as Research In Motion, or RIM? What has changed over the last decade to affect sales quite so dramatically? Here is my perspective.Different times, different placesIn the late 1990s, the world was a very different place. Most people didn&apos;t have a mobile phone. Those that did hardly knew how to send a text message. People used to buy contracts that gave them 15 or perhaps 30 minutes of free calls a month. No texts were included; crucially, neither was data. We paid through the nose for those &quot;free&quot; minutes, and they were precious. The massive profit on voice allowed the carriers to offer massive subsidies on handsets, like the &quot;free&quot; Nokias that everybody had back then.If you wanted email on the move, your only option was a laptop and a dialup modem, which you would plug into a landline’s phone socket. Travelling sales reps would spend around half an hour each evening with their laptop plugged into a cable they had stolen from the hotel fax machine to avoid paying the ludicrous charges for using the phone in their hotel room. (Some things don’t change.)There was no real money to be made in mobile data back then; it was too slow. A GSM adaptor in a laptop provided just 0.009 megabits per second in today’s speeds. (9,600 bits per second, since you ask. Downloading a megabyte of data took about 25 minutes.Instead of data, all the telcos made their money from voice calls. A penny a minute for dial-up to the internet made millions for ISPs such as AOL and Freeserve. For mobile phone carriers, the core market was business users and their 100+ premium mobile minutes each month.Then RIM created BlackBerry. It allowed people to get their email on the move and, critically, it also acted as a phone. Business users climbed over each other to get to this new product, happily ditching their primitive Nokia devices in the process.Serve one, serve allOnce IT had set up the BlackBerry server, the only cost to the business user might be an extra tenner on their department&apos;s phone bill each month. Oddly, in many employers, phones had traditionally been supplied by Facilities or HR - not IT. Blackberry, in contrast, was purely an IT solution, like a laptop. The phone bills for the BlackBerry handsets therefore often ended up in a different cost centre, one with a much higher budget.For IT managers the main attraction was that for this minimal charge, the BlackBerry devices also somehow came with global unlimited data. Imagine being in the early part of this century, when 3G had only just been auctioned off but not yet enabled (and certainly not put into use) and being the IT manager who realised that. Instead of supplying global freephone numbers to racks full of analogue modems, you could simply give the management team a BlackBerry device for £40 per month. Better still, they didn’t need a £1500 IBM Thinkpad because these things had a keyboard..It was clearly a good harvest for BlackBerry. Suddenly RIM had this special, secure APN (Access Point Name - the gateway between the mobile network and the computer network) for which the carriers were prepared to pay a monthly fee on each connection. RIM didn&apos;t need to worry too much about handset profits; carriers would paying for those devices because they were desperate to get one of their SIMs into the BlackBerry of a global traveller.Why? Because if they succeeded, all of his or her £1+ per minute voice call business was theirs. If you could give a £600/mth Orange mobile phone user a “free” BlackBerry on Vodafone, all that voice business changed hands. For carriers, the “unlimited data” BlackBerry business was effectively a loss leader for voice, and they were making millions from it.Money for nothing, text for (almost) freeThen the SMS (aka texting) business took off and the carriers realised that, at 10p per text, there was millions more to be made. People were carrying over &quot;free&quot; minutes from one month to the next, but they simply couldn&apos;t get enough inclusive texts. The kids spent all day, every day, texting their friends; but for an extra tenner a month to BlackBerry, they could send unlimited text messages over BBM. BlackBerry became trendy and all the younger generation wanted one; they even started selling them in bright colours to meet the market.RIM made its money through carriers who wanted to dominate the uncapped voice market. It made more money from those same carriers who then wanted a large chunk of the SMS market.Fast forward to today, though, and I think the real problem BlackBerry have is not the consumers, it&apos;s those same carriers.Not carriedIn the current age - from the time since the “modern” smartphone has become available - and for carriers, voice minutes are worth nothing; all the money is in data. Likewise, texts have no value - which renders the advantage of BBM worthless. Everybody wants to boost their data business, as it&apos;s used by hungry apps on iPhone and Android smartphones. Customers now have rich email, using more data. They watch video on the bus. All this therefore makes the carriers more money.Businesses didn’t buy BlackBerry; they were sold them by the carriers as a solution. Likewise, consumers didn’t buy BlackBerry; the networks recommended them to those who sent a lot of texts.Unfortunately for Blackberry, it has lost its unique selling point (USP). Without one, it’s simply not going to be recommended by the sales representative at contract renewal time. The result - well, you can see for yourself. Any time you need totake out full-page ads to insist you&apos;re not dead, people are going to assume you&apos;re dying.
Within four hours of launching a Kickstarter project,three researchers from the Swiss university EPFL can tell whether it will succeed – with 76% accuracy(PDF).According to their paper, presented at theConference on Online Social Networks, Vincent Etter, Matthias Grossglauser and Patrick Thiran beats the current best estimates by 8 percentage points.An earlier paper by an American teamcan predict success with 68% percent accuracy.By combining information on the interest shown on the project on Twitter, the previous projects backed by supporters, and the number of first-time backers – as well as the all-important figure of how quickly money is coming in – the Swiss team achieve a marked boost in accuracy just a few hours into the project.The academics have also builta tool, &quot;Sidekick&quot;, applying their theoriesto live Kickstarter projects. HexFlex,a project to build a snowboarding adventure tool, launched eight hours ago and has already achieved 17% of its $10,000 funding, and Sidekick gives it a 92% chance of success. Buta four-song EP by indie rock artist Terri Moeller, launched at the same time, is only given a 16% chance, despite having already raised nearly a third of its desired $2,157.“The model reaches 85% accuracy after only 10% of the campaign [duration],” says Etter. “The accuracy is of course close to 100% near the end of the campaign, but this is pretty useless, as there is not much you can do at that point.”In a way, higher accuracy is just a way of breaking artist’s hearts quicker. If a project has failed to take off in the first few hours, the chance of it recovering is low. “It is not impossible to recover from a slow start,” Etter adds. “There are projects that took a while to take off, but that eventually made it. Nevertheless, I would say that if your project has still not taken off by the middle of the campaign, your chances are quite low.”The key difference between the Etter’s approach and the earlier paper, led by Michael Greenberg, is that the American team only looks at information available before the Kickstarter has been launched. It uses a large array of categories, including the project category, whether or not the campaign has a video uploaded, and how many rewards are offered, to calculate the likelihood of success.Taking them together, Etter offers some advice to would-be crowdfunders. “As shown by Greenberg&apos;s work, it is really important to put a lot of effort into the campaign itself: description, introduction video, rewards, etc. But once it has launched, you should try to maintain some activity on social networks.“This sounds trivial, but generating tweets about your project, by sharing updates, engaging backers, etc., is the best way to create attention and ultimately get people to back your project.“Moreover, one thing that comes out from the many descriptive studies on Kickstarter campaigns is that campaigns that fail usually ask for more money, over a longer time period (with the exception of video games, for which successful campaigns have a higher goal on average). So you should be realistic about what you ask.”But would-be inventors should also be realistic about their chances of success overall. Overall, only 44% of Kickstarter campaigns succeed, which means that simply assuming that every campaign will fail will still be correct more than half the time.•In June, Kickstarter was forced to ban &quot;seduction guides&quot; after a book which advised men to &quot;force her to rebuff your advances&quot; was funded one the site.
This week on Tech Weekly withAlek Krotoski, we discuss whyBrazil's president, Dilma Rousseff, is battling the US over control of the internet's infrastructure,Asda's foray into the 3D printing marketand the lack ofsecurity in some Wi-Fi routers and why that should concern us all.Joining Aleks in the podcast isJemima Kiss,head of technology at the Guardian, andCharles Arthur, the Guardian's technology editor.Charles meetsDave Coplin, director of search for Microsoft's Bing search engine in the UK. Dave discusses Bing's unique offering and why diversity in search is a good thing for us all. Also, Dave discusses recent research carried out by Bing in the UK into search preferences. For clarity around the statistics mentioned by Dave in the interview, we offer the following qualification from Bing;"Within the podcast, Dave Coplin states that the research with over 1,000 people revealed that when it comes web-search results, 39% preferred Bing, 32% preferred Google and 29% couldn't decide. This figure relates to the sum total of the number of times Bing was chosen as the preference at each step of the challenge. When you look at the broader numbers of how many people choose Bing overall, according to the results at the end of the overall challenge, the figure is much higher. UK users preferred Bing 53% of the time, while Google was chosen 34% of the time. Thirteen per cent couldn't decide which they preferred.For more information, see this blog post."
Telefónica has become the latest telecoms company to strike a partnership with a streaming music service, choosing Napster over rivals like Spotify and Deezer as its supplier of choice.Telefónica is taking an equity stake in Napster's parent company Rhapsody International, with the aim of bundling Napster into the mobile tariffs of its operators in Europe and Latin America.The deal will also see Telefónica close its Terra subsidiary's Sonora music service in Latin America, and encourage customers to switch over to Napster when it launches in the region on 1 November.The agreement between Telefónica and Rhapsody lays the groundwork for individual operators to start bundling Napster into their tariffs, but each subsidiary will be able to choose other music partners if it prefers.In Spain, for example, Telefónica's Movistar operator already has a deal with Spotify, while in the UK, O2 runs its own O2 Tracks service in partnership with startup MusicQubed. Telefónica sees the Napster deal as important for its launch of 4G mobile networks around the world."As we roll out more 4G networks in Europe and Latin America, it's these kinds of services we think our customers will be interested in," Stephen Shurrock, chief executive of new business ventures at Telefónica Digital, told The Guardian."We looked at all of the options for music service partners. With Napster, we think the product is very strong, for Latin America they have the right focus for local content, and they have very good relationships with the labels that we can build on and help take forward."Napster's launch of a HTML5-based app for smartphones running the Firefox OS software was also a factor in Telefónica's decision, with the telco looking to preload Napster on the Firefox OS devices it plans to launch in Brazil and other Latin American countries in the coming months.The Napster deal follows recent Telefónica partnerships with web services Evernote and Pinterest, which Shurrock said was a sign of how the mobile market has changed in recent years."What we want to do is bring value-added products to our service," he said. "It's very unlike how it was 5-6 years ago with the big walled gardens. That's not our perspective now: we want to be very open and do partnerships."The deal is good news for Rhapsody, one of the veterans of subscription music which has been overtaken in its homeland of the US by newer services like Spotify and Muve Music – the latter of which was launched by a mobile operator, Cricket Wireless.With around 1m subscribers in the US, Rhapsody is focusing heavily on international expansion, having acquired Napster's European business in January 2012. In June 2013, it launched Napster in 14 new European countries.Then in SeptemberRhapsody laid off 15% of its staffin a restructure intended to "accelerate its efforts in Europe and emerging markets". Rhapsody reported revenues of $143.7m and a net loss of $12.3m in 2012.Napster's partnerships with telcos won't affect its direct-to-consumer business"We will always continue with our direct-to-consumer business: it's really important to have a strong brand and product position in the market in order to win these kinds of telco deals," Rhapsody's senior vice president for Europe, Thorsten Schliesche, told The Guardian."At the same time, we have seen in previous deals with E-Plus in Germany and SFR in France that good, structured partnerships with mobile carriers can definitely help us to increase our business and gain the scale we would like."Schliesche added that Telefónica's operators will be able to choose from several possible ways to offer Napster to their customers, including as a standalone "bolt-on" to their monthly contracts, or by bundling the cost into those contracts."With E-Plus it's a complete bundle, which is very successful, but with SFR it's a bolt-on," he said. "We have seen the adoption rate and willingness to use it really increase with the bundle option, but of course in certain markets – particularly those where streaming is already popular in the market – the bolt-on could be the solution."Streaming music is emerging as one of the key selling points for 4G, alongside video. In the UK, Vodafone is offering new 4G customersa choice of Spotify or Sky Sports Mobileas part of their contracts, while EE has a partnership with rival service Deezer, building on that company's historically-close relationship with Orange.Music industry research firm Midia Consulting recently published a report claiming that there are nownearly 50 telco music service partnerships worldwide, suggesting that "if a telco puts a music service front and centre and positions around it then success is far more likely".In Sweden, Spotify's partnership with operator Telia Sonera has made that service genuinely mainstream. Schliesche is hoping for similar growth for Napster from its Telefónica deal."Music streaming is stepping out from its niche market into the mass market, and on its way to that mass market there will be great opportunities," he said, adding that while Spotify and Deezer may be the biggest streaming services globally, they can still be challenged. "I don't think the market is done yet."
Hot on the heels ofAngry Birds Star Wars II, Finnish firm Rovio has announced plans for its next game.Angry Birds Go!breaks out of the bird-hurling formula though: it's a Mario Kart-style karting game.It will be released on 11 December for iOS, Android, Windows Phone 8 and BlackBerry 10 devices, making it Rovio's most ambitious cross-platform launch yet. Like Angry Birds Star Wars II, there'll be physical "Telepods" toys capable of being scanned in to the game, as well as a blitz of licensed products.Angry Birds Go! will also be Rovio's first game "built from the ground up as a free-to-play title", with revenues coming entirely from in-app purchases and advertising. Neither is new to the Angry Birds series, but until now the games have only been free-to-play on Android.Rovio originallyannounced plans for Angry Birds Go! in Junewith a teaser animation, but revealed full details at this week's Brand Licensing Europe conference in London, while publishing a gameplay trailer on YouTube:So, Angry Birds Go! versus Mario Kart. Even talking about these two games in the same breath may see steam coming out of the ears of hardcore Nintendo fans. But here are a few reasons why it's not a ridiculous idea at all.First, Mario Kart isn't available on the billion-ish Android and iOS devices that are currently out there in the wild, so there's no direct competition here. Rovio may be racing onto Nintendo's turf in terms of genre, but for devices, this is the Finnish firm's home territory.Second, there's a generation of children growing up who've not played Mario Kart, don't own a DS or 3DS, but who a.) love Angry Birds and b.) have access to a smartphone or tablet to play games on. They're ripe for Rovio's brand to spread its wings into other genres.Here's an interesting tag cloud from a recent survey by children's marketing firm SuperAwesome, which asked British children what present they'd most like to unwrap on Christmas morning:This is a big part of the potential audience for Angry Birds Go. Squint, and you'll spot Nintendo, Pokemon and other traditional gaming brands.These kids don't come with preconceptions that Mario Kart is the yardstick by which all other karting games should be judged, and even if their Apple-dominated present requests turn out to be wishful thinking, they'll be able to play Rovio's next game on theirTesco Hudl,Amazon Kindle Fire,Argos MyTabletor whatever other device ends up in their stocking.British telecoms regulator Ofcom's recentChildren and Parents: Media Use and Attitudesreport claimed that 42% of British 5-15 year-olds now use a tablet, and 23% of them play games on it. That's still less than the 60% of 5-15 year-olds using a dedicated handheld games device, but the latter percentage has fallen from 69% in 2012:Ofcom's stats comparing devices that children use to play games at homeThat's some context to the suggestion that Angry Birds Go! should be seen as a viable challenger to Mario Kart, particularly for younger gamers. Of course, the game itself will have to be excellent: the trailer makes it look good, but that's what trailers are designed to do.One final point on the risks for Rovio, though. Angry Birds has fans of all ages, but a lot of them are children, which is why going fully free-to-play has to be handled carefully by the company.You've been able to buy power-ups in Angry Birds games for a long time now, and they were more to the fore in Angry Birds Star Wars II than ever. But with regulators scrutinising children's apps' use of in-app purchases carefully, Angry Birds Go! has a challenge ahead.To put it another way: no child ever spent £1,000 of parental cash on mushrooms in Mario Kart. Going free-to-play with a new genre is a big opportunity for Rovio, but it will be firmly in mind that the Angry Birds brand it created from scratch is trusted by parents around the world. Keeping that trust will be the company's priority.
Ah, the Isle of Skye, famed for its incredible natural beauty, it's huddled towns, it's looming castles – and now for its association with blockbusting video game franchise, Skylanders. In a bizarre yet no doubt canny joint marketing exercise, the jewel of the Inner Hebrides has been virtually twinned with Skylands, the fantasy setting of the Skylanders series, which has made over $1.5bn (£935m) in revenue for publisher Activision. The announcement marks the imminent release of the latest title, Skylanders: Swap Force."The Isle of Skye is renowned for its stunning landscapes, which possess an almost ethereal quality, and its abundance of wildlife, making it the perfect place to virtually twin with Skylands, home to Skylanders Swap Force," said VisitScotland's Alan Mackenzie."We're thrilled to be teaming up with the Skylanders franchise for this unique partnership, which will help raise the profile of this beautiful part of the world, encouraging families to enjoy a real-life adventure on the Isle of Skye – nowhere else on Earth comes close!"The Skylanders games pitch an array of fantastical creatures against the evil portal master Kaos, in a series of child-friendly adventures. The game is famed for its compatibility with a  range of action figures, which can be placed on a 'portal of power' (or 'plastic USB peripheral'), thereby transferring their digital likeness into the onscreen action. Wash Buckler, one of the new characters from the Swap Force game has apparently visited the island in a sort of diplomatic mission."We're thrilled to welcome the Skylanders characters to the Highlands," said councillor Thomas Prag of the Highland council's planning environment and development committee. "This is an unusual project, as we can't sign an actual deed of twinning due to the limitations getting paper work to the Skylands."Anyway, it is certainly more amusing than the time the BBC One Show twinned itself with my home town of Frome. Plus, this story naturally got us thinking about other possible twinning endeavours between real and video game locations. This is the best we could come up with at short notice:Four other possible twins between real and video game locationsOakvale, the Fable seriesA quaint seaside town in the fictitious land of Albion, famed as the birthplace of the game's lead protagonist.Oak Vale, MississippiA quaint inland town in the south of the state, between Lawrence and Jefferson Davis counties, famed for … well, it has quite a nicehistorical FaceBook page. The drug store looks like something out of Deadwood!Ironforge, World of WarcraftThe capital city of the dwarves, ruled over by heroic hammer-wielding monarch, Magni BronzebeardIronbridge, ShropshireDelightful market town, ruled over by heroic Telford and Wrekin council partnership.Liberty Country, Georgia"Residents can swim in the ocean and cast shrimp nets in the marshes," says the local website.Liberty City, Grand Theft Auto IVResidents can steal cars, join underworld criminal fraternities, rob banks … and dispose of bodies in the heavily polluted Humboldt river.Raccoon Township, PennsylvaniaA small rural community in the southern part of Beaver County, mostly populated by farmers.Raccoon City, Resident Evil seriesAn isolated industrial city in the midwestern United States, mostly populated by ravenous, brain-eating zombies and poorly equipped special forces operatives.Can you do better? Add your own suggestions in the comments section below
Amazon is working with HTC to produce a range of Android-powered smartphones according to a report.According to people familiar with the projecttalking to the FT, Amazon and HTC have three devices on their product roadmap, with one likely to be released in 2014.Amazon has long been rumoured to be working on a smartphone to pair with its Kindle Fire range of Android tablets to compete with offerings from Google and Apple.HTC risks expulsion from Google&apos;s OHAIf HTC has worked with with Amazon to produce a &quot;forked&quot; version of Google&apos;s Android operating system on the phones, then it could face expulsion from the Open Handset Alliance (OHA) - aconsortium of mobile phone makersand networks whose stated purpose is to &quot;accelerate innovation in mobile and offer consumers a richer, less expensive, and better mobile experience&quot;.As part of the OHA, HTC gains free access to Google’s Android software. It also means HTC can gain Google certification for its Android devices allowing them to come pre-loaded with access to Google Play and its 850,000 standard Android apps, as well as Google’s Android app suite, which includes Chrome, Gmail, Calendar, Maps and Search.Amazon &quot;forked&quot; Android to produce the software powering its Kindle Fire tablets in 2012, so that they would access its own app store, not Google&apos;s. The Kindle Fire range uses Microsoft&apos;s Bing for its search engine, maps from Nokia, and its own Silk browser.Previous attempts by another OHA member, Acer, to produce a smartphone with a different variant of Android produced by China’s Alibaba, resulted in aclash with Googlewhich saw Acer abruptly pull out of its partnership with Alibaba.For HTC, which dipped to a heavy loss in the third quarter, the threat of being forced out of the OHA could be double-edged. It is losing ground in the Android space in the west to Samsung&apos;s larger marketing spend and phone range, and has set its sights on China - where Google&apos;s Android is used on only a tiny percentage of smartphone handsets, most of which run the Android Open Source Platform (AOSP) without Google services.Back to its rootsFounded in 1997 in Taiwan, HTC started life designing and manufacturing devices, such as mobile phones and PDAs based on Microsoft’s Windows Mobile operating system, for distribution by mobile phone operators like Orange in the UK as own-brand products.By partnering with Amazon and making smartphones to be sold under the Amazon brand, HTC would be returning to its roots after branching out with its own HTC-branded smartphones in 2009.• In October, HTC launched the latest in its One smartphone line and its first &quot;phablet&quot;, the5.9in HTC One Max.
Ubisoft has announced that two of its key forthcoming releases, Watch Dogs and The Crew, have been delayed. In an investor conference-call on Tuesday, the publisher suggested that both of the ambitious projects needed more development time.Cyberpunk surveillance thriller Watch Dogs was due to be a launch title on the forthcoming PlayStation 4 and Xbox One machines. However, all versions of the title, including current gen iterations, have been delayed until spring 2014."Our ambition from the start with Watch Dogs has been to deliver something that embodies what we wanted to see in the next generation of gaming," Ubisoft announced in a statement. "It is with this in mind that we've made the tough decision to delay the release."The game, which takes place in an open-world alternative version of Chicago and allows players to hack into city computer networks, was considered one of the most intriguing third-party titles in the next-gen launch lineup. Ubisoft has high hopes for the title, expecting it to potentially outsell the respected Assassin's Creed series.Meanwhile, the publisher's pan-American open-world racing game, The Crew, which brings massively-multiplayer adventure elements to the driving genre, has been delayed from spring to summer/autumn 2014. "Our long-term goal is to win the next generation," explained Ubisoft CEO Yves Guillemot in a statement."The tough decisions we are taking today to fully realise the major potential of our new creations have an impact on our short-term performance. We are convinced that, longer term, they will prove to be the right decisions both in terms of satisfaction for our fans and in terms of value creation for our shareholders. We are building franchises that will become perennial pillars of Ubisoft's financial performance."As a result, the publisher hasrevised downits revenue projections for the fiscal year, chopping $560m (£349m) from the original expectations of $1.94bn. Consumers who have pre-ordered special Watch Dogs bundle packages of the next-gen consoles are being reassured that they won't lose their places in the queue. In the states, Amazon and Gamestophave statedthat they will honour pre-orders by swapping out the bundled game for another title. We're waiting to hear similar assurances from UK retailers.What the delays show are the pressures of producing original products in the console transition period, when current and forthcoming hardware have to be supported by development teams.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Pokemon X &amp; Y sell 4m in opening weekend | MCVSome impressive figures from the world of Pokemon:The games – the first entries in the Pokemon series on 3DS – sold 4m units between them on Saturday October 12th and Sunday October 13th.And Friday October 11th in the UK.The impressive number is a new record for the series, although of course that is largely to do with the fact that it's the first time a new Pokemon entry has released simultaneously worldwide.The pair also became the fastest selling 3DS games of all time.GameFreak director Junichi Masuda has teased a Wii U outing in the past, but Nintendo could really do with some Poke-magic on its home console system...Is Dark Souls 2 going soft? | Eurogamer.netGuardian regular Simon Parkin hits the dark Souls 2 beta and finds to his shock that he is unable to kill the first shopkeeper he stumbles across – a common feature in most narrative adventure games, but not in Dark Souls. Uh-oh, has the series gone mainstream?It's a fear exacerbated by the introduction of life gems, glowing pick-ups dropped at random by enemies that regenerate some of your character's health without the need to drink a draft from your precious Estus flask (the main non-magical ways in which to restore your character's life in the previous game). As the Estus Flask could only be refilled by resting at one of the game's intermittent bonfires, one of the few sanctuaries in the Dark Souls universe, life gems appear to be a generous concession to struggling players.Don't worry though, things go back to normal after this...Image reveals the 2DS is just one giant display behind its casing | Geek.comA rather amusing discovery about the new 2DS hardware:It may surprise you to find the 2DS does not contain two displays, even though looking at the device suggests there are two. Nope, as predicted what Nintendo has done is to use one giant screen, but use the casing to block most of it from view.But why?Well, it's likely because such a setup works out cheaper than placing two separate displays and double the wiring and supporting components required to make them work. And lets face it, unless you decide to dismantle your 2DS, you'd never know.Must. Not. Dismantle. 2DS.Modern Warfare 2 is Amazon UK's biggest seller | GamesIndustry InternationalTo celebrate its 15th birthday, Amazon UK has revealed the top ten biggest selling video games on the site. Only one surprise here:Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2Call of Duty: Black OpsCall of Duty: Modern Warfare 3Grand Theft Auto VCall of Duty: Black Ops IIFIFA 10FIFA 13FIFA 12The Elder Scrolls V: SkyrimZumba FitnessZumba Fitness?! I'd forgotten what a huge hit this was a couple of years ago!NYCC: Bayonetta 2 is Wild, Wicked, and Completely Unbelievable | IGNEarlier this week, Nintendo was showing off the latest Bayonetta 2 gameplay at the new York Comic Con:Meanwhile, the rest of the world spun around in the distance. In the midst of this out-of-control thrill ride, the developer's intent becomes clear: Bayonetta, and her snazzy new hairdo, sit at the center of the action. And god forbid if you're her opponent.Here it is:Pretty lively.Just Dance 2014 - The Power of Pop Music | PASTE.COMIt's another regular Guardian contributor - this time Cara Ellison, on Ubisoft's dance game and the power of pop:There's still something delicately placed, finely tuned, almost manipulative about most big trashy pop beats. There's a time, isn't there, when you swagger into a place where the bass is so loud and thrilling and magnetising that everyone forgets that they were halfway through a sentence and are drawn, hypnotised, into the lights. There are moments where you look over and smile because the sweaty limbs you are seeing could be completely mistaken for your own.Just go and have a look at the photo of Cara, though. All the model's own clothes...You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
When you try to visualise the cloud, what comes to mind? Despite knowing that the information we upload to file-hosting services such as Dropbox and iCloud is held in vast server farms in deepest Oregon or the chilliest reaches of Scandinavia, I still find myself picturing a big grey-white cumulus puff of data swirling around overhead. I suspect I'm not alone.Now a different picture is beginning to form. Earlier this month, I tried a new "personal cloud" storage device from Western Digital. Imagine, reducing one of those server farms to an object the size of a thick paperback, which plugs into your router at home, and you've gotMy Cloud. It differs from a standard external hard drive in that it's networked – you can access your files remotely over mobile data or wi-fi on a variety of devices, including phones and tablets – and it differs from file-hosting services in that you are the host and your cloud is occupied only by those with whom you choose to share.For the slightly befuddled cloud user with information strewn across a number of services – I use Dropbox and Google Drive for important documents,iCloud for musicand a hard drive to back everything up – My Cloud appears attractive for several reasons. It promises tidiness, security – using 128-bit encryption to protect files in transit and password protection on the box – and accessibility at a reasonable price.The 2TB model costs £129.99, whereas 200GB of storage onDropbox costs £125 a year(though cheaper file-hosting options exist). It is by no means the first of its kind: network-attached storage (NAS) devices have been around for years and there are other storage products on the market offering remote access and media streaming. What sets My Cloud apart, says the manufacturer, is its accessibility, and how "cloud-centric" it is: the mobile app integrates with Dropbox and Google Drive, among others. WD are also keen to emphasise how easy it is to set up.Back at home, I plug in the glossy white box and download set-up software from the WD website. Within minutes, it's up and running on my laptop. I upload some content: a few Talking Heads tracks, a photograph of London in the mist, an old Word document. Then I download the My Cloud app on to my phone and step outside. The interface is simple and Psycho Killer plays after a second's delay. I'm impressed. A day later I'm still impressed, though a tad beleaguered. It's my own fault for being a hoarder, but my iTunes library took 12 hours to upload, and I haven't even started on photos, videos and documents. My broadband and mobile providers are to blame for patchy service, but accessing my content, whether at home or across town, is not always so seamless. When I urge my wife to commit her entire digital existence to My Cloud, she asks what happens if the box breaks or someone steals it. Unlike some other NAS devices, My Cloud has only a single drive, which means you need an external backup in case it dies. The answer is to buy a second backup hard drive and store it in a separate location safe from theft. By the time I work this out, my wife has gone to bed."The big selling point with devices like these is security," says Daniel Bangs of London-based tech consultancy LeftBrain. "If you're the kind of person who isn't comfortable having your data in the cloud, then I guess it's a good idea." However, instead of making life easier, he says that the device could complicate matters, especially if you're pairing it with other cloud services and hard drives. "It's an extra piece of equipment you have to maintain. Ultimately, it's worth considering how secure you need your files to be."A week later, I'm still using My Cloud. Perhaps it's because I've invested so much time loading it up, or because the idea of having my data at home is preferable to entrusting it to some faraway corporation. Either way, it's certainly better than the patchwork arrangement I had before. And my conception of the cloud is that little bit more solid now than it was a week ago.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMIIT to Implement App Pre-Installation Regulations &gt;&gt; Marbridge Consulting - China Wireless NewsOn November 1, China's Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT) will begin enforcement of regulations for pre-installed smartphone handset software. The regulations were first released in April 2013.According to the new requirements, mobile terminal manufacturers applying for handset network access permits will be required to provide information about all preloaded handset software to the MIIT for vetting. As part of the new rules, handset manufacturers are prohibited from pre-installing any software that will collect or modify user information without the expressed permission of the user.Wonder who this is aimed at.Amazon plans entry into smartphone market with HTC &gt;&gt; FT.comNice scoop by Tim Bradshaw, Sarah Mishkin and Barney Jopson:Amazon is working with HTC to develop a range of smartphones as the e-commerce company steps up efforts to compete with Apple and Google, according to people familiar with the project.One of the three devices discussed by the two companies is at an advanced stage of development, according to one person, but another warned that the timeline for launch has been changed before and Amazon may yet decide not to release the device.HTC started out making phones for other people to brand... though it had a calamity earlier this year with the HTC First for Facebook.iPhone 5s vs Peppa Pig phone head-to-head review &gt;&gt; Tech Advisor BlogNeil Bennett:The iPhone 5s is still the most desirable phone on the market. It's still unavailable – order one today and you'll get it sometime later this month, which only adds to its cachet as the smartphone we all wish we owned.We got our hands on one and you can read our in-depth reviewhere, but in this review I look at how it stacks up against the current most popular model in our household – at least with my two-year-old daughter Alice – the Peppa Pig phone.Multicolr Search Lab &gt;&gt; TinEye LabsWe extracted the colors from 10 million Creative Commons images on Flickr. Search this collection by color. Addictive and very likely the best color search engine in the world*Totally brilliant. Need a picture to match a colour palette? This will find one you can use.OmniVision unveils OmniGlass, lets just about anyone come out with a Google Glass clone &gt;&gt; Android BeatStefan Constantinescu:OmniGlass is essentially a Google Glass clone, sans software. Companies give OmniVision money, and in exchange they'll get a 720p heads-up display and a 4 megapixel camera. Now again, I can't stress this enough, it's going to be up to the companies to write the software to make OmniGlass shine. You can put Windows 98 on Apple's highest end laptop, for example, but no one will want to use it. It's all about the software, and OmniGlass will be no different.Circling back to Google, when are they actually going to let you buy Glass? Rumor has it it's a product for the second half of 2014, which is a bit funny, since there are also rumors saying Samsung will release their own Glass clone during the first half. It shouldn't take a rocket scientist to figure out which one will be worth buying and which one will be mocked.Letting anyone roll their own (Google) Glass makes this much more interesting.Thousands of sites hacked via vBulletin hole &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityBrian Krebs:Attackers appear to have compromised tens of thousands of web sites using a security weakness in sites powered by the forum software vBulletin, security experts warn.In a blog post in late August, vBulletin maker Internet Brands Inc. warned users that failing to remove the "/install" and "/core/install" directories on sites running 4.x and 5.x versions of the forum software could render them easily hackable. But apparently many vBulletin-based sites didn't get that memo: According to security firm Imperva, more than 35,000 sites were recently hacked via this vulnerability.People don't change defaults - even people who are setting up websites and so might be thought of as specialist.Interactive News Graphics Collection &gt;&gt; Marike RoozeTons of interactive news graphics from The Guardian and New York Times. (The NYT has been pretty busy.) Thehome pageis pretty entertaining too.Teasing out the lies in SSD benchmarking &gt;&gt; LSI BlogKent Smith:You can see that running only a few minutes of random write tests on this SSD logs performance of over 275 MB/s. However, once garbage collection starts, performance plunges and then takes up to 3 hours before the true performance of 25 MB/s (a 90% drop) is finally evident – a phenomenon that often is not communicated clearly in reviews nor widely understood.Good benchmarkers will discuss how their review factors in both garbage collection preparation and steady-state performance testing. Test results that purportedly achieve steady state in less time than in the example above are unlikely to reflect real-world performance. This is all part of what is called SSD preconditioning, but keep in mind that different tests require different steps for preconditioning.Follow the link and he has a whole PDF of his presentation on how to spot SSD benchmark fibbing, if that's your sort of thing.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
London’s Tech City is getting its first mainland Chinese firm, now that mobile gaming company Rekoo is moving to the capital and building a new development team.The company is one of China’s leading mobile game firms, with 500 employees across Asia and 20 million active daily players worldwide. As well as China, it also has a subsidiary in Japan which opened in 2009 and employs 30 people.To begin with, Rekoo will hire 10 people to work out of its tech city offices, but plans to expand this to 25 within three years. The staff members in the new office will market the games to European consumers, but also be involved in localisation work.“As a leading light in China’s tech scene, Rekoo’s decision is another huge boost for the capital’s digital industries,” said the Mayor of London Boris Johnson. “Making the most of the great minds, talented workforce, and market opportunities within immediate access of our Tech City makes absolute sense which is why London is fast becoming the digital capital of the world.”As well as convincing Rekoo to come to the UK, Tech City has also been instrumental in getting it set up so quickly. The company has already appointed a European MD, Tony Hughes, and is moving into a full-service office in Shoreditch. “They just have to plug in the computers, and they’re going,” said David Slater of London and Partners, the capital’s official promotional organisation.“This is a company with 200 million users,” Slater added. “When you’ve got a customer base like that, they can choose anywhere in the world to build their global business. They’ve chosen London, not only London but Tech City, which I think is a great vote of confidence for the Tech City initiative.”Rekoo is one of the first Chinese companies to provide games on Facebook, a platform which is still struggling to penetrate the mainland. In its IPO prospectus last year, the social network said its market share in the country was almost zero, and home-grown alternatives like WeChat have filled in the gap.Moving onto Facebook is evidence of Rekoo’s outward expansion, but Slater emphasises the “two way relationship” Rekoo Europe will have. “We’ve got 100 million people in asia who are potential customers for UK developed games… the opportunity it gave as a channel for UK exporters was always part of that greater plan for Rekoo.”The company’s most popular game,Find Something, has been played by 100 million gamers, and is already available on the Android app store in the UK, France and Italy.
Apple has officially announced a 22 October event in San Francisco&apos;s Yerba Buena Centre at 10am PDT (6pm BST).The invite&apos;s tagline &quot;we still have a lot to cover&quot; suggests that Apple will touch on multiple products at the event.Coming almost exactly a year after it last refreshed its iPad line and introduced the iPad mini, the new models are expected to have a slimmer and lighter design than the current generation. The 9.7in iPad is expected to get a thinner body and bezels, to match the design of the iPad mini. It is also expected to run Apple&apos;s new64-bit A7 chip, and could includeApple&apos;s Touch ID fingerprint sensorintroduced in the iPhone 5S in September.TheiPad miniis also expected to be updated with a higher-resolution display - although there are mixed reports about whether it will move to a &quot;retina&quot; display.Even before the sale date had formally been announced, the retailer John Lewis forecast last Wednesday that the iPad mini will be its best-selling technology device this Christmas. It reckons it will outpace Microsoft&apos;s Xbox One for sales. But it forecast that Samsung&apos;s Tab 3 tablet and Google&apos;s Nexus 7 will be the third and fourth best-selling.Expectations are also high that Apple will announce the release of the latest version of its desktop software,OSX &quot;Mavericks&quot;, whichrecently completed its testing phase, and set a date for the release of the new Mac Pro desktop computer. The latter was trailed in June, and will be the first update to the Mac Pro line since June 2012.Recent rumours alsosuggestthat the MacBook Pro line might receive an update with Intel&apos;s latest generation &quot;Haswell&quot; processors.• iPad 5: What to expect
Google users are changing their Google+ profile pictures to photos of Eric Schmidt, the company’s executive chairman, in protest against its plan to use customer information in adverts.From 11 November, Google will share users&apos; recommendations and reviews with their friends, in what the company is calling “shared endorsements”.A five star review of an album that a person leaves on the Google Play store could in future appear next to an advert for it, or a &quot;+1&quot; given to a restaurant could be shown next to that location’s paid result in maps.Users can opt out of having their picture and details used by changing a setting - but the default is that people are opted in to having their data used.But as an alternative method of protest against the changes, some users have changed their profile pictures on Google+ to that of Eric Schmidt, the company&apos;s executive chairman and former chief executive.More Eric Schmidts, including the real Eric Schmidt. Photograph: Google+“I changed my profile photo,”writes one such user, John Greer. “Now Eric Schmidt can know how much Eric Schmidt and, if you help, Eric Schmidt enjoy his wonderful product.”Another, Cathy McLaren, writes“Eric Schmidt can use his own photo in Google adverts, not mine!”The specific change in policy which comes in to play on 11 November isa new paragraph in the company’s terms and conditions, which says:If you have a Google Account, we may display your Profile name, Profile photo, and actions you take on Google or on third-party applications connected to your Google Account (such as +1’s, reviews you write and comments you post) in our Services, including displaying in ads and other commercial contexts. We will respect the choices you make to limit sharing or visibility settings in your Google Account. For example, you can choose your settings so your name and photo do not appear in an ad.Some may find that they have already opted out of the policy change. That is because Google applies the same privacy settings it had for a previous sharing option to the new one.If a user has already opted-out of making allowing their +1s to appear in ads, then they are automatically opted out of the new shared endorsements as of 11 November.Those users changing their profile pictures to Eric Schmidt’s face may be better off if they just opt out of shared endorsements. The company is known for enforcinga strict real-name policy, and itsrules against impersonationrequire parodies to be “clearly labelled”.It is not known whether Eric Schmidt has opted out of having his name and picture used in endorsements via Google+.•To blockthe use of your personal views in endorsements, go to theshared endorsement settingsand uncheck the box beside the text &quot;Based upon my activity, Google may show my name and profile photo in shared endorsements that appear in ads.&quot;
Steve Jobs believed he was a reincarnated second world war fighter pilot and his early success turned him into a “demon”, according to a new memoir by his former girlfriend and the mother of his eldest child.“He’d tell me how, when driving, he felt a strong impulse to pull the steering wheel back as if for takeoff,” Chrisann Brennan, the Apple guru’s first long-time girlfriend claims in her book, The Bite in the Apple: A Memoir of My Life With Steve Jobs.According to an exclusiveextract published in the New York Post,Jobs had the “unadorned glamour from the 1940s. He loved the big-band sound of Tommy Dorsey, Benny Goodman and Count Basie. At the first Apple party he even danced like he was from the 40s.”Brennan and Jobs met in 1972 when they were both students at Homestead high school in Cupertino, California. They dated on and off for five years and lived together with their friend Daniel Kottke, a computer engineer and one of the earliest employees of Apple.Their relationship ended on a sour note in late 1977, after Brennan became pregnant with their daughter. Jobs denied paternity, claiming he was infertile, although a paternity test in 1979 proved he was the father. In 1983 he told Time magazine “28% of the male population in the United States could be the father.”Brennan paints a picture of a driven man whose deep interest in spirituality was combined with a dismissive attitude to people and tasks he thought were beneath him. In restaurants he would order the same meal time and again and complain about the side sauces.Brennan writes that as Apple took off, so did Jobs’ ego. His “behaviors didn’t improve with success: they changed from adolescent and dopey to just plain vicious,” she writes.“Steve would run down the waitstaff like a demon, detailing the finer points of good service, which included the notion that ‘they should be seen only when he needed them.’ Steve was uncontrollably critical. His reactions had a Tourette’s quality — as if he couldn’t stop himself,” Brennan writes.He would be sarcastic toward the restaurant staff. “The host would say, &apos;Two?&apos; and Steve would reply, &apos;No, 15!&apos; driving for the implicit &apos;duh!&apos;&quot; she writes.At the same time, Jobs was spending an increasing amount of time with long-time spiritual adviser, Japanese Zen master Kobun Chino Otogawa. “I would wake up to find Steve gently ecstatic, speaking to me in symbolic language with the Zen master’s distinct speech pattern. A number of times he spoke to me about how he had been given ‘five brilliant flowers,’” she writes. Brennan believe she was one of the “flowers”.Jobs tried to take over Brennan’s spiritual development too. He took LSD with her and tried to get her to shout “Mummy. Daddy. Mummy, Daddy” in primal scream therapy while they were high, she writes. “The fact that he had never gone through primal therapy himself didn’t seem to concern him. It was that Pygmalion thing again,” she writes.Jobs began work on the Apple Lisa in the year of his daughter’s birth. As he denied paternity he claimed Lisa was an acronym for Local Integrated Software Architecture. He later told biographer Walter Isaacson: “Obviously, it was named for my daughter.” She later reconciled with her father.The Bite in the Apple will be published by St Martin&apos;s Press on October 29.
Like most Americans of my generation – born in 1973 – I learned about civics from television. On Saturday mornings, our diet of cartoons was regularly interrupted forSchoolhouse Rock, three-minute animated musical lessons on science, grammar and the workings of government. I know that a bill can die in committee before coming to the House for a vote because I can still sing "I'm Just a Bill", an incurable earworm and a pretty thorough overview of America's federal legislative process. We don't teach civics this way anymore and that's probably a good thing. Today'sSchoolhouse Rockwould have to explain why part of Congress shut down the US government in a tantrum over a law they didn't like, which is hard to accomplish in three stanzas, and worse, "intransigence" doesn't rhyme with anything.It's hard to teach civics in three-minute snippets because the way we participate in civic life is changing shape – and changing very quickly. The vision of participatory citizenship that I grew up with – read a newspaper, vote in elections and if you're really incensed, write to your congressional representative – is utterly unpersuasive and unappealing to the students I teach. Digital natives, born and raised in an atmosphere of interactivity, they are acutely aware of how insensitive most governments are to participation and how little meaningful interaction they can expect from their elected representatives and other government officials.This distaste for participation in dysfunctional political systems is easily misread as apathy, leading legislators and educators to declare "a crisis in civics" as young people participate in elections at a much lower rate than their parents. But that misses a key shift: digital natives are participating in civic life in ways where they feel they can have an impact and these points of impact are often outside government.Take Carmen Rios, 22, a student who became incensed by sexual violence in American high schools when she read about a young woman in Steubenville, Ohio who was raped by her peers, who posted photos and videos of the incident online. She decided to work with athletes, notably a Colby College football player, to address concerns that high-school athletic culture was breeding a sense of entitlement and domination that could lead to rape. They petitioned high-school sports coaches to teach sexual assault prevention as part of their work with athletes. After obtaining 70,000 signatures through online campaigns, theNational Federation of State High School Associations, a national association of coaches, telephoned Rios and her fellow activists to seek their help in implementing a plan.Or considerThe Harry Potter Alliance, a group of teen and twenty-something fans of JK Rowling's books and movies, who are organising online, and search for ways to live out the values of Harry Potter and Dumbledore's army here in the muggle world. Their past campaigns have purchased thousands of books for underfunded public libraries and sent planeloads of health supplies for Haitian crisis response. Now they're working to persuade Warner Bros to buy Fairtrade chocolate for the sweets sold as tie-ins to the movies, bombarding the company with "howlers", open, digital letters that demand it consider the ethical concerns of Harry Potter's fans. Or look to the "Dream" activists, who've responded to congressional inaction on immigration reform by personalising the issue, "coming out" as "undocumented and unafraid". YouTube is filled with videos of young activists telling their stories – one young woman explains that she learned she was not a US citizen only when she applied to college and discovered she would need to pay an out-of-state fee as she was a citizen of Guatemala, a country she left in infancy.The little progress the Obama administration has made towards creating a path to citizenship for involuntary immigrants has come through the steady pressure of the Dream movement, not just on government officials, but on news and cultural media, demanding a fairer narrative about immigration. Not every digital native is an engaged, active citizen (and not every young person is a digital native) and not every online campaign has an impact. But it's too easy to dismiss digitally rooted activism as naive "slacktivism". Online activism is having an impact, but it often focuses in areas outside formal political participation. Civic participation of the young uses a broad suite of tools to affect a wide range of targets. Coders write open-source security software in the hope of frustrating NSA surveillance, while community organisers fund neighbourhood gardens through Kickstarter. This emergent civics targets governments, corporations, communities and the media. It harnesses social media, crowdfunding, social entrepreneurship and open-source software as well as law and politics, to bring about change.No wonder it's hard to get our heads around it. We're moving from a vision of civics that's party-based and partisan to one that's personal and pointillist. Parties offer a way to have an opinion (often an ill-informed one) on every issue, while participatory civics centres on issues that people are passionate about. While my generation tends to see the world in terms of issues important to Republicans or Democrats, my students often see the world in terms of the issues their friends care about, a political identity built on the passions of people important to them.This isn't civics in crisis – it's civics in flux, civics that's changing with the people who practise it. My generation is learning about civics from the generation following ours and I'm grateful that digital natives have not given up either on changing the world, or teaching their parents and professors how it works.Ethan Zuckerman directs thecenter for civic media at Massachusetts Insititute of Technologyand is a principal research scientist atMIT Media Laband co-founder of citizen media communityGlobal Voicesand author of Rewire: Digital Cosmopolitans in the Age of Connection, published by WW Norton
A Google-backed file sharing service has been discovered spreading malware to thousands of Windows and Android users.An investigation by security company Eset has revealed that Xunlei has been spreading malware named “Win32/Kankan” to Windows and Android users, signed with the company’s security certificate.The malware is classed as a Trojan, andonly affected Chinese users, according to Eset.“The company officially admitted during a press conference that some of its employees have used company resources to create and distribute this program. The degree to which Xunlei Networking Technologies is implicated is hard to tell from the outside,” said Joan Calvet from Esetin a blog post.The Xunlei software is very popular in China and has about 30% of world BitTorrent users, making it themost used BitTorrent clientfor the service, which allowspeer-to-peer file sharing. The BitTorrent protocol breaks each file to be shared into small chunks and sends them across the internet between computers. Parts of the complete file can be hosted on many different computers, and the whole reconstructed by pulling the parts from different machines.Effectively evading detectionIt is unclear how the malware, which was specifically programmed to avoid detection by security software and analysts, was initially spread.A “dropper” program named “INPEnhSetup.exe” posed as a Windows installer, which once activated contacted a server across the internet – a domain owned and operated by Xunlei - and “dropped” or installed three further malicious programs onto the system.One of the programs, a plugin for the Microsoft Office applications Word, Excel and PowerPoint, then installed itself within the Windows Registry, ensuring that it was loaded every time an Office application is run.When run, the Office plugin scanned the computer for analysis tools such as the Windows task manager, and quickly shut down if one was found running on the system, effectively evading detection by the computer user or a security analyst.If the program failed to detect any running computer analysis tools, it began sending user information such as the version of Windows being used to a remote server.Silently installing applications onto Android phonesThe malware also included an updater that automatically checked a server for new versions of the programs, installing updates when they became available.Another application installed alongside the Office plugin silently installed applications onto Android phones that were connected to the infected computer.Using the USB connection, the “installphoneapp” installed applications, including three separate Chinese app stores, and a phone call app that claimed to offer cheap phone calls.Chinese Android programs installed by the malicious applications. Photograph: Eset“Overall, the motivation behind the installation of these particular mobile applications remains unknown,” said Calvet.The applications were only installed if the Android phone connected had a security setting disabled, which enables developer actions over USB on the phone – something often required for Android software modifications and operating system customisation, as well as by certain Android backup programs.“We’ve seen desktop malware attempt to install Android malware before, but not through the application of Android’s ADB. Pushing it to Android phones like that is novel,” said Rik Ferguson vice president of security research at Trend Micro.A lot of mobile malware is specific to ChinaThe focus on China meant that the risk of the Trojan spreading was low, according to Ferguson.“Of course, the risk of Android malware infection is massively increased by rooting, which this malware example partly targeted, because you are specifically disabling crucial built-in security services,” he said.More rooted phones exist in China, mainly due to the restrictions on apps and services, which require users to circumvent blocks to get access to many of the applications freely available in the UK and the US.“We see a lot of mobile malware that is specific to China, like a lot of other malware,” explained Ferguson. “For example, we see malware targeted at stealing virtual goods in gaming environments only in China.”According to data collected by Trend Micro, there are 1.15m malicious or high-risk Android apps currently circulating as of 12 October, which is significantly higher than estimates based on malware growth seen in 2012, showing that the problem is increasing dramatically.Pushing the installer out to infected machinesIt remains unclear whether Xunlei’s BitTorrent client was used to spread the malware. Since August, Xunlei made available an uninstaller application, which users could download and remove the problem manually.Using the company owned and operated servers, which the malware automatically contacted, Xunlei also pushed out the installer to infected machines.The daily number of infections has dropped dramatically, according to data from Eset.According to Eset’s data, the daily number of infections has dropped significantly since Xunlei’s remedial actions.• In August, Windows malware wasfound lurking within the KFC app for Android.• Malware named &quot;Zeus&quot; was discovered in 2011 toinfect both Windows and Android devices, stealing banking details.
Google's latest doodle marks the birthday of Friedrich Nietzsche, the German philosopher widely remembered for his rejection of Christianity, declaration that "God is dead" and often cited influence on Nazism.Born in 1844 in Röcken, near Leipzig, in the Prussian Province of Saxony, Nietzsche studied theology and classical philology at the University of Bonn and later philology at the University of Leipzig.A meteoric academic rise saw him appointed as a professor at the University of Basel at the age of 24, despite not completing his doctorate or receiving a teaching certificate.In one of the central strands of his thinking, Nietzsche argued that the Christian system of faith and worship was harmful to society because it allowed the weak to rule the strong. In effect, he contended, it suppressed the will to power which was the driving force of human character.Nietzsche wanted people to reject misguided Christian morality and become "supermen", while harbouring fears that, without God, the future of mankind could spiral into a society of nihilism.His answer was for man to find new values, meaning and morality in the absence of god, themes that Nietzsche was to address in Thus Spake Zarathustra (1883-92), Beyond Good and Evil (1886), The Birth of Tragedy (1872).He suffered a mental collapse in 1889 as well as a number of strokes in later years that left him unable to speak or walk before his death in August 1900 at the age of 55.
Horror game Amnesia: A Machine for Pigs has had some PR trouble. It's the sort of trouble that often hits the sequel to a beloved title, in this case Frictional Games' Amnesia: The Dark Descent. That game was popular for its jump-scare qualities, its ability to frighten in small intense doses, to elicit squeals from players and the makers of online Let's Play videos. So when Frictional asked Brighton-based developer the Chinese Room to come onboard to make the sequel to the original, the team knew they had to make something different – and yet somehow similar to its predecessor. It was an interesting problem.And the Chinese Room is an interesting studio. Founded by Dan Pinchbeck and Jessica Curry in 2010, it is famous for its experimental first-person exploration game Dear Esther, a critically polarising adventure that detractors famously wanted to label 'not a game'. Though it was meant to be an experiment in fragmentary, restrained philosophical storytelling through beautiful environments, some self-proclaimed gamers saw it as a direct attack on the first-person shooter genre, unworthy of existence alongside the unchallenged might of their favourite action games. And yet Pinchbeck, the lead designer and writer of the game, was at that time doing his doctorate on first-person shooters primarily because he adores the genre.Divide and ruleReleased earlier this year on PC and Mac, Amnesia: A Machine for Pigs has been no less divisive, especially among fans of the original Amnesia title – particularly because the sequel departs from the idea of jump scares and shock, and goes for a nihilistic, languishing, pervasive horror, the sort that stains your memory and has you lie awake at night, long after the game has been turned off. It's really a matter of how the developers interpreted the genre."We wanted to make a horror game," Pinchbeck explains. "There was a distinction in our mind between making a horror game and making a game with jump scares in it. They're not the same. And we really shared that in the early conversations with Frictional as well - they were really anti-jump scares. That's not horror - that's just jump scares. So making a game that would get under people's skin in quite a deep level … What's interesting is a game that scares you while you are playing it, and what's really interesting is a game that scares you after you've finished playing it."This new kind of horror hasn't leant itself to the YouTubers who flourished on the drama of publishing video of The Dark Descent's jump scares. "And that's what's really interesting about all the emails I've been getting," says co-director Curry, responsible for the unsettling soundtrack. "[There were emails from people saying] 'I've finished it and found it wasn't like the original Amnesia, I felt quite ambivalent about it, quite hostile about it,' and they've written back about three, four, five days later and gone, 'Oh god, that still really … That still really got under my skin.' And that's really interesting to me to have people write twice. Either, 'I loved it,' or 'it's shit', in your emails, in your in tray, but to have so many people come back and say: 'Oh, it's got a really … insidious crawl to it.'"The developers' deep intelligence about how stories can manipulate the mind shows very much in their work. A Machine for Pigs provides a lasting imprint on players that somehow is more psychologically manipulative. This is not surprising to me as  Curry and Pinchbeck seem sharply intellectual, and interested in the latent power of narrative to create loathing, fear, dread. The nuances of the soundtrack were carefully thought out to unsettle the player, to toy with their nerves."Sam Justice did an amazing job with the sound design," Curry says. "With music as well – I really wanted to make the sound of the machine, and that kind of feeling – that grating sound … Uneasy, and just kind of gets under your skin. I love the Klute soundtrack, which I haven't watched in ages and really made an impression on me. It has these weird sounds that you can't quite place, this weird grinding.""It's also got to be beautiful, really really beautiful," Pinchbeck elaborates. "You've got this point where you're going through and it's shredding your nerves, and then suddenly it erupts … and you know you've got nowhere to go if you've taken the player up and up and up … you just drop it and make something that's absolutely still and sad and beautiful. So the player is left going 'I don't know where emotionally to go, I've got this big bag of tension, I've got this hateful horrible environment, and suddenly, I'm feeling sympathy. What the fuck do I do with sympathy at this point?' And that's kind of an emotionally unsettling thing."Genre constraintsBut expectation really changed the way that people viewed and played A Machine for Pigs. Of course people were eager to embrace the brand 'Amnesia' that is imprinted on the Chinese Room's game, which marketers often think is an asset, but the comparison can often be damaging for people who are interested in making original work. They wrestled with the genre constraints, the interpretation that people had of the last game, and defining their own idea of horror.According to Curry, "So many people said, if you had taken one word out - Amnesia - you'd have been getting nines and 10s from reviews. And basically every review starts off: 'it's not as scary as the original'. It wasn't trying to beat the scariest story ever told. It wasn't what Frictional were interested in us doing.""I think it's really interesting who the camps are that it's polarised," Pinchbeck muses. "I think it's becoming increasingly clearly delineated what those two camps are. People that might think that Amnesia's about Let's Plays and jump scares absolutely hate it; people who think that it's about the kind of art that Frictional started with Penumbra and followed through to Amnesia love it. If there's a choice between those two camps, I'm happy to sit with the game fans as opposed to the Let's Play fans. Because if we had wanted to make something that's incredibly Let's Play friendly, then we wouldn't have made the game that we made, because we would have made fairly bland corridors, and a shit ton of jump scares.""Just before the game went live," Dan continues, "We got an email from Thomas Grip [of Frictional Games]. 'What you've got to remember, if you get flak, is that you are being compared to a game that never existed. And there were these problems and these problems and we were proud of this … But you will get compared to the memory of a game that's three years old. And that's impossible. You will never measure up to that. If things don't go brilliantly, just remember that.' Which is a really nice email to send. We've been watching the Frictional forums, with people going 'It should have done this like Dark Descent did it', and then people write back and then go, 'Dark Descent didn't do that. And actually there is stuff in there going 'and it was just this and it was just this' …There almost were two Dark Descents."I say I was terrified of the Dark Descent. I played 10 minutes of it and then shut myself in an in-game cupboard. I made friends with a broom for a while before quitting.Curry laughs. "It was a great game," she nods, giggling.Upwards trajectory"The problem we had with the Dark Descent is that you couldn't do the things that Dark Descent did," Pinchbeck says. "Like hiding in a cupboard is amazing, you couldn't hide in a cupboard in A Machine for Pigs … So you're in this really awful situation where you have to make the same game again, but if we made the same game again, it'd just be a disaster. So you're trying to reconcile that contradiction, you're trying to make it the same game, without it being the same game. In the end we talked about it quite a lot, especially with Thomas and Jens [Nilsson, of Frictional Games], and went 'what's the spirit of the original game, what's the trajectory of the original game? Let's do that, let's not do a mechanical recreation.'"Pacing was a definite consideration for the Chinese Room: they made a visually enthralling environment that was disturbing in the details, was quite enchanting in its creepy grandeur. In order to get the feeling right, they wanted the player to take their time getting lost in the environment."With [The Dark Descent], so many people said they didn't finish it," Curry says. "And since we tell stories, that's a real problem for us. If we'd told it like the original, nobody would have ever found out what the denouement was. It's true of every game, but the ending to Pigs is so … The pivotal moment of the story. It's really interesting that people who haven't got to the end don't really get it.""The whole point of the second half of the game is that it takes everything you've learned in the first half and dissects it one piece at a time," Pinchbeck says, "and said everything you know is wrong.I think that's what makes it uncomfortable for people. Hopefully, the way it was designed, you end the game feeling really, really ambivalent. Any thread that you pull out leads to a really unpleasant place.""The first few levels are really, really slow," Pinchbeck goes on to say. "You sometimes have to get in a mindset of certain experiences. The first half an hour of the game is critical – it's not only teaching you the mechanical way of playing the game, it's teaching you the emotional way of playing the game. If you get it wrong, it can be a disaster, it can take the sort of Assassin's Creed/Fable route – it's just nothing, it's terrible, it's a two-hour learning curve. So we knew Pigs was going to be slow … Tracking the forums there's been a direct correlation between how much people enjoyed the game and how long they took. Anyone who played the game for four hours hated it, and anyone who played over six hours loved it. And that's just about the speed they spent in there, being in this place. We said this in the splash screen: don't play this game to beat it, play it like a game to be in the world for. If you play this like a really old-fashioned role-play game, then you get a lot more out of it."A league of its ownOur conversation brought into relief that genre can be agonising for creators. Amnesia: The Dark Descent created a genre for itself that had forum-goers begin to dictate constraints for the Chinese Room's interpretation. But it had happened before to the Chinese Room: their previous game, Dear Esther, was constantly dogged by internet conversation about whether it was a game or not, what made it a game, what made it not a game, ad nauseum, seemingly ignoring their actual personal response to the mechanics of it, more interested in classifying it than they were playing it."We were talking about the Sopranos this morning," Pinchbeck says of himself and his son. "Is Sopranos … Is it a black comedy, or is it a thriller? And if you call it a thriller, does that detract from it being what it is? If you look at say, Ace Ventura Pet Detective, and say you're only going to look at it according to a very strict set of rules, let's say action thriller – well, it's a rubbish action thriller. If you take Goodfellas and say: 'I'm only going to examine this as if it's a Jim Carrey slapstick comedy', it's going to fail miserably."But if you're the type of person who can only judge something on a pre-existing rigid set of criteria, you've got a big problem anyway. The only question that actually matters is, is it good? There are still people who write about Dear Esther and say: 'I wish I could love it, but it's not a game.' Well you think: 'Well you're just a fucking idiot then, aren't you?' because actually if you have to call it a name before you decide whether you like it or not, you've got a weird kind of hangup."Curry took it even further, explaining that she was taken aback by the vehemence of the response to experimentation of the form. "What I'm really surprised by is that people see [Dear Esther] as an attack on games.""We've destroyed the games industry according to Total Biscuit," Dan Pinchbeck says. "With the greatest amount of pride in [Dear Esther] – it ain't that significant."Before I visited the Chinese Room's studios, which were disappointingly brightly lit, not at all gloomy or scary, with nothing to denote Asian influences, I asked the internet what they would like to know about Amnesia: A Machine for Pigs. One respondent asked, "Why pigs?" And Jim Sterling of Destructoid asked, "How pigs?" I put these important questions to Curry and Pinchbeck, who laugh."Well, A Machine For Sheep wouldn't really work," Pinchbeck says."A Machine For Cows sounds really unfrightening," Curry says.After a while, Pinchbeck says of pigs, "Well... it's a smart animal that we kill. In vast numbers. And that's really nice as a metaphor."* Amnesia: A Machine for Pigs is out now on Windows, OSX and Linux via Steam.Dear Esther is still out in the wild, destroying the games industry, as far as we know.
1.She gets digital: Ahrendts is considered a pioneer in bringing upmarket fashion online, and in recent years Burberry has been as comfortable talking about smartphones as skirt lengths. Its latest annual report, which shows revenues have grown from £740m when Ahrendts joined, in January 2006, to almost £2bn today, forecasts the "dissolution of boundaries separating physical and digital channels".Burberry says that while the global recession has meant soft footfall instore, online has helped pick up the slack. Burberry uses social media extensively, building excitement around its collections by photographing clothes before they leave the studio and backstage before they appear on the catwalk. Ahrendts has already worked closely with Apple. Burberry helped launch the iPhone 5S by using dozens of them to live stream its London catwalk show.Burberry.com delivers in more than 100 countries and the website has been translated into eight languages, including Korean and Spanish.At Burberry, her vision was to "serve completely any consumer on any platform in any geography". It is an ambition she may well bring to Apple.2.She understands luxury: Ahrendts has helped solidify Burberry's position as a global luxury brand but also modernised its image, making it relevant to a younger audience by using the power of social media.3.She is an American: But she also understands Europe and China. Apple's previous high-profile retail boss, John Browett, had only ever worked for British companies; Ahrendts rose through the ranks at the US fashion labels Liz Claiborne and DKNY before moving to the UK to run Burberry. While in Europe, she has proved adept at exporting a classic English brand to the four corners of the globe.Ahrendts' experience of marketing a luxury brand in China, a country Apple has found hard to crack, will be highly attractive to the tech company.Burberry has 69 stores in China, and last year 14% of its income came from there.4.She gets retail: Apple's store portfolio may be too small and straining to cope with the demands of millions of new iPad and iPhone owners. Having built up a global network of stores for Burberry, Ahrendts understands where Apple should be and how it can deliver better service in stores.At Burberry, Ahrendts and her predecessor, Rose Marie Bravo, revitalised the company by reclaiming control of the retail experience. They bought up the distributors that had previously managed Burberry's frontline so that direct sales, both through physical shops and online, now contribute 71% of revenue. At nearly $19bn a year, Apple's income from its own stores dwarfs Burberry's – but it is still just 12% of the total. That's a small but growing proportion, which has doubled in the last two years and is likely to grow further under the new boss.5.She understands the crossover between fashion and technology: Apple wants to get into wearables with its iWatch; and her business is clothes. Burberry's Regent Street outlet, just down the road from Apple's London flagship store, has been billed as the most technologically advanced fashion shop in the world. It features magic mirrors that transform into screens when triggered by microchips hidden in the garments. Customers trying on a piece of clothing will be shown a film about how it was made and footage of the item on the catwalk. It also has interactive elements, such as areas where customers can design their own trenchcoats.
The most eye-catching prints in fashion aren't florals or leopardskin but printouts. Fantastical 3D-printed designs created by a pulsed laser that layers powdered rubbers or metals into a shape calculated by computers.These creations, by Dutch designer Iris van Herpen, are the first created with 3D printing to grace the catwalk. They're loved by the likes of Lady Gaga and Bjork, but have implications for your wardrobe too. While this manufacturing technique – originally developed for engineers – has history in jewellery and shoe design, the possibilities for the clothing industry are tantalising. It could revolutionise garment sizing and product development in mass production. It could also allow startup labels to produce small orders to avoid unsold stock, and allow easy customisation.All this is possible, but for now 3D-printing fashion has pragmatic problems to address. Though van Herpen's collection featured a printable fabric that is flexible, durable and can even be bunged in the washing machine, most items produced with this technique are unforgivingly stiff synthetics. Great for Gaga's stage show, not so practical for the school run. Printing costs are also still prohibitively high.While fashion has never been an industry to fret about cost, high-end style usually involves hand-finished, artisinal craftsmanship and natural materials such as silk and leather. For "tech couture" to evolve from a niche trend, there'll have to be a radical rethink of the definition of luxury fashion. The idea that manipulating code to make clothes fit the human form is a new couture skill may take designers and their ateliers of seamstresses some time to get their heads around. But that idea – that wearing a 3D-printed outfit is as close as we can currently get to wearing code – is an intriguing one.
Ross Ulbricht, the 29-year-old San Francisco manaccused of running the world&apos;s biggest online drug marketplace,Silk Road, said he is &quot;not excessively&quot; concerned about the future in an interview given from Alameda County jail on Monday.Speaking to Lauren Smiley of San Francisco Magazine, Ulbricht – inmate ULW981 – revealed that his arrest two weeks ago was the first of his life.He is now alone for at least 20 hours a day, and has little contact with the outside world, barring a one-hour phone call with the family members and friends.Ulbricht would not comment on his guilt or innocence – though in court he denied that he used the pseudonym Dread Pirate Roberts - which was used by the operator of Silk Road - and agreed to be extradited to New York City to face charges.Silk Road was a website on the &quot;dark web&quot; which could only be accessed via the anonymisation service Tor. Launched in February 2011, it became the hub for a substantial amount of legal and illegal dealing in goods and services, all of which had to be paid for using the cryptocurrency Bitcoin.The FBI seized the site on 2 October, and arrested Ulbricht, who has been charged with money laundering, drug trafficking, facilitating computer hacking, and soliciting murder. The FBI also seized more than 28,000 Bitcoins with a value of around $3.6m. A number of other arrests have followed in other countries.&quot;Of course – do I need to even ask? – he isn’t permitted internet access,&quot; adds Smiley, who wasn&apos;t allowed to take a pen, paper or recording device in to her interview with the accused. That meant Ulbricht hadn&apos;t heard thathis former flat-mates had been interviewed. &quot;He repeats the statement back to me as a question, unbelieving,&quot; said Smiley.Ulbricht wouldn&apos;t answer any queries about his case, refusing to comment on whether he would be posting bail, or even who had been visiting him in jail.He had been advised by his attorney not to talk to the press at all, but wanted &quot;to see what it would be like&quot;.“This is the first time I’ve been arrested,” Ulbricht volunteers. Really, I ask, no DUIs [driving under the influence, ie while drunk], no college high jinks? “Nope.” He tells me very matter of factly that he spends 20 to 22 hours a day in his cell alone, with just a window in the door to the pod, and a blurred one to the outdoors. He gets let out for showers or to go out to the yard accompanied by guards, but not with other inmates. He can hear other prisoners talking through the walls, but rarely adds anything. His daily interactions: a few comments with guards, one hour of phone time a day to family members and friends who’ve registered to receive his calls. He eats in his cell – the food’s not half bad, he says. The other inmates in his pod know who he is from watching the TV news, but Ulbricht has no view of the TV from his cell.While Ulbricht has been in jail, a second major arrest related to Silk Road has been made in Washington state, where police believe they have found one of the biggest dealers on the site.‘Really tasty looking methamphetamine’According to the criminal complaint, the dealer went by the pseudonym Nod and allegedly sold more than 2.5kg of cocaine on the site in the last four months, as well as almost 600g of heroin and 100g of methamphetamine. They were in the top 1% of dealers on the site.But despite the timing of the arrests,the criminal complaintsuggests that Nod was tracked down through old-fashioned detective work, and not with information gleaned from the Silk Road seizure.Christopher Armstrong, a special agent with the department of homeland security, revealed that the trail was picked up during an interdiction targeting drug trafficking. A package sent from an address in Lynnwood, Washington, was intercepted in September 2012. The named sender didn’t exist, but the resident at that address gave permission for the package to be opened, and it contained heroin.Over the next four days, more packages were intercepted, with the same packing style but all apparently sent from different addresses, with different non-existent people listed as the sender. More heroin was found, as was a package of cash worth $3,200 (£2,000).From there, the trail was followed back to the UPS store which had sent the $3,200, and to a safe deposit box rented in the name of Aaron Thompson.Looking for further similar packages revealed yet more fake names and other post offices which had been used. Eventually, in March 2013, Armstrong claimed their surveillance linked those packages to a Jenna White.White was driving a car registered to Steven Sadler, who was identified by post office employees as having been the man who took rented safe deposit boxes.The link to Silk Road came when the police received a search warrant to open a package which again had been packed in a similar manner to the September 2012 parcels. It was found to contain heroin and cocaine, and the intended recipient agreed to co-operate, saying that the parcel had been ordered from a Silk Road dealer called Nod.Further investigation apparently strengthened the link between Nod and Sadler.Despite the detail of the criminal complaint, it may not be descriptive of how the investigation was carried out. Such affidavits don’t have to describe how investigations actually proceeded, but only how they could have made the link between the accused and the crimes.As a result, there remains the possibility that the actual discovery was made with the help ofinformation gleaned from the Silk Road’s servers.The user reviews for Nod on Silk Road reveal them to be a popular and well-respected dealer. Someone who bought 2g of cocaine said it was a “1980s Time Machine”, while a user who purchased 3.5g of methamphetamine said it was “really tasty looking methamphetamine”.Asthe Daily Dot’s Patrick Howell O’Neill reports, Nod had such a reputation for quality before the Silk Road closed that he or she was able to charge a huge markup on the drugs they dealt.“In private conversations later leaked by other vendors, Nod claimed he was making $20,000 per month on his cocaine alone,” O’Neill reported.“He bragged about his profit margin increasing to the point where he was making three times as much as contemporary heroin dealers on Silk Road.”•When Dread Pirate Roberts, the founder of the Silk Road, was arrested, the criminal complaint revealed a litany of errors, including asking for coding advice under his real name.
A pro-Palestinian group of hackers calling themselves KDMS Team hacked the website ofMetasploit, a leading net security firm, using a fax machine.The hack was a simple DNS redirect, which involves an attacker changing the records which tell web browsers what server lies behind any given web address.In this case, however, the redirect was carried out by faxing a faked redirect request to Register.com, Metasploit&apos;s registrar.&quot;We are currently investigating the situation,&quot; says Rapid7, Metasploit&apos;s parent company, &quot;but it looks like the domain was hijacked via a spoofed change request faxed to Register.com. We apologize for the service disruption, and do not anticipate any further implications for our users and customers at this time.&quot;It is the second major hack carried out by KDMS Team in the past week. On 8 October, the hackers performed a similar redirect on the websites of text messaging serviceWhatsApp, as well as security companiesAVGand Avira.Those firms were registered with a different registrar, Network Solutions, which fell prey to a fake password reset request,according to a statement from Avira.Additionally, Bitdefender and ESET, two antivirus firms, were also hit with a DNS redirect. The method by which they were attacked remains unknown, but the sites are also registered with Register.com.The hack redirected the domains to a page which contained a message from KDMS Team, reading in part:You are one of our targets.Therefore we are here ..And there is another thing .. do you know Palestine ?There is a land called Palestine on the earthThis land has been stolen by ZionistDo you know it ?KDMS also took responsibility on its Twitter feed.#bitdefender&#10;#eset&#10;Touched&#10;Long Live#Palestine&mdash; Kdms Team (@KdmsTeam)October 12, 2013Following the hijack, another hacker known as Th3 J35t3r – “The Jester” – pointed out that KDMS’ twitter feed initially followed just 16 accounts, including many which had been dormant for years.“Because of KDMS Team’s relatively new presence on Twitter, it is highly suspicious that it knows about, and follows, accounts that have not been active or tweeted for 6 months to over 3 years,”the Jester said.Following that trail, the hacker claims to have identified the real people behind the KDMS team, and even identified the Facebook page of one member.KDMS team no longer follows anyone on Twitter.•How Turkish hackers took out the Daily Telegraph via DNS redirect
Lavabit,Edward Snowden’s secure email provider which wasshut down in August, has briefly comeback onlineto allow users to download their email archive.The secure email service was taken offline following US government pressure over the NSA revelations fuelled by Snowden’s leaks, abruptly removing access to all user email.Talking about the impact of the sudden closure of Lavabit on its users, Lavabit’s founder, Ladar Levison, said: “I’m in the same boat as them. I used my Lavabit email account for 10 years. It was my only email account.&quot;A two-step processLavabit will allow users to download their trapped email archive using atwo-step processuntil 1am BST on 19 October,says an update on the site.The first step will involve a password change, which will be active until Thursday, after which a complete archive of user email and data will be made available for download.In October, revelations over the amount of data intercepted by the US government stoked fear that the then inaccessible user data had been compromised.At the time, Lavabit founder Ladar Levison was fined $10,000 for not complying with the FBI&apos;s order. Heappealed againstthe state’s attempts to take control of the secure email service’s encryption.• Lavabit’s founderoffered to log users’ email metadatafor the FBI in exchange for $3,500 (£2,200) for his time
Its Clash of Clans and Hay Day games have made Finnish startup Supercell one of the biggest mobile games firms in the world this year,grossing $179m (£116.7m) in the first three months of the yearalone.In April, Supercell raised $130m of venture capital funding valuing the company at $770m, but six months later it has announced another cash injection that puts even that in the shade.Two Japanese companies – telco SoftBank and games firm GungHo – are making a strategic investment of $1.5bn in Supercell. The companies are contributing 80% and 20% of the funding respectively, although Supercell chief executive Ilkka Paananen says that "the company that will end up owning 51% of Supercell" will continue to be incorporated in Finland."Our operations remain in Finland, our management team remains in Finland and in San Francisco, and we continue to pay taxes in Finland," hewrote in a blog post this morning. "I think more and more people in this country are realizing that there is life after Nokia."Paananen founded Supercell three years ago after leaving another mobile games firm, Digital Chocolate. Initially set up to make Facebook games, the company pivoted to a tablet-first focus, launching Clash of Clans and Hay Day in the summer of 2012. The company recently ported Clash of Clans to Android."This new partnership will accelerate Supercell towards our goal of being the first truly global games company, and gives us enough time to get there," wrote Paananen this morning."The combination of tablets, mobile and the free-to-play business model has created a new market for games, one that will be accessible to billions of consumers, more people than ever before in the history of games."He praised the "long term" vision of SoftBank founder Masayoshi Son, and outlined grand ambitions for Supercell to become one of the world's biggest games companies in the years ahead."We want to build a company that people all over the globe will look back in 30 years and talk about all the great games that we developed and the impact they had on people's lives," he wrote. "The same way I personally feel about Nintendo, for example."Paananen has previously spoken out about his belief that social mobile games need to up their quality to make a lasting impact, at a time when there is plenty of argument about the merits of the most popular free-to-play games."There was a time, especially in the social games industry, where people thought you could create great games based on a spreadsheet: that creativity and design wouldn't really matter, because it was all about some maths," hetold The Guardian in a recent interview."Games are still a form of art, not a form of science. You can't design fun on a spreadsheet. And if you want to make an industry for the long-term, if you can't create fun games, there's no future."Today's investment is not Supercell's first partnership with GungHo, one of the few companies in the world to have a mobile game that's making as much money as Clash of Clans – its Puzzle &amp; Dragons was a big part of GungHo's $303m of revenues in the first quarter of 2013.Supercell and GungHo recently worked together in Japan with a cross-promotional campaign that saw Clash of Clans characters appearing in Puzzle &amp; Dragons.Paananen stressed that every Supercell employee will benefit from the investment. "Everyone at the company will participate in the upside and receive a portion of the proceeds from the investment," he wrote. "None of us work here just for money, but when the company succeeds, everyone should get their fair share of it and this transaction is no exception."The Supercell strategic investment comes as rival King prepares for an IPO fuelled by the popularity of its Candy Crush Saga game. The company has reportedlyfiled pre-IPO documents with US financial body the SEC, keeping them secret until just before its IPO roadshow.
Apple has opened up itsiPhone trade-in schemeto UK shoppers, giving traders money for their old Apple handsets with up to £175 towards the purchase of a new iPhone.iPhones brought into Apple stores across the country are inspected by an employee while the owner is asked questions about the condition of the smartphone to determine its value.&quot;In addition to helping support the environment, customers will be able to receive a credit for their returned phone that they can use toward the purchase of a new iPhone,&quot; said an Apple spokesperson.Discount the purchase of a new iPhoneThe prospective buyer is then made an offer for their old iPhone based on its condition, including hardware or water damage, the value of which can be exclusively used to discount the purchase of a new iPhone.Other trade-in services exist, including offerings from Carphone Warehouse, Asda and trade-in site Mazuma Mobile, which allow people to recycle their iPhones for more money than Apple is currently offering.Mazuma currently offers up to £240 for an iPhone 5 trade in and £160 cash for a 16GB iPhone 4s.Apple’s &apos;Reuse and Recycle&apos; trade-in and recycling scheme also covers desktop and laptop computers from other manufacturers, although tablet and smartphone trade-ins are limited to Apple devices.• Bringing down the price of tablets, Argos launched an own-brandMyTablet Android tabletto compete with the Tesco Hudl, Amazon Kindle Fire and Google Nexus 7
Argos is taking on Tesco with the launch of its own budget tablet computer in anticipation of a surge in sales of the gadgets in the runup to Christmas.The catalogue retailer's £99 no-frills 7"&nbsp;MyTablet is launching weeks after the appearance of Tesco's £119 Hudl, 35,000 of which were bought over its first two days on sale.More than 8m tablet computers are expected to be sold in the months before Christmas, double the amount sold last year when retailers including PC World and Argos credited soaring sales of the gadgets for delivering a better than expected festive performance.Argos, which sold 1m tablets last year, enjoyed its strongest quarterly sales growth for five years over Christmas 2012 as tablet sales soared more than 50%.John Walden, managing director, said: "Millions of people have bought tablets during the last year but there is still around 75% of the UK population without one. We know that tablets will feature heavily on Christmas lists this year."Tablet devices are set to overtake PC sales this year with sales of 229.3m units worldwide, according to research firm IDC. The UK is Europe's biggest market for the hand-held computers and rapid adoption is also driving a boom in shopping using mobile devices.Nearly a quarter of all online sales now come via mobile phones and tablets but that is expected to ramp up over Christmas as the value of sales via tablet computers soars.This spring sales rose 130% compared with the same period last year, according to online retail trade body IMRG, and that pace of growth is expected to continue."Smartphones and tablets offer the kind of experience the modern consumer wants – quick access, wherever and whenever they want it," said Tina Spooner at IMRG. "'Second screening' in front of the TV has turned online shopping into a leisure activity that is fully compatible with our home entertainment lifestyles."The market has been boosted by an influx of cheaper tablets challenging Apple's iPad. The MyTablet, which goes on sale later this week, will be one of the cheapest around but is entering a highly competitive arena where it will be up against more high-powered gadgets such as Google's Nexus 7 and Amazon's Kindle Fire as well as a new iPad which is expected to launch next week.Argos's gadget has an in-built camera and comes pre-loaded with popular apps such as Angry Birds but has worse specifications including a lower resolution screen, half the storage and reduced battery life compared with Tesco's Hudl.Geoff Blaber, an analyst at CCS Insight, said the "punchy" £99 price of the MyTablet would help Argos attract a different kind of shopper who would now be willing to buy the gadget as a gift. He said the retailer's existing relationship with shoppers also gave it an advantage over other low-price tablets that were not backed by a strong brand."Consumers know and trust the brand behind this tablet," Blaber said. "Tesco and Argos are mimicking something Amazon started with the Kindle Fire. Their intention is broadly similar; to provide a device very cheaply and use that as a driver of their core business, retail."Tesco's colourful Hudl tablet was designed to tempt more families to use its online services, including shopping sites and Blinkbox, a film and music streaming service. Argos is adopting the same tactic, with access to its shopping app pre-loaded on to the MyTablet.
Canada&apos;s BlackBerry haspublished an open letter onlineand in major publications around the world to try to to reassure customers that they can count on the distressed smartphone company.The letter wasreleased Monday on Twitterand will be published in 30 publications in nine countries on Tuesday. It acknowledges &quot;these are no doubt challenging times for us and we don&apos;t underestimate the situation&quot; but says &quot;you can continue to count on BlackBerry.&quot;The missive notes that BlackBerry has &quot;substantial cash on hand&quot; and is debt free. But it makes no mention of the fact that the company is for sale and could be broken up and sold in pieces – a prospect that analysts think looks increasingly likely as the 4 November deadline for a formal bid approaches.BlackBerry announced last month that Fairfax Financial Holdings, which owns 10% of the company,signed a letter of intentthat &quot;contemplates&quot; buying BlackBerry for $9 a share, or $4.7bn (£2.9bn). Fairfax, BlackBerry&apos;s largest shareholder, is trying to attract other investors. Meanwhile, former founder and co-chief executive Mike Lazaridis hasannouncedhis intention to try to buy the company, while the private equity company Cerberus is also said to have expressed interest.Count on us&quot;You can continue to count on BlackBerry&quot;, says the letter on the site, which is signed &quot;The BlackBerry Team&quot;. It continues: &quot;These are no doubt challenging times for us and we don’t underestimate the situation or ignore the challenges we are facing. We are making the difficult changes necessary to strengthen BlackBerry.&quot;One thing we will never change is our commitment to those of you who helped build BlackBerry into the most trusted tool for the world’s business professional.&quot; It notes that it has users among governments and corporations &quot;that simply cannot compromise on security&quot; and which choose BlackBerry.Analysts doubtfulBlackberry will go to its grave in denial.&mdash; Benedict Evans (@BenedictEvans)October 15, 2013Analysts were scathing, however. &quot;BlackBerry will go to its grave in denial,&quot;saidBenedict Evans of Enders Analysis. Bob Egan of the Sepharim Groupcommented: &quot;BlackBerry - &apos;trust us&apos;: we miss deadlines, launch incomplete products, lay off 50% of our workforce, ship devices you don&apos;t want, but trust us.&quot;Francisco Jeronimo of researchers IDC expressed astonishment. &quot;#BlackBerry decided to make all those unaware users of the company&apos;s situation that they are in trouble. WOW. #keepshootingmyselfinthefoot&quot;, hetweeted,adding&quot;When a vendor needs to tell publicly they are not dead yet, even when everyone thinks otherwise, there&apos;s a PR feeling of delusion in the air.&quot;#BlackBerrydecided to make all those unaware users of the company&#39;s situation that they are in trouble. WOW.#Ikeepshootingmyselfinthefoot&mdash; Francisco Jeronimo (@fjeronimo)October 15, 2013Beyond its letter, the broader outlook for the company remains bleak. The stock is trading well below Fairfax&apos;s tentative offer on fears that the deal won&apos;t go through or that the final price will be lower. BlackBerry Ltd.&apos;s US-traded shares closed up 7¢ to $8.14 Monday. At the end of September, it announced that it had had to write off $934m on unsold Z10 handsets – the touchscreen device it launched in January to spearhead its attempt at a comeback.Instead, the BB10 devices have sold slowly, selling a few million in total rather than the &quot;hundreds of millions&quot; that chief executive Thorsten Heins had hoped to see for the keyboard-based Q10 device alone.The company now says it intends to focus on core markets. &quot;Yes, there is a lot of competition out there and we know that BlackBerry is not for everyone. That’s OK,&quot; it says in the open letter.Incompatibility problemBut the problem for BlackBerry is that users are not upgrading from the older BB7 handsets to the newer BB10 ones. Consumers seem to be jumping ship to iPhones or Android phones, while a number of businesses have held back from upgrading because the BB10 phones cannot be used with the older BB7 server software used to encrypt and send email to corporate customers – but the newer BB10 servers which are compatible with the BB10 handsets do not work with the older BB7 handsets.That has led businesses either to stockpile BB7 handsets, or abandon the platform altogether.Bloomberg reportsthat Credit Suisse AG has decided not to upgrade to BB10, and that some of the world&apos;s biggest banks which use BlackBerrys are holding off on upgrades, including Morgan Stanley and UBS.And one key supplier, Jabil, suggested last month that it might call time on building parts for the company, which could sound the death knell for its handset business.&quot;We&apos;re getting a lot of queries and interest from loyal consumers, from all of our enterprise customers and big government institutions,&quot; Andrew MacLeod, BlackBerry&apos;s regional managing director for North America, said in an interview with Associated Press. MacLeod said it&apos;s important to communicate with customers while the company goes through a difficult restructuring. He declined to comment on the sale process because a special committee of board members is examining that.The BlackBerry, introduced in 1999, was once the dominant smartphone for on-the-go business people and other consumers. But the advent of a new generation of competing touchscreen smartphones, starting with Apple&apos;s iPhone in 2007, made the BlackBerry look ancient. The company&apos;s sales and market share shrank and it lost billions in market value.This year&apos;s much-delayed launch of BlackBerry 10 system and fancier devices that use the software was supposed to rejuvenate the brand and lure customers. It did not work. The Ontario-based company recently announced 4,500 layoffs, or 40% of its global workforce, and reported a quarterly loss of nearly $1bn.&quot;Candidly, we haven&apos;t seen the level of the traction in certain markets that we had hoped,&quot; MacLeod said. &quot;It takes time for new platforms to get traction and we think we need to give BlackBerry 10 more time in the marketplace in order to get to the level of volume that we had hoped.&quot;The letter says BlackBerry continues &quot;to offer the best mobile typing experience no ifs, ands or buts about it.&quot;
When she was teenager, Dr Helen Scales was obsessed by the environment, but when she learned to scuba dive, her “vision turned from green to blue”, as she says in a new book.&quot;Suddenly all I could think about was being in the sea and swimming with fishes,&quot; Scales writes in A Passion for Science: Stories of Discovery and Invention, an anthology that explores the lives of some of our greatest scientists as part of Ada Lovelace Day.Scuba diving wasn&apos;t the only thing that inspired Scales to pursue a career in marine biology. At around the same time, she read two books by Dr Eugenie Clark, known in marine biology circles asthe Shark Lady. “I became totally wrapped up in stories of her adventures as she roamed the oceans in search of fish and I saw no reason why I couldn’t follow in her footsteps,” says Scales.And follow in her footsteps Scales did, not only by pursuing a career in marine biology, but also by following the Shark Lady&apos;s lead in becoming a writer, contributing to National Geographic, Geographical, the Globe &amp; Mail and the Guardian.After carving her own career as an ichthyologist, Scales finally got the chance to meet her heroine at Florida’s Mote Marine Laboratory, where Clark was a founding director. Clark was just coming up to her ninetieth birthday and, although she has retired from teaching, she is not only still active in her research, she also still scuba dives.Maths demands &apos;tension of mind beyond a woman&apos;s strength&apos;Eugenie Clark’s storyis just one of hundreds of stories about the achievements of women in science, technology, engineering and maths that have been shared as part ofAda LovelaceDay. When I started the day five years ago, my goal was to collect these stories not only to inspire girls to study theSTEMsubjects, but also to provide support to women pursuing careers in these usually male-dominated fields.Ada Lovelace is the ideal figurehead for this project: She was the world&apos;s first computer programmer, and the first person to realise that a general purpose computing machine such asCharles Babbage’s Analytical Enginecould do more than just calculate large tables of numbers. It could, she said, create music and art, given the right inputs. The Analytical Engine, she wrote, “weaves algebraic patterns just as the Jacquard loom weaves flowers and leaves&quot;.This daughter of “mad, bad and dangerous to know” Lord Byron achieved this distinction despite the fierce prejudices of the 19th Century. Her tutor Augustus De Morgan echoed the accepted view of the time when he said that maths problems presented “a very great tension of mind beyond the strength of a woman’s physical power”.But Ada persevered in her studies, and De Morgan recognised her brilliance when he said that had she been a man, she would have had the potential to become “an original mathematical investigator, perhaps of first-rate eminence”.From nerd cabaret to Wikipedia edit-a-thonsAda Lovelace Day is not only about raising Ada’s profile, but also shining a spotlight on the achievements of all women in STEM, both historic and modern. It’s about drawing inspiration from all women, not just the famous ones, and supporting women at every stage of their career, from the choice of what to study at school and university through to often challenging professional milestones.Our flagship event, Ada Lovelace Day Live! - a nerd cabaret featuring talks, science demonstrations, comedy and song - is a cross-discipline celebration of women in STEM, and will beheld at Imperial College London from 6pm, 15 October. Performers include science communicator and demo designerFran Scott, bioengineerProfessor Molly Stevens,Chi OnwurahMP, Shadow Cabinet Office Minister with responsibility for cybersecurity, and technologist and comedy writerLeila Johnston, amongst others.There will also be40 independently organised grassroots events across Europe, North and South America, including several Wikipedia edit-a-thons that aim to increase the number of articles in the online encyclopaedia about women in STEM. There are also many other events, including talks, pub meet-ups, conferences and exhibitions covering the work of a plethora of women, from paleontologists to musicians to artists and sewing machine pioneers.Take part, and share your stories of inspiring womenAt its core, Ada Lovelace Day is about sharing stories about the women who have inspired you to dream big and pursue your goals, despite the obstacles in your way. We encourage everyone, men and women, to write about a woman (or women!) that they admire, topost the linkto our site, andexplore the resulting map of posts.It doesn’t matter where you post your tribute - it can be on your blog, on Google Plus, on Tumblr, or below in the comments - just make sure that you add its permalink, the URL that links directly to it, to our list so that others can read about the women who have inspired you.Suw Charman-Anderson is the founder of Ada Lovelace Day and a freelance social technologist.Ada Lovelace Day Live tickets are available onlineor on the door from 6pm, 15 October, Imperial College London, £5/£15.A Passion for Science: Stories of Discovery and Invention is available from theFindingAda.com website only, for £5.99.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAre operations like Flipboard scams against publishers? &gt;&gt; Talking Points MemoJosh Marshall, TPM's editor and publisher:I do think these services [such as Flipboard and Google Currents], as they currently exist are bad for publishers. We give them the entirety of our product - news stories, updates, posts, what-have-you - in exchange for a notional thing called exposure, brand awareness, blah blah blah and in theory or at some point in the future a cut of the ad revenues these services bring in for selling ads on their platforms. The problem is there are no ad revenues that go to the publishers. Where they exist they are literally trivial. The real payoff is supposed to be reach, letting new potential readers know we're out there. In theory, that's particularly important for small publishers like TPM who don't have big budgets for promotional campaigns. You're not going to see a big TPM ad on a bus you see drive by.But say you find TPM on Flipboard, decide it's great and add it to your viewing routine on Flipboard. Probably you just keep reading us on Flipboard. Clearly you like Flipboard or you wouldn't be using it. So why would you start visiting TPM? You likely won't. That may be great for you. It's definitely great for Flipboard. But is it great for us? Not really.Never understood why you'd be on a service which holds the users and doesn't pay you.PDA/mobile device comparison / chooser &gt;&gt; Steve LitchfieldThe idea here is to score most current PDA/smartphone solutions and see which one comes out on top. The scores for each criteria are my own personal evaluations. You can apply your own weightings, though, and the page will multiply everything up and work out your most suitable smartphone solution. Models and scores: (10=excellent, 1=terrible). Weightings: 'Not'/'Quite'/'Very' multiplies scores by 0, 1 or 2 respectively.Quite fun, though it would be better - as in more honest - if you couldn't see the matrix of offerings while you're choosing. Needs lots of browser width, so maybe not one for the phone.HTC One max review: a lot more of the same &gt;&gt; The VergeVlad Savov:Using the One max in the recommended way — as a very generously proportioned phone — is an exercise in frustration, and nothing exemplifies that better than its major new feature, the fingerprint scanner. Firstly, it's placed in exactly the wrong place. Sitting immediately below the camera lens and requiring a swipe, it pretty much compels you to smudge the lens every time you want to identify yourself. The need for a vertical swipe is also problematic, since your hand's natural position is at an angle to the sensor, demanding an unnatural and uncomfortable motion to activate it. Inevitably, that leads to regular failures to recognise your epidermic signature.Equally enervating is the fact that you have to wake the One max from sleep before swiping to unlock it. The whole point of these fingerprint sensors is to speed up security processes, not make them more finicky, and that's exactly where the HTC One max fails.And though you can enrol three different fingers to launch three different apps, that only works from the lockscreen - not anywhere else. Savov says the scanner is "clumsy, awkward, and comfortably in line with the long history of failed attempts at making this technology work."Fake traffic is causing a crisis for advertisers &gt;&gt; AdweekA few weeks ago, Lindsay Buescher, senior manager, analytics at Carat,read an article on Adweek.com about a company called FreeStreams.comthat was pumping up its traffic by enticing Web users into accidentally visiting via hidden links on sites that house pirated content. As it happened, one of her agency's clients, Red Bull, was a FreeStreams advertiser. Buescher was determined to find out what was going on. Her team discovered Red Bull video ads were running on FreeStreams through two different networks, including ValueClick, a publicly traded company. (ValueClick says it has since stopped working with FreeStreams.)That wasn't something Buescher had run into much. She kept digging. After about three weeks, Carat was blacklisting 77 more sites for Red Bull beyond FreeStreams. Many of the sites didn't actually sell pre-roll ads, which was what the client was supposedly paying for. Some were merely gaming sites with interstitials. Some were sites that didn't even exist or were blocked by her company. Others ran video inventory continuously. Many were simply a case of "fraud," she found.Maybe what we need is less fake advertising content.iPhone 5s outselling iPhone 5c two-to-one &gt;&gt; AllThingsDAccording to CIRP's survey of U.S. consumers who purchased Apple's latest iPhones during the last days of September, the 5s accounted for 64% of total iPhone sales following its launch that month. Meanwhile, the the 5c accounted for 27%, with the legacy iPhone 4S making up the remaining 9%.So not only is the 5s outselling the 5c, it's outselling it more than two to one.Welcome news for Apple, since cannibalization of the 5s by the 5c was a potential commercial risk for this iPhone cycle. CIRP's data suggests that the company has so far avoided it — though that's hardly surprising at this early stage. After all, the iPhone 5c was intended as a mainstream smartphone, the iPhone 5s as an enthusiast one — a "forward-thinking" device for forward-thinking folks. And enthusiasts are often early adopters.In fact, the sales split seems to have been almost exactly the same as the 5/4S split a year ago - except the 5c is doing slightly better (though probably within the margin of sampling error).Learning from Blackberry's Decline &gt;&gt; Tech-ThoughtsSameer Singh:There is a tendency among industry watchers to gauge the future of a company based on feedback from the company's best customers. Unfortunately, the highest or most demanding tiers of a customer base are often the worst judges of an established company's prospects. While Blackberry's business was being disrupted by the iPhone and Android smartphones, their core "enterprise" and "prosumer" markets remained fiercely loyal. Many analysts remained steadfast in their opinion that Blackberry's core customer base would ensure the company's relevance in the years to come.The problem with the "best" customers is that they provide no information about the dominant basis of competition in the industry, i.e. the mainstream market. Blackberry's core user base always held the opinion that their email/messaging services and hardware keyboard gave the company a sustainable competitive advantage over competitors. Unfortunately, while industry watchers were preoccupied with those features, the basis of competition in the mainstream market shifted to ease of use, availability of apps, full featured browsing, etc.Google CIO Ben Fried on how Google works &gt;&gt; AllThingsDGoogle employees themselves live in a bit of a cocoon of Google products, using mostly Android phones and tablets, with near-perfect Wi-Fi and cellular service, and with limited flexibility to try other companies' productivity applications. It's a privileged existence, and perhaps one that gives them less of an ability to relate to their customers and be exposed to new and exciting things.There are very good reasons for the cocoon: Google is a huge company, with a ton of highly sensitive and confidential information about its own strategy and operations, and that of its five-million-plus Google Apps enterprise productivity suite customers. Google can't be cavalier about security, and it can't let its employees take too many risks. It takes time and effort to make nifty new apps appropriate for the enterprise, and someone has to oversee that.Dropbox: banned. Fantastical (a calendaring app): banned. Windows PC: requires permission from a manager. Microsoft Office: requires permission. Own laptops: banned (except Chromebooks). The picture that emerges of the Google internal monoculture is fascinating.No bids in 700 MHz auction, Paulwell disappointed &gt;&gt; JamaicaObserver.comDespite a robust showing of interest from a number of entities, including the 24 persons from 10 countries, including India, China, Ghana, Japan, Canada, Taiwan, the Russian Federation and the United States who attended a public forum for interested parties via the internet, the auction ended with no bids submitted before the 2:00 pm deadline."We view this as a minor setback," [said Phillip Paulwell, Jamaica's minister for science, technology, energy and mining].Broadband penetration in Jamaica is 8%. Paulwell says he's set his sights on 100%.Terms of Service; Didn't Read &gt;&gt; TOSDR"I have read and agree to the Terms" is the biggest lie on the web. We aim to fix that.Very intriguing service, via a browser add-on, which tells you about the quality of the ToS of various companies, from A (great) to E (bad). Google is a C; quite a few others are still awaiting classification. So far only DuckDuckGo and SeenThis qualify as A.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Argos has leapt into the highly competitive budget tablet market with the launch of the MyTablet, a low-end £99 tablet manufactured under its Bush home electronics brand.On sale from 16 October, the MyTablet faces stiff competition from other 7in tablets, including Google’s £199 Nexus 7, Amazon’s £99Kindle Fireand Tesco’s Hudl, which retails for£119.While the MyTablet matches Amazon’s Kindle Fire on price and undercuts the iPad mini by £170, it does not compete so well on features.Compared to therecently released Tesco Hudl, the MyTablet offers significantly lower specifications with a lower resolution screen, half the storage, a less powerful processor and reduced battery life.Angry Birds pre-loadedAvailable in silver or pink, the Argos tablet has full access to the Google Play store and can run any of the 850,000 standard Android apps.The MyTablet will come pre-loaded a series of free Android apps including the BBC iPlayer, Angry Birds and an e-reader app.In the first half of 2013, almost 6m tablets were sold in the UK, and demand is expected to accelerate into Christmas.“Millions of people have bought tablets during the last year, but there is still around 75% of the UK population without one. We know that tablets will feature heavily on Christmas lists this year,” said John Walden, Argos managing director.Nearly 230m tablets expected to be sold in 2013According to data provided by research firm IDC, tablet devices are set to overtake PC sales this year, growing to 229.3m units worldwide, while 8.3m tablets were sold in the UK in 2012 according to CCS Insight, with more than half of sales coming in the last quarter of the year alone. Argos sold 1m tablets in the UK in 2012.Argos says the MyTablet will fit within its existing tablet portfolio, covering the low-end “gifting space” while the company continues to offer higher-end tablets and devices.The MyTablet has a standard-definition 1,024 x 600 7in screen, runs Android 4.2.2 Jelly Bean powered by a 1.6GHz dual-core processor with 8GB of storage plus a microSD slot and a five-hour battery life.A front-facing VGA camera enables video chat and a two-megapixel camera on the back will capture photos and video. A micro USB port provides PC connectivity and charging, while HDMI will connect the MyTablet to a television.“Make no mistake, this is no iPad – you are getting a low-cost tablet, which does a job, but there are trade offs when you get down to this kind of price,” said Ben Wood, mobile analyst with research firm CCS Insight.“Argos has built the MyTablet to a price. It has hit that psychologically important price point of £99, and selected a specification specifically to do that, which is the contrast with Tesco’s approach with its £119 Hudl.&quot;The Argos MyTablet is a budget 7in own-brand Android tablet that is available in silver or pink.However, it is not all about price when it comes to buying and using a tablet computer, and not all tablets are created equally warned Wood: “You can be seduced by the price, but be very careful what you’re getting.“The small tablet space is turning into a homogenous category, and at the low end you risk having a relatively mediocre experience compared to the original benchmarks set by Apple’siPad.”Smack-bang in the middle of the gifting space“The MyTablet is now almost at a price where you don’t have to think twice before buying it, and fits smack-bang in the middle of the gifting space, something Argos specifically chases, which is what fuelled the explosive growth of tablets last Christmas,&quot; said Wood.Budget tablet sales have been boosted by the demand for screens from children, says Wood, as parents use them as both education and entertainment tools.“The tablet has almost become the lazy childcare tool. It’s a kid pacifier – just pass the tablet into the back of the car to keep the children happy.”•Tesco’s Hudl tabletis aimed at people who wouldn’t ordinarily think of buying a tablet computer but offers a lot of Android for your money.
It's Tuesday.
Taiwanese smartphone manufacturer HTC announced its latest flagship phone on Monday, revealing a fingerprint scanning security feature and 5.9in screen on the HTC One Max.The One Max comes less than one month afterApple revealed the iPhone 5S, which garnered huge attention for its fingerprint sensor which unlocks the device.HTC&apos;s phablet - an oversized smartphone, or small tablet - resembles the slim profile and curved metal back design of the well-received 5inHTC One Android smartphone, but features a larger 5.9in full HD screen that makes watching movies and sharing content with friends easier.“The addition of the HTC One max means that we now have an HTC One phone for everyone,” said Peter Chou, chief executive of HTC. “The HTC One max delivers the size and power required to do everything you want, and more, without compromise.”Unlocked with up to three fingerprintsThe rear of the device features a fingerprint scanner, which sits below the phone’s4-Ultrapixel cameraand allows the phone to be unlocked with up to three pre-stored fingerprints replacing the need for a PIN or password.HTC One Max phablet has a fingerprint scanner on the back.Security is a concern, according to Carolina Milanesi, vice president at research analysis firm Gartner:&quot;Considering that Apple was not able to avoid spoofing of itsTouch IDfor longer than 48 hours, I doubt HTC will have much more success. Where it has positioned the fingerprint scanner shows it will be more about convenience than security to me.&quot;Each stored fingerprint can also be used to trigger a different app while unlocking the device, providing rapid access to your favourite applications. The fluidity of the experience will be key when it comes to a feature that buyers might actually use on a daily basis, however.&quot;Unlike Apple&apos;s use of the technology, HTC&apos;s use of the fingerprint of sensor is clunky, not ergonomic and runs the risk of not being used to its full extent - if it&apos;s not a smooth experience that genuinely adds value why would the general user actually use it?&quot; said Francisco Jeronimo research director of European mobile devices for research firm IDC.Like the One, but biggerThe One Max runsAndroid4.3 Jelly Bean with HTC’s updated “Sense 5.5” user interface customisations with the same 1.7GHz quad-core processor that HTC chose for the original One.The Max has 2GB of RAM and 16 or 32GB of built-in storage with a micro SD slot for adding up to 64GB of additional of space.The One Max also has a larger, 3,300mAh battery to offset the increased demand placed on it by the larger 5.9in screen and maintain battery life.HTC One Max phabletStiff competitionThe HTC One Max joins a raft of newphabletsthat have launched this year, including stiff competition from both the 5.7inSamsung Galaxy Note 3and 6.44in Sony Xperia Z Ultra.&quot;There are two markets for the phablet - the multimedia market, where the cheapest largest screen wins, and the professional market, where the phablet with the most value-added features triumphs,&quot; said Jeronimo.Samsung&apos;s Galaxy Note line of devices differentiate themselves from the phablet competition, including HTC&apos;s new One Max, by coming equipped with a feature-packed stylus that not only allows drawing on the screen but also provides multiple multi-tasking modes such as Samsung&apos;s multi-window.It is these value-added features that attract the highly lucrative professional market, according to Jeronimo.&quot;The stylus tips the buyer in the Note&apos;s favour at the point of sale because, despite whether or not they will ever use the features, the more features available the more attractive the proposition when the price is equal,&quot; he said.Phablets outpacing PCsAnalysts predicted that 2013 would be “the year of the phablet” in January, after analysing the rapid rise of the large-screened phones in 2012.Phablet shipments outpaced both tablets and portable PCs in the last year in the Asia-Pacific region (excluding Japan), with a total of 25.2m phablets shipped compared to 12.6m tablets (over 7in) and 12.7m portable PCs, according data from IDC.While phablet shipments are still a small proportion of overall global smartphone shipments, they are seeing a marked increase in sales according to IDC&apos;s data.&quot;Most vendors need a device in the phablet sector to compete, however, their sales figures are unlikely to be high given the strong competition from Samsung,&quot; concluded Jeronimo.• HTC insists it will stay out of the low-end as itaims to compete with Samsung and Apple
Microsoft is updating its Windows Phone software to accommodate larger devices of up to 6in diagonally - classed as a &quot;phablet&quot; (phone-tablet) - and make it easier for motorists to reduce distractions while driving.The move is part of an effort to give its range of mobile devices greater feature parity with Apple&apos;s iPhone and Google&apos;s Android, even while it lags in sales behind the two ecosystems.It&apos;s the third update to the Windows Phone 8 software since the system&apos;s release a year ago. Devices with this update will start appearing in the coming weeks, and older phones will be eligible for a free upgrade, too. Microsoft couldn&apos;t give a precise date when the software will be sent to older handsets, because that will depend on operators&apos; approval.Drive timeSomething that may appeal to motorists: a new Driving Mode will automatically silence incoming calls and texts so that you can focus on the road. You also can configure the feature to automatically send out a reply to say that you&apos;re driving. It can be activated automatically when the phone is linked wirelessly with a Bluetooth device in the car, such as a headset. Apple has a Do Not Disturb feature for iPhones, which can be activated via its Siri voice assistant.What the Driving Mode won&apos;t do, however, is block outgoing calls or texts. And there will be ways to override it. The feature won&apos;t stop a teenager from texting while driving, but it will help reduce distractions for those who want that, says Greg Sullivan, director for Microsoft&apos;s Windows Phone business.Windows Phone 8 update 3 has a special Driving mode. Photograph: /PR/MicrosoftIn ablog post about the update, Darren Laybourn, the corporate vice-president for Windows phone points to a number of enhancements, including a rotation lock for the screen (&quot;does your screen keep spinning when you&apos;re trying to read emails in bed?&quot;), an easy way to close apps from the multitasking interface, Wi-Fi access when configuring a new phone, and improved Bluetooth. All of those bring Windows Phone closer to feature parity with Apple&apos;s iPhone and Google&apos;s Android - although there is still no solution for Microsoft&apos;s longstanding row with Google over a native app to show YouTube videos.Phablet timeThe new update also will allow for better resolution to accommodate larger phones. Currently, the system supports a maximum resolution of 1280 pixels by 768 pixels, which is adequate for phones with screens no larger than 5in on the diagonal. But video and image quality degrades when stretched out on larger phones, such as a 6.3in (16-centimeter) Samsung Galaxy Mega, one of the largest phablets on sale.Windows Phone 8 update 3 allows for phablets by allowing up to three columns of large tiles - or more of smaller tiles - on the display. Photograph: /PR/MicrosoftThe layout for larger phones also will change. Phones may now sport a third column of tiles, for instance; previously they have been restricted to two, although some have allowed small icons to fit more in. Contact lists and other features will be able to fit in more information. That&apos;s a contrast to Android, where larger screens means that text and images simply gets bigger, without actually fitting in more content.Microsoft&apos;s Windows Phone software, launched in October 2010, holds a distant third place behind Apple&apos;s iOS and Google&apos;s Android. It had a worldwide market share of 3.7% in the second quarter, according to research firm IDC. But shipments of Windows Phone devices grew 78% to 8.7m in the April-to-June period, compared with the same time a year ago. In the five largest European countries, its share of sales in the quarter to the end of Septemberapproached 10%, hitting 12% in the UK.Microsoft in September said it isbuying the mobile handset division of Nokia, the Finnish company, and will close the deal in the new year. That may mean that it can drive development of the software and hardware together - though it will still be licensing the software to companies including ZTE, Samsung and HTC - the latter having less than 10% of Windows Phone sales, yet still being the biggest provider outside Nokia.Microsoft is launching a program to give app developers early access to the new software. Apple has had a similar program for the iOS software behind iPhones and iPads, while Google often has worked with selected developers on unreleased features.
Microsoft's Xbox One console will fully embrace the social-media age, a new video has revealed. Official Xbox spokesman Larry Hryb (AKA Major Nelson) has released a tutorial showcasing the machine's Friends App, which will allow owners to add up to 1,000 friends, and then view what these contacts are playing, watching or listening to via a live Activity Feed.In a nod to Twitter, gamers will now also be able to 'follow' other players without committing to a friendship. This will give the follower access to elements such as in-game achievements and high scores, but won't reveal when the followed player is online, or other personal information. However, if two players follow each other, the amount of viewable data is increased – although privacy levels can all be personally customised.Ina blogpost accompanying the video, Hyrb quotes Xbox Live program manager Rob Lehew who explains, "A great driver in 'Forza Motorsport 5,' for example, could have a huge group of thousands or even millions of followers all tracking their performance in-game. Those followers can have this driver on their personal leaderboard so that they can constantly keep track of how they stack-up, and they can potentially connect online with the driver to get into a race with him."Microsoft is also updating its Achievement system, which rewards gamers with points based on specific in-game activities. Introduced for the Xbox 360, Achievements will be retained on Xbox One, but new timed challenges are also being added – these will crop up during certain periods of time, and what you achieve in that limited slot will be converted into rewards for all participants. Interestingly, many of these challenges will be community-based, requiring players to work together in order to complete tasks. It's a concept that's been emerging in online game design for some time, with titles like Eve Online requiring mass participation for certain activities. The idea is now filtering into console titles like Call of Duty Ghosts and The Division.The live Activity feed and new communal achievements symbolise a console that is designed for near-constant broadband connection. Indeed, when the machine was first announced in May, a daily internet connection was revealed as a mandatory element – although public outrage forced Microsoft to backtrack on this element. The company is also enhancing other key areas of the online gaming experience, includingits new Smart Match technologyto allow better matchmaking for competitive multiplayer gaming, and a refreshedReputation system, which flags disruptive players with a red trafficlight warning sign on their GamerCard.Launching in major global territories on 22 November, Xbox One will be competing directly against Sony's PlayStation 4, which arrives in North America on 15 November and Europe on 29 November.
HTC, the troubled Taiwanese smartphone maker, will continue competing at the high end against companies such as Apple and Samsung, insists its global online communications manager.The claim from Jeff Gordon came just ahead of the company&apos;s launch of its HTC One Max - a revised large-screen version of its HTC One smartphone which like Apple&apos;s iPhone 5S adds a fingerprint sensor, though HTC&apos;s is placed on the back of the phone, rather than on the front home button, as with the iPhone. The sensor can be used to open three different apps, triggered by different fingers.The HTC One Max has a 5.9in screen, and is being released in China ahead of the US. That is seen as indicative of the company&apos;s attempts to reach a broader market, and a break with the past given that in 2010 HTC was the biggest Android brand in the US.But it still faces an uphill task in breaking through there, because it has a tiny market share and is competing with Android smartphones in a market which is highly price-sensitive.Separately, Appledaily, a Taiwanese website,suggestedthat the company is in talks with China&apos;s Lenovo about &quot;strategic cooperation&quot; after secret meetings in Taiwan during August, and that a deal of some sort could be concluded by the first half of 2014. Lenovo, the world&apos;s largest PC seller, also has ambitions in the smartphone market, though it has mostly focussed on its Chinese home market so far.But there would be political obstacles to a takeover of HTC by a Chinese company, because of the longstanding differences between Taiwan, which has never recognised the mainland Chinese leadership as legitimate.HTC is likely to need some sort of help if its problems persist. Itfell to a NT$3.5bn (£73m) loss in the third quarter, its first loss in more than ten years, as sales dropped by a third to NT$47.05bn (about £1bn), as its smartphone shipments slumped to an estimated 6m - which would give it about 2.3% of the world smartphone business. It faces serious challenges in trying to compete against Apple and Samsung, which have products which dominate the high end of the smartphone business, which is generally splitting towards a high- and low-end market, with minimal business in the middle end between about $300 and $400.The HTC One has struggled to make an impact in the high-end field despite good reviews. Photograph: Ashley Pon/Bloomberg via Getty ImagesThe company was also obliged to put out aclarification on its siteafter an interview on Bloomberg TV in which its chairwoman, Cher Wang, appeared to say that the company faced &quot;its most challenging&quot; quarter in the current three months. Wang, the company insisted, was referring to &quot;living up to the challenge of innovative marketing in Q4 of 2013. She puts direct communications with [the] consumer at the center of [HTC&apos;s] overall business strategy.&quot;Meanwhile Gordon,on Twitter, insisted that &quot;HTC will not suddenly shift strategy to become a budget smartphone maker.&quot; Headdedthat &quot;running to [the] low end would be the exact wrong solution&quot; to the company&apos;s present problems.Gordon suggested that Chinese companies which are coming to the wider market are operating at the low-profit end of the market - one into which even Amazon is expected to make a move. &quot;Competing against Huawei, ZTE, eventually Amazon, etc for [the] low end [on] razor-thin margins is a fool&apos;s game,&quot; hesaid.Gordon was reacting to the suggestion byTero Kuittinen, an analyst at Alekstra, that with LG, ZTE and Huawei now shipping more than 12m phones per quarter, &quot;HTC will face crushing price competition&quot;. Kuittinen suggested that &quot;It is entirely unrealistic to expect HTC, which has obsessively focused on the $600 price point, to suddenly become competitive at below $150. Its high-end Windows Phones have flopped spectacularly, unable to justify the premium pricing. That leaves HTC nowhere to run.&quot;HTC has had a tumultuous year, with thedeparture of a number of executives&lt;/a&gt;, the failure of the &quot;Facebook phone&quot; HTC First, and thearrest in September of a number of former executivesfrom the company, one of whom allegedly had currency equivalent to $260,000 in his car, and is under investigation over whether he took trade secrets stolen from HTC to a Chinese company.• Just four days after the iPhone 5S went on sale, Germany&apos;sChaos Computer Club spoofed its fingerprint reader.
Streaming is all the rage, isn't it? Spotifyjust turned five. Last.fm is much older - it started in 2002. Google, Amazon and Apple all offer streaming services of sorts (though not all in the UK). And there are tons more streaming services to choose from; besides all the internet radio stations (including all the BBC's), there's Deezer, Rdio, Napster, 7Digital, 8tracks, Slacker, Wolfgang's Vault… it's a veritable cornucopia of music and information.And yet if you go into many hi-fi shops and look for something that will deal natively with all this streaming, you'll probably go away stumped. That's part of why the hi-fi business is dying on its feet, argues Tom Cullen, co-founder of Sonos, which makes - ahem - hi-fi devices which handle streaming internet content. "Traditional stereo sales are falling by 25% year-on-year," Cullen says. "But that for wireless speakers is up 40%."Overall, home audio is a $10bn (£6.2bn) business worldwide - but only $1.5bn is going on streaming devices. And that's where he sees an opportunity with the new Play:1 wireless speaker, which goes on sale from2914October. (It's announced on 14 October.)Play One, play allIt's a surprisingly small speaker, about the size of a kilogram bag of sugar. But it packs a punch. I've got a pair of Bose active speakers which are about the same size, and cost only slightly less than the £169 that the Play 1 goes for.Exploded view of the Sonos Play:1 speaker: the company says it has worked out how to give its speaker cone twice the travel as conventional systems, yielding greater sound output. Photograph: Sonos/PRThe Play 1 definitely outmuscles my Bose speakers for sound quality: the bass is clear, but the treble is distinct too. Of course there's only one Play 1 for the price, compared to the two Bose speakers. But the Play 1 will fill a room easily: Cullen says that the company's engineers have figured out how to give the speaker cone twice as much travel within a limited space - which means you can move more air, and so have a louder speaker in a smaller package.Setup is easy: you plug the Play:1 in and press a button on the free controller app, or on the Bridge (a £39 box which connects to your router; offered free until January with Play:1 purchases) to link it up. Once you've done that, the Sonos devices all connect wirelessly; the only wires you'll need are the power lead. It saves a lot of time on the floor following wires around.If you have multiple Sonos devices, you can group them together to play the same music in different rooms.All this can be controlled through free smartphone apps for iPhone, iPad or Android - Windows Phone users will have to either usePhonos, a third-party app, or just get a super-cheap Android tablet and use that (a Tesco Hudl, for example, would be cheaper than Sonos's dedicated controller (which it doesn't even show on its online store anymore).Life in stereoTwo Sonos Play:1 speakers being used as a rear stereo pair as part of a full 5.1 home stereo system with a PlayBar (beneath TV) and Sub (on R). Photograph: /PRYou can also, if you're flush, buy two Play:1s and set them up as a stereo pair. In my testing with two Sonos pre-production units, I had a little trouble with this; it turned out one of the units needed a factory reset for its software. Just in case you ever need to do this, here's how: while the device is turned on, hold down the "Play/Pause" button; unplug the device, still holding the button, and then plug it back in, and keep holding the button down until the light on the top begins flashing white/amber. Then let go until it stops. Then it's ready for a software update to match the rest of the system.As a stereo pair, the Play:1 does a great job. Certainly, you could buy stereo speakers for less (though you'd need an amp as well, and then to connect your computer or streaming system to that amp), but you couldn't get speakers which you can then split up and put into different rooms in your living space to stream different music. At this price, you've got flexibility for parties and so on.Pause for effectPrevious Sonos devices have a "Mute" button on the top of the device, and a louder/quieter volume rocker. As of the Play 1, and the software update that comes with it, the "Mute" button becomes a "Play/Pause" button: press it, and the music is buffered locally. (I tried it on Last.fm and was able to buffer the music for some minutes. However on BBC radio, it's not effective; the "pause" is actually just a mute, and you rejoin the stream at the point it's actually playing.)What, Tyler?So who is the Play:1 for? Cullen argues it's a speaker for "Tyler" - Sonos's internal shorthand for the young men who were twentysomethings when the company set up in 2002. They were digital natives, used to getting their content for free from the first, illicit version of Napster; but the problem for the company was that "Tyler" then couldn't really afford its stuff. So he listened to low-quality audio grabbed off the net on low-quality speakers. (Instead it focussed on the other members of its imagined demographic: Don, a 40-year-old bachelor; the Hucknall family of four; and Bob and Sarah, a DINKY (dual income, no kids yet) couple in their 30s. Plus, of course, Tyler.Now Tyler is all grown up, and Sonos has also come to meet him halfway. Indeed, you could say that the Play 1 is also aimed at all Tyler's twentysomething replacements, who might want to find out what good quality audio sounds like to go along with the expensive headphones they're buying for when they're out and about.Sonos claims to be installed in "more than three million rooms". Its popularity goes well beyond homes; I saw two Play:3s being used to pipe music around a clothes shop in Paris recently.But the Play:1's combination of great sound, streaming connectivity and comparatively low price makes me think it will be a hit.ConclusionWhen reviewing the Sonos Playbar - its rather pricier soundbar to enhance your TV output - in March, I observed that the Californian company's reputation for pricey products means "you're not going to find it in Poundland any time soon". Yet it's edging closer.Considering Sonos's offerings, you can now get two Play:1s for less than the price of one of its earlier products, the £399 Connect:Amp (which offers a power amp to drive standard hi-fi speakers); a pair is nearly less even than a single Play:5 (£349), the top end of its standalone wireless speaker range. It's hard to see how, if you're after quality but on a budget, the Play:1 isn't a bargain.Sonos certainly hopes so; Cullen said that it has been ramping up production for some time ahead of the expected interest. I've been impressed with Sonos's approachever since first seeing its products in May 2006. With streaming on the rise, its time has finally arrived. Even while traditional hi-fi might be fading away, wireless speakers have a bright future.WrapupSonos Play:1 £169 fromhttp://www.sonos.com/shop/or hi-fi dealers; until January, purchases will also offer free Bridge to provide internet connection. Aluminium grille; available in white or black trimming.Pros:great sound, easy to control, portable, connects to multiple streaming services including Spotify, Last.fm, internet radio (subscription may be needed), easy setup, minimal wiring (power lead is all you need); free Bridge until JanuaryCons:no Windows Phone controller app (yet).Updated with correct details about sale date for Play:1, and price of Play:5.
Perhaps it's because the art of home making is such a tactile, visual pursuit, it doesn't translate terribly well to apps. True there are myriad "interior design" tools, professing to make designing your perfect room easier, just snap a room, drop in your furniture and print … But in testing, I found some of these to be more amusing gimmick than actually useful. Plus many were conceived in America so defaulted to imperial measurements with no means of conversion (missing a trick there). In short, nothing beats physical tester pots and a good old-fashioned moodboard. Thus I conclude that the world of apps works best for interiors when it sticks to assisting with facts, lists, and inspiration. Not forgetting of course, theELLE Decoration appas your instant portal to the world's leading homes magazine.PHOTOMEASURESIPHONE, IPAD £3.99Save measurements on to photos of your rooms. Take a snap, add the measurements, zoom in or out for more detail. Handy on the move when considering new furniture: will it fit? Or email pictures to your designers so they can check for you.PHAIDON DESIGN CLASSICSIPAD, £10.49Based on the book series, this is an impressive collation of1,000 design classics of the last 200 years. Features items from the greats such as Dieter Rams and Eero Saarinen, to everyday icons like the chopstick and the clothes peg.MAGPIE BY CONRANIPHONE FREEEasy to useonline scrapbook of sortsthat lets you take pictures, video or make notes of things that inspire you and then be able to print them out as neatly arranged moodboards.REMODELISTAIPHONE, IPAD £1.99Subtitled, "sourcebook for the considered home", this one boasts daily postings of news from the interiors world; think cool lampshades spotted in a bar in Berlin, to textural throws for winter, plus click-to-buy functionality. Lite version is free.IHANDYIPHONE, IPAD, ANDROID FREEQuite simply, aspirit level on your phone. The one app the entireELLE Decorationteam has downloaded. Free.PEPPERMINT 2IPHONE, IPAD £2.49A colour palette appthat lets you play with different combinations, adjust shades and save ideas for future interior schemes.ARCHITONICIPHONE £2.49 ANDROID £2.91Also available with the iPad. Aimed at architects and designers,this resourcecatalogues everything from sanitary ware via garden furnishings to a multitude of different door handles plus portfolios of finished projects. Also publishes a host of free guides such asBest Italian Design BrandstoBest Sofa &amp; Armchair Design.HOUZZIPHONE, IPAD, ANDROID FREEPopular American appwith over 120,000 professional pictures of rooms for your inspiration. Some of the styles reflect its provenance rather, but there's enough other decent contemporary stuff to make a browse worthwhile. Free.SUN SEEKERIPHONE, IPAD £4.99 ANDROID £3.79Determines the natural light/sunshine available in any room at any given time using your iPhone's built-in GPS system to tell which direction you're facing and mapping out the path of the potential rays. Useful when accessing a potential new home.Sun Seeker Liteis free. Augmented 3D version, £4.99.IHANDY CARPENTERIPHONE £1.49, ANDROID £1.24TheiHandy's five tools to go including plumb bob, surface level, spirit level, protractor and ruler. Easy to use as well as aesthetically pleasing.
Google adverts will now show users’ reviews and recommendations to their friends, following a change to the company’s privacy settings.Under the new rules, which enable what the company calls “shared endorsements”, Google explains in a blogpost that “your friends might see that you rated an album four stars on the band’s Google Play page”.The endorsements are also applied to adverts, though, so “the +1 you gave your favourite local bakery could be included in an ad that the bakery runs through Google”.The move is reminiscent of the way that adverts on Facebook have worked for a long time.In 2011, Facebook introduced “sponsored stories”, which allow advertisers to share with users that friends have clicked “like” on their company’s page.That move resulted in a lawsuit from users, who argued that they hadn’t given the site permission to use their names and activity in that way. In August 2013,Facebook agreed to a $20m settlement.On Friday,Google updated its terms of serviceto give them the permission they require. The company also makes it easy to opt out. Users cango to the shared endorsements settings, and uncheck a box to not have their photos included.If the box is already unchecked, adverts will remain off. Google does not appear to be consistently treating the settings as opt in or opt out.The new adverts also only affect people who use the social features of Google, whether that is in Google+, the Google Play store, or just the reviews that Google Maps enables.Users who just use it for search and email will normally have no information to share, but can opt out just in case.• Despite the lawsuit,Facebook earned more than $200mfrom Sponsored Stories
Facebookhas acquired Onavo, a 40-person strong Israeli startup focused on mobile application intelligence, data and compression.Facebook will acquire the Tel Aviv-based company’s technology, personnel and office, which will give Facebook its first Israeli headquarters.Founded in 2010, Onavo developed apps and services in a number of mobile-centric areas, including mobile app analytics and security.Onavo specialises in mobile data compression with applications that attempt to extend limited mobile data allowances on mobile phone and broadband contracts.The company complements the goals of theMark Zuckerberg-led Internet.org– an effort to bring connectivity to the billions of people across the globe who currently do not have access to the internet.“We’ve built world-class products and a remarkably talented team which has pioneered important breakthroughs in data compression technology and mobile analytics,” said Guy Rosen, Onavo’s co-founder and chief executivein a blog post. &quot;[We] hope to play a critical role in reaching one of internet.org’s most significant goals – using data more efficiently, so that more people around the world can connect and share.”“We expect Onavo’s data compression technology to play a central role in our mission to connect more people to the internet, and their analytic tools will help us provide better, more efficient mobile products,” said a Facebook spokesperson.Onavo plans to continue running its mobile utility apps, Extend and Count, as a standalone brand following the acquisition.• In October, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the world wide web, partnered with Google, Microsoft, Facebook and Intel to createthe Alliance for Affordable Internet,that aims to bring cheaper internet to the developing world
The last decade has seen huge investment in technology and computing by the government in Britain, as well as the arrival of foreign investment.The London and Cambridge (or "Silicon Fen") tech scenes are flourishing – now more than 15,000 businesses are said to have located in Tech City and Cambridge has become a hotspot for hardware companies.ManchesterandNewcastle upon Tyneare close behind.But there is a vacuum in computing expertise. Tech companies live and die depending on the talent they can attract. The demand for web developers, coders and tech aficionados outstrips supply by a great margin.InSeptember 2014new computing curriculums will be introduced that will teach children as young as five how to write computer programs and then from 11 upwards how to code, as well as providing information on internet safety and how to make use of computer data. This will help establish, in the next few decades, an unprecedented base of talent for tech companies in the UK foremost, but also around.Below we list some of the groups and businesses that also addressing the need to boost Britain's computing expertise in the UK. This is likely to be key to unlocking the true tech potential of the UK.1Maker's AcademyIts aim is to teach a computing science course in 12 weeks. The courses are intense: students are selected based on their drive to learn how to code, at £9,600 per course. The academy seeks two types of potential coders: those who are "sick and tired" of waiting for somebody to build what they envision and are willing to do it themselves; and those who want to move out of an unhappy career and into a creative field, like coding. Maker's Academy is based in London and NY but  plans to expand across the UK.2Code ClubCode clubs are free extracurricular coding sessions for kids. There are now almost 1,000 clubs in the UK, with between 20 and 30 abroad – and the number is growing.It was founded in April 2012 by Clare Sutcliffe, a designer, and Linda Sandvik, who still programs. The two planned a hack day for kids – getting them together for a day of experimenting with software. They found the children wanted to code, but didn't have the outlet to do so."Children really like playing with games and computers, so it's not a huge leap in logic to think they might actually want to make it." Sutcliffe said of the logic behind starting Code Club.Their programs start by teaching basic computing concepts and then on to HTML, CSS and beyond.3SteerIt launched this year with a specific aim: to allow people to act on their creative urges. Founder Rik Lomas said: "We didn't want our students running a marathon, so that they're relieved at the end. People prefer five intense days and after that they can go off and build – people are more passionate when they work towards something."The company teaches two types of five-day courses, at £1,500 per person: back-end and front-end web development. Steer, based in London and Manchester, claims 100% positive feedback – some of its profits support Code Club.4Rewired StateIt began in effect in March 2009, when it  hosted the National Hack the Government Day, which sought to improve the transparency of government data. It runs hack days throughout the year and the Festival of Code run byYoung Rewired Statefor developers and designers aged under 18. Emma Mulqueeny, its founder, says that there were three reasons for Young Rewired State. "One, for the kids, who really appreciate the community. And because we need this education — there are a lot of jobs  and not enough people to fill the roles. Third, it's important to understand how the web really works, so that we're in control."5TreehouseTreehouse is an online coding course, whose mission is "to bring affordable technology education to people everywhere, in order to help them achieve their dreams and change the world". The courses have a massive scope: building websites, iOS and Android apps, creating a tech-based business and getting a job. Courses have stellar reviews and are affordable, at £30/month. Treehouse builtCode/Racer, a colourful programming course.6Code AcademyAnother set of online tutorials from a company that teaches coding in languages HTML, CSS, Ruby on Rails, Python and more. The company uses badges and "streaks" of activity to turn the learning experience into a computer game and claims to take "cues from Facebook and Zynga in creating an engaging education experience" to separate it from the classroom environment. So far it is extremely popular, perhaps not least because it is free.7CoderdojoHosted by a group of volunteers, Coderdojos teach children and young people skills in web development and creating applications. The dojos operate in nearly 30 countries. The UK alone hosts 24 dojos. The initiative was founded by James Whelton in 2011, at the age of 18, along with an Australian entrepreneur, Bill Liao. Whelton saw the massive gap in tech education and wanted to make coding more practically relevant.8DecodedDecoded began with a question: can someone learn to code in a single day? From that concept, the idea of "decoding" the mysteries of computing jargon for technical laymen has become its main focus. Co-founder Kathryn Parsons sees people's inhibition about coding as problematic, while coding education today is a "must-have", she says. "If we break down the character of a good coder – patient, creative – these are common skills. So many people tell us 'I wish I'd found all this years ago'." Decoded's courses are largely tailored for businesses. It is based in London and New York, but hosts popups across England.9Khan AcademyThis is targeted at young children and wants to communicate that "computer science is an intensely creative field," says company president Shantanu Sinha. As such, the interface is simple: a textedit file next to a display which changes in real time as you code. The ethos of Khan Academy was to inspire people who had had no previous experience.10General AssemblyLaunched in New York in 2011, General Assembly was attracted to London by the buzz. "We are fundamentally an education company, a gateway to opportunity, and outside the US the biggest destination for tech opportunity is London. If you spend 10 minutes in Tech City, you'll know why."It hopes to train experts in web development, user experience (or UX) design and data science. Its courses are flexible, ranging from £30 a day to £8,000 for a longer course.
Facebook may not have pioneered the use of hashtags in social networking conversations, but now that it's adopting the feature, the company is determined to capitalise.That was the main takeaway from last week's MIPCOM television industry conference in Cannes, where Facebook's vice president of partnerships Dan Rose gave a keynote speech that was low on specific announcements, but high on strategic lines to read between."Today, the intersection of social media and television is a given. Nowadays it's literally hard to flip through he channels without seeing social media integrations everywhere you look," said Rose."Social media has truly become an inseparable part of the television experience. Everywhere you look you see Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter being integrated into the TV experience."Note the order of those three services. Rose's speech had several pointers to the social network's desire to establish its credentials as a social TV partner for broadcasters and producers ahead of Twitter, which has spent the last couple of years publicising its own second-screen role, while forging relationships with TV companies.Part of Facebook's efforts involve adopting some of Twitter's most prominent features, particularly hashtags, which itstarted making clickable on its social networkin June."Hashtags are part of the language of the internet, and now part of the language of Facebook. And soon we'll be rolling out trending topics too," said Rose, who added that he's had access to the latter feature for some time. "During primetime hours, unsurprisingly many of the trending topics are about television."Rose cited examples from big TV events, including 9m people "interacting" on Facebook about MTV's recent Video Music Awards (VMAs) – a word that covers Likes and shares as well as actual comments – and 125m interactions around the NBA basketball finals earlier in the year.Now that both Facebook and Twitter support hashtags, the former is hoping that even more broadcasters will display official hashtags while on-air, while also making use of the social network'stwo new APIs for broadcastersthat help them make sense of viewers' activity on Facebook.Unveiled in September, the Public Feed API shows a real-time feed of public Facebook posts for a specific word, while the Keyword Insights API aggregates posts mentioning a specific term, and helps broadcasters drill down into the data to understand the buzz.Sky was the first British broadcaster to become a partner for the APIs, but last week Channel 4 signed up too, with plans to use them for three shows initially: Made in Chelsea, Sunday Brunch and Channel 4 News.More on social TV•Social TV apps: 'second screen is what you'd call a lawyer's paradise'•Shazam: 'TV ads are going to become our primary revenue stream'•Social TV and second-screen viewing: the statsRose's pitch to the TV industry was squarely focused on real identity, in an effort to show why Facebook's advantages over Twitter are about more than pure user numbers (1.1bn and 215m active users respectively)."These conversations are't taking place between a bunch of anonymous strangers. They're happening between family, friends, co-workers and neighbours," said Rose. "More than any other platform, Facebook mirrors the way people have always engaged in conversations about TV, with the people that matter to them."He later returned to this real-identity theme when talking about the kind of data-mining that's possible with the two new APIs. "Because people use their real identities on Facebook and we have massive scale, Facebook is uniquely situated to be able to offer this kind of analysis," he said.Twitter may disagree, having made two acquisitions in the last year of analytics companies:Bluefin Labs in FebruaryandTrendrr in August– the latter just a month after it hadworked with Facebook on researchclaiming to show that "the volume of Facebook user engagement relating to television programming was 5 times as large as all other social networks combined".The two social networks are competing fiercely to prove they can provide the best, most useful analytics to broadcasters, while lobbying for more on-air appearances for their respective brands – even if sensible broadcasters will more likely opt to work with both, and use brand-less hashtags to cover all social networks.The case that broadcasters should not be ignoring social networking appears to be made, though. "The second screen, instead of drawing people away from TV is pushing people towards TV," said Rose at MIPCOM, citing a prominent show as an example."My news feed blew up after the Red Wedding episode of Game of Thrones aired on HBO. It was like all my friends called me at the same time. After that, how could you not watch this show?"
Dick Costolo, the chief executive of Twitter, was briefly fired by the firm just weeks before he was promoted from chief operating officer to his current job, according to a new book by the New York Times’ Nick Bilton.In September 2010, Bill Campbell, a former Apple vice-president who had been brought on as an adviser to the young company, demanded Costolo be fired.Campbell’s apparent aim was to end a stand-off between the company’s co-founders, Evan Williams and Jack Dorsey, and Twitter’s board as to who should be in charge.At the time, Williams was chief executive and Dorsey was chairman of the board, having given up his obligations at Twitter and focused on Square, his mobile payments startup.In his book,Hatching Twitter, Bilton writes that after demanding Costolo be fired, Campbell reminded the board that they were running a startup, then left the meeting and fired him to his face.Costolo asked whether Campbell was joking, and Campbell told him to contact Twitter’s lawyers to arrange a severance package.But by the time Costolo had written the email, the board reversed the decision and told Costolo he still had a job.On 4 October 2010, Costolo took over from Ev Williams as chief executive, a role he has held ever since.• At FeedBurner, Dick Costolo thoughtthe future of the internet was the &quot;widgetisation of media&quot;
