It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases.There&apos;s a separate roundup for Android apps, which waspublished earlier in the day. There&apos;s also a new format this week, separating out games and non-game apps.For now, read on for this week&apos;s iOS selection (and when you&apos;ve finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad appsposts).APPSNike+ Move (Free)This is Nike&apos;s brand new fitness app, for the iPhone 5s only for now, since it uses that device&apos;s M7 coprocessor to track your movements. As with previous Nike+ apps, your activity is turned into &quot;NikeFuel&quot; points, with a daily analysis of how you&apos;ve been walking, running and jiggling about (not the technical term), with Game Center integrated to see how that compares to friends.iPhone 5SRadio Times DiscoverTV (Free)Just in time for Christmas – although don&apos;t go scribbling red circles on your iPad screen – this is the Radio Times&apos; tablet app, offering TV listings, daily recommendations and a guide to shows that are available on catchup and on-demand services. It&apos;s free for a month, then costs £2.99 a month or £28.99 a year.iPadSo Many Stars – Andy Warhol (£1.99)This app is for children, although anyone interested in the life and works of Andy Warhol will have some fun with it. It takes Warhol&apos;s series of &apos;So&apos; illustrations and makes them interactive: &quot;making dogs grow, eating spaghetti and letting fish jump out of the water...&quot; A playful app for the youngest art lovers.iPadLabscope (Free)Labscope is the work of Carl Zeiss: an app that works with the company&apos;s microscope to turn it into &quot;a Wi-Fi-enabled imaging system&quot;. That means taking photos and videos of samples you&apos;re squinting at under the microscope, adding annotations and sharing the pics. It&apos;s aimed mostly at schools and universities, although if you&apos;ve got the kit at home, you&apos;ll enjoy this too.iPadDoctor Who: Sonic Screwdriver (£1.49)If you&apos;re getting excited about the upcoming 50th anniversary show of Doctor Who, this novelty app based on the famous Sonic Screwdriver may amuse. It offers virtual versions of the gadgets from the third, fourth, tenth and eleventh Doctors, with sound effects to match. It also doubles as a mobile torch.iPhoneChordana Viewer (£6.99)This is an intriguing app from Casio, which scans the music files stored on your iOS device then tries to turn them into chord charts, to help you play them on your own instrument. It&apos;s using Casio&apos;s Chordana technology, and lets musicians tweak the chords when it gets them wrong, and then play along with the moving chart.iPhone / iPadCaffeine Nights Books (Free)Aiming to be &quot;your favorite mystery bookstore in the palm of your hand&quot;, this gathers crime, thriller and horror books from British publisher Caffeine Nights, with a mixture of recommendations, sample chapters, trailers and the promise of original stories too. Authors including Shaun Hutson and Dougie Brimson provide their suggestions for reading matter.iPhone / iPadMatisyahu&apos;s Happy Hanukkah Jam-Along (£1.99)Reggae/rap star Matisyahu&apos;s latest release is something of a curveball: an app for children, developed by startup Mibblio. Music remains the focus: Matisyahu&apos;s Happy Hanukkah song forms the basis for a &quot;jam-along&quot; app where kids can tap buttons to play virtual instruments, from piano and acoustic guitar to accordion, bongos and banjo.iPadClique (Free)A couple of years ago, a video-sharing app called Viddy was taking the mobile world by storm as &apos;the Instagram for video&apos;. In 2013,Instagramis the Instagram for video, and while Viddy is still available, the startup behind it is trying some new things. Clique is the latest photo-sharing app, with the twist this time being that it&apos;s anonymous, but between friends: groups ping photos back and forth with stickers and text, without ever knowing exactly who the last one came from.iPhone / iPadRoman Ruins HD (£2.99)Something more serious here: an iPad app to explore more than 350 Roman ruins from around the world: &quot;part virtual reality, part photo book and part inspirational travel guide all rolled into one&quot; as the App Store listing puts it. It&apos;s an engrossing app whether you&apos;re an expert in the subject matter, or simply a casual observer wondering what the Romans ever did for us.iPadMovember Mobile (Free)It&apos;s that time of year when men proudly strut the land with moustaches of varying quality, in order to raise money and awareness for prostate and testicular cancer research. This is the official Movember app, offering a rogues gallery of facial fuzz, and the ability to track donations and post updates to social networks.iPhoneGAMESStar Wars: Tiny Death Star (Free)This new Star Wars game is based on the equally-marvellous Tiny Tower, where you had to build a tower level-by-level, populating it with &quot;bitizens&quot; to work, play and rest. In this version, the tower is a Death Star, and the bitizens are characters from the films. Super-addictive, and not over-aggressive in its use of in-app purchases either.iPhone / iPadLego The Lord of the Rings (£2.99)The title will tell many people all they need to know about this game, especially if they loved Lego Star Wars. It takes bricky versions of Frodo, Gandalf and co and puts them into a whopping 1.5GB of game, with more than 90 playable characters – note, some are bought through extra in-app purchases. It looks marvellous, and plays pretty well too.iPhone / iPadRayman Fiesta Run (£1.99)Rayman often gets underrated in the history of great game characters, but his mobile games have been top-notch in recent times. This is the latest one: a colourful platformer with more than 75 levels to scoot through, and bags of charm.iPhone / iPadPathogen (£1.99)Pathogen takes its cues from boardgames, based around a virus spreading through the human body, and already scooping up a number of awards at games conferences for its inventive gameplay. Single and multiplayer modes (including online or local in the latter case) provide plenty of depth, with a level editor to prolong the fun.iPhone / iPadSid Meier’s Ace Patrol: Pacific Skies (£2.99)This second dogfighting game from industry veteran Sid Meier sees you patrolling the Pacific, re-enacting famous World War II battles. The basic action across 180 missions is really fun, but there&apos;s some extra strategy in upgrading your pilots with new skills as you go. Multiplayer is the icing on the cake.iPhone / iPadQuizUp (Free)QuizUp wants to be &quot;the largest real-time trivia game ever&quot; with 150,000 questions in a host of categories, and global high-score tables to show exactly how your general knowledge skills compare to the rest of the world. There&apos;s a strong community angle, with in-game chat, and the option to submit your own topics and questions.iPhoneBurn The Lot (Free)This game is based partly on traditional travelling carnivals (or &quot;carnies&quot;) and partly on sci-fi space-hopping. &quot;Stopping interstellar carnies from taking over the galaxy is your job,&quot; as the App Store listing puts it. This takes place as a dual-stick shooter across the various planets, with varied enemies and weapons providing plenty of action.iPhone / iPadBlocky Roads (£1.49)This racing game looks a lot like Minecraft. A LOT. But it&apos;s good fun, as you drive one of nine cars through the four tracks, with decent handling and physics providing a bouncy ride. You might waste plenty of enjoyable time in the car editor section too, crafting your own vehicle from scratch.iPhone / iPadFootball Heroes (Free)Finally, football. Not football football, but American football. This takes an arcade treatment rather than a hardcore simulation, and is all the better for it as you run, pass and slam into opponents, while deploying special moves more akin to a beat &apos;em up along the way (as far as I know, dragon punches and rocket shoes are still banned by the NFL...)iPhone / iPadThat&apos;s this week&apos;s selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
At first, they don't know what's going on. Quickly it turns into a nuisance. Some, perplexingly, even become famous for not being famous. For the most part, however, people who accidentally took Twitter's famous usernames are a credit to the internet.@johnlewisAcomputer science professor at Virginia Tech, Lewis is the undisputed master of this situation. For months now he has be replying to praise and grumbles from British shoppers with the same patient formula. "I am an awesome cook, thanks. But you might have been referring to the retail store," when strangers admire his food hall. Or "I dislike rudeness, and won't stand for it in my women. But my guess is you were referring to the retail store," when they complain to him about his telephone manner. On Sunday, finally, @johnlewisretail offered tosend him the present he deserves.@alliekeithI am an awesome cook, thanks. But you might have been referring to the retail store.&mdash; John Lewis (@johnlewis)August 5, 2013@whsmithYesterday a user called Jennifer observed that, "If your name's Will H Smith and you opt for the Twitter name @whsmith you're a bit of a wally getting angry with those assuming you're a shop."Will H Smith, however, is an American Christian who understandably knows little about the British stationer and bookseller. Instead he replies to his many messages with a patient correction and a recommendation to read Romans 1:3,4. Although in this case he just asked, "What's a wally?"If your name's Will H Smith and you opt for th Twitter name@whsmithyou're a bit of a wally getting angry with those assuming you're a shop&mdash; Jennifer  (@jennffer)November 10, 2013@graysonperryGrayson Perry the artist is not on Twitter. Grayson Perry the soccer-mad seven-year-old boy, however, is. And no, he isn't British or interested inmodernism. No, he wasn't onNewsnight. No, in fact hewears boy's clothes. With his father's help, and a lot of wit, he explains these things to countless fans - many of whom go away delighted, if a little confused, by the reply from their hero. "I didn't deliver any Reight Lectures…" Perry admits. "I'm only 7, but maybe someday I might."@tarapersaud@bbcradio4I'm not a cross-dresser…just like you're not a "fact-checker"…&mdash; Grayson Perry (@graysonperry)October 15, 2013@theashesAshley Kerekes says she can't remember why her boyfriend started calling her "The Ashes", a gentle pet name which, in Massachusetts, has no association with cricket's biggest grudge match. She discovered this other meaning in 2010, however, when she suddenly gained 6,000 followers and became the centre of a storm of Anglo-Aussie banter. "I'm not a freaking cricket match!" she yelled into the ether, to the ether's delight. Since then she has got into the spirit of things, let's say, byselling T-shirts and sponsorship rights.I AM NOT A FREAKING CRICKET MATCH!!! That means you @matywilson@zandertrego@thesummats@ atonyboffey@faz1988and MORE&mdash; Ashley Kerekes (@theashes)November 27, 2010@EdwardSnowdenThis sport-mad English estate agent has certainly had an interesting year. At first he had no notion why people kept sending him messages about spying and the NSA. Since he got to grips with it, however, he's been having a splendid time. "Ha - that'smy holidays to the USA ruined!" he replied to one wellwisher. Then there are those who insist he is indeed the CIA whistleblower, employing an elaborate double-bluff. "Interesting conspiracy theory – sadly not factual!" is his answer to that. He gets his share of misdirected abuse too, of course, but as he points out, "Estate agentsare probably equally disliked."@EliLangerha - that's my holidays to the USA ruined!&mdash; Edward Snowden (@EdwardSnowden)June 9, 2013
Apple may be developing two larger-sized iPhones replete with curved glass screens and sensors that can detect different levels of pressure, according to a report byBloomberg News.A source claimed that the phones under development have screens that are 4.7in and 5.5in diagonal, both larger than the 4in screen of the iPhone 5S, currently the largest in any Apple phone.Industry analysts have been expecting a larger phone from Apple due to the success of 5in and larger Android phones such as the Samsung Galaxy S4 and the Sony Xperia Z.But the idea that the two models would feature &quot;larger displays with glass that curves downward at the edges&quot;, as reported by Bloomberg, has not previously been suggested.The Samsung Galaxy Round, a 5.7in phone with a curved glass display, demonstrates that the technology is ready, though the phone was released tobafflementin Western markets.Bloomberg also reports that subsequent models may include touch screens that can detect different levels of pressure, distinguishing heavy touches from light touches on the screen. That would particularly affect musical and artistic apps, which could more accurately model the feel of playing a piano or painting a picture using the touchscreen.In April, Apple chief executive Tim Cook dismissed rumours that the company&apos;s upcoming phone, later revealed as the iPhone 5S, would have a larger screen. &quot;My view continues to be that iPhone 5 has the absolute best display in the industry,&quot; he told investors in an earnings call.But he also left the door open for the company to increase the size in the future, saying that the company&apos;s &quot;competitors have made trade-offs to ship a larger display. We will not ship a larger display iPhone while these trade-offs exist.&quot;The curved screens may be part of Apple&apos;s solution to those trade-offs. Bloomberg reports that the company would probably release the new phones in the third quarter of 2014.•LG promises an &quot;IMAX-like experience&quot; on its curved phone
Apple&apos;s maps have turned out to be a hit with iPhone and iPad users in the US - despite the roasting that they were given when they first appeared in September 2012.But Google - which was kicked off the iPhone after it refused to give Apple access to its voice-driven turn-by-turn map navigation - has lost nearly 23m mobile users in the US as a result.That is a huge fall against the 81m Google Maps mobile users it had there at its peak in September last year, according to ComScore, a market research company, which produced the figures from regular polls of thousand of users.The introduction of Apple&apos;s own maps with its iOS 6 software in September 2012 caused a furore after it emerged that they werelittered with errors. A location in Ireland named &quot;Airfield&quot; was marked as an airport, Paddington station had vanished, and Helsinki railway station was - it seemed - a park. The company was panned, and chief executive Tim Cookmade a public apology.But a year on, a total of 35m iPhone owners in the US used Apple&apos;s maps during September 2013,according to ComScore, compared to a total of 58.7m Google Maps users across the iPhone and Android base.Of those, about 6m used Google Maps on the iPhone, according to calculations by the Guardian based on figures from ComScore. That includes 2m iPhone users who have not or cannot upgrade to iOS 6, according to data from MixPanel.That suggests Google&apos;s efforts to offer a stand-alone app since December have gained little traction with iPhone users.&quot;Google has lost access to a very, very important data channel in the North American market,&quot; commented Ben Wood, mobile analyst for CCS Insight, a research company based in London. &quot;But Apple was adamant that it wasn&apos;t going to give up on doing its own maps, even when it had problems. This is a war of attrition.&quot;European and other regional data for maps use is not available, but is expected to mirror that found in the US.Huge valueMap data is hugely valuable both for Apple and Google in monitoring traffic flows to offer information on traffic jams, and determining user location, which is generally fed back anonymously to the relevant companies. Google also uses it to provide location-related advertising on its search and maps - an increasingly important source of income as search revenue from desktop sites flattens. Google has beenaggressively pushing adverts into its maps appon all platforms since August.For Apple, the growth in maps users is important so that it can improve its own traffic and other data relating to phone signal strength. Apple, however, is a relative minnow in location-based advertising, and has principally focussed on using the data for traffic forecasts for drivers.The break with the iPhone came when Apple became frustrated in late 2009 by Google&apos;s refusal to provide turn-by-turn navigation for maps on the iPhone - a feature which was available on Google&apos;s own Android, and which is hugely useful for car drivers. &quot;They broke their promise,&quot; one Apple executive told the Guardian. Google also wanted to collect more data from Apple users via maps, such as through its Latitude product, and held off offering vector graphics (which store data more efficiently, and canwork offline). That sparked Apple&apos;s decision to develop its own maps offering, licensing data from TomTom and other providers.But the introduction was a public relations fiasco, and after the initial criticism, Cookfired Scott Forstall, the head of the iPhone software team, andmaps chief Richard Williamson soon afterwards.In his apology, Cook urged people to download alternative maps apps - though Google did not then have one available for the iPhone. When itcame out in December, it shot to the top of the download charts, with10m downloads within 48 hours.Default behaviourComScore&apos;s data suggests though that comparatively few iPhone owners actually take the trouble to use Google&apos;s maps rather than Apple&apos;s - in part because Apple&apos;s maps are the default for any driving directions or map-related search on iOS 6 and above.According to ComScore, in September 2012 - just ahead of the introduction of Apple Maps - there were a total of 81.1m users of Google Maps, out of a total of 103.6m iPhones and Android phones users.But a year later,its smartphone data saysthat the total number of Google Maps users is much lower, at 43% of iPhone and Android users - or 58.7m, despite the user base growing to 136.7m.&quot;For the average user, even if they have the Google Maps app, they don&apos;t use it a lot,&quot; said Andrew Lipsman, an analyst at ComScore. &quot;In a narrow window [after the iOS app download became available] I&apos;m sure there was a ton of activity, but only for a short period.&quot;ComScore&apos;s data shows that in September 2013, 35m used Apple&apos;s maps at least once during the month, out of a total iPhone population of 60.1m. The 58% usage on the iPhone is reckoned to reflect the growing number of younger users who do not use mapping services; the proportion of iPhone users who use any mapping service, including Google&apos;s, has been dropping since April 2012, according to ComScore&apos;s data.Wood said: &quot;The thing is, on an iPhone all roads lead to Apple&apos;s maps. They&apos;re putting this front and centre for users, and getting more confident.&quot; For Google, he said, &quot;They&apos;re very fortunate that Android is a big source of data - they will be very relieved at that.&quot; He cautioned that US iPhone users might be more eager to use Apple&apos;s maps because there seem to be fewer errors there compared to other regions, including Europe.Google told the Guardian: &quot;We’re not currently sharing details on the number of downloads. While we can’t disclose specific performance metrics, we’re pleased with the product and user feedback has been positive.&quot;Calculating the dataAccording to ComScore, which collects data from tens of thousands of US smartphone users every month, in September 2012 there were 81.1m users of Google Maps in total across the 103.6m users of iPhones and Android smartphones.Facebook v Google Maps use in the US in 2012, millions of users. The number of Google Maps users dips in September as iOS 6 is rolled out. Photograph: /PR/ComScoreBut as iOS 6 began to roll out, and introduced Apple&apos;s maps as the default, the number using Google Maps dropped precipitously, even as the number of iPhones and Android phones began rising. (ComScore does not measure usage on Windows Phone or BlackBerry, which comprise only about 10% of smartphones in use in the US.) By December 2012, even though the base of iPhones and Android phones had grown to 112.9m - up 9.3m - the total number across both platforms using Google Maps on mobile at least once a month had dropped, to 74.4m.Latest figures from ComScore, published for September 2013, say that the total number of iPhones and Android phones in the US has grown to 136.7m, the number who used the Google Maps app has kept dropping - down to 58.8m - while the number of Apple Maps users stands at 35m out of a total iPhone population of 60.1m.The picture is made more complicated because there are differing rates of usage of maps between the two platforms - and it has changed over the measurement period. In April 2012,ComScore was quoted sayingthat in the US there were 31.3m iPhone users of Google Maps, and 38.2m users on Android (from a collective base of 88.4m devices, implying a 78% usage rate).It also noted that iOS users tended to use maps more often - 9.7m used it once a day, against 7.2m for Android. In addition, iPhone users spent longer on maps than Android users - 75.5 minutes per month, against 56.2 minutes for Android.But since then, according to ComScore, the usage rates for maps has altered, particularly as the iPhone has gained a younger base. According to Lipsman, by September 2013 &quot;overall map usage is [now] a bit higher on Android (79% of users) than on iPhone (72% of users).&quot;Modelling that change in users suggests that on the iPhone, there are about 43.2m maps users in all - which would break down to 35m using Apple&apos;s maps, and another 8.3m who use Google&apos;s maps at least once a month.Separate data from Mixpanel for the US supplied to the Guardian suggests though that there are about 2m iPhone owners in the US who have not upgraded their phones to iOS 6, and so cannot use Apple&apos;s maps.That means that Google has gone from having at least 31m users on the iPhone in April 2012 - and perhaps as many as 35m in September 2012, based on a model using a sliding scale of maps ownership - to around 6.3m who are using it monthly on iOS 6 and above.Update:one query that has been raised is about Waze, a traffic app which was bought in June 2013 by Google. Might US iPhone users be using Waze in preference to Apple Maps - but in effect benefiting Google?ComScore&apos;s figures do not show Waze in the top 15 mobile apps in September 2013, for which the smallest share is 18.0% (for Facebook Messenger). That would suggest Waze was used by fewer than 24.6m people in the US in that month (18% of 136.7m base). Nor does Waze appear in ComScore&apos;s figures for July or August, the months in which maps use is highest because Americans travel (often by road) for holidays.Worldwide, Waze&apos;s user base was &quot;nearly 50m&quot; in July 2013,according to Yahoo. That&apos;s a worldwide figure, and includes not just iPhones and Android (for which a client has been availablesince 2009), but also BlackBerry, Windows Mobile, Windows Phone, Symbian and Maemo. Without data from the company, it&apos;s impossible to know how many users Waze has on the iPhone in the US, since there&apos;s no indication of the platform or geographical split for this Israel-based company. But it seems unlikely that the loss of iPhone users of Google Maps has been made up by users of Waze.
A 3D pig is spinning on my iPad screen, with a photo of my cat mapped onto it, in front of a galactic cloud with the word DEATH spelled out in capital letters. In the background, Lady Gaga is singing about &quot;Sexxx Dreams&quot;. Welcome to the ARTPOP app.It&apos;s the long-awaited interactive companion toGaga&apos;s new album of the same name, and the most high-profile music app sinceBjork&apos;s Biophilia back in 2011. It was released as a free download forAndroidandiOStoday, and has grand ambitions to say the least.&quot;Lady Gaga brings you a musical and visual engineering system that combines music, art, fashion, and technology with a new interactive worldwide community - &apos;the auras&apos;. Altering the human experience, we bring ARTculture into POP in a reverse Warholian expedition,&quot; explains its app store listing, copying and pastinga post from Gaga&apos;s Facebook page earlier in the year.&quot;Exploring Gaga&apos;s existence as a cultural interface, the user will share in the &apos;adrenaline of fame&apos; as they build and share their own projects, chat with one another, and watch in real-time on a virtual globe as ARTPOP explodes onto the physical and virtual universe at once.&quot;Gaga worked with mobile developerRelative Waveon the app, presumably attracted by the studio&apos;s work onsome of the sections of the Biophilia app. If you think Lady Gaga is rubbish, you won&apos;t like the app. If you&apos;re one of her avid Little Monsters, you&apos;ll love it. And everyone else? Well, it&apos;s certainly interesting...The app kicks off with a virtual character named Petga, who asks for your name, requests access to your device&apos;s location and camera, then &quot;scans your aura&quot;, asking you to choose characteristics that you identify with most from a list (Artistic, Entrepreneurial, Poetic, Social, Techy, Visionary, Athletic, Psychic, Musical and Philosophical were the choices available to me this morning).The ARTPOP app wants to know all about you.The app then asks what artistic expressions interest you the most (Painting, Graphic Design, Sculpture, Theatre, Film, Fashion Design, Photography, Drawing, Music and Dance), which themes from ARTPOP you&apos;re most interested in, and which lyrics &quot;represent you in the ARTPOP universe&quot;:You&apos;re then presented with your aura: a glowing orb of light that will apparently travel and grow with you, the more you use the app. At this point, you&apos;re thrown into the app&apos;s main menu:Some features in the app won't be available until 2014.A pullout menu from the left-hand side includes a link to Apple&apos;s iTunes Store to buy ARTPOP (although the buy button unhelpfully brought up a &quot;The item you&apos;ve requested is not currently available in the UK Store&quot; message, even though it is.) You can also connect to Gaga&apos;sLittle Monstersweb community to chat to other fans.The menu itself has four options: ArtHaus and ARTPOP are available, while two others – Trakstar and GagaTV – are marked with 141-day countdowns. What are they? A Settings menu elsewhere in the app describes Trakstar as &quot;Live DJ Sessions&quot;. GagaTV is clearly video-based, although the lengthy wait hints at something more ambitious than simply streaming her music videos. Livestreamed events, perhaps?ARTPOP is a virtual turntable to play the album on, if you have the tracks stored on your device. It continues playing while you explore other sections of the app, and also runs in the background if you switch to using other apps:The music-player section of the ARTPOP app.ArtHaus is, as the name implies, the arty section of the app: essentially a place for Gaga&apos;s fans to create, share and rate animated GIFs, using a mixture of 3D shapes, slogans and their own photos. It&apos;s the bit that takes ARTPOP beyond being a pure digital container for the album into something more interesting.Essentially, you choose a shape, map an image or texture onto it, choose an animation and tweak its settings, pick a background, select a filter, and then share the results via Twitter, Facebook, Tumblr, Google+, email or the Little Monsters community:The ArtHaus section of the app focuses on creativity.My results were amateurish and sometimes unsettling, but you can browse those created by other fans, looking at the most popular, the most recent, or the ones that have been &quot;seen by Gaga&quot; (none, at the time of writing, but it is quite a busy week...)Any GIF you see in the app can be tapped on to get a closer view, given &quot;Props&quot; and remixed using the same creation tools, which is a handy way to figure out how the better ones were made.Other fans' creations can be browsed and remixed.And the verdict? There have been some overblown expectations for the ARTPOP app: suggestions that it&apos;s The Future Of The Album and so on – expectations already deflated by Gaga herself in July, when she tweeted that it&apos;s &quot;in essence, an interactive jewel case&quot;.Actually, it&apos;s more than that: the ArtHaus section is good fun, walking the line rather well between ease-of-use and creative complexity. The Little Monsters community has already shown that there are plenty of Lady Gaga fans interested in expressing their creative instincts, so ArtHaus should be popular. It&apos;d be nice to be able to mix in snippets of music with the animations, but perhaps that can be added at a later date.As for the app&apos;s wider impact, we&apos;ll have to wait to see what the Trakstar and GagaTV features are all about before judging whether the ARTPOP app has legs as a year-round hub for Lady Gaga and her fans. Apps certainly aren&apos;t replacing albums any time soon (if ever), but as an interactive companion, this is an innovative and interesting step forward.Read The Guardian&apos;sreview of Lady Gaga: ARTPOP.
The Google Nexus 5 is the fifth generation of the Google-designed Nexus Android smartphone line, which is now faster, slimmer and even better.The Nexus line represents the best of Google in a smartphone. Google chooses a manufacturing partner – in this case LG as it did with theNexus 4before it – and gets involved directly with the creation of the hardware as well as producing the software.The result is akeenly priced premium smartphonewithout the £500+ price tag, in this case available at £300.It is Google hardware, running Google software, and is as close to the iPhone’s one-company manufacturing model as is possible with Android. The Nexus 5 is built by LG, but it is a Google phone through and through.Designed by GoogleNexus 5 review - available with black or white backsAs with previous generations of Nexus smartphones, the Nexus 5 is based on pre-existing internal hardware from LG – in this case the LG G2. That’s a good thing, as the LG G2 is a superb phone hampered with poor software integration, something Google can completely iron out with its Nexus line of phones.The Nexus 5 is, as the name might suggest, a 5in phone. It is a relatively small 5in phone, however, as there is barely any bezel around the screen’s left and righthand sides. The bezel above and below the screen is about one little finger’s width, and holds the speaker, front-facing camera and ambient light sensors up top, with the notification LED at the bottom.It is worth noting that a 5in phone is quite hard to use one-handed if you have small hands. With my average-sized hands, I can more or less reach every corner of the screen with my thumb, but it can be a bit of a stretch. It is a trade off for a large screen, but for those moving from a 3.5 or 4in phone like the iPhone 5, it certainly takes some adjustment.The phone looks rather understated and plain in black – not something that is necessarily bad – although a white model is also available. Short of the glass front, the rest of the phone is coated in a soft-touch plastic, which feels almost silky in texture and provides a good balance between being smooth and having enough friction to stop the phone sliding out of your hand.A rounded back to the phone also feels very nice in the palm of your hand, while the light 130g weight makes the phone easy to hold one-handed. For comparison, the similarly shapedHTC Oneweighs 143g, while theSamsung Galaxy S4weighs 130g, and the smalleriPhone 5S112g.Short of the Nexus logo, a small rear camera bulge in the top left-hand corner is the only feature of note on the back. It means the phone rests on it when laid down flat, which is an odd choice giving it little to no protection.The front of the device is dominated by the 4.95in screen. It is a pin-sharp full HD IPS Plus LCD display, which means text on websites and ebooks looks crisp and easily legible, with photos and videos looking detailed and colourful. The screen is also very bright, making it much easier to read in direct sunlight than some competing screens on other devices.SpecificationsScreen:4.95in full HD IPS Plus LCDProcessor:2.3 GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 800RAM:2GB of RAMStorage:16/32GBOperating system:Android 4.4 “Kitkat”Camera:8MP rear camera with optical image stabilisation, 1.3MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi (n/ac), NFC, Bluetooth 4.0 with BLE and GPSDimensions:69.17 x 137.84 x 8.59mmWeight:130gFast and future proofedNexus 5 review - combining powerful processing with a bloat-free Android experience.Google’s made sure that the Nexus 5 is as future-proofed as possible going forward with a top of the line processor in the form of the 2.3GHz quad-core Snapdragon 800 backed by 2GB of RAM. Combined with Google’s bloat-free version of Android, that makes the Nexus 5 the fastest phone out there at the moment.Apps load instantly, games fly and nothing fazes the phone at all. In fact, it is actually possible to notice a small speed difference between the Nexus 5 and the already very fast HTC One or Samsung Galaxy S4 in general usage, which is truly saying something.With 2GB of RAM and Android 4.4 Kitkat’s reduced memory requirements, multitasking is as fast as is possible with Android, meaning the Nexus 5 will handle anything you are likely to throw at it.Google has also included LTE 4G that will work on any of the UK 4G networks, an improvement over the Nexus 4 which was limited to 3G, meaning downloads and page loads can be lightning quick if you have a 4G phone contract. It is worth noting that the Nexus 5 holds a 4G signal better than quite a lot of other smartphones currently available, suggesting its signal reception is solid most of the time, even in the dense signal black spots of London.As with previous generations of Nexus devices, Google hasn’t included a micro SD slot for storage expansion. Here that means it is advisable to plonk for the slightly more expensive 32GB version, if your budget will stretch to it, as 16GB could be a tight squeeze once you’ve loaded up your apps, movies, music and games.With all that powerful hardware under the hood, the battery life suffers slightly. The Nexus 5 will last most of a solid working day with enough battery left to get you home. Around two hours of web browsing, emails coming in all day and music playback over Bluetooth for about two hours, the battery typically ran flat by about 8pm at night. In comparison, the Sony Xperia Z1 typically lasts until around midnight under the same working conditions, and the iPhone 5 till around 10pm.If you start to play games, that battery life decreases, but the Nexus 5 is about on par with some other top-of-the-line Android phones.One negative thing that should be noted is that the volume of the internal speaker within the Nexus 5 is really quite low. As a result, it can be hard to hear your phone ring when in noisy environments. The Bluetooth audio volume output is also relatively quiet, which mainly affects connections to audio systems like a Hi-Fi or a car stereo rather than Bluetooth headphones.Android the way Google intendedNexus 5 review - a Google phone through and through.Google’s influence on the hardware is obvious, but it is with the software that it really excels.The Nexus 5 runs the latest version of Android 4.4 “Kitkat”, which no other device currently operates, with full access to the Google Play store and its 850,000 standard Android apps. Not only is the Nexus 5’s operating system the latest and greatest, but it is also completely bloat free. This is Android as Google intends it, and the result is a very fast, fluid and lag-free experience.There have been afew key changes in Kitkatover the previous version of Android called Jelly Bean – the most notable is the progressive integration ofGoogle Now.Google Now is Google’s intelligent personal digital assistant. It plugs into your Google account, pulling information from your Gmail, calendar, contacts, searches and mapping activities, preempting your requests for information with helpful suggestions.For instance, Google Now will tell you when you need to leave to get to your next appointment, whether your commute will be delayed by traffic or congestion, and what the score is in the game one of your favourite teams is playing in.In Kitkat, Google Now has moved from being hidden under the home button to a dedicated screen right on the homescreen. A swipe to the right reveals Google Now, but Google’s search can also be activated from any home screen by tapping in the search box at the top of the screen or by simply speaking the words “OK Google”.The trigger words, inspired byGoogle Glass’ “OK Glass”, bring up the voice search box and allow you to search or ask a question immediately without having to press any buttons. The screen has to be on the homescreen to activate the search with the keywords, so it doesn’t actually save much time in practice. Your language also needs to be set to US English within Android – not UK English as is the default in the UK – for it to work currently.One curious software quirk is that the Android back button will not return the user to the homescreen from Google Now, as it is actually a homescreen in and of itself – a small but irritating inconsistency with the rest of the Android experience.Bizarrely, there are also now two Google photo applications installed by default, which perform essentially the same function - &quot;Photos&quot; and &quot;Gallery&quot;. One is the new Google+ integrated photo application, and the other is the traditional photo album. Both do their respective jobs fine, but as with the back button and Google Now, they show Google&apos;s lack of single-minded focus and consistency when it comes to the user experience in some places.Most of the other important software changes of Kitkat havebeen covered before, but it is worth noting that the new full-screen view, which hides the menu bar at the bottom and the notification bar at the top of the screen really works very well at maximising the screen space when reading or viewing content.The integration of text messages into Google’s Hangouts chat app, also works great if you are a Hangouts user, and will tell you if your contacts are available on Hangouts or simply via SMS when you first try and send them a message.Another nice addition is the inclusion of Google-aware caller ID, which scans the internet for names or businesses numbers that aren&apos;t in your address book. For instance, when the gas man rings to book a gas safety inspection, the phone app will search for the number and bring up the company&apos;s name automatically – a great feature, especially if you happen to screen calls from unknown numbers.Camera, optically stabilisedNexus 5 review - thin and light with a small camera bulge.The camera is one thing that has suffered at the hands of the aggressive pricing of previous Nexus smartphones, but thankfully the Nexus 5’s camera is a notable step up.It is 8-megapixels and packs optical image stabilisation (OIS), which helps smooth out hand shake and makes photos crisper. It is particularly noticeable when shooting video, as all the little jerks and movements normally inflicted on video when shooting hand-held are greatly diminished.The high dynamic range (HDR) function, which takes multiple shots at different exposures and blends them into one image, is particularly good on the Nexus 5, producing greatly improved detail and colours in photos while staying just as pin-sharp as a standard photo thanks to the OIS.Priced to undercut the competitionOne of the best things about the Nexus 5 is its price. It costs £299 for the 16GB variant and £339 for the 32GB storage option directly from the Google Play store without a mobile phone contract. For comparison, the competition costs considerably more, with the Samsung Galaxy S4 priced at around £400, the HTC One £480, the Sony Xperia Z1 around £500 and the iPhone 5S at £549.Verdict: the best value premium smartphone by milesNexus 5 review - the best Android phone you can buy for &pound;300.The Nexus 5 runs Android the way Google intended, which coupled with solid, fast hardware makes for a very compelling smartphone experience. It is as close as Android is ever going to get to the Apple’s model of doing things, where one company makes both hardware and software, and makes a better product in the process.Its 5in screen is great, sharp and clear, its camera is decent, and the uncluttered, bloat-free Android Kitkat experience is refreshing. It is also future proofed, and is ensured rapid software updates direct from Google, which will help keep it feeling fresh and up-to-date going forward – something that can’t be overlooked when compared to its Android competitors.Without a contract and for the price, there is no better value smartphone available at the moment across the iPhone, Android or Windows Phone. When bought with a contract, and therefore the price differences made more or less irrelevant, the decision is slightly less clear, but the Nexus 5 still holds its own.Unless you want a bigger phone than 5in, or perhaps a slightly better camera and battery life, or expandable storage, the Nexus 5 is the Android phone to buy right now.Star rating: 5/5Pros:Great screen, solid build, light, good camera, very fast, latest version of AndroidCons:Average battery life, no expandable storage, not waterproof
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 9 November 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Call of Duty: Ghosts (16+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (34)PS4 (3)PC (1)12 (2)Battlefield 4 (18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (33)PC (8)23 (1)Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag (18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (40)24 (3)Fifa 14 (3+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (31)Wii (2)Vita (2)65 (4)Grand Theft Auto V (18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (43)86 (5)Batman: Arkham Origins (16+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (36)PC (8)Wii U (4)37 (7)WWE 2K14 (16+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (43)28 (8)Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition (7+)Xbox 360 (100)209 (6)Football Manager 2014 (3+)PC (100)210 (9)Skylanders Swap Force (7+)Xbox 360 (40)Wii (35)PS3 (19)Wii U (3)411 (12)Just Dance 2014 (3+)Wii (86)Xbox 360 (9)Wii U (3)PS3 (1)612 (13)Disney Infinity (7+)Xbox 360 (43)Wii (29)PS3 (18)Wii U (6)1213 (–)Professor Layton and the Azran Legacy (7+)DS (100)514 (10)Pokemon Y (7+)3DS (100)515 (11)Pokemon X (7+)3DS (100)516 (17)Tomb Raider (18+)Xbox 360 (84)PS3 (15)PC (1)3317 (19)Saints Row IV (18+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (36)1118 (14)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes (7+)Xbox 360 (38)PS3 (16)3DS (14)Wii (14)7019 (15)F1 2013 (3+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (42)PC (2)620 (–)Animal Crossing: New Leaf (3+)3DS (100)19UKIE Games Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.This week: a new structure, based on feedback from readers of previous posts. The non-game apps are listed first, followed by the games. Read on for this week&apos;s Android selection (and when you&apos;ve finished, check out previousBest Android appsposts).APPSHelpouts (Free)Brand new from Google, Helpouts is a service that promises it &quot;connects people who need help with people who can give help over live video&quot;. Said experts are grouped into categories, from cooking, beauty and fitness/nutrition through to computers and electronics. You can pay per minute or by the call, with early indications being that the calibre of experts is pretty good.Google Text-to-Speech (Free)More Google: this is Android&apos;s text-to-speech engine released as a standalone app, which can thus be updated more often than your handset maker of choice releases new Android software (although there&apos;s also concern about this alsoindicating a move to a closed rather than open source model for Android&apos;s key applications). For now, this helps various Android apps read text aloud.JumpCam - Friends Video Camera (Free)JumpCam is one of a clutch of apps designed to help people shoot videos in groups, then have them edited together automatically (see also: Vyclone). It uses an invitation system to ensure that only friends can contribute clips to your joint movie, which can then be shared to Facebook, Twitter or Tumblr.Band of the Day (Free)Band of the Day picked up lots of plaudits when released for iPhone when released a couple of years ago. Now it&apos;s available on Android too, still with a simple mission: to spotlight a new band or musician every day, with music, biographies, videos and photos.Movember Mobile (Free)It&apos;s that time of year when men proudly strut the land with moustaches of varying quality, in order to raise money and awareness for prostate and testicular cancer research. This is the official Movember app, offering a rogues gallery of facial fuzz, and the ability to track donations and post updates to social networks.HPI Check (Free)A useful tool for anyone buying a used car in the UK, this, offering a quick way to check on the history of a car before handing over cash for it. The app also pulls in data on a car&apos;s environmental impact, suggests how much it&apos;ll cost in road tax and petrol spending, with full checks costing £16.99 in-app.Kids Learn English with Busuu (Free)Foreign-language-learning service busuu&apos;s new Android app is aimed at children taking their first steps in English, with other languages also available. It teaches 150 words through mini-games and quizzes, with a virtual &quot;language garden&quot; used to track progress. It&apos;s simple to grasp, and fun rather than dry.[adult swim] bump builder (Free)This one&apos;s for American TV viewers only: a mobile app based on the &quot;bumps&quot; – short sketches – that are aired on the Adult Swim segment on US TV. The app wants to get people creating their own bumps and sharing them with the community, with additional second-screen features designed to be used when watching Adult Swim on Monday nights.Dayframe (Free)The full Dayframe app actually comes out tomorrow (Tuesday 12 November), but this is a &quot;placeholder&quot; for people who want to be first in the queue to get it. What is &quot;it&quot; when it&apos;s at home? Dayframe will turn an Android device into a digital photo-frame – the idea being you slot your smartphone or tablet into a stand and have it show photos from services including Facebook and Flickr.ESPN Fantasy Basketball (Free)Something not just for Americans here – it&apos;s available elsewhere in the world too for overseas NBA buffs. It&apos;s ESPN&apos;s official fantasy basketball app, where players can check their squads and tweak lineups, and get news, videos and tips from the US basketball league to help them refine their strategies.GAMESStar Wars: Tiny Death Star (Free)I&apos;ve actually had to hide my smartphone while writing this feature, to avoid getting sucked back into my miniature Death Star. This game is based on the equally-marvellous Tiny Tower, where you had to build a tower level-by-level, populating it with &quot;bitizens&quot; to work, play and rest. In this officially-licensed Star Wars version, the tower is a Death Star, and the bitizens are characters from the films. Addictive.Rayman Fiesta Run (£1.99)Rayman often gets underrated in the history of great game characters, but his mobile games have been top-notch in recent times. This is the latest one: a colourful platformer with more than 75 levels to scoot through, and bags of charm.Thor: TDW - The Official Game (Free)The new film Thor: The Dark World is apparently&quot;punctuated by thunderous boredom&quot;according to The Guardian&apos;s review. The official mobile game looks better though: an action-packed breeze through 90 suitably-epic missions, with in-app purchases used to ensure your hammer is primed and ready.CastleVille Legends (Free)Social games publisher Zynga has been having a tough time of late, with lots of questions around whether it can recapture its Facebook success on mobile. Will CastleVille Legends help with that? If you&apos;re a fan of the kingdom-building genre, it&apos;s fun enough – based on but completely separate to the existing Facebook version, it sees you growing your kingdom through trading, questing and looting.Luxuria Superbia (£1.87)If you want an in-depth look at Luxuria Superbia, readmy colleague Keith Stuart&apos;s piece from last week, which does an excellent job of explaining it. It&apos;s a game about sex without actually featuring sex: &quot;a simple game of touch, pleasure and joy&quot;. And while it&apos;s available on computers, touchscreen devices are arguably the best medium for it.Principia (£2.76)Apparatusremains one of the best Android puzzle games, but now it&apos;s got a sequel. Principia is just as focused on the laws of physics, but this time you&apos;re guiding a robot to a goal by building... well, just about anything you fancy, with more than 150 components available. It&apos;s like a virtual microelectronics toolbox, with wonderful room for experimentation.Meltdown (Free)Meltdown is a more traditional action-shooter game, still with robots – but these ones have to be blasted into bits rather than helped on their way. There&apos;s some depth too, with 30 levels to play through, and an online co-operative mode for up to four players to work together too.Burn The Lot (£0.62)This one&apos;s fun: a game based partly on traditional travelling carnivals (or &quot;carnies&quot;) and partly on sci-fi space-hopping. &quot;Stopping interstellar carnies from taking over the galaxy is your job,&quot; as the Google Play listing puts it. This takes place as a dual-stick shooter across the various planets, with varied enemies and weapons providing plenty of action.Call of Duty (Free)Not a game in itself, but the official companion app to the newCall of Duty: Ghostsconsole game, to help you manage your in-game clan, check your stats, and ping friends when you&apos;re ready for a multiplayer session. It&apos;s also good for tweaking your loadouts when not at your console, ready to use next time you&apos;re playing.Ittle Dew (£4)Finally, Ittle Dew wears its inspiration firmly on its sleeve – if you&apos;ve enjoyed Nintendo&apos;s Zelda games, you&apos;ll find much to like here – with heroine Ittle Dew and companion Tippsie exploring a mysterious island. It&apos;s a charming mixture of exploration and puzzle-solving.That&apos;s this week&apos;s selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Traders trying to work out the future of Twitter shouldn&apos;t be looking at the front end of the site, but behind the scenes. In the last couple of years, Twitter has built all the infrastructure it needs to be able to flick a switch and increase its revenue almost instantly.That&apos;s good news for users as well as shareholders: if Twitter&apos;s front end already contains all the hooks it needs to turn it into a profitable company, then the sudden much-feared increase in advertising on the site might never materialise.&quot;We are expecting Twitter ad revenues to grow significantly over the next 12 months without the need for Twitter to make any substantial changes,&quot; says Matt Wheeler, the chief executive of digital marketing firmDriftrockwhich has been experimenting with different strategies for building revenue via Twitter.Wheeler sees three major events that will drive up Twitter&apos;s ad revenue without the site needing to substantially change its image to users.Twitter is mobile-ad firstThe first is the fact that adoption of the mobile web is hampering Twitter&apos;s value to advertisers. While businesses still have clunky, desktop-only sites, the return on investment spent on Twitter adverts is going to stay low.&quot;With Twitter mobile usage at 80%, once businesses catch up with the mobile revolution Twitter’s ad products become viable for far more companies,&quot; says Wheeler. There&apos;s no point in advertising to users who can&apos;t take action if they click through to the site.The second is that Twitter has changed the focus of the sort of ad products it produces. &quot;Twitter’s initial portfolio of ad products focused on brand advertising, but they have begun releasing ad products designed for direct response like Twitter’s Lead Cards,&quot; Wheeler explains.Twitter is for brand-buildingBrand advertising is the Twitter equivalent of John Lewis&apos; annual Christmas adverts. It&apos;s designed to build awareness of companies and their brands, but not necessarily lead directly to sales. That means it&apos;s the province of brands with deep pockets: perfect for a company trying to get a bit of early revenue, but not the makings of a balanced diet.The company&apos;s newLead Cardsare of more interest to the small and medium businesses who currently don&apos;t bother with much Twitter advertising. They let advertisers ask for users&apos; email from within Twitter, letting them follow up with direct adverts as and when they have something to sell.Wheeler predicts that &quot;as more advertisers see returns from direct response, revenues are likely to scale fast&quot;.Twitter ads can go globalThe biggest potential gains for Twitter are the ones that can be had by just flicking a switch. At some point soon the company will roll out self-service ad buying in territories other than the US. Currently, only American businesses can sign up and purchase ads with just a credit card and an online dashboard, but once that changes, a whole new segment of the market opens up.Twitter would still need a small outlay to enable payment processing in further territories, but once it happens we &quot;should see fast growth in ad revenues as [small and medium] advertisers join the party&quot;, Wheeler argues.And advertisers will be likely to join the party in droves. Some of Driftrock&apos;s clients have found customer acquisition costs drop to single-digit pounds with the use of Twitter – and even overtake Google Adwords as the main way of getting new business.But the crucial aspect of these changes for users is that none of them will result in a drastically changed experience. The same ads will be where they always have been, but they&apos;ll be sold for more at the back-end, and offer more options to the user at the front.That&apos;s small comfort for people turned off by the company&apos;s last major pre-IPO alteration – inline image previews. Those are here to stay. But Twitter&apos;s future isn&apos;t necessarily as ad-laden as we might have feared.•On the day of their IPO, Twitter &quot;were overly cautious and it cost them some money&quot;
From the beginning, Microsoft made something very clear about Xbox One: it wants complete control of your home entertainment. During the controversial announcement event in May, Don Mattrick (remember him?) stepped on to the stage to tell us: "Today we put you at the centre of a new generation in the living room, where your games look and feel like nothing else, where your TV becomes more intelligent, where all of your entertainment comes alive in one place."We've had plenty of hints about what this entails and now Microsoft is forging ahead with publicity on the Xbox One "experience", specifically, the user-interface and non-gaming entertainment options. It has announced the companies it is working with on TV and video content, and it has a new video starring Xbox vice president Marc Whitten and chief marketing officer, Yusuf Mehdi, chatting through the UI and Kinect-enhanced personalisation features. Here it is:And here's what we've learned:Three screen machineIt seems the unwieldy Xbox 360 interface with its multiple screens of jumbled content has been tamed. Xbox One starts up with a home screen that has a main window showing the last thing you were doing, whether that was playing a game or watching a movie. Around that are several smaller icons showing other options such as Internet Explorer, TV, games and apps.On the left of the main screen is a sort of digital pinboard where players can store all their favourite games, films, apps or TV shows (the latter relying on the machine's live TV mode, which will become available in the UK next year). And on the right is the store, where you buy games, apps, music and films and television shows. It's clearly constructed around the Windows 8 ecosystem, which isn't going to thrill everyone, but this setup does at least answer criticisms of the Xbox 360 interface which buried games – especially indie games – on a distant menu and shoved lots of video-on-demand adverts on your opening display.It really does know who you areThis is either going to fascinate you or creep you out entirely. As soon as the Xbox One is switched on and the Kinect enabled, it will recognise you and immediately sign you in (no need for passwords), displaying your personal settings, content and colour choices. If another member of the household walks in it will recognise and welcome them too – they'll just need to say "Xbox, show my stuff" to see their own UI set-up. If you go to a friend's house, you can also go through the 30-second recognition process on their Xbox, and from then on will get instant access to your own UI preferences on their machine.According to Microsoft, personal biometric data is only ever stored on the console itself and can be wiped by the user, but those worried by privacy and security issues will still be concerned. The company has updated its policy on privacy andsaid it would fightattempts by the likes of the NSA to access Kinect data, but many remain unconvinced. There have also been reports suggesting that Microsoft will share Kinect data with advertisers, specifically the storieson Stick Twiddlersandin Advertising Age. The latter has beenrejected by Microsoft, with a statement claiming: "We do not have plans to target ads or content to you based on any data Kinect collects."Of course, there's also the concern that voiced sign-in will lead to ridiculous fights in which gamers yell, "No Xbox, show MY stuff!" at increasing volume. Although no doubt there are options to lock the speech recognition to one user.Multi-tasking made easyWith the new Snap feature, it's possible to play two applications at once, by asking Xbox to "snap" one to a sort of picture-in-picture position at the top corner of the display. So you can hold a Skype chat while driving a Ferrari in Forza Motorsport 5, or open up the Machinima video app and watch a playthrough guide while actually attempting the game, via theMachinima Wingman mode. It's possible to pause the game, come out of it and visit other apps like Skype or Internet Explorer, before returning to exactly the same point in the action. According to Microsoft, Xbox One can also hold several other apps in memory while a game is playing, allowing super-fast switching between them.Totally integrated TVMicrosoft has made a big deal about how users will be able to plug their cable or satellite set-top boxes into Xbox One via the HDMI In cable and watch live TV. That isn't coming to the UK until next year, but Microsoft is keen to show the benefits of running television through Xbox. Apart from being able to use voice commands and the OneGuide remote control system to select channels, you'll also receive notifications of multiplayer invites and Skype call requests at the base of the screen. So you could be watching Made in Chelsea one minute and playing Call of Duty Team Deathmatch or talking to your mum the next. We'll leave it up to you to decide whether any of this scenario is desirable. Whatever the case, the Skype integration gives you a widescreen video display of your caller, and if they're using Xbox One too, the camera pans and zooms in and out on them as they wander around chatting to you.Entertainment partners: 13 companies ... and youDuring the period between launch and spring 2014, Microsoft will roll-out the following entertainment services to UK users: 4oD, Amazon/LOVEFiLM, blinkbox, Crackle, Demand 5, Eurosport, Machinima, MUZU TV, Netflix, NOW TV, TED, Twitch and Wuaki.tv. Microsoft's video also shows how the system's GameDVR and Upload system works. The console is constantly recording the last five minutes of game footage, but you can also shout "Xbox record that" to save specific 30-second clips, which can then be edited and uploaded to Xbox Live (not YouTube). Videos can show just in-game stuff or can be combined with footage of you playing.According to Ars Technica, there are options to create videos as "video taunts", which to me sounds sort of horrible, but I suppose I'm not in the catchment demographic for that one.Any video footage capture in this way is apparently 720p and 30 frames-per-second, although in Ars Technica's test the results were sketchy. We've yet to see how theTwitch.tv implementationworks.
It will be relentless, it will be competitive, it will be noisy and it will be difficult to escape. November is going to be a very busy month in video gaming to an unprecedented, and for many, an overwhelming extent.With both Sony and Microsoft releasing new consoles within a week of each other, this very visual medium will look to dazzle and delight through the digital shop window of their new games – the gleaming parade that shifts the units.Yet this eye-catching burlesque is the result of the surprisingly long development process that delivers that box under the television.Equally, it is a process for which the stakes could not be higher. Sony recently announced that it was expecting a 40% drop in earnings for the year, and while rivals such as Panasonic are shifting away from consumer electronics, Sony's chief executive, Kazuo Hirai, has insisted that gaming remains one of the company's core points of focus. A point that is very sharply focused on its head-to-head with Microsoft.In the battle of the current generation consoles, Microsoft's Xbox 360 outsold the PlayStation 3 in both the UK and North America and worldwide in software. Becoming the leader in console sales tends to generate momentum for further sales, so the company is acutely aware it has to have pitched the PlayStation 4 to perfection.Its bid began at an early stage, within two years of the release of the PS3 in 2006.Beginning so soon has unique problems. Technology advances require that one of the first steps is to look at trends of where the evolutionary lines of hardware and chip sets might be in five to 10 years' time.Although this initially involves only a small number of people, it soon expands. "We had members of various departments and countries gather once a month to freely debate about their ideas on the next generation platform," says Masayasu Ito, senior vice-president of Sony Computer Entertainment.Following on from these early estimates anddiscussions, Sony opted to move from the complex chip set of the PS3 to a more user-friendly  for developers (both professional and indie, the latter of which Sony is especially keen to encourage) PC-based system. This is a change indicative of the evolution of development that has been proceeding since the relatively tiny team of five that had begun research and development of Sony's "System G" broadcast TV graphics project in 1990 ultimately resulted in the PlayStation 1.Back then the first two consoles were very much engineered in a more insular fashion, the hardware designed to the company's singular specifications.  Many of the decisions for PlayStation 4, however, were the result of what now is a far more collaborative approach with software developers."We actually began talking to developers in 2009, which was very early on in the design process," says Mark Cerny, lead architect for the PS4."Their comments definitely were a big influence on our decision-making. The developers told us they wanted the hardware to be powerful but familiar, they wanted unified memory, and wanted a hard drive in every console – all of which we did," he adds.Which is recognition of the importance – and crucially, expense – of modern software development. Presenting a raw platform and just letting people get on with it is no longer an option. Very little may be publicly known about new hardware while in development, but nowadays it is far from being created in the vacuum of a lab; Cerny puts the figure at more than 1,000 people outside of Sony.Equally, there are areas in development where nothing but hands-on assessments will do. The touch pad on the new PS4 dualshock controller for example."The engineering process of the wireless controller was a repetition of trial production and user testing," explains director of the engineering department, Takesi Igarashi. "We created a removable touch pad so we could try different places on the controller. We also tried many different sizes. If the touch pad was too big or too small, it was difficult to use, and at the end we were able to settle on a size that was just right and does not affect the design of the controller."The real trick in this detailed and intricate process is bringing these elements together as a whole, which is a delicate and complex balancing act, doubly so because alterations in one area affect others. A late change to the processor's clock speed for example may affect power consumption, increasing the need for heat dissipation which might knock on into the physical size of the console, until ultimately a lockdown is enforced and tweaking must cease."You have to take on all the learning you can from a previous platform, but what was fundamentally different this time was that we wanted it to be a creative dialogue about possibilities," says Andrew House, president of Sony Computer Entertainment.For this generation, at least, the dialogue is finally over, but the show and the possibilities – as we shall see this month – are just beginning.UPCOMING REASONS TO BUY A PS4The Order: 1886. Out, 2014Highly anticipated PS4 exclusive that places the first-person shooter into a steampunk environment set in an alternative history-version of Victorian London. Inhuman foes are to be battled by the game's protagonists using inventive and unusual weaponry. Demos previewed display a grey, murky city, atmospheric and recognisable but nicely skewed through the alternative timeline device.Knack. Out, end November.Delightful little platformer that plays intuitively and barrels along with a pace and wit that children will enjoy. Younger gamers remain a large demographic as the success of Skylanders has shown. Here, the titular Knack, who changes in size for different tasks, from a perky wee chap to a giant tank-smashing bruiser in a bid to defeat goblins, proves an endearing protagonist.Deep Down. Out, TBADebuted at the Tokyo Game Shop in September, this dungeon-crawler from Capcom will be free to play upon release and is intended to offer randomly generated foes and layouts. Gameplay offered an enjoyable hack-and-slash against pig-like guard beasts amid the gloom, traps and surprises. Set in New York in 2094, players are transported back to the past in order to adventure. The game looked atmospheric and really made something of the next-gen power in visual terms,and if the idea of unpredictable, always differing scenarios can be made to work it will also be bringing a new gaming feature that would work across genres to the console.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Xbox One resolutions a 'non-issue', says Ryse designer | TechRadarRyse: Son of Rome design director Patrick Esteves has been trying to calm fears over the whole Xbox One resolution controversy. Does it matter that some launch games are outputting in 720p instead of full native 1080p?"People are kind of grasping onto things that are really non-issues. For us, it was far more important to have artwork that looked beautiful. And if you're a shooter, of course you want 60 frames [per second]," he told TechRadar."So if you're going to do 60 frames at 720 then that's your choice to do it but it's such a small piece of the experience.""It's all apples and oranges," said Esteves. "The part I'm more interested in is what people are going to do with the Cloud because that has far more implications on gameplay than resolution."This reflects comments made by Microsoft execPhil Spencer last week:"Games should be defined by more than their framerate and resolution. I think this is an industry about fun and people should put the controller in their hand - or gesture - and play the games and decide what they like. I think that's the soul of what this industry's about."Convinced?If Microsoft Does This to the Xbox, Both Gamers and Investors Will Lose | Motley FoolThere are rumours going around that if Stephen Elop becomes the next CEO of Microsoft - and he's in the final five contenders apparently – he'll look to sell the Xbox division:It isn't that Xbox is a failure -- Microsoft's Entertainment and Devices Division (largely composed of the Xbox) has mostly been profitable since 2008. But compared to Microsoft's other divisions, it's hardly noteworthy. In fiscal year 2012, for example, it brought in just $364 million -- less than 2% of Microsoft's total earnings (I use 2012 here because in 2013 the division was expanded to include Microsoft's Surface tablets).Splitting off the Xbox could allow Microsoft to focus on core products like Office and Windows. Over the past 10 years, Microsoft shares have underperformed the broader market -- the company's mammoth size many have kept management unfocused and limited Microsoft's upside.Vulcan Capital, Paul Allen's investment firm, has argued for an Xbox spinoff. Allen no longer has any management role at Microsoft, but as a co-founder, his word might have some weight. Likewise, some Wall Street analysts, including those at Nomura, have written about the potential benefits to an Xbox spinoff.The article goes on to explain why this would be a horrendous calamity for Xbox, and why major consoles need a huge consumer electronics giant behind them. Nintendo, he says, has been held back by its need to make profit from hardware, unlike Sony and Microsoft, which have sold consoles at a loss. But then, Nintendo has usually done pretty nicely without carrying millions in corporate debt, so...Everything you need to know about World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor | GameSpotThis is a handy guide to all the new info about the latest (but apparently not final WoW expansion). We covered the announcement on Friday, but this article adds snippets garnered through the rest of Blizzcon. Here's some more on the new garrison addition:The Garrison is your own personal fortress where you can customize the layout, appearance, and gameplay effects. Same-faction friends in your party can visit your base to check it out and trade resources, and it's a non-instanced area, so you'll be able to see it in the distance as you fly around Draenor.The biggest addition to the Garrison are followers: You'll be able to collect followers, and "You can also allocate them to complete tasks -- things like crafting or gathering resources, which they'll do whether you're online or offline."The resources you'll acquire during missions include both existing crafting reagents and Garrison-specific materials. For example, if you assign a follower to a mining mission, you could receive ore, but you might also unearth stone, a new kind of resource used to construct and upgrade buildings."An intriguing addition of God Game mechanics to the olde MMORPG.Designing game narrative | Hitbox TeamThis is a really well-considered and approachable look at creating good narrative in games, looking at some of the problems that occur when games forget to be games and think they're movies:When a cutscene happens, you ignore the whole dimension of interactivity, the thing that makes games unique from film, and put straight up film on the screen. Games with cutscenes are the silent films of games. At least silent films are excused by their technical limitations – no comparable excuse exists for games. The worst part is that the most important plot points tend to happen during cutscenes, while keeping you at a safe distance from actually participating.DEATH TO THE CUT-SCENE! Ahem.'You Can Sleep Here All Night': Video Games and Labor | JacobinA revealing and rather shaming indictment of video game industry working practices in the US. Is crunch culture trading unfairly on the passion of young developer? Almost certainly.The author recalls his own experiences as a QA tester at Funcom, working with staff who had been let go by nearby developer Red Storm:Red Storm at the time employed the bulk of their QAs as temps. Lured in by promises of working their way up the ladder, scores of college kids and young workers would come in, ready to make it in the new Hollywood of the video game industry. The pay was minimum wage. The hours were long, with one of my immediate supervisors casually stating that he regularly worked at least 60 hours a week during his time there. Being temps, there were no benefits.This would go on for the duration of a project, usually the final four months or so. When the temps weren't needed anymore, it was common for groups of them to be rounded up, summarily let go without notice, and told that a call would be forthcoming if their services were needed again.Saddening stuff.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBlackBerry's Chen gets pay package about $88m &gt;&gt; BloombergJohn Chen, who will attempt to turn around BlackBerry Ltd. as its new executive chairman and interim chief executive officer, will get $3m in salary and bonuses, as well as restricted stock valued at $85m.And that $1bn of debenture debt? Puts the funders first in line if there's a bankruptcy. Heads they win...Panasonic's 20-inch 4K Toughpad tablet ships in November for about €4,500 &gt;&gt; EngadgetThere will be two models: a Standard flavor that weighs in 2.3kg and includes 4GB (expandable to 8GB) of RAM and a 128GB SSD, and a 2.7kg Performance model with 8GB RAM (expandable to 16GB) and a 256GB SSD. The company is targeting design pros with that latter version, such as those working with 3D modeling tools, while the lower-powered spec would be a better fit for healthcare users, retail or sales professionals. Panasonic aimed for workstation performance here, so both devices include Intel Core i5 processors and run on Windows 8.1.Battery life reported at two hours.Dead PC market? In the UK? NEVER &gt;&gt; The RegisterThought the UK PC market was like a dead mule? Wrong. There's life yet in those age old desktop and notebook nags, according to distributor shipment data.Numbers from venerable analyst Context, the gentle purveyor of sales-out figures - the stuff that users are actually buying - showed Q3 was not bad, not bad at all.If by "not bad" you mean that tablets outdid PCs (874,000 to 848,000), more than doubling against PCs which grew 0.4% - then yes, not bad. Of the tablets, 76% were Android.Track the GOCE satellite &gt;&gt; The FeedA defunct European satellite the size of a small pickup truck is set to crash down to earth sometime between Sunday morning and Monday evening. Experts aren't sure when exactly the satellite will fall and where precisely it will land.This is not a publicity stunt for Gravity... though it could work like that.Read more.Update:itmostly burnt up in the atmosphere. No harm done."Desktop-class" &gt;&gt; Fraser SpeirsHe thinks that the iPad Air's processing power changes how one should think about it:An example just from today: we have a new pupil starting at school next week. To get them up and running, I have to create a new user record in my Google Docs spreadsheet, create a new Google Apps account for them, create a new WiFi password in our Aerohive network and print a number of forms for the pupil and their parents to sign.In earlier times, that would have been a sequence of tasks I would have automatically reached for my MacBook Air to complete. Today, though, I just did them all on my iPad Air with no real additional effort or time taken. I'd say that the overall time for the task was about the same with some steps taking a bit longer (e.g. signing into 1Password on the iPad) but other steps being actually faster than on the Mac - for example, printing a form from Google Docs.Scanning centre fire — please help rebuild &gt;&gt; Internet ArchiveBrewster Kahle, digital librarian and founder of the Internet Archive:This episode has reminded us that digitizing and making copies are good strategies for both access and preservation. We have copies of the data in the Internet Archive in multiple locations, so even if our main building had been involved in the fire we still would not have lost the amazing content we have all worked so hard to collect.An early estimate shows we may have lost about $600,000 worth of high end digitization equipment, and we will need to repair or rebuild the scanning building. It is in difficult times like these that we turn to our community.Please give generously. It might be your site or work, or someone else's which is essential to yours, which you recover via the Internet Archive.Confessions of an American drone operator &gt;&gt; GQAirman First Class Brandon Bryant stared at the scene, unblinking in the white-hot clarity of infrared. He recalls it even now, years later, burned into his memory like a photo negative: "The smoke clears, and there's pieces of the two guys around the crater. And there's this guy over here, and he's missing his right leg above his knee. He's holding it, and he's rolling around, and the blood is squirting out of his leg, and it's hitting the ground, and it's hot. His blood is hot. But when it hits the ground, it starts to cool off; the pool cools fast. It took him a long time to die. I just watched him. I watched him become the same color as the ground he was lying on."BlackBerry: who's putting up the $1bn funding &gt;&gt; SECLots of insurance companies in there. 17 companies and one individual, Prem Watsa (ex-BlackBerry board, head of Fairfax Financial Holdings.)HTC channels crazy with $8,000 Gramohorn smartphone trumpet &gt;&gt; TechCrunchHTC hasn't come up with this chunk of craziness on its own. It engaged a young UK designer called Justin Wolter to do that for it – maker of the Gramohorn II'suni-trumpeted predecessor(which was, er,for iPhones). Wolter came up with the dual-trumpet remix of his earlier design, sketched it out and then with a little judicious use of 3D printing, the Gramohorn II was born.These days crazy is that easy."Gramohorn smartphone trumpet" may win this year's multisyllabic headline challenge.Samsung's first Tizen smartphone delayed. Will only be available next year &gt;&gt; The Tech RevolutionistAccording from Korean media sources, Samsung's first Tizen OS smartphone has been delayed until spring 2014. The delay is due to some problems with the Tizen OS itself.Sources claim that the decision of the delay in release of the Tizen based device came directly from Samsung Electronics co-CEO JK Shin. He said that Samsung wants to make sure that they only produce the best smartphones. Apparently, Tizen OS is still not reaching their expectations and they are still working hard on it.The phone pictured in the article looks nice. The software looks... familiar. How long has Tizen been in gestation now?Thoughts on the Google Nexus 7 from the perspective of a longtime iOS user [updated] &gt;&gt; The Unofficial Apple WeblogRichard Gaywood's getting a job at Google. He thought he ought to become familiar with Android. So he's been using a Nexus 7. A contemplative review.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Monday! How was your weekend?
Google+ has just launched Auto Awesome, a new feature that automatically makes people in your photos smile &ndash; so long as you&rsquo;ve taken more than three photos of the same thing in quick succession, and there are at least two people in each photo, and the background is identical, and one of you isn&rsquo;t smiling in one of the photos, and you have Google+, which seems like a big ask. Here&rsquo;s what Auto Awesome did to a picture of my brother and I. We&rsquo;re both smiling. Also, my brother has three arms now.It&rsquo;s incredibly confusing to use, especially when there are millions of other facial manipulation apps that already exist. Such as this one. It&rsquo;s called Pimp My Smile. How does it pimp your smile? By awkwardly pasting a set of too-big teeth somewhere relatively near your mouth. It couldn&rsquo;t be easier.But why stop there? An app called Face Juggler automatically mixes up all the faces in a photograph. So here&rsquo;s what my family would look like if I fell in love with my brother and then gave birth to my parents. I think.But apparently Face Juggler doesn&rsquo;t just work with photographs that contain my face. Here&rsquo;s the answer to the question: "Exactly how nightmarish would Hillary Clinton and Meryl Streep look if they had their faces swapped in a harrowing cryptozoological experiment?" Photograph: Kevin Wolf/APBut back to me. There&rsquo;s also Face Bomb, which gives everybody in the photo the same face. Want to know what my old class of Korean four-year-olds would have looked like if all but one of them had my face? Of course you don&rsquo;t. Why on earth would you?Then there are the classics. Face Shrink combines the one-second thrill of seeing what your face would look like if it was disproportionately small with the eternal fun of joylessly clicking away an endless barrage of pop-up ads.And Fatty Booth, which shows you what the bottom half of your face would look like if it was obese and a completely different colour to the rest of your head. It&rsquo;s fun for all the family, especially if all the family enjoys using insanely needy apps that keep begging you to rate them every 30 seconds.And Old Age Pro, which makes you look exactly how you feel after spending a full afternoon twonking around with rubbish facial-manipulation apps for no real reason.And then there's Zombie Booth, which obviously makes you look like a zombie. This one has the distinction of letting you write little passive-aggressive notes to the editors who made you take lots of pictures of your own face, so in that respect I'm all for it.Other apps include Alike, which wrongly tells you that you look like an arbitrarily chosen stock photo of Jason Statham.And Face In Hole, which shows you what you&rsquo;d look like if you were the baby from the Nevermind cover, even though you&rsquo;re already sick of looking at yourself and you quietly suspect that putting an entire gallery of your own face on the internet represents the towering all-time pinnacle of disgusting self-indulgence.So you use FaceEffect to try and mix things up, by taking your Old Age Pro picture and sticking it on to the body of a sexy woman. But somehow that just makes things worse. You&rsquo;re now simultaneously aroused and repulsed by yourself. What happened to you? You used to have such high hopes for yourself.But then you find Glassify, an app that exists solely to show you what you&rsquo;d look like if you wore a Google Glass headset. That&rsquo;s all it does. And you look like a berk in it. Of course you do. Everyone looks like a berk in a Google Glass headset. You don&rsquo;t need an app to tell you that. Bewildered by the world, you flush your phone down the toilet, punch yourself in the face and make plans to go and live in a cave.
Price from £21,735MPG up to 62.8Top speed 118mphThe door of the Fiesta swings open, pushed by a woman's bare foot. Laughter comes from inside the darkened car. She steps out then leans in to say something which causes more hilarity. As she talks she steps into her shoes and wriggles her wrinkled skirt down over her bottom. She rebuttons her blouse, runs her hands through her hair and hops back in. The door slams and the engine starts…I'd been walking my dog (honestly), and I wondered if the couple had been having sex. Think about it: laughter, darkness, a secluded lay-by, that rumpled skirt and – the clincher – a Fiesta. According to a recent poll byBBA Remanof more than 2,000 drivers, the car most people have had sex in is a Ford Fiesta. Does this tell us more about Fiestas or the people who tend to own Fiestas? I'm not sure.I pondered this as I loaded the dog into the back of the palatialHonda CR-VI was test-driving. The boot is colossal – there's 1,669 litres of loadspace (odd how manufacturers measure space in litres, but what else would you use? A quick Wiki yields 94 different units of volume, including firkins, rundlets and hogsheads). If you fold down the back seat, which you can do in seconds by pulling a single easy-grip handle, there's room in the back of the CR-V for, oh, six and a bit hogsheads. Certainly there'd be room for a copulating couple. They'd be more than comfortable and the little sidelights would be quite romantic…Inside story: the interior of the CR-V.To be fair, despite selling more than five million vehicles since it was first launched in 1995, the CR-V is not known for setting your pulse racing. It's a quietly sedate, brilliantly functional "soft" roader. But still waters run deep and this new model has something to boast about. Honda has put the ultrafrugal, superlight, downsized diesel engine it developed for its Civic into the SUV. This new engine is named Earth Dreams; it is 1,598cc and only powers the front wheels, so this 4x4 is only really a&nbsp;2x4. But that saving means this CR-V is more economical and eco-friendly than almost any other family off-roader on the, er, road. The loss of full "green-lane" capability is more than offset by the fact that fuel economy reaches unscaled heights for such a&nbsp;large car. Honda claims a coquettishly optimistic figure of 62.8mpg – maybe, if you're driving on the moon. But in mixed conditions and with a loaded car I still did average a none-too-shabby 54mpg. The remarkable engines will be built at Honda's UK manufacturing base in Swindon and they will churn out up to 500 units a day.Does a small engine in a big car work? Thanks to a raft of technologies and weight-saving strategies, the answer is yes, incredibly well. The car flows nicely on the motorway and never feels underpowered, yet the diesel still sounds agricultural enough to convince you that you're at the wheel of something fruitier at low speeds.Inside, the CR-V is comfortable, conservative, rewarding, grown-up. Nothing is showy, yet there is no sense of being short-changed either.It doesn't feel like a car people will have sex in. But if they do, I'm sure it will be comfortable, conservative, rewarding and grown-up.Lost in translation: a sat-nav love storyBird in a Boxis a surreal short comedy about a lonely man whose first proper date in years is sabotaged by the unattainable love of his life, who proves to have as much control over his heart as she does over his route. It features broadway star Brian d'Arcy James and Fiona Glascott. You'll never look at your sat-nav in quite the same way again...From 1D to 3D: school children get to go behind the scenes with bands, brands and businessesGet close to the action at Silverstone. Photograph: Jakob EbreySchool children across the country have been given a unique opportunity to step behind the scenes with Britain's leading bands and businesses to show how engineering plays a part in everyday life. Six exclusive competitions, including experiencing life behind the mixing desk of One Direction's tour sound engineer, David Martell, and touring the fashion house behind Katy Perry's show-stopping LED skirt have been launched. The competitions are part of Tomorrow's Engineers Week which ran from 4-8 November 2013. The competitions are free for young people to enter viatomorrowsengineers.org.ukandfacebook.com/TomorrowsEngineers, are:Discover the technology behind music with One Direction's sound engineer.Drive out at Silverstone, host to the F1 British Grand Prix, with a chance to talk to F1 Red Bull Racing apprentice Zoe Haycocks.Tour Dr Martens' Northamptonshire factory and customise your own pair of boots.Meet the engineering experts who designed Katy Perry's LED skirt at fashion house CuteCircuit in London – and get a sneak preview of their new designs.Go behind the scenes at Mondelēz International's Cadbury factory and development lab and see how chocolate is brought to life from bean to bar.Design, engineer and produce your own unique 3D jewellery masterpiece using 3D printing with designers and 3D printing specialists, ModlaThe closing date for entries is 17 November 2013.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
What's the story?In the 1700s, pirate Edward Kenway sails in search of riches but is conscripted into a battle between assassins and templars. In the present day, a templar front organisation digitises his memories to locate a lost observatory housing great power.Time to avert another world-changing conspiracy effort, then.GameplayThe bulk of the game, in Kenway's time, retains the familiar blend of stealth, parkour, and combat. Naval battles are more prevalent, befitting the pirate theme, and thankfully less frustrating than inAssassin's Creed III. Controlling the maritime camera is a special hell. In the present, a new first-person perspective creates an immersive, mystery-adventure feel – a fine addition.Highs and lowsThe real highlight ofBlack Flagis the protagonist. Edward Kenway proves immediately more likeable than the previous game's Connor, thanks to his mixture of Johnny Depp-esque swagger and a grey morality. The game feels more like a refinement of its predecessor than a leap forward in its own right – which is not the next gen debut that fans may have hoped for.The verdictPlayers buying on PS4 or Xbox One may be disappointed to find the biggest improvement is largely an aesthetic one butBlack Flagis, overall, a return to form for a series that seemed to be waning. The modern-day settings are a divergence, almost feeling experimental, but nothing that rocks an otherwise seaworthy boat.
What's the storySega has famously struggled to maintain a balance between the traditional Sonic experience that players fell in love with in the early 90s and a desire to keep up with the times. These dual goals led to the deliberately nostalgicSonic Generationsand now to this, an attempt at traditional Sonic fun in aMario Galaxy-style 3D world.GameplaySonic stumbles across a world of floating cylinders in pursuit of long-time enemy Robotnik, and must progress through themed levels to free captured animals. Some 2D levels are reminiscent of those in the original games, but most require the spiky hegdehog to run and jump across floating 3D platforms, with multiple possible paths to the end.Highs and lowsSometimes, these 3D environments allow for some fun and visually impressive moments of pure speed, and it feels like the Sonic of yore with more room to stretch his legs. But more often than not he is forced to slow, to solve a dull switch-pressing puzzle or engage in frustrating combat.The verdictThose brief moments of joy – in which the combat works as it should or the level opens up enough to allow for continued speed – may be enough to reassure some that this is proper Sonic. But they are too few and far between amid sections that will instead make you want to throw your 3DS at the wall in frustration.
What's the Story?Doing exactly what it says on the tin – or game logo, in this case – you navigate countless monster-filled dungeons across a medieval fantasy world to retrieve the Dragon's Crown. Turns out, the shiny trinket can actually control dragons, so it's probably best to keep it out of the hands of evil wizards.GameplayThe plot may be uninspired fantasy blather, but the side-scrolling brawling is exemplary. Besides evoking nostalgia for anyone who recalls Sega's classicGolden Axe, the combat adds a host of moves and combos that require skill and attention – hammering the attack buttons won't get you far. RPG-style levelling also provides a satisfying sense of growth and empowerment throughout.Highs and LowsThe balance between the six playable classes is remarkable, each offering a distinct experience. The stocky, powerful dwarf inexorably cuts through foes, for instance – a far cry from the speedy elf's approach or the wizard's all-encompassing magic. Unfortunately, while each base character's appearance is faintly customisable, everyone suffers from hideously exaggerated physical features – females, pathetically and predictably, all having unfeasibly large breasts.The VerdictLook past – or resign yourself to – the wretched character designs and Dragon's Crown actually looks rather lovely, all hand-painted backgrounds and detailed worlds. Its emphasis on a deep and rewarding battle system makes it feel like a genuine evolution of the games that inspired it, and the brief quests render it all particularly well suited for portable play on the Vita.
It's very, very popular.GTAandCall of Dutymay grab the headlines for breaking sales records, butSkylandersstands beside them as one of the world's most profitable entertainment franchises. The series started in 2011 withSpyro's Adventure, a game where children could place a toy on a "portal" and see it come to life in a game. In just two years, Skylanders has generated over £926m in revenue, more thanSkyfallmade at the global box office. The Skylanders figurines are this year's most successful action toy brand in the US and Europe.It's more than just a game.There are three core games –Spyro's Adventure,GiantsandSwap Force. But kids can also use their toys in an online virtual world called Skylanders Universe. There are also three smartphone games, with a portal accessory available for mobile devices. And then there are the non-gaming products: 130 companies are creating Skylanders clothing, bedspreads, stickers, lunch boxes, lampshades, soft toys, books and posters. One thing we won't see, however, is a Skylanders TV show or movie. Activision has no intention of taking the game to the big or small screen.It's a technically advanced game.Outside of Nintendo's output, kids' games don't have a glowing reputation. But not only is Skylanders a good game, it is doing things even the biggest titles aren't doing. For instance, kids can "level-up" their Skylander in the game, save the data to the toy, take it to a friend's house and play that upgraded character on their game, even if they own a different console. Also, Skylanders is backwards compatible, which means every toy will work in the latest version.It has enemies.Skylanders' success has inspired rival companies to take it on. Disney all but gave up on video games two years ago, but it is back withDisney Infinity.Infinityrips off the Skylanders concept wholesale, but features iconic characters fromToy Story,Monsters Inc,Pirates of the Caribbeanand more. Disney says that it will release new characters and worlds for all of its future blockbuster movies. Other "toys to life" competitors include a Pokémon game from Nintendo, andAngry Birds: Star Wars IIfrom Rovio.It doesn't come cheap.Skylanders' technical wizardry and high production values come at a price. A starter pack (which includes toys, a portal and the game) starts at £59.99, with special sets rising to £84.99. The toys range from £7.99 for a simple Skylander to £14.99 for one of the newSwap Forcecharacters. But that's nothing compared to the "rare" toys. Find one of these collectibles in store and they can be worth up to £400 on eBay. There are even Skylander "scalpers" that hunt video game and toy stores looking for limited edition action figures to sell on.
We were supposed to have virtual reality by now. We knew from fiction what it would look like, the wrongs it would bring.For ages we seemed on the edge of a self-imposedMatrixor as much creepy, blobby lovemaking as we wanted, as inThe Lawnmower Man.But for a host of technical and practical reasons, little of merit has materialised until the recent announcement ofOculus Rift, a headset financed by the crowd-funding website,Kickstarter. The headset's existence has been made possible in an online virtual world by a now solvent generation promised it by their movie virtual worlds 20 years ago. And so fantasy has become reality has become fantasy reality.Although I love gaming, I have never had a longing for VR. Like many people, my kneejerk response to technology created after I've turned 30 is to fear it will be socially detrimental and fundamentally sad. But of course I'd love aStar Trek: The Next Generationholodeck. And what is that if not virtual reality? Creating an environment and interacting with it recreationally is pretty much what we do anyway, except we store those environments behind a screen.I think the reason virtual reality troubles us is more basic than that. Maybe it's because it covers people's eyes. When you seeYouTube clips of people playingOculus Riftit seems at first silly, then slightly sinister. You cannot connect or commune with the player as you watch them play. No point of view is shared. The windows to their soul have their curtains drawn. In fact, with a solid black mask strapped across the face, players look like the villains we're often encouraged to shoot. Anonymous. Alien.But that's only the view from the outside.I was kindly offered a go onOculus Riftat the offices of gaming companySix to Startin London. It's very early days in terms of game design and on this occasion motion was still operated with a keyboard, mouse or controller. I put on the mask, not too heavy but well built, and powerful headphones over that. I was instantly immersed. Two screens, one for each eye, made a single 3D image before me, and then, I realised, around me too.I was in a castle environment. The resolution isn't that high so things looked blocky, but much better than I expected. The field of vision is excellent. As I moved my head I could see all around me, the angle changing naturally, as in life, with a small amount of image blur. Look Mum, no edges. I was struck by how false, distant and controllable our interactions with screens are. They seemed like cluttered frames that present thin, faraway worlds we can point at, toy with. This was different. I felt like I was  in the orchestra, rather than conducting. We accept it as normal now to have at least one glowing square in our field of vision that beams out a completely different image from its surroundings. That is what is strange. Virtual reality, weirdly, seems more normal.I moved out into the gardens; green, expansive and airy. When I looked up, the world continued. When I looked down, it carried on too. And I cannot explain the total, devastating wonder of turning to look over my shoulder and the same world being there too. Something happened. My body and my mind accepted it and relaxed.I playedHalf-Life 2, a familiar shooter, and the intensity was extreme. Small rooms felt claustrophobic, but truthfully so. Outside spaces felt expansive and inspiring. It is almost as if the emotions that horror attempts to elicit on the big screen could be created genuinely here, not enacted by proxy. I felt in danger when an enemy attacked me. And that improved the experience. I began to get that creeping, unsteady feeling when you realise something is "game changing". Or maybe it was just the motion sickness.This brings me to one of the more unnerving aspects ofOculus Rift. No matter how many false enemies fought, virtual reality makes the user tremendously vulnerable. With my senses covered and my mind engaged elsewhere, I couldn't help but think how I would feel about playing it for long stretches alone.But my most profound experience with theOculus Rifthadn't happened yet. It didn't happen until eventually the game was over and I reached and took off the headset, removed the mask. As I lifted it off, it felt like nothing I've ever experienced. Sensation assaulted me, the pinprick resolution, the fluidity of free motion, a real voice caressed me. It was like seeing the sea again after a long time.Oculus Riftis a brilliantly achieved piece of kit. There is no single future of gaming, I hope, but this is going to be among the next array. With creators like John Carmack (Doom,Quake) joining in a leadership capacity, the omens are very good. It will be perfect for gun games. But it could have therapeutic, emotional and educational potential that we are yet to imagine. And as I lifted the set from my face, over my head and my own world streamed through me, I wondered if its genius is also in what it shows us when removed. I'm home. I won.
What's the story?The latest game from Quantic Dream isn't a sequel toHeavy Rainbut has plenty of stylistic similarities. Director David Cage goes for the kind of drama you find in blockbuster films  that results in these minimally interactive experiences that some are reluctant to even call games.GameplayEllen Page lends her voice and motion-captured likeness to protagonist Jodie Holmes, who was born tied to an invisible "entity". You explore her memories out of chronological order, switching between Holmes and the entity – Aiden – who can float through walls, blast open doors, and possess other characters when the plot allows it.Highs and lowsThe heavily supernatural plot is more determined than that ofHeavy Rain, with the significant choices clustered at the end. That and the use of quick-time events to trigger cutscenes may bother some players, especially if they don't feel the story makes up for it. However, those scenes are visually stunning, well-acted by Page, and in some cases very moving.The verdictA big budget has translated to incredible technical effects, some expensive and talented actors, and a plot that is overly focused on spectacle. It might not be the deep experience some hoped, but it's easy to enjoy while hoping that other developers will apply their own ambitions to the format and create something better.
What's the Story?Set in the earliest days of the caped crusader's crime-fighting career – holy alliteration, Batman! – sadistic mob boss Black Mask has placed a hefty bounty on the nascent superhero's head. The Dark Knight must fend off eight assassins, while overcoming his own youthful arrogance to become the hero that Gotham needs.GameplayHaving reviewed on Xbox 360, this game proves to be the world's best blank-screen simulator with its penchant for crashing as chapters load, at checkpoints, even occasionally after upgrading Batman's abilities. Between outages – and hopefully throughout, for players on other formats – the combination of city-wide exploration, thrilling melee combat and detective skills prove as engaging as before.Highs and LowsWith development passing from Rocksteady to Warner Bros, Montreal, the new studio seems to have been overly cautious, afraid to tinker with a successful mechanism. It is, however, good to see more obscure members of Batman's rogue's gallery given the spotlight.The VerdictThere's little to dislike about Arkham Origins, but equally little stands out. It plays like a remix of the earlier games rather than a new direction, and if the Montreal team is to deliver further Arkham titles, it can only be hoped they take a bolder approach. Hopefully the crashing problem for Xbox will also be fixed with a patch.
What's the story?Technically an offshoot of theSpyrofranchise,Skylandershas become hugely popular in its own right. It's a basic platformer, but each playable character is accessed through the purchase of a collectable figurine that also stores upgrade data. InSwap Force, these have a new feature: the ability to detach top from bottom to mix and match.GameplayAs in the previous games, the Skylanders are on a quest to stop Kaos from enacting his evil plans. To do so, they must travel through colourful and imaginative levels, helping other characters to fight off Kaos's minions and collecting treasure with which they can buy new items and abilities.Highs and lowsThe introduction of the ability to jump makes the platforming in this sequel far more varied. The swappable Skylanders make it more interesting, with challenges for the different kinds of movement their bottom halves can carry out. However, accessing all of these will come at a cost, as closed-off areas encourage players to buy more figurines of different kinds.The verdictIt looks like Activision wantsSkylandersto be a yearly release, which may worry parents, especially as these swappable figurines cost more than the regular ones. ButSwap Forceis well-executed and packed with content, with lots of extra challenges to ensure that kids will keep playing for a long time.
Over a few weeks' worth of bedtimes in the summer of 1984, my dad read meNineteen Eighty-Fourby George Orwell. Though the dystopian context would have been lost on nine-year old me, the pervasive malevolence and the futility of the struggle was not.References to Orwell are never far off today, whether to Big Brother and the surveillance society, or doublethink and Room 101. The Orwellian dystopia is so familiar now to us – and so astonishingly real – that we might need a new cultural reference, a new literary vision to warn of what lies ahead.It's the relentless creep of progress and development that inevitably makes our worst nightmares and most brilliant visions a reality. Fifty years ago, security expertEugene Kasperskytold a conference last week, the public would have been protesting on the streets at the idea that cameras would be surveilling every public placeacross the country, all day, every day. Today, we just accept it.At the same conference,Dublin's Web Summit, the vast audience in the hangar-sized hall was asked how many had abandoned consumer web companies in the wake ofEdward Snowden's revelations. Three people put up their hands – and this among well-informed, technologically confident people.The gap between the shock of these revelations and the call to action is perverse. The story is huge, multifaceted and complex, which excludes all but the most committed. For others, the truth about services on which they are utterly dependent – we are all utterly dependent – is too inconvenient to want to act; far easier to declare, "I'm not doing anything wrong," and, "I don't care if I'm being watched."In truth, the call to action is not that we consumers abandon our online lives and seek out anonymity tools such as Tor, or start encrypting all our email using PGP. It's no bad thing that more sophisticated security techniques are seeping into the mainstream consciousness; gleeful pub conversations about our how mobile phones double as microphones and how even the subtle differences in the sound of typewriter keys can be decoded. Kaspersky has his own currency of expertise to maintain, and he too recounts how he won't store any compromising data on a computer at all.This is borne out by the testimony of the tech investors at Web Summit too. "We're just not looking for privacy-aware services," said Brad Burnham of Union Square Ventures. "There are so many compelling examples of value being created by sharing data, from traffic jams to healthcare. The problem isn't privacy but trust. We can't retreat into the dark ages." That means spending time influencing policy, he concluded. Entrepreneurs were falling over themselves to testify to their fierce protection of customer data; taxi-appHailois building up records of payment details combined with location data for account holders, whileEvernoterecords increasingly extensive personal notes covering everything from bank statements to work meetings. Both say they have not handed over customer data outside of specific warrantsbut as we now know, the NSA doesn't need permission– it will help itself. What are you sharing online?The crisis is in public trust of both our governments – who, when it suits them, will seize the opportunity to criticise oppressive regimes who restrict free speech — and corporations whose reputation depends on credibility and trust. European nations have generally set up rigorous laws to protect their citizens from business, while its governments rely on the trust and goodwill of the public. In the US that situation is reversed, with citizens protected from government through the constitution, and business commercially dependent on trust, among other things. The lack of oversight and accountability has meant the security services never had to draw the line about what is acceptable, necessary, moral and legal.This dynamic of corporate autonomy may end up creating the strongest fightback against the over-reaching security services, withGoogle and Yahoo'sfury at the intercepts of their data networks and heavy lobbying in Washington. "We are outraged at the lengths to which the government seems to have gone to intercept data from our private fibre networks," said Google's chief legal officer David Drummond. "It underscores the need for urgent reform."Surveillance is the undercurrent in every tech conversation now, a lens for understanding our vulnerability and exposure to every part of the online world. This is not a choice between catching terrorists and what David Cameron astonishingly described as some"la-di-da, airy fairy" views on free speechand the right to privacy. If we are happy to accept that our online lives are best represented by Google, Skype, Yahoo, Facebook and all the rest, despite the compromises we make on those commercial platforms, then we have to hope they have the best chance of clawing back our right to free expression and privacy, our right to relate the world around us without being watched.Returning to Orwell, what will the state of our surveillance nation be in 2031? The worst that can happen is that the whole lot comes true.
On a bright Tuesday afternoon at around 3.15pm, a handful of plain-clothed FBI agents climbed the stone stairs of Glen Park Library, an unobtrusive building on Diamond Street in San Francisco. They entered the library in staggered succession, gradually making their way towards its far corner: the science fiction section. There, sitting at one of the faux-wooden tables, was a pale young man with dark hair, jeans and T-shirt. He was on his laptop, chatting with someone online. Staff had not recognised the slim man with wide-set eyes, but then people often came here to use the free public Wi-Fi. Once they opened their laptops they would see a window pop up, offering unfiltered content on the condition they avoided browsing illegal content "out of respect" for fellow library users. It seems the young man wasn't complying.His name was Ross Ulbricht, a 29-year-old former physics and engineering student from Austin, Texas. Many men of his background were in this same city to launch a technology startup or two, but the FBI believed Ulbricht was into something far darker: manning a vast, black market for online drugs and other illegal goods known as Silk Road. He was, they believed, a millionaire drugs kingpin who had twice ordered someone killed to protect his empire.There was a crash that sounded like someone had fallen onto the hard, tiled floor, library staff later remembered. Poking their heads around the shelves, they found the young Ulbricht pressed up against the window by what seemed to be several other library patrons. It looked like a fight, at first."We're the FBI," his assailants said, adding that everything was under control. Soon Ulbricht was in handcuffs, and chatting to several agents who blockaded him into a corner of the library, according to another witness who posted her account online. The agents walked him out of the library, two of them returning not long after in blue FBI jackets to do a sweep of the area where Ulbricht had been sitting. They found nothing. The person Ulbricht had been chatting to online, according to an FBI complaint, had been a cooperating witness in their investigation.This was the result of more than a year of dogged cyber sleuthing and old-fashioned detective work, and news of the arrest broke the following day, 2 October 2013. Police claimed that Ulbricht had been runningSilk Roadsince 2011, and for the last year had done so from his home in San Francisco as well as a nearby cafe. He had operated under the name Dread Pirate Roberts, a character in the filmThe Princess Bridethat referred to a mythical persona shared between several people. They charged him with drugs trafficking, money laundering and attempted murder.The FBI agent who led the team investigating Ulbricht, Christopher Tarbell, had also been responsible for the 2011 sting in New York on Hector "Sabu" Monsegur, leader of the notorious LulzSec hacker group."He's a very big deal," says one lawyer who has dealt indirectly with Tarbell."He does most, if not all of these cases," said another source with knowledge of the investigation.By Thursday the FBI had shut down Silk Road. Anyone who attempted to access the site saw a large digital poster saying it had been seized by authorities. Police also took possession of a digital wallet allegedly belonging to Ulbricht containing thousands of Bitcoins, the anonymous, crypto-currency used throughout the Silk Road market. To date it is reportedly worth $34.5m, and it's thought that more of the Dread Pirate's takings are still at large online. They claimed Ulbricht was making $20,000 a day on sales commissions, amassing a total of $80m, much of which was reportedly going back into maintaining Silk Road operations.Silk Road takedown notice. Photograph: David Colbran/Demotix/CorbisThe whole Silk Road enterprise had reportedly seen $1.2bn in sales in its existence, and nearly one million anonymous customers, making it perhaps the world's biggest online marketplace for drugs.Chillingly, the FBI indictments also claimed Ulbricht had ordered two hits against people whom he thought might expose his clients, one against an "employee" of Silk Road in January 2013 and then against someone, who was in fact an undercover agent, threatening to leak names of his clientele. In the first hit, police say Ulbricht offered $40,000 for the job, and asked for "proof of death" in the form of a video. Police staged photos of the death, and when Ulbricht saw them stated that he was "a little disturbed, but I'm OK". "I'm new to this kind of thing, is all," he added. "I don't think I've done the wrong thing."After the arrest, photos of Ulbricht's smiling face were soon scraped from his profiles on Facebook and LinkedIn, and posted on hundreds of &nbsp;websites, blogs and Twitter. On Thursday morning, another young San Francisco resident picked up a copy of theExaminernewspaper and was startled to see Ulbricht on the front page. He took a photo with his phone and texted it to his housemate. "Funny," he said. "Looks kinda like our sub-letter.""Not looks like," his friend replied. "Is." He sent back a link to a news article, and the descriptions of a Texas University physics grad who had worked as a "foreign currency trader.""Holy shit."The two men, who named themselves only as Drew and Brandon in an interview withForbes, had been living in the house where Ulbricht was renting a room for $1,200 a month on 15th Avenue, in San Francisco's West Portal suburb. They explained that Ulbricht had applied for a room on Craigslist, identifying himself as "Josh", a Texas man who was "good-natured and clean/tidy." He had no mobile phone and chose to pay in cash. The housemates weren't suspicious because "Josh" had just moved from Sydney, Australia.Brandon ended up living with Ulbricht for two months and said the man "seemed like a normal guy". He was friendly and polite, had few possessions – primarily his laptop and a few changes of clothes – and spent most of his time in the master bedroom, on his computer, engaging in what he claimed was currency trading. The one oddity they noticed: "Josh" liked to walk around without a shirt. He reportedly almost never went out, spending America's 4th of July holiday at home, and cooking steak dinners for one. For all the money he allegedly made, Ulbricht seemed to have spent very little of it at all.Courtroom sketch in U.S. Federal Court in San Francisco, California October 4, 2013 Photograph: ReutersUlbricht had family back in Austin, but housemates said he had cut off ties with friends. His grandmother, when she first heard about his arrest, seemed nonplussed by the whole affair. She toldForbesthat Ulbricht was "good with computers". His half-brother, Travis, called him "an exceptionally bright and smart kid". A close friend and former housemate, Rene Pinnell, told theVergethat police had messed up. "I'm sure it's not him."No one close to Ulbricht seemed to believe the low-key, young scientist was the notorious "pirate" behind Silk Road.Ulbricht's alleged, dreamlike world as the internet's Dread Pirate Roberts would have been the antithesis of the real world around him. Drug dealing was nothing new in San Francisco.A few miles north of West Portal, in front of the larger San Francisco Public Library, more than a dozen of the city's homeless are wandering a grassy square or lying like planks under thin blankets. In broad daylight and directly in front of the library, a homeless man in a wheelchair hands a pair of $20 bills to another, receiving a small package in exchange. "See you later, asshole," the drug dealer says smirking, as his customer secrets the package into a thick, yellow coat.Such transactions are commonplace in San Francisco and the Silk Road was meant to be their alternative: a place where anyone who wanted drugs could buy them without associating with underhanded dealers or entering dangerous alleyways.In the US where laws over the use of cannabis or possession of class-A drugs can be wildly different between states, it also made it easier to hide from the law. And buying drugs from a real-world dealer meant you could never be sure if the product was good quality.On the Silk Road, you could get anything from "red joker ecstasy pills" to LSD and check the reviews and star-ratings of each dealer left by previous customers, as you might on eBay or Amazon. There were 10,000 products for sale in the spring of 2013, 70% of which were drugs. But there were also 159 listings for "services," most of which were for hacking into social network accounts like Twitter or Facebook, and more than 800 listings for digital goods such as pirated content, or hacked Amazon and Netflix accounts, according to the FBI indictment. Fake drivers' licences, fake passports, fake utility bills and fake credit card statements.Everything was here, facilitated by the Silk Road.Customers felt safe because they accessed the site viaTor, an anonymising network that up until recently was a reliable way to mask their tracks, even from the police. You never paid with credit cards or PayPal on Silk Road. The only acceptable currency wasBitcoin, an encrypted digital currency that couldn't be traced, with no government or bank behind it. The currency was regulated by a network of computers, and represented by a long string of numbers.While there are other sites that sell drugs, the Silk Road's user friendly interface and third-party payment system made it more popular than others. Many customers also chimed with the Dread Pirate's libertarian principles, which he wrote about on Silk Road's forums.In the last two years the Silk Road's Dread Pirate had given a handful of press interviews, unusual given his insistence on staying anonymous. In a 2011interviewwith Gawker gaming site Kokatu, he said his views stemmed from the anarcho-libertarian philosophy of agorism. "Stop funding the state with your tax dollars and direct your productive energies into the black market," he said.Then in 2013 the Dread Pirate toldForbesin an interview that Silk Road's "core" role was "a way to get around regulation from the state". He even hinted that Silk Road might head in the direction of selling weapons. "Firearms and ammunition are becoming more regulated and controlled in many parts of the world," he said.Ulbricht was a strong libertarian, a member of the Libertarians Group while studying at Penn State University and identified in his school paper as a supporter of US presidential candidateRon Paul. The one blog post he published on his Facebook profile was titled "Thoughts on Freedom," a philosophical exposition of his libertarian ideas. He posted it on 5 July 2010, just after America's Independence Day; exactly three years before he would be holed up indoors in San Francisco.In one way, Ulbricht's alleged work chimed with a prevailing belief among technologists in Silicon Valley that the right algorithm, the right software, can spark social change. It is hard to walk down a street in California's Bay Area without passing a startup founder who claims he or she can fix the American health system, or education, or use a GPS location tracking to predict crime, with some sort of app. Companies such asAirbnb have completely upended industriesand their founders, like Ulbricht, are hackers at heart. They subvert not just lines of software code but entire systems of thought and economic structure. Ulbricht was taking this and the internet's anti-hierarchical tendencies further, embracing the libertarian notion that private morality was not the state's affairs, particularly in the case of activities such as drug use or prostitution.Many observers were shocked at the news that Ulbricht had chosen to live and operate in San Francisco when he could have been hiding out in Iceland or Latin America, and that he had given lengthy interviews to journalists. "When you start giving interviews like the CEO of an established company, it's just wrong," says Pavel Durov, another 29-year-old technologist who recently visited San Francisco and had been following the story of the Dread Pirate.Speaking over a cup of camomile tea at a five-star hotel on Market Street, Durov is the successful head of another, rather more legal online network, calledVK.com. Called the Facebook of Russia, VK gets more than 50 million monthly users, and as any successful businessman in St Petersburg might, Durov has had his own brushes with the Russian law. Such experiences have helped reinforce his own strong libertarian views. "I believe the role of the government is too big," he says. "Society must be more decentralised."But Durov also doesn't care for the Dread Pirate's apparent thirst for notoriety. "If you're involved in something like that and everybody ignores you, the officials ignore you and you ignore the officials, it's OK. It's like you don't exist."Ulbricht seems to have cared more about making an impact than in maintaining complete anonymity. He reportedly took pains to keep himself anonymous, going online through Tor and only communicating through the Silk Road chat system."The highest levels of government are hunting me," he toldForbes. "I can't take any chances."Yet in fact he took plenty of chances. In one of the first postings about Silk Road on other online drugs forums, in January 2011, a commenter said: "Has anyone seen Silk Road yet? It's kind of like an anonymous amazon.com."Grab from the Silk Road website shows thumbnails for products allegedly available through the site. Photograph: APThe posting linked to the site's Tor address and a blogpost with instructions. The poster, nicknamed, "altoid" deleted their comment, but someone else copied and pasted it onto anotherforum. Then "altoid" made a careless mistake: he posted on another online forum of Bitcoin users, asking people to contact rossulbricht@gmail.com.In July, Ulbricht was visited at his home by customs and immigrations officials who had intercepted a package of counterfeit IDs from Canada, all with different names but with photos of Ulbricht's face. The agents didn't arrest him even though, in another bizarre display of recklessness, Ulbricht mentioned that anyone could "hypothetically" go into a website called Silk Road and buy fake ID documents there.Police carried out further online investigations and discovered six online servers, through which they could observe the buyers and sellers of Silk Road making their Bitcoin transactions. The FBI has said in court papers that it has accessed months' worth of sales history from Silk Road, giving them new information on the site's dealers.The UK's National Crime Agency says more arrests are on the way. Before they arrested Ulbricht, the FBI had taken one of the Silk Road's top dealers into custody in July – then flipped him. Steve Sadler of Seattle, who was known as "Nod" on Silk Road, reportedly sold heroin, cocaine and crystal meth on the site, but ended up working with agents for several months to help track down their biggest target, the Dread Pirate himself.Ulbricht has denied his involvement in Silk Road, or that he was ever its administrator, but the prospect of a dragnet operation to bring in other dealers following his arrest will still make any of the nearly 960,000 registered users with the site – 30% of whom were in the US and Brits being the second biggest contingent – very nervous.Another online drugs bazaar, called Atlantis, shut down in September, while there were reports that Black Market Reloaded, another, would shut down too, although that hasn't happened. Police will probably continue to tighten the noose on more black markets."The best way to change a government is to change the minds of the governed," Ulbricht had said on his LinkedIn page, where he described himself as an entrepreneur."I am creating an economic simulation to give people a first-hand experience of what it would be like to live in a world without the systemic use of force." The "economic stimulation" came to fruition with Silk Road, but in the end the very hierarchy he seemed to fight against caught up with him, handcuffs in tow.Parmy Olson is a technology writer forForbesmagazine in San Francisco. She is the author ofWe Are Anonymous(Little Brown, 2012)
On one wall of Daniel Ek's sparsely furnished office in the Stockholm headquarters ofSpotify, there is a quotation from George Bernard Shaw: "The reasonable man adapts himself to the world. The unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt the world to himself. Therefore all progress depends on the unreasonable man."Ek, 30, doesn't immediately strike you as the unreasonable type. His face is placid, his voice mild with a transatlantic accent, his body language passive. He wears a rumpled red Ralph Lauren polo shirt, jeans and white trainers. His scalp and chin have equal amounts of stubble, which makes his head look reversible."I think Daniel Ek is unbelievable but I don't think you can say he's a charming guy," says Per Sundin, chairman and CEO of Universal Music Sweden. "He comes across as non-threatening in a business with a lot of big personalities," says Gustav Söderström, Spotify's chief product officer.Seven years ago, Ek began approaching record labels with a bold proposition: to make their valuable content available to rent rather than buy, and for free. Most were understandably wary. This new product looked as if it might be the killer of the music industry rather than, as its quietly purposeful creator claimed, its saviour.Ek won that first battle for hearts and minds. Although many rival services are available, Spotify has become synonymous with streaming, the same way Google is with searching. Last month, on the fifth anniversary of its launch, it made more than 20million songs available to 24&nbsp;million users in 32&nbsp;territories. Swedish newspaperDagens Industrirecently valued the company at $5.2bn. Inevitably, it has made  some impassioned enemies. Radiohead's Thom Yorke recently said: "I feel like as musicians we need to fight the Spotify thing," and called the industry's support for the company"the last desperate fart of a dying corpse".But it has also made Ek many friends. He fraternises with entrepreneurs, rock stars and other interesting, powerful folk. His next appointment after me is with dubstep star Skrillex. "I get to learn from some of the most inspiring people in the world, whether it's the Mark Zuckerbergs and Jeff Bezoses or famous brain surgeons, because I get invited to those things," Ek says evenly. "And on top of that I get to hang out with artists I've admired since I was a kid. That's pretty fun."Spotify's head office occupies the top four floors of a building in an upmarket district of Stockholm and has the typical accoutrements of a hip young tech company. There are graffitied murals, whiteboards covered in Post-it notes, fridges stocked with complimentary soft drinks and a staircase lined with informal employee snapshots. Meeting rooms are named after songs: Paranoid, Poker Face, Pretty Vacant. There are areas dedicated to pool, darts and table tennis. Ek still smarts at the memory of his 21-1 table-tennis defeat by a visiting Justin Bieber. "I'm the worst loser ever so I don't even try unless I know I can win," he says.Spotify also has distinctly Swedish features, such as an unusually flat, democratic management structure and an attitude best described aslagom. "Lagom means not too little but not too much – just enough," explains Ian Robbins, Spotify's US-born product owner of artist products. "It comes up a lot. Our former font was called Lagom. It's very Swedish and it's pervasive."There is, however, a more practical reason why Spotify was a revolution that could only have happened in Sweden, and the seeds were sown 15 years ago.In the late 1990s, the Swedish government decided to build a society of digital natives. It treated high-speed broadband as an essential public utility and funded schemes to enable every citizen to buy a computer. Unfortunately for the music industry, this digital evangelism coincided with the launch of the American file-sharing site Napster. Young Swedes could now access any music they liked, for free, faster than anyone else, and they did so with gusto. Sundin, a shaven-headed man with a blunt, sardonic manner, tells me that he began to worry when neighbours mentioned that their teenagers had told them not to bother buying music anymore.With the arrival of Sweden's ownPirate Bayin 2003, piracy became endemic and the industry contracted at sickening speed. In 1999 worldwide revenue reached an all-time high of $27bn; by 2008 it had almost halved, despite the industry's various legal and technological attempts to fight back. Sweden had the worst piracy in the western world. Sundin estimates that at Universal and, before that, Sony BMG, he personally laid off 200 staff. In 2006, during a Swedish election debate, both leading candidates for prime minister said that they wouldn't criminalise a generation for downloading music, effectively endorsing piracy.After the debate, Sundin's mother phoned to advise him to find another job. "It was already going down and then they said that," he remembers with a grimace. "It was terrible. All the newspapers were laughing at us." So when Ek came knocking, Sweden was the ideal petri dish for a radical experiment.Sundin compares the industry to an alcoholic who has to reach rock bottom before he admits he has a drinking problem. He was so impressed by Spotify's demo version that he convinced his bosses to back it: together with other large labels and the Merlin consortium of key independents, Universal owns around 20% equity in Spotify. "I said to my team, 'This is Jesus coming to town! If this fucks up we're going to be dead so let's go all in.'""The music industry was in the shitter," says Ek. "What did they have to lose? On top of that, I literally slept outside their offices, coming in week after week, hammering them down argument by argument."Spotify went live (by invitation only) in Scandinavia, the UK, France and Spain in October 2008. A few months later, Swedish prosecutors backed by the international music industry successfully took Pirate Bay to court, and the government finally introduced EU anti-piracy measures. "It was the perfect storm," says Sundin. "It wasn't just that it was now illegal. People discovered Spotify and realised it was actually better than piracy."To Ek, the music industry's nosedive was a problem to be solved. "There was this paradox," he says. "People were listening to more music than ever in history and yet the music industry was doing worse and worse. So the demand for content was there but it was a different business model."Spotify in numbers. Graphic: Pete GuestEk's theory was that people were willing to do the right thing but only if it was just as rewarding, and much less hassle, than doing the wrong thing. He says that Spotify subscribers don't pay for content – they can get that for free through piracy – they pay for convenience.Owen Smith, 27, a Brit who works on Spotify's platform strategy, understands that transition first-hand. At university he filled a hard drive with pirated mp3s. "I'm of the Napster generation," he says, a little bashfully. "It was all there and everyone was doing it and it was almost too good to be true."After signing up to Spotify in 2008, his behaviour changed. "I didn't think, 'This is the morally better choice'. It was just easier. Over time the hard drive became disconnected. It's funny when it has happened to you and you didn't even realise it."Sundin has the bullish optimism of someone who has survived a near-death experience. In Sweden, total industry revenues are now approaching 2003 levels; Universal is almost back to its 1999 peak; piracy has plummeted."Sweden has gone from bad boy to poster boy in five years," he says with a triumphant grin. "Everyone is looking at what happens in Sweden."Daniel Ek has straddledthe worlds of music and tech since his childhood in Stockholm's down-at-heel Rågsved district. His maternal grandparents were both musicians and he writes and plays music himself: a mint-green electric guitar hangs on his office wall. He is also a computer prodigy who was earning several thousand pounds a month from designing and hosting websites while he was still at school.After dropping out of an engineering course at the prestigious Royal Institute of Technology, he became a hotshot programmer for internet marketing company Tradedoubler, treating himself to a red Ferrari and a club-hopping lifestyle, but he was unfulfilled and depressed.He sold the car, swapped his city-centre flat for a cabin near his parents, concentrated on music and meditation, and began hanging out with his former Tradedoubler employer Martin Lorentzon, who was equally disillusioned. In 2005, the two decided to collaborate on a new project that they genuinely cared about.The company name originated during a last-minute brainstorming session when Lorentzon misheard one of Ek's suggestions (Ek forgets what) and registered the domain name Spotify, now retroactively explained as a portmanteau of "spot" and "identify".When Ek wasn't overseeing a handful of engineers in a converted three-room flat above a coffee shop, he was out trying to secure global licences from record labels.After a wave of rejections he narrowed his focus to Europe, which still took a nerve-racking two years with no income. "When we said we wanted to give it away for free and that would help the industry there was a credibility gap that took two years to overcome," admits Jonathan Forster, Spotify's European general manager and one of Ek's first dozen employees.Minds only began to change when Ek loaded a demo with pirated tracks so that label executives could try it for themselves. Söderström, 37, compares Spotify to Skype: it wasn't a brand new idea but it was faster, easier and more social than the rest.The basic user experience remains unchanged. You can search for any song in the catalogue, on an interface similar to the iTunes store, and play it as quickly as if it were on your own desktop. Ek was obsessed with shaving milliseconds off the response time. The human brain perceives "instant" as anything less than 250 milliseconds; Spotify plays songs within 285. Songs can then be shared via playlists, over 1billion of which have been created so far.You either listen for free, if you don't mind intrusive adverts and a 10-hour monthly cap, or pay $4.99 a month ("unlimited") for uninterrupted listening, or $9.99 ("premium") to listen on a mobile device. The 2009 introduction of the mobile service, including an offline feature, was the turning point in terms of incentivising users to pay. Between 20-25% of Spotify users (currently six million people) upgrade to a subscription. "A lot of people said it was really stupid to start charging when everyone else was free, and we weren't as sure about it as we like to say we were," says Söderström. "It was a big risk."Spotify's product development motto is spelt out in colourful plastic letters on a wall near Ek's office: "Think it, build it, ship it, tweak it." Usually, its instincts are correct. Rather than clogging the site with secondary services, for example, it has made the app available to third parties such as the gig-listing service Songkick and journalism sources includingGuardian Music. Its current focus is on "discover", which introduces listeners to music via Spotify Radio, curated playlists and algorithmic recommendations.Its only significant blunder to date occurred during its alliance with Facebook in September 2011, when it prioritised sharing over privacy. Suddenly existing users found that all their listening was public while new ones couldn't sign up without a Facebook account. After a fierce backlash, both obligations were dropped. "We look back on that as a 'duh' moment," says Robbins. "How did we not understand that?" He shrugs. "We learn by doing."Despite Spotify's lagomdemeanour, its ultimate goal is far from moderate. "I want everyone in the world to be able to listen to anything ever created," says Söderström. "And I think we'll get there."For that to happen, many artists remain to be convinced. Although former refuseniks Pink Floyd recently came on board, the representatives of acts ranging from the Beatles to Boards of Canada are currently holding back most or all of their catalogue. Some, like the Black Keys and Thom Yorke's new band Atoms for Peace have been publicly hostile. "New artists get paid fuck all with this model. It's an equation that just doesn't work,"Yorke's bandmate Nigel Godrich recently tweeted."The concern is genuine and understandable," says the unflappable Söderström. "If you put your entire life into creating art, of course you're going to be careful about it. Fortunately we now have tangible data. We try to inform and be as transparent as possible."The key issue is royalty payments. Spotify says that around 70% of its income subscriptions is paid into an industry pool, from which individual copyright holders pay their artists, albeit not very transparently. Artists' income will only grow as the user base expands. Spotify finally launched in the US in 2011 and eventually aims to cover the entire world. By last February, it had paid out $500m to rights holders to date; by the end of 2013 that figure will have doubled. Of course, that $1bn pie is divided into an awful lot of slices.Spotify in numbers. Graphic: Pete GuestMark Williamson, director of Artist Services, says that payments are not calculated on a per-stream basis but insists, "The rates are equitable across labels." Working back from their royalty statements, several artists have calculated the rate at around 0.4p per stream, so you need over 200 plays to match the 99p paid for one iTunes download. Whether or not that is fair depends on what you're comparing it to. If you count every stream as a lost sale then it's disastrous. If, however, you compare it to YouTube (whose rates are secret but reportedly lower) or piracy then it's not so bad."This is not a dollar business anymore; it's a nickel-and-dime business," insists Sundin. "If you don't get played then you're not popular and you don't get money. Accept it. Kids like what they like."He pulls up a graph on his laptop to show me that one of his artists, the Swedish electronic dance-music producer Avicii, had 3.7&nbsp;million plays the previous day while U2 receive about 250,000 every day. Traditionally, the average album earned most of its revenue within a couple of months and then dipped as interest waned and retail shelf-space was ceded. On Spotify, theoretically, a song never need stop earning money.The Scandinavian experience suggests that Spotify is good for the industry's overall revenues because it benefits heavyweight stars, back catalogue and viral hits. Stephan Markovits, who works in the Swedish electronic dance-music scene, points out that Million Voices, a 2012 single by local DJ Otto Knows, has been streamed more than 28 million times. "People create playlists, they have house parties, they go to work on the bus, so a song will live for longer rather than going up and down quickly," he says.However, high-profile sceptics such as the musician David Byrne have argued, it will not help every kind of artist. Consider a cult band who don't have hits but currently sell enough CDs to survive. If every single one of their fans switched from ownership to streaming, the band would need at least 200 times as many new listeners to make up for the shortfall. The numbers game doesn't work for them.The sceptics see Spotify as inimical to new and independent musicians. "We don't support Spotify at all," says Lohan Presencer, chief executive of Ministry of Sound, whose roster includes Wretch 32, Example and London Grammar. "From a business perspective it doesn't make sense for us and our artists." He believes that as well as paying poor royalties, Spotify cannibalises sales, offers less promotional benefit than YouTube, and "propagates a myth that music is free". And he is dubious about Spotify's expansion plans because it still makes a net loss: €58.7m in 2012 despite revenues of €434.7m."How sustainable is that business model? Is it going to get 100 million users or is it going to run out of money before that point? Should we, as an industry, be supporting a business that has no real prospect of succeeding? The justification that it is saving the industry from piracy is a bit rich. Their objective is to build a business and then to sell it before they run out of cash."Söderström counters that Spotify "could have been profitable several times" but has chosen to invest everything in new staff (currently more than 1,000 worldwide), products and territories. He also says that Ek, while enormously wealthy on paper, has not cashed in by selling Spotify. "Why hasn't he? Because he actually cares about music. He wants to solve that problem. He would like to see a world where you can listen to music without ripping people off."Forster adds: "No matter how many times I say that Daniel's not interested in the money nobody's ever going to believe me. But frankly that's not what motivates him. He likes to build things. If you think about a product that gives you the potential to touch literally everyone in the world, it's boy's own stuff. There's no issue with Daniel thinking big."Apparently not. Spotify was born out of a single correct assumption about human behaviour, namely that music fans would embrace, and even pay for, a legal service if it was virtually frictionless. Now the company's colossal volume of granular data makes assumptions unnecessary.Before digital music, the industry's understanding of consumer behaviour ended at the point of sale, but Spotify knows who listens to what, and when and where they do so. Artists can tweak their tour schedules based on regional data or choose singles based on which album tracks are most popular. Spotify already changes how music is heard. It may soon change how it is made."I think we're in the middle of a transition but it hasn't moved all the way," says Ek. "Why are we releasing albums the same way as we did 10 years ago? Music is no longer restricted by the format it's on."We make audio records alone when they could be audio-visual-interactive. That's what I find interesting: What's the future of the album? That's something we've only begun to touch."
Buying someone a gadget for Christmas might look harder than ever this year. In years gone by you might have bought the gadget freak in your life a peculiar alarm clock, that neat new voice recorder, or even a gleaming new satnav system. If youreallyloved them, you might buy them a video camera, or a digital camera.Now? All those functions – the £100 functionality of a satnav, the £500 functionality of a video camera – have been rolled into, swallowed by, smartphones. A few years ago Vic Keegan, my predecessor, began trying to count the number of functions that mobile phones (what we'd now call featurephones) had begun taking onboard. There was the alarm clock, timer, world clock, address book, music player; quite soon the camera joined in. Then video came in too – blocky at first, but increasingly good.But the arrival in force of the smartphone has accelerated everything. The smartphones available now are general-purpose computers, at least to the extent that developers can think of what to write for them. Satnav functions? Built in to all the major smartphone platforms now. Camera and video function? That's absolutely assumed, and while many phones can't compete directly with a top-end digital SLR, Nokia has set the benchmark until some time in 2015 with the 41-megapixel camera in its Lumia 1020 . But that's just how it is. Sales of digital cameras, camcorders, and satnavs are heading the same way as those of analogue cameras and film. Ask Kodak how that ended.It's pretty obvious that the smartphone is going to take over any sort of function that can be digitised or computerised. Or, if the task requires a larger canvas – sketching, say, or writing a length, or examining images in detail – that they could be done on a tablet. Or, perhaps, a computer. But those are so cumbersome and hard to carry around.Controlling lights and heating? Easy with a smartphone or tablet, through Bluetooth and other wireless control systems. Reading books? Yes, can do that too. (Amazon's Kindle app is available for smartphones and tablets – you don't necessarily need a Kindle.) And the app stores aren't underserved either when it comes to trivial apps which don't serve any particular function except to kill time, and aren't "useful" in the normal sense of the word.So if you are trying to buy something for the person in your life who loves gadgets, you're going to have to think well outside the smartphone-shaped box. It's just over 10 years – April 2003 – sincethe Innovations Catalogue, that bazaar for the bizarre, was axed. It offered such wonders as revolving wine racks, heated eyelash curlers, and a hammock that didn't need trees. Now those were things and functions that you couldn't absorb into a computer. And no doubt they came from the wellspring of a very human imagination. A revolving wine rack! Ofcourse!Don't worry. A quick search suggests that there's no shortage of sites offering completely useless gadgets at entirely reasonable prices. Right now I'm looking at a Death Star cookie jar (£35), a Tetris light (rearrange the shapes and colours to your taste! £30), zombie head decanter (such a fine holder for that 30-year-old brandy; £20). And oh, so much more which can never be done by a computer. Because, apart from anything, who would want to?
Q Is there one website or many that I can go to clean up my digital profile from public websites?TY, via emailManaging your online footprint can be difficult, with everything we do online being stored across vast numbers of data centres and cached (temporary copies saved to make things faster), or archived by the likes ofhttps://archive.org, and with many services fighting for user numbers, it can be hard, if not impossible, to remove something from the web. Even if you delete something from a service, there is no guarantee it has been deleted from the whole of the internet.That being said, there is a website developed by two students from the University of Portsmouth (among other contributors), which provides instructions and links to delete your online profiles from various services – you can find it atjustdelete.meQ Do Android devices get infected by viruses? My Galaxy Tab 2 has slowed down since I got it. There is a delay in displaying the screen. I've not been able to find advice online on possible causes or fixes. Can you help?Tom, Dublin via emailAlthough Android devices can get viruses, it is not a common occurrence, and most slowdowns are caused by a build-up of unused apps, app cache build-ups and things such as widgets and live wallpapers.The screen delay sounds as if it's probably caused by lots of widgets/live wallpapers (because that's what has to load when you unlock the device), so if you try removing a few widgets, it should result in a much faster unlock time.You can also try uninstalling some apps. You can do this by going to the Apps menu, selecting the app you want to delete and tapping delete. This leaves more space free for the system to use, and should result in generally better performance.To remove app caches, you can download something likeApp Cache Cleanerfrom the Play Store (for free), as this automates the process that would otherwise involve you going through every app on your device.Q I often use my iPhone 4S to track long cycle rides usingStrava. The GPS burns through a lot of power – I switch off Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, but what else can I do to extend the battery life?Ian, via emailBattery life is quite a hard thing to conserve with an app such as Strava, as it requires the power-hungry GPS chip to function.Turning off Wi-Fi and Bluetooth are the two biggest ways of saving energy, but there are some other things that could help save a little bit of extra juice for the last few miles.First, don't use any music/podcasting apps while riding, or if you must, make sure it's stored locally, and not being streamed from the likes of Spotify or Rdio. Second, ensure that the phone is locked with the screen off, as its backlight uses quite a lot of energy. Third, do not use other intensive applications such as Maps for routing. And finally, turn off things like Fetch email, as this will cause the device to connect and download email periodically, and can cause high levels of battery drain.If you still can't squeeze enough battery life out of the device, your only solution may be to purchase an external battery pack or battery case. These are slightly less elegant solutions and can add a little weight to the device but can quadruple your battery life.Q My question is about Windows XP. I know Microsoft support expires in April 2014. In our household we have two computers, one running Windows 8 the other Windows XP. If we only use the XP machine for emails and surfing and use the Windows 8 for internet shopping. What sort of risk will we be running by using Windows XP?John Knight via emailMicrosoft fully dropping support for Windows XP is going to create a fairly large problem for a lot of people, especially those in enterprise environments. Even while being supported by Microsoft there are security holes that go unfixed for months at a time, and with new ones constantly being discovered, your machine is likely to be quite vulnerable to various attacks.Using the machine solely for the web and email won't actually be safe at all because look at what we have linked to our email addresses: banking, PayPal, online shops, social media, and so much more, that if breached, could open us up to a huge amount of fraud and other attacks, with financial and social consequences.This, and the general age of XP, (and the fact that many things will stop supporting it at around the same time), and its inability to run modern software compels me to recommend that you update the machine to 7/8 if it's compatible, or to replace it entirely in the near future. For the gains in performance, reliability, and in overall function, it's well worth the transition.Q What's the best software for organising pictures? Especially in terms of finding files on MacBook (I hate the "events" system on iPhoto)?Sarah via emailPhoto management is a difficult task, especially with the amount of casual photos taken on mobile devices, that may not fit into an album/events-based system; and there are relatively few high-quality tools to do it with. However, I've asked some photographer friends and have found two great pieces of software for the Mac, and an alternative for Windows/Linux users. For the Mac, we haveAperture(Apple's "pro" version of iPhoto), orEmberby RealMac Software, a tool billed as "your digital scrapbook" but which offers useful tagging and grouping features that make it easy to find photos.Aperture is available on the Mac app store for £54.99, and has advanced versions of almost every iPhoto tool. It does, however, use a similar sorting system to iPhoto, so may not be a huge improvement. I include it mainly for its advanced image features, and because it's what a lot of professionals use.Ember is available on the Mac app store for £34.99, and is designed to quickly sort through photos, screenshots, and other forms of image media. It is really fast and offers some nice ways of sorting with tags. It also has sharing features for a variety of services. It's not the best tool for editing images, but does allow you to do simple annotations.For Windows and Linux users, your best option is probablyPicasa,a freebie from Google; it is available for the Mac as well. Its user interface and experience isn't on par with the above but it's a fully featured tool for those who may not want to pay out the £30-£50. It offers some sharing features, based around Google+ (as you would expect), and provides simple ways of backing up to internal and external hard disks.Daniel is a freelance programmer for iOS and the web. He is a student and has been coding since he was eight. He is an ambassador for Young Rewired State and can be found on Twitter @DanToml. If you have a tech problem for Daniel, email tech.questions@observer.co.uk with your full name and the place where you live.
Facebook made a startling admission in its earnings announcement this month: it was seeing a "decrease in daily users, specifically among teens". In other words, teenagers are still on Facebook; they're just not using it as much as they did. It was a landmark statement, since teens are the demographic who often point the rest of us towards the next big thing.Their gradual exodus to messaging apps such asWhatsApp, WeChat and KakaoTalk boils down to Facebook becoming a victim of its own success. The road to gaining nearly 1.2 billion monthly active users has seen the mums, dads, aunts and uncles of the generation who pioneered Facebook join it too, spamming their walls with inspirational quotes and images of cute animals, and (shock, horror) commenting on their kids' photos. No surprise, then, that Facebook is no longer a place for uninhibited status updates about pub antics, but an obligatory communication tool that younger people maintain because everyone else does.All the fun stuff is happening elsewhere. On their mobiles.When mobile messaging apps such as WhatsApp first emerged in 2009, they looked like a threat to mobile carriers. Everyone from Vodafone to Dutch operator KPN was mentioning them in sales calls. Mobile operators are estimated to have lost $23bn in SMS revenue in 2012 due to messaging apps, which host free instant messages through a phone's data connection, which these days is often unlimited. Now these apps are becoming a threat to established social networks too.WhatsApp, the most popular messaging app in the UK and on half the country's iPhones,according to Mobile Marketing Magazine, has more than 350 million monthly active users globally. That makes it the biggest messaging app in the world by users, with even more active users than social media darling Twitter, which counts 218 million. About 90% of the population of Brazil uses messaging apps, three-quarters of Russians, and half of Britons, according to mobile consultancy Tyntec. WhatsApp alone is on more than 95% of all smartphones in Spain. The power users and early adopters of these apps, the ones you're most likely to see tapping their thumbs over a tiny screen, are under 25.Part of the reason is that gradual encroachment of the grey-haired ones on Facebook. Another is what messaging apps have to offer: private chatting with people you are friends with in real life. Instead of passively stalking people you barely know on Facebook, messaging apps promote dynamic real-time chatting with different groups of real-life friends, real life because to connect with them on these apps you will typically already have their mobile number. The trend flies in the face of recurring criticism of young people – that their social lives are largely virtual – when many more are in fact embracing the virtues of privacy and services like WhatsApp, which shun advertising."I only use WhatsApp to communicate and send pics these days," said Natalie West, a twentysomething financial sales associate in London. In the last few years she has used Facebook less and less because she doesn't want "the whole world to know" what she's doing. When people set up events and get-togethers on Facebook, West and her boyfriend tend to reply on WhatsApp instead because&nbsp;"it's more personal". For similar reasons, some 78% of teenagers and young people use mobile messengers to plan a meet-up with friends, according toresearch advisory firm mobileYouth.Another factor is the rise of the selfie, often silly self-portraits taken at arm's length with a mobile. Almost half of the photos on Instagram feeds among people aged 14 to 21 in the UK are selfies, according to mobileYouth. Sending those photos via a mobile messaging service is safer than broadcasting them on Facebook, since they're less likely to be seen by a boss or dozens of Facebook friends you forgot you had. Selfies are even bigger onSnapchat, the evanescent photo sharing app that deletes a photo several seconds after it has been viewed. With about 5 million active monthly users, the service has inevitably become a favoured way for teens to send sexy or even naked photos of themselves, an ill-advised practice known as "sexting". But teens also love Snapchat because it allows them to send inane photos of themselves without fear of leaving a permanent digital footprint.The California-based app is seen as so hot, with so much potential for growth, that it has already been pegged with a $2-$4bn valuation in the Silicon Valley tech community. Estimates are even higher for WhatsApp, which makes money through an annual subscription; some observers suggest it could be worth $5bn or more.The final, big reason why young people are gravitating towards messaging apps is that many of these apps no longer do just messaging. They are social networks. The best examples come out of Asia, with messaging platforms KakaoTalk (South Korea), WeChat (China) and LINE (Japan). All have tens of millions of users, with WeChat boasting more than 200&nbsp;million, and take their services beyond offering straight messaging to games, stickers and music sharing. Before you write off digital stickers as inane, they are a decent moneyspinner for LINE: of the $58m the company made in sales in the first quarter of 2013, half came from selling games and 30%, or roughly $17m, from sales of its 8,000 different stickers. Some are free or, in Spain where LINE has 15 million registered users, cost around €1.99. Often users choose stickers instead of words when they need to express themselves, one LINE executive said; it's known to have helped couples get over fights more easily by offering multiple stickers to say sorry.Gaming is another money-maker. With KakaoTalk, which is thought to be on 90% of all smartphones in South Korea, registered users can choose from more than 100 games they can play with one another, and games alone helped the company generate $311m in sales in the first half of 2013. A couple of non-Asian messaging apps such as Kik (Canada) and Tango (US) are turning themselves into full-fledged platforms too, inviting software engineers to create games that run on their apps. They will typically let developers take home half the revenue while taking a 20% cut. App stores such as Google Play and Apple's App Store take the remaining 30%. Tango took all this a step further this month when it partnered with music-streaming Spotify to allow its 60 million monthly users to share music clips with one another. Two years ago Spotify launched a similar partnership with Facebook. "What we're seeing in the messaging space is an explosion in growth," said Spotify's vice-president of strategic partnerships, Tom Hsieh, who hinted there would be partnerships with other messaging apps in the future too. "I don't think there's been a clear winner [among them] yet."It is worth noting that, with so many of these apps getting into games, stickers and now music sharing, it is becoming harder to define them as messaging services. "I think there is some misunderstanding here in how we categorise these apps," says Pavel Durov, who founded Russia's version of Facebook,VK.com, and recently launched a mobile messaging service called Telegram. "They are social networks. You have a social graph there; a newsfeed; you have profile pages. Many things that are related to social networks by definition." Social chat apps is another way to define them, says Gartner mobile analyst Brian Blau. "People are sometimes using three or four of these apps."Many of the Asian chat apps such as Kakao and LINE are struggling to appeal to US users, though, because of the stylised nature of their interfaces – vivid colors, manga-style characters and lettering. "We're used to being a little more subdued," says Blau, who is based in the US.In the race to become platforms with extra frills, the big exception is WhatsApp. Founder Jan Koum has said publicly that he has no plans for his service to start providing games. Koum and his co-founder Brian Acton, both former Yahoo managers who were one of the first to create a mobile messaging app for smartphones with WhatsApp, see it almost as a pure communication utility that should not be saddled with extra features that might slow things down. "That's what's happened with most social networks on the web now," says Neeraj Arora, business manager for WhatsApp, which is based in Mountain View, California. "It tries to do everything for everyone. Our core is communication."That is a somewhat conservative approach compared to most other messaging platforms, yet WhatsApp is still quietly broadening out. In the same way Facebook first rolled our Facebook Connect in 2008 to allow people to use their profiles to like or comment on other websites, WhatsApp recently unveiled an instruction set known as an API that lets other mobile apps share content through WhatsApp too. The roll-out is still in its infancy, but after one music streaming service in the Middle East added the WhatsApp sharing button, its was surprised to find its users sharing 50% more songs via WhatsApp than Facebook.The future for these messaging apps is still uncertain. Some in the industry expect buyouts from big internet companies like Google, which was rumoured to have flirted with WhatsApp earlier this year. Facebook already has its own popular Messenger service, while Apple has iMessage – both are popular, but lack the gaming ambitions of Asian chat apps. Still, it is hard to imagine these players consolidating to create a global social network as big as Facebook."If you look at the landscape, it's geographic," says Greg Woock, CEO of the US calling and messaging service Pinger. "We dominate the US, WhatsApp dominates Europe, LINE owns Japan." China's WeChat is trying to break out of that mould. Its executives have talked about expanding internationally, and custom building its app to suit local tastes for how it should look. "We have put a lot of thought into how to take it outside of China," Martin Lau, the president of WeChat owner Tencent, said at a recent conference.Who dies, survives or thrives may ultimately depend on how well any of these players can make money. Snapchat, arguably a photo-sharing service more than a messaging app, has yet to explain how it will do so.WhatsApp says it is already profitable thanks to its annual subscription fees; Pinger relies on advertisements; WeChat, LINE, Kakao and Kik sell stickers and games. Some of these services are bound to go out of fashion, and a few business models will fail, and they're still a world away from the $2.1bn in sales that Facebook brought in this last quarter.But there is little doubt that millions of teens will use these apps more and more, and older demographics will eventually join them. There's a good chance that will continue to be at the expense of Facebook.Parmy Olson is a technology writer forForbesmagazine in San Francisco. She is the author ofWe Are Anonymous(Little, Brown, 2012).Top messenger appsWhatsAppStarted in 2009 by two ex-Yahoo staff, this smartphone messaging system handles more than 10 billion messages a day and is reckoned to have more than 250m users worldwide. One of the most popular paid-for apps on any platform, and a threat to telecoms companies which charge for texts.SnapchatAllows users to send "view once'"photos, specifying  how long the photo will remain on the recipient's device. "Snap an ugly selfie or a video, add a caption, and send it to a friend (or maybe a few). They'll receive it, laugh, and then the snap disappears," says Snapchat. The company is valued at $800m and users send 350m messages per day, up from 200m in June.WeChatThe Chinese social media app, which handles voice messages, snapshots and emoticons, has more than 200m subscribers. The vast majority of users are in China, though it also has subscribers in the US and UK. It is being tipped as the first Chinese social media application with the potential to go global.KakaoTalkA Korean messaging app with more than 90m users that generated $42m of revenues in 2012, ending the year with users sending 4.8bn messages a day. The company recently launched KakaoHome in its home country: a similar app that provides "a customised home screen experience on your smartphone" with widgets, notifications and deeper integration of the main messaging service.• This article was amended on 10 November 2013. Snapchat has 5 million active monthly users, not 150 million. This has been corrected.
The tower defence genre is a favourite for mobile platforms, a formula – build heavily armed obstacles to halt a determined offensive force – that the Anomaly series twisted to great success, by putting players in charge of the attackers instead.Anomaly&nbsp;2(Chillingo, iOS, £2.99) furthers the concept, allowing you to guide a force of tanks through a winding road guarded by enemy towers.It looks amazing – in fact the sheer graphical heft makes it a heavy burden for older iPhone models – and the gameplay has been changed, with the ability to transform tanks on the fly and drop power-ups along the course as you plot the best way to stay the course. The multiplayer mode is also a fine addition, one player guiding tanks, the other placing towers – an intelligent add-on to the experience.Anomaly 2is an impressive-looking, surprisingly tactical challenge that cements the series at the pinnacle of the genre.
Very loosely adapting the format of the successfulMario Partyseries but swapping spontaneous reversals of fortune with repetitive, unfulfilling dice rolls,Wii Party Usingularly fails to match its predecessor. Disappointingly, despite the emphasis on use of the console's gamepad, the majority of the games here can be played with pen and paper or are just virtual versions of parlour games.While the gamepad-based mini-games feel rather like pared-down iPad apps and the presentation makes it feel too sterile and safe, the biggest problem is thatWii Party Uhas no core focus or mode to fall back on. Hence play sessions feel equally unfocused, as you scroll through a series of what tend to feel like Wii U tech demos. Even with four players many of the mini-games are too simple or chance-based, with little sense of competition or suspense, while the few clever ideas on offer are subsumed beneath the blandness of the whole.
For a game ostensibly all about tanks and jets and explosions, there's a surprising amount of depth to the actual battles ofBattlefield 4. While there's nothing that revolutionises the franchise – like its predecessors, this is all about large multiplayer conflict on land, sea and in the air – the real pleasure isn't in the raw mechanical parts but in how the action flows effortlessly across the sprawling maps. Combat is never just a case of insanely rushing the enemy, and there's real strategy to player decision-making. The most satisfying moments come from out-thinking the enemy rather than out-shooting them, and there's enough content here to keep you engaged for a very long time.Battlefield 4also has the potential to look stunning, though platforms vary wildly in visual quality. It just looks tired on the old consoles, compared with a new PC or the upcoming next-generation releases, and that really matters in a game all about large-scale spectacle. There are a few irksome bugs which can spoil the experience at the moment, but doubtless they'll be fixed soon enough. At its best,Battlefield&nbsp;4is a clear success – the next word in team warfare.
Reading this on a mobile?Click hereThe good professor, accompanied by assistants Luke and Emmy, returns in anotherabsorbing adventure. Finding a girl from an ancient civilisation trapped alive in ice triggers a global race for the lost power of the mythical Azran culture, while plot threads laid throughout the Layton games are tied together.Progression via the solving of hundreds of brain-teasing puzzles is a refined process by now, but no less captivating for the familiarity. New additions include a host of mini-games – all as challenging as the core experience – and the occasional adrenaline-fuelled action sequence that still demands mental acuity. Some puzzles are too well hidden though, leaving players tapping at their 3DS in frustration.However, the delicatebande dessinée-inspired visuals remain hugely charming, the world and its inhabitants evoking Hergé and HG&nbsp;Wells to great effect. With solid voice acting and beautifully animated cut scenes,Azran Legacyis a fine cap to Layton's exploits.
The mother of an activist with links to the Anonymous hacking group was sentenced to six months' probation on Friday, for helping her son hide laptops from the FBI.Karen Lancaster McCutchin told a federal court in Dallas "my better judgment was clouded by my maternal instinct". The argument appeared to resonate with the judge, Paul Stickney, who said: "I feel for you, as a parent … I know you did the best you could."McCutchin pleaded guilty earlier this year to obstructing the execution of a search warrant, prosecutors alleging that she hid two laptops belonging to her son, Barrett Brown, in a kitchen cabinet. She was also fined $1,000. McCutchin had faced a maximum sentence of 12 months in prison and a $100,000 fine.Brown, 32,is a Dallas-based journalist who has written for publications including the Guardian and Vanity Fair. His work centres on the secretive relationships between government security agencies and private contractors. He is not a hacker but has worked with Anonymous as a de facto spokesman. The loosely-organised international hacking network has mounted a series of cyber attacks in recent years against targets including government departments and corporations.Brown, who has previously battled with heroin addiction, has been in federal custody since September last year. He was arrested after posting tweets and YouTube videos threatening an FBI agent who had been investigating him and whom he accused of harrassing his mother.Federal prosecutors have issued 17 charges against Brown, who has maintained his innocence. They include making threats on the internet, obstruction of justice and posting a link in a chatroom to documents hacked by Anonymous and posted on WikiLeaks containing the credit card numbers of clients of Stratfor, a private intelligence agency. Critics of his arrest have questionedwhether simply sharing a link to stolen information should be considered a crime.The charges against Brown together carry a potential prison sentence of more than 100 years. By contrast, Jeremy Hammond,the hacktivist who released emails from the global intelligence company Stratfor, is facing up to 10 years in prison.
Sometimes the best way to&nbsp;get a handle on a car is to look at it in the context of a journey you make in it. We're going to the countryside in this one, to visit my girlfriend's sister who's recently moved there. I'm not a big fan of the countryside, if I'm honest. I don't trust it, or feel comfortable there, but sometimes it's necessary to go.We're enjoying all the space in the C4 Picasso, and the big boot that easily swallowed our middle-class, going-to-the-countryside clobber, and the dozens of stowage spaces, even under the seats (for spare socks possibly?). And we're enjoying the light, and even more light when we extend the panoramic windscreen. Our child, Isofixed in the centre seat&nbsp;in the back, can enjoy that, too – look up at the planes and the birds&nbsp;and a&nbsp;rainbow. Hell, this is all&nbsp;a&nbsp;bit bloody smug, isn't it, happy&nbsp;families&nbsp;go to the countryside.Yeah, well, it's not really like that, we're only happy because of the car, not deep-down happy, OK? The car's not perfect, either. I'm finding that the steering wheel blocks my sight line to some of the controls, such as the lights. Are they on, or off, who knows? Still, it wouldn't be a Citroën without the odd niggle. And the touchscreen, which is for everything, even heating and cooling, is confusing and causes tension. Luckily there is a DAB radio, so BBC Radio 6 Music can defuse some of that. Oh, and we're loving how far we're going on a gallon of diesel, as well as feeling pretty smug (again) about our emissions.A call comes in: we need to get there by 11.30am latest, because that's when the cutoff is for entering the cake competition at the village apple fayre. What? No one said anything to me about no apple fayre. I'm not ready for that; I want to go to the Battle of the DJs, not the frigging cake-off. Still, it's a competition, we need to be in it to win it (she snuck her cake in the car, probably found a&nbsp;special cake drawer for it), so time to step up the pace.There's a bit of wind noise at speed. Off the motorway, it's obviously no sports car, but nor is it cumbersome for its size. It's both able and amiable, this one, even with&nbsp;the niggles. We pick up the sister and the sister's cake (Picasso swallows them both effortlessly), and we're at the village hall with seconds to spare. And there are only three other entries! Ha, this is looking good.[Later that day.] Oh. No first prize, no runner-up, no highly commended, no nothing. For either of them. A dark gloom descends, lasts the whole weekend, with no rainbows. Nothing smug or jolly about the return journey, either. The&nbsp;long drive of shame home.Citroën C4 Picasso Exclusive e-HDi 115 Airdream 6-speed manualPrice£21,555Top speed117mphAcceleration0-62mph in 11.8 secondsCombined fuel consumption70.6mpgCO2 emissions105g/kmEco rating8/10Cool rating6/10
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewWheeling in villains from the crowd-pleasing Penguin to no-marks like Deathstroke, Arkham Origins wants to supply a backstory for the events of Arkham City. This really just equates to beating up bad people using the weighty punches, kicks and counters that have made the series so successful. Fistfights are broken up by stealthier sections that demand caution and light planning to subdue henchmen. It's a winning formula, but one that had been perfected in the last game and although this game goes out of its way to press all the same buttons, it does so with no finesse or invention. Snowing incessantly, Gotham City is a dreary place populated only by small groups of criminals, while the voice acting and script are functional at best. The result is a game with the disappointing air of a potboiler.
This week's releases includeMario &amp; Sonic At The Sochi 2014 Winter Olympic Games(3DS, Wii U), with all the figure skating and four-man bobsleighing you probably wouldn't think of as either sport or entertainment;Zumba Fitness: World Party(Xbox, Wii, Wii U) lets you dance on your own or competitively in styles ranging from hip-hop to something the press release calls "girly funk"; it's unusual that video games make good spectator sport, but this one manages, andAssassin's Creed IV: The Official Guideprovides a sumptuous guide to the early 18th-century Caribbean. But by far the biggest news this week isCall Of Duty: Ghosts(Xbox, PS3, PC, Wii U), the first-person shooter next to which other franchises pale. It's written by Oscar-winning Stephen Gaghan and promises multiplayer action that's even more pumped-up than last time.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewIt's all change for Professor Layton as he swaps his top hat, thoughtful demeanour and spirit of fair play for a helicopter gunship, mini-guns spitting hot death from above. Just kidding. This closing episode in the much-loved series is absolutely as before; the good professor and his youthful companions wander each location in search of clues and neat, straightforward touchscreen-and-stylus puzzles. There are some novelties among the 165 puzzles, along with numerous hoary old chestnuts as you help Layton and chums unravel the mystery of the Azran, cheerfully bringing together the events of the last two games. It's charming stuff, handled with a gentle sense of humour by Level 5, its always reliable developer. Tying up the story so concisely makes it feel like the last of Professor Layton, but games-industry economics say he'll be back soon enough.
World of Warcraft developer Blizzard has announced a new expansion for its long-running massively multiplayer online fantasy game. Warlords of Draenor – which returns to the beginnings of the WoW mythology – adds a brand new area to the vast map, introduces new enemy types and raises the level cap to 100. Players will also be able to build and upgrade their own garrisons. Fresh zones, dungeons, raids, scenarios and battlegrounds are also promised.The unveiling of the new content took place amid the chaos of the company's annual fan event, Blizzcon. "We thought, what if those dark days could come again, what if those vicious villains could threaten our homes again. The conflict coming will be the Alliance's finest hour," said Chris Metzen, senior VP or story and franchise development.Although plot details were not revealed in depth, the narrative returns players to the world of Draenor, home of the orcs and refuge of the draenei. Fabled antagonists Grommash Hellscream, Blackhand and Ner'zhul will all figure highly. "Warlords of Draenor gives players a chance to take a commanding role in one of the Warcraft series' most crucial conflicts," said Mike Morhaime, CEO and co-founder of Blizzard Entertainment. "This expansion also includes features that make it easy for anyone to jump right into the action, whether they've played WoW at some point in the past or are just setting foot in Azeroth for the first time."To welcome newer players, each participant will be able to boost one character to level 90 from the outset. Ensuring that relative novices are as enthused as veteran players is a key concern for the developer. Recentlyit was revealedthat subscription numbers have fallen by 100,000 in the last three months, to 7.6 million. The game peaked at 12 million subscribers in 2010.In a press release sent out after the event, Blizzard also announced that Warlords of Draenor will introduce revamped player character models and animations, bringing legacy races like orcs and humans up to the graphical fidelity of newer arrivals. Furthermore, questing improvements are being implemented, which are, according to the release, "designed to encourage exploration and add unpredictability to players' ongoing adventures."Away from WoW, Blizzard used the Blizzcon opening event to show more of Heroes of the Storm, a multiplayer arena battle game for PC featuring characters from Starcraft, World of Warcraft and Diablo. Audience members cheered loudly when design director Dustin Browder revealed that popular warriors like Arthas, Kerrigan and Diablo are all playable. There's no release date yet, but the beta test is now live.The developer's CEO Rob Pardo also took to the stage to announce that much-anticipated card trading game, Hearthstone, will be coming to Android and iOS as well as PC and Mac. The title's smartphone versions are in development but no release date was confirmed. Also, the PC/Mac open beta will be beginning in December – "Although knowing Blizzard it will be more like January," Pardo joked. Attendees were also given a limited edition Elite Tauran Chieftan card, named after the Blizzard in-house band, who write and perform WoW-themed songs.More details are expected during the rest of the Blizzon event.
Batman: Arkham Origins proves beyond a shadow of doubt that RockSteady Games is an incredibly tough act to follow. Not to pour pressure onto WB Montreal – Lord knows the studio had enough to deal with when they were assigned the Arkham series – but Arkham Origins fails to meet the sky-high standards established by the British developer that helmed both Batman: Arkham City and Batman: Arkham Asylum. The fact that Arkham Origins has been constructed using a lot of the same assets of its predecessors can't help but throw its shortcomings into sharper relief.Anyone who picked up a copy of either of RockSteady's entries in this series will be in familiar territory here. Like Arkham City, Arkham Origins is set in the open-world map of Gotham City that looks like a metropolis designed by the architects behind Gormenghast. Thanks to the Unreal Engine, Batman and nearly every goon in the city look like they've spent an awful lot of time down the gym.Players navigate the map using Batman's cape to glide between the rooftops and his BatClaw to give him a boost through the air. The one-button-attack combat is still as sublime as ever and players are able to take on multiple attackers by mixing counters with punches and gradually building up a flow. There are predator rooms. There are puzzles to solve. There's Batman's range of wonderful toys and, yes, Batman's Detective Vision is both present and correct.Batman: Arkham Origins: features an expanded Gotham CitySo far, so Arkham City, but WB Montreal brings a couple of new kinks to the mix and, naturally, there's a brand new story. It's Christmas Eve and Batman has spent the past two years beating up criminals and establishing his credentials as a caped vigilante. Both Gotham's underworld and the city's police department – which is as bent as a dog's hind leg – want to see him strung up, but only one criminal seems to have the stones to do something about it. Black Mask has offered up a $50m contract for anyone who brings him Batman's head.This has attracted a group of lethal, costumed bounty hunters and assassins to Gotham in search of the caped crusader. At the same time, every criminal in the city has decided to ignore the citywide curfew in place due to a recent snowstorm and use the fact that Bats is otherwise engaged to launch a bit of a crime spree. Batman has to find Black Mask and get him to cancel the bounty, stay out of the crosshairs of the assassin and put an end to the citywide crime wave. It's all in a night's work, really…Alongside the main story missions, the rooftops of Gotham are filled with collectibles and side-missions. The Riddler's back – except here he's called Enigma – and he's stored data packs around Gotham's map and protected them with an array of puzzles. He's also taken control of several radar towers, which Batman has to enter and hack if he hopes to use the Bat Wing jet to fast-travel through the city.Batman: Arkham Origins: Anarky gets fired upBatman has a couple of new toys as well. The Remote-Claw is a line of cable with two clamps at either end. Fire it between two raised points and it can create an instant tightrope or zipline. Fire it at two objects or enemies and they're pulled into each other. Batman also gets hold of a pair of Electro-Shock Gloves. These power up his fists, enabling him to knock down enemies and build up his flow combos faster.Batman's Detective Vision is also hooked up to the Bat Computer, which allows him to produce 3D reconstructions of crime scenes. It's a neat gimmick initially, watching a crime play out and being able to rewind and fast-forward sections of it, but really, it's a mini-game in which players watch animations and then look for the bits marked in red.There are a couple of new enemies tossed into the mix. The Martial Arts Expert is able to counter Batman's attacks more than once and they can deflect special attacks such as a limb-break. There's also the Enforcer, a hulking brute that can only be attacked once they've been stunned with a couple of cape-flicks. Both severely impact on the player's rhythm in combat and when mixed in with a group of weapon-wielding thugs, they can turn any fight into a gruelling encounter.Batman: Arkham Origins: Batman takes a beating from BaneEvery single thug that Batman subdues, every single collectible he picks up and every single puzzle he solves earns XP. The player can then use these points in a couple of tech-trees to unlock new abilities and features such as better armour, new combat abilities and upgrades for Batman's gadgets.So changes to RockSteady's solid formula for success are slight. WB Montreal has added the odd gadget here or the odd visual gimmick there, but Arkham Origins is still the same experience players will remember from Arkham City and Arkham Asylum. The fact that the Origins is so enjoyable is a testament to how good its two predecessor are. It's also worth noting that unlike its forebears, Origins contains a couple of bugs and glitches. The retail copy I played crashed six times, and there were moments where I was unable to interact with an opponent who I'd beaten into submission and which the game expected me to interrogate. Issues like that aren't deal-breakers, but they're concerning nonetheless.The biggest change to the Arkham template in Origins comes in the form of the multiplayer, which is a largely asynchronous affair. In it, three of Bane's cult and three of the Joker's goons shoot it out with each other while another two players take on the role of Batman and Robin. As gang members, players capture territory and shoot their opponents. As Batman or Robin, their job is to take down the gang members; since they're unarmed, the best way to do this is by leaping from hiding places with quick debilitating attacks. It's a fair attempt at an online mode based on Arkham's gameplay, but it's unlikely to rob shooter heavyweights of any significant numbers. Long-time fans of this series will find it rather perplexing to begin with because it's not like fans were clamouring for a mode like this.So Arkham Origins is good but that's because it's standing on the shoulders of a pair of giants. Fans of this series will get a kick out of it, but if you've never played either Arkham Asylum or Arkham City, I suggest you'd start with one of those.Tested on Xbox 360
Want to feel like one of the 1% – or at least, North Korea&apos;s 1%? Then head over to eBay and bid on one of the home-produced, Android-based tablets preloaded with the complete works of Kim Il Sung and a local version of Angry Birds that is causing a stir among North Korea watchers.The Samjiyon tablet is being increasingly spotted in shops and in use by locals. The established SA 70 version has a 4GB hard drive, 1GB RAM, a 7in screen and a 2-megapixel camera, with a variation including an analogue TV tuner to pick up local TV transmissions.Now a source has popped up on eBay, wherebids currently stand at just over $102.Inside North Korea, the price “has been coming down steadily” since first coming to attention in May to around $150 for both foreigners and locals, said a frequent visitor and North Korea observer. This would appear to be way beyond the means of North Koreans according to official gauges of income, but actual wages are much higher, particularly so in the capital Pyongyang, where mobile phones are also very much part of the norm.There, tablets are becoming more common but are not as ubiquitous as mobiles. The tablet is “not a toy for the elite, but not as common as a pair of shoes,” as one observer put it.The tablet&apos;s name is carefully chosen: Samijyon is thesite of a famous 1939 battlewith the Japanese. (North Korea won.)While the software is of North Korean origin, the news websiteNorth Korea Watch theorisesthat the tablets are assembled by Pyongyang’s Korea Computer Center from parts supplied by Hong Kong–based Shenzhen Yecon.It’s not known if there are plans to export the tablets – though you canbid for one on eBay– but a major advantage of using it in-country is, asnotedby Professor Frank Reudiger on 38 North, another North Korea-watching site, “the user is not harassed by advertisements or in-game shopping.”• This article was amended on 11 November 2013. Samjiyon was misspelled in the headline and picture caption in an earlier version.
After clearing his profile of all but the very first video uploaded to the site, YouTube&apos;s co-founder Jawed Karim added another comment – fuelling the controversy over Google&apos;s changes to its comments system.On April 23rd 2005, Karim uploaded YouTube&apos;s first video,of himself at the zoo. But his profile shows nothing else until the question asked yesterdayon his channel:why the fuck do i need a google+ account to comment on a video?Google&apos;s overhaul of YouTube comments has sparked controversy: theYouTube video announcing the changehas nearly 30,000 comments, many including harsh criticism of the move through the medium of ASCII art.As Karim has noticed, the site now requires a Google+ account to comment. That has clearly angered him. Other commenters have said that they won&apos;t use Google+ to comment on YouTube videos – and so will stop commenting.The company argues that this is necessary to personalise comment sections for each viewer: &quot;You’ll see posts at the top of the list from the video’s creator, popular personalities, engaged discussions about the video, and people in your Google+ Circles,&quot;Google explained in a blogpost.But others suspect that its intention is to artificially boost the apparent number of users of its Google+ social network.Google+ has been the source of dissent for some users as Google first added a G+ account to every Gmail address, whether or not people wanted it, used it to reward peoples&apos; position in searches, and then made it essential for commenting on Google Play reviews.However the company has been reluctant to share details about how many people actively use the network for social purposes, with one reportsuggestingthat there were fewer than 10 million daily users in mid-2012. Google has provided less clear &quot;activity&quot; figures – citing 540 million active users who take &quot;some sort&quot; of social action each month, and 300 million &quot;in stream&quot; monthly users. Adding YouTube comments could increase that enormously – perhaps to as much as Facebook&apos;s 1.2 billion monthly users.Karim was working at PayPal in 2005 when he met Chad Hurley and Steve Chen, the other co-founders of the company. But he took a back seat to the growing venture, instead enrolling in Stanford University as a computer science graduate student while acting as an advisor to the site. When YouTube was acquired by Google in 2007,Karin&apos;s payoff was worth around $65m.•Google+ isn&apos;t a social network; it&apos;s the Matrix• This article was amended on 12 November 2013 because the original said Jawed Karim made his second-ever post on YouTube after an eight-year silence. The picture caption was also amended to correct Karim&apos;s name, from Jared Karin as the original said.
Pets are great company to have, but they need looking after when you are away. That’s what theRaspberry Pi-powered open-source PetBot aims to do, never leaving your precious pooch alone.While at work, on your commute or away for the weekend, the PetBot allows you to interact with your furry friend remotely using a remote controlled webcam, image recognition and treat dispenser.The PetBot stands about the height of about six books, and is looking for $20,000 CAD in funding on Kickstarter, with a $150 CAD (£90) pledge securing a steel PetBot.The PetBot keeps your furry friends company when you're out on the town.Open source and Pi poweredA Raspberry Pi forms the brains inside the box of the PetBot. As the hardware is open source, the manufacturers will make everything you need to build your own PetBot freely available, including the detailed hardware designs, software source code, assembly instructions, and 3D printing schematics.The front-facing webcam uses image recognition to detect when your pet happens to be standing in front of the PetBot and will ping your phone. You can then control the movable camera via a phone app or the PetBot website to bring your animal friend into view.From there you can interact with your pet, tell it to sit, play dead, reassure it that you haven’t left it forever, and then give it a treat to sustain it until your return.It even has two separate treat dispensers within the box, which means two different sizes and types of treats can be fired out in response to your pet’s whining.The PetBot in action.Why it might not workThe PetBot will cost at least $150 CAD, and does little other than strap a webcam to a treat dispenser. There’s also the question of whether people actually want to interact with their pining pet while at work or stuck in traffic, as the Kickstarter video helpfully suggests.Why it might take offPeople love their pets and will do almost anything for them, including spending large sums of money on fancy pet food and trips to the vet, which makes the $150 CAD expense of the PetBot seem a veritable bargain.It also means you should be able to leave your pet alone for longer periods without it starving, and bridges the connection gap between owner and furry friend.Its open source nature is also a large plus point, as those who are likely to buy into this kind of project can then modify it, and add to the design of the PetBot, enhancing it going forward.Talk to your pet from the office using the phone app or website.The PetBot certainly holds a lot of potential, not least because it uses open source hardware, is powered by the Raspberry Pi, and can be 3D printed.For those that are looking for a way to keep in contact with their pets when out and about, the PetBot looks like the ideal hackable gadget.Star rating: 5/5• In November,Dangerous Things introduceda personal, embeddable NFC chip, similar to pet RFID tags that are used for tracking medical history and ownership
More than $1m ofBitcoinswere stolen when payment processorInputs.iowas hacked,according to the site&apos;s owner.&quot;Two hacks totalling about 4100 BTC have left Inputs.io unable to pay all user balances,&quot; the owner wrote in a message headlined &quot;:(&quot;.&quot;The attacker compromised the hosting account through compromising email accounts (some very old and without phone numbers attached, so it was easy to reset). The attacker was able to bypass 2FA due to a flaw on the server host side.&quot;Known as TradeFortress in the bitcoin community, the developer also runsa bitcoin chatroom called CoinChatand a bitcoin bank calledCoinLenders. A small number of bitcoins belonging to the latter were also taken.TradeFortress ends his message with some advice: &quot;Please don&apos;t store Bitcoins on an internet connected device, regardless of [if] it is your own or a service&apos;s.&quot;The attacks came in late October, in two separate bursts on 23 and 26 October, but the company waited until this week to notify customers of the incident.He is attempting to pay back customers who had stored more than 1 BTC (currently worth around $330) from his own personal account, as well as from the coins Inputs.io had in &quot;cold storage&quot; – a wallet not connected to the internet. But that totals slightly more than 1500 BTC, well less than the amount lost.&quot;I know this doesn&apos;t mean much, but I&apos;m sorry, and saying that I&apos;m very sad that this happened is an understatement.&quot;TradeFortress, who is Australian, told the Canberra Times that he won&apos;t be reporting the incident to the police because of the &quot;extremely limited actions&quot; they could take, given the difficulty of tracing the currency. But that decision has sparked doubt amongst the Bitcoin community.&quot;This is a good example of why you shouldn&apos;t trust online wallet services,&quot;said colsatre, a moderator on Reddit&apos;s Bitcoin subforum. &quot;Also, don&apos;t ever use anything that TradeFortress has made ever again. I don&apos;t know why people decided to trust someone who stays completely anonymous to begin with.&quot;&quot;Some people think I have their money,&quot; TradeFortres responded. &quot;I don&apos;t and I&apos;m using my personal coins to compensate users, yet there&apos;s some ugly messages I&apos;m receiving.&quot;Bitcoin users face a trade-off between security and convenience. Storing the coins offline, as TradeFortress now recommends, is technologically more complex – and also makes it harder to spend them in the real world (for example, ifattempting to buy a beer in Hackney&apos;s Pembury Tavern).And doing so still doesn&apos;t guarantee a user won&apos;t lose everything. One of the first major Bitcoin hacks, of 25,000 BTC (at the time worth $500,000, but now worth more than $75m), was taken froma wallet file stored on the hard rive of a windows computerin June 2011.•&quot;We woke up really hungry but couldn&apos;t find anywhere to accept bitcoin. We ended up having to wait until the hotel breakfast the next day.&quot; Can you travel around the world with just Bitcoin?
The world’s first metal 3D printed handgun capable of accurately firing 50 rounds without breaking has been printed in the US.Solid Concepts, based in Austin, Texas, USA, replicated the parts of a classic Browning 1911 pistol - standard issue for the US armed forces until 1985 - using direct metal laser sintering (DMLS), and can now offer 3D printed gun parts to any “qualifying customer” within five days.Previousefforts by Cody Wilsonto manufacture a gun using 3D printers caused concernin 2012andlater in 2013, when plastic pistolscapable of firing a few shotsbefore suffering catastrophic failure were successfully printed. At the time, the US State Departmenttried to block the distribution of the plansfor the 3D printed gun because they could feasibly be downloaded and printed by anyone using low-cost desktop printers.One US senatorsaid in Maythat he would introduce a bill to ban the making of guns using 3D printers, though he does not seem to have taken the measure any further.&quot;We weren&apos;t trying to figure out a cheaper, easier, better way to make a gun. That wasn&apos;t the point at all. What we were trying to do is dispel the commonly held notion that DMLS parts are not strong enough or accurate enough for real-world applications,&quot; said Phillip Conner, DMLS project manager for Solid Concepts.Test firing of the world's first metal 3D printed gun shows it is durable enough to fire 50 rounds with reasonable accuracy from a mounted positionAccurate over 30 yardsSolid Concepts says that the gun comprised of over 30 3D printed components in stainless steel and a nickel-chromium based superalloy is capable of hitting “a few bulleyes at over 30 yards.”However, Solid Concepts stressed that this kind of metal gun cannot be printed using desktop machines – only by using an industrial printer that costs “more than my college tuition”, according toAlyssa Parkinson of Solid Concepts.The DMLS printing process fuses metal powder into a solid part by melting it locally using a powerful focused laser beam, an industrial 3D printing process used to make metal parts for the aerospace industry as well as some bespoke surgical implants.The company doesn&apos;t need a licence to print the gun in some US states, but holds a licence to manufacture and distribute firearms in the US, allowing it to sell custom-made weapons.The world's first metal 3D printed gun is made up of 30+ components. Photograph: Solid Concepts• In October,Police in Manchester seized suspected parts of a 3D printed plastic gun, which turned out instead to be parts of a 3D printer
A fire at the Internet Archive has destroyed $600,000 worth of high-end digitisation equipment, as well as physical materials being scanned by the group.The Archive is now appealing for donations to allow it to rebuild its scanning capabilities, as well as temporary use of any other scanning equipment in the San Fransisco area.“The good news is that no one was hurt and no data was lost,” said Brewster Kahle, the founder of the organisation. “Our main building was not affected except for damage to one electrical run. This power issue caused us to lose power to some servers for a while.“Some physical materials were in the scanning centre because they were being digitised, but most were in a separate locked room or in our physical archive and were not lost. Of those materials we did unfortunately lose, about half had already been digitised. We are working with our library partners now to assess.”Founded in San Francisco in 1996, the Internet Archive is most well-known for operating the Wayback Machine, a site which allows users to view webpages as they were in the past (likethe Guardian on 25 January 1999).But the site also has a number of other projects; it archives texts, audio, moving images and software from collections around the world. It’s a digital library that holdsa 1935 book on house paintsalongsidethe notorious 1982 Atari game of ET: the Extra Terrestrialand an11-minute motion picture about the inter-war American banana industry.Kahle argues that the fire just shows how important digitisation is for archivists everywhere. “This episode has reminded us that digitising and making copies are good strategies for both access and preservation. We have copies of the data in the Internet Archive in multiple locations, so even if our main building had been involved in the fire we still would not have lost the amazing content we have all worked so hard to collect.”“Your donationswill help us rebuild the scanning capabilities in books, microfilm, and movies.”• The Internet Archive: &quot;It&apos;s a Sisyphean task. We know we&apos;ll never get it all. The web by its nature is infinite&quot;
Children&apos;s apps developerToca Bocahas reached a new milestone on Apple&apos;s App Store: 50m downloads of its apps since launching in 2011.The company, a subsidiary of Swedish media group Bonnier, says that the US is its biggest market, accounting for 18.3m of those app downloads, followed by the UK with 3.7m.Toca Boca has not revealed how many of its total have been sales of paid apps, versus downloads of free apps. The company has released 20 apps so far for iPhone and iPad, with a mixture of paid and free titles, and occasional promotions that make paid apps free for a limited period.&quot;50m downloads is testament to the fact that both kids and parents love Toca Boca products,&quot; said chief executive Björn Jeffery. &quot;To have reached this point in two and a half years is an achievement of which we are all incredibly proud, and we are excited about what the future holds.&quot;Toca Boca launched its first apps in March 2011, and reached5m downloads by January 2012,10m by May 2012, and thenhit the 40m mark by June 2013.As the latter milestone was announced, Jeffery told The Guardian that Toca Boca had posted &quot;a healthy profit&quot; in 2012, while warning of the difficulties building a sustainable business in the children&apos;s apps market.&quot;We&apos;ve been profitable for a while, but I think that&apos;s very rare, unfortunately, at least from what I hear from industry colleagues. There is a very small head and a very, very long tail. And the angle at which the head drops to the tail is very steep,&quot; he said.&quot;You&apos;re either doing pretty good, or not doing well at all. There is some great stuff out there, but the problems are more related to discoverability. It doesn&apos;t matter if something&apos;s good if no one ever finds it. The sheer amount of things that come out is overwhelming for developers, but also for parents.&quot;The latest 50m-downloads announcement is specifically for iOS, although Toca Boca has expanded onto Android in 2013 with three paid apps available on the Google Play store.Toca Hair Salon 2 has been installed (i.e. bought) between 50,000 and 100,000 times on Android, Toca Kitchen between 10,000 and 50,000 times, and Toca Builders between 5,000 and 10,000 times according to Google&apos;s stats.That means total sales of between 65,000 and 160,000 on Android&apos;s official app store, although Toca Boca also has five apps available on Amazon&apos;s rival Android app store, with an unknown number of sales there.&quot;We&apos;ve always considered Android, but before we always thought it didn&apos;t have a sufficiently strong paid ecosystem, which after all is our business model. If people wouldn&apos;t buy our app in sufficient quantities, it made no sense to be on there,&quot; Jeffery told The Guardian in June.&quot;To a certain degree, those problems still exist, but it&apos;s grown to a size at which we think one of our apps can make a fifth of the revenues on Android that it does on iOS. If you can do something that will increase your business by 20%, it&apos;s worth considering.&quot;
