I have an admission. A declaration, maybe. I’ve had to step off the world for a few weeks. It’s all spinning too fast, and there’s no place to rest, no island, no solace, nowhere to spare a few hours passed out between a battle to fall asleep and being woken again long before dawn by a tornado child.Anyone who has spent a long time working on a screen and online – and I am long past my Gladwellian 10,000 hours of artisan achievement – will know the feeling. It’s a creeping, anxious restlessness, created by and for the fifth gear, hyper-consumerism of the internet. It’s what the mechanisms of what hundreds of thousands of shares, likes, flicks, clicks, skims, scrolls and swipes do to our minds.It’s a mile wide and an inch deep, asEv Williamspointedly cited recently. Sharing implies we have read and recommend what we’re sharing and on Facebook that’s often not true, especially with journalism. The endless news feed doesn’t want you to read that news story – it wants you to throw yourself into the frantic social currency of scrolling, of liking and of more sharing. It isn’t designed to offer the optimum environment for you to lose yourself in a thorough, well-researched piece about the health industry in the developing world, say, that invites you to comment and question the writers and experts who contributed. If an optimum reading experience were the priority, how different would Facebook feel?Curiously, it would probably feel like a book. An in-depth, single subject resource produced on a technology designed for one thing – to read, and be absorbed in it, its ideas, its characters, its opinions, and in the writer’s imagination. Mark Zuckerberg has discovered “the book” – he finds them “intellectually stimulating” andhas just launched a book club. He will work through 26 titles this year, starting withMoisés Naím’sThe End of Power– now hastily restocked on Amazon after selling out in the first few hours. How many of its 90,000 members will read every book, pore over every thought and observation? And how many will just “share”, as an endorsement of the idea, and then move on? Zuckerberg has asked for the former, yet that’s not what his own site encourages.Zuckerberg’s influence can’t be overestimated; he can recommend one title to the 30 million people who follow him. He can make an author overnight, and with a year of sanitised and corporately curated selections he can set the bellwether for popular thought – yet more homogeneity in a global culture increasingly defined by the internet.For anyone who wants to write a book, however, the internet is probably the greatest enemy to attention and concentrated thought, both for the writer and potential readers. It works in partnership with the mind – trained during years of internet use – not be able to concentrate on any one thing for more than 90 seconds.The cost of this butterfly attention span is creativity. There is no space and time among the constant digestion of competing stories, picture, videos, messages and emails. For every instructional video and the remarkable luxury of real-time global instant messaging, there is, on a bad day, a thousand punchlines, a thousand cannibal comment threads, an endless river of pouting, over made-up selfies all demanding your attention and once they have it, they send it off elsewhere.Drowning out noise will only get better when the software companies realise meaningful engagement requires time and curation and when the software itself can truly tailor content to our needs; current attempts are too crude. We also have to develop a new self-awareness so that we know when we’re being sucked in, when we’re wasting time, when we’re being spun an algorithmic line. What’s lost, the opportunity cost for us personally, is harder to define, but crucial. Some of the better writing on new year resolutions advised what to cut out rather than over ambitious goals to aim for.Because what I feel I lose in all this noise is creativity and original thought – random, unpredictable, exciting bursts of ideas that bubble up when you least expect them. And if we are short of creative ideas, observations and thoughts, then we are failing ourselves, recycling the flotsam and jetsam of the internet when we should be crafting ships of thought and insight that can help us navigate this formidable, overwhelming yet disappointing thing we have created.
Elite is back. The latest instalment in Frontier Development’s space simulation series was launched in December after a hugely successful Kickstarter campaign. And while there have certainly been teething troubles, dedicated space explorers are now happily exploring the game’s accurate reproduction of our Milky Way, fighting, trading, mining and swooping majestically over space stations.But Elite: Dangerous is big. You just won’t believe how vastly, hugely, mindbogglingly big it is. With dozens of upgradeable ships to pilot, a labyrinthine political backdrop to navigate and a persistent online universe filled with not-always-friendly inhabitants, how should a beginner get started?Here are a few quick tips.Getting equippedIn terms of hardware, you’ll need a reasonably modern and capable PC. A Mac version is coming, and console ports are often requested, but for now Elite requires a machine running Windows 7 or 8. There are reports that bootcamped Macs run it quite happily.The PC specification I’ve been using since Premium Beta is as follows:MSI Z871 mini ITX motherboard16 Gb 1600 DDR3 Patriot Viper RAM (2 x 8Gb)Intel Core i7 4770K quad core 3.5Ghz CPUNVidia GTX 770 2Gb OC graphics cardWindows 7You don’t need to duplicate this exact specification as many have been saying they have enjoyed Elite:Dangerous on older, relatively modest PCs. Similarly, if you’re wanting to run a 4K or multi-screen setup, you’ll probably need a high-end graphics card. The minimum specs are given on Frontier’s website, and the forums are also useful sources of information in this area.Gain controlWhile it’s not essential, you might also consider a joystick and throttle setup. I use a Saitek X-52 – it brings the most commonly used controls within easy reach, and I just immediately re-mapped pretty much every joystick control rather than learn how Frontier set theirs up.Some people play with Xbox controllers, and others say they get by with keyboard and mouse. What you choose is down to personal preference, but look around the Internet to get a feel for what works best, and if you can, try to play the game somewhere before committing, especially if your budget won’t stretch to new controllers just yet.Whatever controls you choose, spend time setting up your own control mappings. There are a lot of keys and buttons to familiarise yourself with, several of which are critically important. Be comfortable with where they are and what they do. I’ve seen many a ship accidentally boost straight into the station’s interior walls, and it doesn’t usually end well for them.Choose who you want to beThis is an online multiplayer game, and when you choose to mix it up with other human players, your public profile makes a significant contribution to the way you’ll be treated. So you need to decide what sort of player you’re going to be. Behave yourself, go about your business, and only pirates are likely to give you any trouble. Do bad things, though, and you may earn yourself a wanted status that bounty hunters and local law enforcers will be keen to cash in on, and the only way of doing that is to bring about the demise of you and your ship.Make a planYes this sounds boring, but once you’ve chosen a career path, which you’re free to change as often as you like, it’s better to earn those credits quickly. Going mining? You’ll benefit from a good, multi-bin refinery and a mining laser. Fancy trading? Research what sells where, and where you can buy it from in order to turn a profit. Rare items are very profitable if you can afford them, and take them far enough from source.And make sure you can reach every stop on your route when you’re laden with bulky cargo. Pesky physics. Is exploration your bag? Get a fuel scoop, long-range drive and better scanners. Bounty hunting? You’ll need an offensive load-out. Does piracy float your boat? You’ll benefit from interdictors and possibly hatch disruptors. And guns. Always with the guns.FlyYou have a very large area to explore out there. Four hundred billion stars or thereabouts, many with planets, moons, stations, outposts, uprisings, skirmishes and opportunities. When you start, you’re given a Sidewinder, kitted out with pretty basic armaments and capabilities, and a thousand credits in your galactic bank account. The Sidewinder is not a bad little ship by any means. Certainly enough to get you out and about, and with enough bite to defend yourself while learning the ropes. You may even manage to snag a low-level bounty or two with it. But with just four tonnes of cargo space available, it’s a bit restrictive.As you progress and earn more credits, you can upgrade elements such as cargo capacity, weapons and shields – and what you prioritise should be based on your play style: explorers need to go for fuel and range enhancements, pirates for weaponry andmanoeuvrability.When you have more cash, it’s time to start thinking about a new ship altogether. My favourite so far, apart from the venerable Cobra, is the Python. It’s quite large and configurable but it’s still reasonably responsive, and I really like its design. It can also take some punishment as it has some hefty armour and shields. In addition, the ostentatious Orca appeals if only to have a look around its luxurious insides when that feature becomes available. If and when passenger contracts appear, this should be the ship to haul big-spending space tourists around in.While it may seem obvious that buying a larger vessel makes for more opportunity to earn some serious credits, it isn’t necessarily so clean-cut. Big ships come with big price tags and hefty running costs, and trying to operate one in the same way as you would a smaller ship can be a drain on your finances. You really do have to find out what works for you, and then try to scale that up methodically and carefully.The fact that you can own and store as many ships as you can afford to buy means that you don’t have to make that many tough decisions when it comes to trying out a new ride. That, and the trade-in deals that you can get when upgrading means that a wrong decision isn’t necessarily a bad decision – unless your galactic bank account runs dry before you get a chance to downgrade or move on again (and watch out for depreciation on bigger ships).Understand that the universe is capriciousSometimes you may be caught unawares and end up with fines and even a bounty that you didn’t know you’d acquired. For example, get tangled up during a docking attempt, or forget to ask for permission? Fined. Spot some interesting-looking containers drifting in the void that pique your interest? Scoop them up and check them out, no problem. But carry them to an authority-controlled station or succumb to an authority interdiction, and if you’re unlucky enough to get scanned? Fined. Accidentally shoot at an authority vessel while you’re trying to snag a pirate? Wanted. Ouch.You may be completely innocent and fall into the sights of some despicable pirate who’s after whatever is in your hold. You’ll need to weigh up your fight or flight options in very short order. Sometimes they’ll leave you alone if you’re running empty, or if you eject something from your hold for them. Not always though. Elite: Dangerous is not only mindbogglingly big, it can also be stomach-churningly cruel.Elite: Dangerous review – vast, beautiful and intimidating
Apple is implementing a blanket price-increase on the App Store in the EU and Canada, the company has said in an email to developers.Without specifying what the new tiers would be, the company told developers that “prices on the App Store will increase for all territories in the European Union as well as in Canada and Norway, decrease in Iceland, and change in Russia. These changes are being made to account for adjustments in value-added tax (VAT) rates and foreign exchange rates.”Apple also fails to give a specific time as to when the increases would hit the store, saying only that it would be “within the next 36 hours”, a timeframe that ends at 11am Friday morning.The increase is likely linked to a new pan-EU policy which requires the company to deduct VAT based on its rates at the customer’s location, rather than the company’s. Since Apple’s European headquarters are nominally in the low tax jurisdiction of Luxembourg, that represents an increase in VAT for many users. Until now, that increase had eaten into developers’ margins, rather than be passed on to consumers, but that seems about to change.Developers don’t have the option to pick any price they want for Apps on the store, instead being limited to a series of tiers which are linked across nations. The cheapest apps are currently $0.99, €0.99 and £0.69 (the latter two prices converting to $1.17 and £1.04 respectively), with prices increasing at different rates from there: a doubling in dollars to $1.99 more than doubles the British price, to £1.49 ($2.25), and less than doubles the European price to €1.79 ($2.12).With the cost set to increase, the discrepancy between European and American prices will only grow. Users with a wish-list of apps to download can sneak in ahead of the price rise if they hurry, although how much they save will only become clear after the fact.For Russian app store users, the prices are only going to “change”, rather than “rise”, suggesting Apple will be fiddling with some of the tiers in response to the country’s significant currency devaluation in recent months.Apple did not respond to requests for comment.
Tweeting a video saved to my PC is a pain, especially compared to tweeting a photo. Is there a better option than uploading it to YouTube then tweeting the link?AnonThere are two ways to approach this. The first option is to upload your media files to a particular service, such as Twitter or Facebook. The second option is to use an intermediary service, such as Flickr or YouTube. The first provides ease of use. The second takes longer because it’s a two-stage operation, but provides more flexibility – and you retain control.For example, if you upload a media file – a photo or video – to Twitter, then Twitter chooses how to display it. If it doesn’t like the content, it can delete it. If you upload the same file to an intermediary service, Twitter still controls how it’s displayed, but your followers can view the original at the intermediary service, and Twitter can’t delete it. (And if Twitter runs out of cash and closes down, you’ll still have it.)Further, you can use the file you uploaded to the intermediary service to post the same photo or video on many other social sites such as Facebook, Pinterest or Tumblr. This is less of a pain than uploading the same file several times.Well, this is true when tweeting photos but a hypothetical question when it comes to videos. Twitter has added the option to tweet photos, and to tweet short (6 second) videos using Vine. You still can’t tweet videos directly, but this feature may be on the way.Last year, Twitter launched a “Promoted Video” service and, in November, said it planned to add real-time video capture and editing. This year, Twitter userDaniel Raffeltweeted a link to aFAQabout Twitter videos.The text is clearly aimed at “partners” who use its Video Publisher tool, not at ordinary users. Still, it seems reasonable to suppose that Twitter will eventually support videos directly, because that’s what users want.Tweeting photosIt’s very easy to tweet photos on Twitter’s terms: just click in the text box, choose “Add photo” and select a pic from your PC. The main drawback is that you don’t know how big it is going to appear, though the longest side will not be more than 1024 pixels. Just checking a few images in my timeline, the expanded sizes ranged from 463 x 616 pixels to 910 x 556 pixels. The originals could have been 4000 x 3000 or whatever.Since you don’t know how big an image will appear, you don’t know if it will be legible. A lot of the charts, graphs, maps, infographics and PowerPoint slides posted on Twitter are hard or impossible to read. When the image is hosted on an external service, followers can go to see the original, if they want.Several external services – but not Instagram – exploit Twitter’s API (applications programming interface) to display photos inline in Twitter. In my experience, the most reliable ones are Yahoo’s Flickr, Dropbox and Microsoft’s OneDrive. With Dropbox and OneDrive, you just use the menu to create a link for sharing an image, then paste that into a tweet. Followers who want to see or even download the original image can do so by viewing it on Dropbox or OneDrive.You can complain that this is a two-stage process, but it depends how you use the external service. For example, some people back up all their “keepers” on Flickr, which now offers unlimited storage. I use Dropbox to sync my Android smartphone pictures to my PC, and OneDrive as a staging post for proper camera pics. If you have this sort of system, using Twitter’s direct upload might be a two-stage operation (download from Dropbox, upload to Twitter).The hugely popularImguris also worth a look. Unfortunately, Imgur images don’t always appear inline in tweets, for reasons I don’t understand, but it works really well for albums.What aboutTwitpic? That external service pioneered the idea of posting images inline at Twitter, though latterly it reduced the maximum length or width to only 600 pixels to save bandwidth. Twitpic closed down late last year, unable to compete with Twitter’s direct uploads. Former rival “Yfrog for Twitter” now diverts to Imageshack, while Tweetphoto, Pikchur and Piktor have effectively vanished. That market now looks dead.Tweeting videosIn its heyday, you could also use Twitpic to post videos to Twitter, and there were a number ofcompeting servicessuch as Twitvid, Twiddeo and TwitLens. As far as I can tell, none of these still works. That leaves three main options:YouTube,Vimeo, andDailyMotion. In each case, you can post an inline video to Twitter simply by pasting the page’s address into a tweet.YouTube used for the overwhelming majority of videos posted inline at Twitter. But it does have a few drawbacks. For example, YouTube doesn’t do customer service, and your video can be banned or removed for whatever reason, including copyright background music (don’t video your kids dancing to the radio). Also, if your Twitter followers go to YouTube, they will see your video surrounded by “related” (mostly dire) videos, and some of the lowest quality comments on the interwebs.Vimeo is where people upload their own professional-looking videos rather than bits of TV shows or random smartphone footage. It displays these videos vastly better than YouTube, and in general, its videos get much higher quality comments. You can also charge for videos on Vimeo, but if you’re monetizing ad-clicks, it can’t compete with YouTube for volume.DailyMotion, a French service, doesn’t have the quality or class of Vimeo nor YouTube’s mass audience, so I’m not sure why anyone would use it. However, some do, and it works.In the end, YouTube is probably your best bet for videos, but I reckon Twitter will eventually support direct uploads. Don’t give up hope.Have you got a question? Email it to Ask.Jack@theguardian.com
The FBI has reiterated its belief that North Korea is ultimately behind the hacking of Sony Pictures, in the face of continued criticism from independent security researchers who doubt the organisation’s findings.“There’s not much I have high confidence about,” the FBI director, James Comey, told the press, but “I have very high confidence … on North Korea.” He pre-empted concerns of researchers that the North Korean connection was a smokescreen, saying they “don’t have the facts I have, they don’t see what I see”.The key fact cited by Comey to justify his agency’s continued suspicion was the evidence of the attackers’ IP addresses, the 12-digit string that identifies the location of a remote computer. While the hackers apparently used proxy servers for most of the attack, which mask a user’s true IP address, Comey said they “got sloppy” on several occasions and neglected the precaution, revealing their own IP address which, he said, linked them to North Korea.The director also restated the FBI’s conclusion that patterns in the attack, such as the language encoding and writing style, matched previous attacks which the agency had also attributed to North Korea. But Comey kept some evidence under wraps, saying that he could not share it publicly.Despite the new information from the FBI, independent researchers remain sceptical. IP addresses are easy to spoof, and even if some do point to North Korea, that is far from watertight evidence of the country’s involvement.“If IP addresses are accurate (big if) then FBI have not said what the evidence is for maintaining they are used ‘exclusively’ by North Korea,”the University of Surrey’s Professor Alan Woodward told Forbes. “But the FBI are implying IP address is enough which it isn’t without some supplementary evidence … people are making big decisions based on these attributions.”And other assertions from the FBI have been continuously attracting criticism since the before organisation even made the claims. For instance, even if Korean language is used in some files linked with the attack, that says little about the involvement of North Korea, a country which uses a very different dialect of Korean from the South. And even that ignores the fact that the encoding language of a computer is easy to set manually, to throw investigators off the trail.Security researcher Bruce Schneierwrites that“when it’s possible to identify the origins of cyberattacks­ – like forensic experts were able to do with many of the Chinese attacks against US networks­ – it’s as a result of months of detailed analysis and investigation.“That kind of time frame doesn’t help at the moment of attack, when you have to decide within milliseconds how your network is going to react and within days how your country is going to react. This, in part, explains the relative disarray within the Obama administration over what to do about North Korea. Officials in the US government and international institutions simply don’t have the legal or even the conceptual framework to deal with these types of scenarios.”
Apple paid out $10bn to developers of apps for its iPhone and iPad in 2014, taking its total paid out since its App Store’s launch in 2008 to $25bn.Apple’s 30% revenue share of all apps spending means it earned an additional $4.3bn from sales of iOS apps in 2014, plus sales of its own range of iOS apps.“This year is off to a tremendous start after a record-breaking year for the App Store and our developer community,” said Apple’s senior vice president of software and services Eddy Cue, as the company announced that iOS users spent nearly $500m on apps and in-app purchases in the first week of January alone.Apple said that billings on the App Store rose 50% in 2014, although its corresponding figures for 2013 suggest the growth in spending on iOS apps was smaller than that in 2014.In January 2014, Apple said that iOS users hadspent more than $10bn on apps and in-app purchases in 2013, which indicates a payout to developers of at least $7bn that year. That suggests that payouts rose by around 43% in 2014.Appleended 2012 having paid out $7bn to iOS developers, then $15bn by the end of 2013, and now $25bn by the end of 2014. The company said that New Year’s Day 2015 was its single biggest day of App Store sales since the store launched.Apple added that itsApps for REDcharity drive in November and December helped boost its donations to the Aids charity to $20m in the final quarter of 2014, and $100m since it started working with the organisation.In its announcement of the payout figures for 2014, Apple chose to highlight several independent games developers as success stories from the year, including ustwo’s Monument Valley, Hipster Whale’s Crossy Road and Sirvo’s Threes!2014 had its bumpy moments for Apple’s relationship with iOS developers too, however: the year ended with a lively debate about the company’s App Store approval policies that hascontinued in to 2015.•The best apps of 2014 for Android, iPhone and iPad
The crowd-funding site Kickstarter has releasedits stats for 2014, with games of all kinds attracting more than $89m in funding. Technology ($125m) and design ($96.7) projects earned the most.Of the 22,252 projects successfully funded through the site last year, 1,980 were video, board and card games. There were 3,846 film and video projects, and over 4,000 music projects.The most successful video game project of the year, attracting more than £1m in funding, wasKingdom Come: Deliverance, a single-player role-playing game from Warhorse Studios in Prague. More than 35,000 people backed the game, which follows a lowly blacksmith through war-torn medieval Europe. The title was out-performed only by a project to revive the US educational television series Reading Rainbow, and a drinks cooler.Harmonix, creator of Guitar Hero and Rockband, was also able to kickstart a reboot of its classic rhythm action title Amplitude. The game attracted almost $850,000 and will be released on PlayStation 3 and 4 in the spring.Traditional board and card games also faired well. With more than $2m in funding, the highest-placing project of the year was Caverns, a tile-based fantasy landscape system for tabletop gaming, created by Illinois company,Dwarven Forge. Dungeon Saga: The Dwarf King’s Quest, a dungeon adventure byMantic Gamesin Nottingham, attracted more than $1m.Successful card games for 2014 included Pairs, a fast-paced pub diversion fromCheapass, and Viceroy, a historical resource management game fromMayday Games.The total dollar value of pledges in 2014 was $529m, up from $380m in 2013.
Google was asked to remove 345m links to copyrighted content in 2014, almost double the amount requested in 2013.More than one in six of those requests for removal came from the British Phonographic Industry (BPI), the collective body for the British music business, which submitted more than 60m requests.The figures come fromanalysis by TorrentFreak, which pieced together the weekly takedown reports issued by the search engine into one annual report.“The majority of these requests are honored with the associated links being removed from Google’s search results,” the site reports. “However, Google sometimes takes ‘no action’ if they are seemed not to be infringing or if they have been taken down previously.”According to the TorrentFreak report, most takedown requests were sent for the domains 4shared.com, rapidgator.net and uploaded.net, “with more than 5m targeted URLs each.”Since 2008, when Google first reported takedowns, the site has seen an astonishing 550,000,000% increase in requests: that year, it received just 68.Google declined to comment on the news, but pointed the Guardian toits October reportin which it detailed its attempts to fight piracy in its results.“Online piracy still remains a challenge, and Google takes that challenge seriously,” the report states. “We develop and deploy anti-piracy solutions with the support of hundreds of Google employees. This regular report details those efforts, as well as how Google products and services create opportunity for creators around the world.”The BPI similarly declined to comment on TorrentFreak’s report, and also directed the Guardian to a statement made in October by Geoff Taylor, the firm’s chief executive, after Google’s changes.“When fans search for music or films, they should get legal results – it’s as simple as that,” said Taylor. “If these new steps help guide more consumers to services like Spotify, Deezer and iTunes, which give back to music, instead of to fraudulent torrent or hosting sites, then they would represent a step forward for artists, labels and all those trying to build a thriving music economy online.“The BPI, together with colleagues from the film industry, will continue to meet with the search engines and government to ensure these measures make a real difference and to persuade Bing and Yahoo to take similar action … we are encouraged that Google has recognised the need to take further action and will continue to work with the search engines and government to build a stronger digital music sector.”The Guardian understands that the industry still doesn’t feel Google goes far enough, with the search firm’s continued refusal to automatically delist sites, such as The Pirate Bay, which have been blocked by a UK court order.Google alters algorithm as Hollywood lobbyists win latest copyright battleGoogle says latest search changes will ‘visibly affect’ piracy site rankings
It’s hard to keep up with who is supposed to be behind the Sony Pictures hack. The FBIswears it’s North Korea, but simultaneously alsodoubts it. Otherresearchers say it’s a Sony insider, whilethe hackers themselves demandedThe Interview be pulled from cinemas only after media reports had mooted the North Korean connection. Initially, it seems,the group just wanted money– so did they latch on to North Korea as a smokescreen, or just because they found it funny?If you can’t get your head around it all, don’t worry. No one else can either. So why not choose your own group to blame for the hack?The siteSony.Attributed.To(with its canny use of the island of Tonga’s domain suffix) offers up a new, randomly generated attribution every time the page is loaded.From headlines such as “Sony breach linked to Sony executive” (or “Sony breach linked to American state-affiliated actor”, or “Sony breach linked to cashier in the Sony gift shop”), the site generates a pseudo-random, convincing explanation as to why that’s the correct party to blame. It “quotes” security researchers, cites IP addresses, and even generates “Malware Indicators” – strings of code which look to the untrained eye like evidence of … something.The site’s the work of three data scientists, Kevin Thompson, Bob Rudis and Alex Pinto. And while it’s obviously a quick laugh, it does have a deeper point.“Everybody is talking about the Sony hack of November 2014,” they write. “Who did it? Why did they do it? Each theory more uninformed than the last. You might even find yourself asked to provide an expert opinion on the Sony hack.“Surely you can’t admit in public that you don’t know anything about how the attack was executed or who is behind the whole thing?”
More than one billion people will use a tablet in 2015, with nearly a third of them living in China, according topredictions published by research firm eMarketer.The company claims that nearly 15% of the global population will use a tablet at least once a month this year, but expects growth to slow in the years ahead.In fact, that slowdown is already underway: the number of tablet users grew by 54.1% in 2013 and 29.1% in 2014 according to eMarketer, which predicts that this will slow to 17.1% in 2015.Of the billion-plus tablet users in 2015, the company estimates that 328.3m will be in China, 156m in the US, 40.4m in India and 32.2m in the UK.eMarketer also cites three trends for the slowdown in the growth of these numbers globally, including the fact that tablets are still seen as “luxury items” by many people.“Tablets face increased competition from smartphones and a widening array of connected devices, including phablets, wearables, connected TVs and dedicated gaming devices, particularly in late-adopting countries like Japan and South Korea,” added the company in its analysis.“The use case for tablets is not always clear, particularly in markets where smartphone and phablet usage is robust.”Apple in particular has faced questions from analysts about sales of its iPad tablets, whichdeclined year-on-yearin its last two financial quarters, although its sales figures from the last quarter of 2014 have yet to be published.Research firm IDC has predicteda “massive deceleration” in tablet shipments for 2014, suggesting an additional reason: the fact that many tablet owners seem to be happy to wait three or four years before upgrading their devices.In estimates published in November 2014, IDC said it expected 235.7m tablets to ship in 2014, with 67.7% of them running Google’s Android software, 27.5% running Apple’s iOS, and 4.6% running Windows software.•The best apps of 2014 for Android, iPhone and iPad
Public fears about robots taking our jobs and rising up against humanity are understandable but unfounded, not least because we are already surrounded by them.That’s according to three experts in robotics, drones and autonomous cars speaking at CES in Las Vegas, responding tofears expressed about robotics and artificial intelligence[AI] by Tesla and SpaceX boss Elon Musk, as well as familiar killer-robot tropes from science fiction.The reality is much more mundane. “We’re already surrounded by robots – our dishwashers, washing machines and driers,” said Chris Anderson, chief executive of US drones firm 3D Robotics. “I like to think that robots are only things that don’t work right, because a vacuum is a vacuum not robot.”BMW’s head of driver assistance and perception Dr Werner Huber explained that many of the cars currently on our roads are also robots, of a sort.“We have been using robotic elements for many years to save lives in driving assistance, to intervene in critical situations and avoid accidents,” said Huber. “In fact, 90% of accidents are caused by humans, so you shouldn’t be afraid of the robots, but other drivers.”Paolo Pirjanian, chief technology officer at home-robot maker iRobot, noted that for now robots can only be as lethal as programmed by the humans that made them, or directed by the humans that control them.“Any technology can be abused by humans – so robotics isn’t special in this respect. A knife was designed with a handle so you don’t cut yourself, but someone can take that knife and stab you, robots are no different,” said Pirjanian.“We are far away from robots being able to take over the world. There are decades if not centuries till we get to that stage.”Anderson tackled fears about drones – unmanned aerial vehicles [UAVs] – suggesting that as more uses emerge beyond military purposes, those fears will ebb away.“Many people still think of drones as dealing death from above. People are understandably concerned, but when someone comes with a drone that’s the size of a hand, then the fear is extinguished,” said Anderson. “GPS was once a missile guidance thing, but now it guides our cars.”The most pressing concern about robot is less about losing lives, and more about losing jobs: robots replacing humans as automation becomes more cost-effective for businesses of various kinds.Pirjanian dismissed these fears too, though. “When computers took off there was worry that they were going to take over our jobs, but the opposite happened. Jobs were created by computers. The same thing will happen with robots, they will help us grow our economy,” he said.Finally, the panel discussed the challenges advances in robotics and drones are posiing for governments and regulators, as they try to ensure legislation keeps up.“Drones have gone from military applications to the shelves of Walmart in three years leaving regulation way behind. The irony is that my daughter can fly these things, but a professional cannot,” said Anderson, referring to the US ban on commercial use of drones.“Of course, as robots get easier to use, the savvy of our users decreases and they may not know how to use them safely. There is definitely work to be done in this respect.”•Elon Musk: artificial intelligence is our biggest existential threat•Augmented humans: ‘In five years you’ll see exoskeletons on the building site’
Digital rights group the Electronic Frontier Foundation’s new app will only be available for Android smartphones, in protest at the terms of Apple’s developer agreement for app makers.TheEFF Alerts appwill deliver news on its campaigns, and encourage people to “take action” accordingly, for example by sharing details on social networks or emailing politicians about specific policies.“Sadly, though, we had to leave out Apple devices and the folks who use them. Why? Because we could not agree to the outrageous terms in Apple’s Developer Agreement and Apple’s DRM requirements,”wrote EFF intellectual property director Corynne McSherry.“As we have been saying for years now, the Developer Agreement is bad for developers and users alike,” she continued, in a blog post outlining a few of the terms that the EFF disagrees with.They include Apple’s bar on developers making public statements about the terms; its ban on reverse engineering or helping others reverse engineer iOS or its software development kit; its requirement that apps developed using that SDK be distributed through the App Store only; and clauses stressing that Apple must approve any bug fixes or security releases, and can remotely disable apps at any time.McSherry added that the final straw for the EFF was the requirement to include digital rights management (DRM) in its iPhone app.“Lots of developers hold their nose and sign the agreement despite these onerous conditions, and that’s understandable. The Apple App store is a huge market and hard to ignore if you want your business to succeed.And sometimes, developers have to weigh these onerous restrictions against not just their ability to survive financially, but also their ability to reach and protect users from snooping and censorship.”McSherry is right about the “lots” – Apple had more than 9m registered developers for its Mac and iOS platforms by June 2014, according to figures shared by chief executive Tim Cook during his keynote at the company’s WWDC show.By September, there were 1.3m apps available on iOS’ App Store. Apple has also regularly published details of its payouts to iOS developers:more than $20bn by July 2014, with iOS users spending more than $10bn on apps and in-app purchases in 2013 alone.However, as Apple enters 2015, it is facing more public criticism of its policies, not just from the EFF, but from some iOS developers too.Influential developer Marco Arment made headlines earlier this month witha blog post pointing to “the rapid decline of Apple’s software”, although helater criticised journalistsfor taking his harsher words out of context from the piece.Meanwhile, developersCromulent LabsandPanicboth went public in December over approval issues with features in their iOS apps, sparking wider discussion about how Apple enforces its App Store policies.This debate will continue in 2015, with the EFF keen to widen it to pinpoint the individual clauses that it thinks are infringing developers’ digital rights.•Apple’s ‘unwritten rules’ spark discontent for some app developers
YouTube may be the king of online video with more than one billion monthly viewers, but Facebook is aiming to knock Google’s service off its perch in 2015.The company has started the year bypublishing figureson how popular videos already are on the social network.“In just one year, the number of video posts per person has increased 75% globally and 94% in the US,” explained Facebook in a blog post aimed at the kind of “creators” who’ve been building large followings on YouTube.“With people creating, posting and interacting with more videos on Facebook, the composition of News Feed is changing. Globally, the amount of video from people and brands in News Feed has increased 3.6x year-over-year.Since June 2014, Facebook has averagedmore than 1 billion video views every day. On average, more than 50% of people who come back to Facebook every day in the US watch at least one video daily and 76% of people in the US who use Facebook say they tend to discover the videos they watch on Facebook.”In 2014, Facebook started showing view counts on videos published directly to the social network, and while the fact that videos automatically play when scrolled to in someone’s news feed will be swelling their figures, the numbers for popular clips are nevertheless startlingly high.One case study that’s had brands chattering is Apple’s last TV advertisement, The Song, which was published on YouTube and Facebook in mid-December. It hasbeen watched 3.2m times on YouTube, but that pales next to its20.9m views on Facebook.Be wary of taking individual videos as proof that Facebook is overtaking YouTube overall, though. Taylor Swift’s end-of-2014 video for fans has been watched4.2m times on Facebookbut14.3m times on YouTube, for example.Facebook is keen to help brands and celebrities get more views on its service though, providing some tips in its blog post:“As a creator, you should be conscious that people will discover your video in News Feed next to a photo from a friend or a status update from a relative. Your video needs to fit in, and it needs to be something that your audience will want to watch and share.With the launch of auto-play and the surge in mobile use, it’s also important to focus on posting videos that grab people from the first frame of video. Shorter, timely video content tends to do well in News Feed. Keep in mind that auto-play videos play silently in News Feed until someone taps to hear sound, so videos that catch people’s attention even without sound often find success.”Facebook is also striking deals with media companies to bring more video to its service. Just before Christmas, itpartnered with American football league the NFL, which will be posting highlights, interviews and other footage on Facebook.Meanwhile, in September, the Wall Street Journal claimed that Facebook had been encouraging some of the top stars on YouTube totest uploading their videos directly to the social network, rather than simply posting links to their YouTube clips.•Facebook sets sights on YouTube’s video crown
Sorry for the lack of a Chatterbox yesterday, I had my laptop stolen on Tuesday night so couldn’t get into the system.I’m still not entirely sorted, so having to post this in a different way than usual – with a nice screenshot of Witcher 3!
Look out, Oprah: there’s a new book club on the rise. Mark Zuckerberg declared 2015 the “Year of Books” and invited Facebook users to join him with the aim of getting through a new book every two weeks while discussing it on Facebook.The aim is to focus on books that have “an emphasis on learning about different cultures, beliefs, histories and technologies”, and the first choice isMoisés Naím’s The End of Powerwhich explores the changing nature of power.Naím, who previously served as the Venezuela’s minister of trade and industry and as executive director of the World Bank, had no idea that Zuckerberg’s selection was taking place until it was announced. “It’s gratifying and energizing and a great thing for an author,” Naím told Bloomberg Business earlier this week.According to Zuckerberg’s public Facebook page, he selected The End of Power because it aligns with his vision of empowering individuals. “It’s a book that explores how the world is shifting to give individual people more power that was traditionally only held by large governments, militaries and other organizations,” Zuckerberg wrote.The venture might not be as simple as it seems. According to the2012 survey conducted by the National Endowment for the Arts, only 54.6% of American adults read a book of any type “outside of work or school”. Out of those 128 million Americans, 62% read both fiction and non-fiction with only 21% reading just non-fiction.At the moment comments are limited to a singular thread on the club’s community page, which makes the substantial discussion difficult to navigate. There is also the matter of time;some usersnoted that two weeks is not enough time to complete any book, let alone a 320-page text peppered with economic analysis. While it may be too soon to declare Mark Zuckerberg the new de facto book recommender, the number of likes forA Year of Booksdoesn’t lie: 216,963 and counting.
Remember that woman who tweeted something about Aids before getting on a plane to Africa? Or the guy who was arrested for a joke about blowing up an airport? Or that girl, dear me, whotweeted a smiling selfie outside Auschwitzconcentration camp?Me neither. I stopped thinking about them long ago. I certainly couldn’t tell you any of their names. But of course the facts are easy to check. Because for the rest of Justine Sacco’s, Paul Chambers’s and Breanna Mitchell’s lives, those moments will be the first thing that anybody finds about them on the internet. Probably the first thousand things.Until Monday morning, Rayhan Qadar could have sympathised along with us, from a distance. He didn’t realise that he was going to spend the rest of his life on Google as “the banker who got sacked for tweeting (a joke) that he’d hit a cyclist with his car”. And life is a long sentence when you’re 21.You don’t have to have done anything for the internet to claim your name. At 16,Alex Lee became a global heartthroband, to some, a hate figure, when someone snapped a picture of him simply doing his job: filling bags at Target. Even where some criticism might be fair, the error rarely warrants the punishment. When Sacco tweeted “Going to Africa. Hope I don’t get Aids. Just kidding. I’m white!” she was very obviously joking about racism rather than advocating it, but still, not obviously enough. And you’d expect a “global head of communications” to know better.Mitchell, who was, let’s remember, a schoolgirl, might have considered the sensitivity of a selfie in Auschwitz more carefully, buther picture was nothing like as crass as it seemed. She had talked for years about visiting with her father and, after he died, she had finally managed it. She took her phone out to record the moment and – perhaps out of habit – happened to smile. The picture was online for a month before anyone noticed. “I literally woke up one morning and had literally a thousand things on my phone, notifications,” Mitchell said at the time. “I’ve had death threats. I’ve had people telling me I need to kill myself.” When the race to denounce a bigot begins, people forget about details like whether or not they were guilty.We don’t need to ask where these torrents of scorn come from because we create them ourselves with our clicks and shares. If we had the proper context we might not laugh, so we don’t want context, and don’t get it. Nor is it likely to ever stop.But afterwards? While the rest of us forget, what do the forgotten do? Sacco lost her job, of course, but has since found another and seems to be in good spirits. “I was so naive,”she told Gawker last month. With the help of professional advisers and his family, Alex from Target is still working out what to do with his unexpected and enormous fame. Qadar is probably still in shock. As the stories below show, a life can be rebuilt after it’s been stomped on by the internet. It just won’t be the same life that it was before.Cecilia Giménez‘130,000 people have seen Ecce Homo now’Cecilia Giménez say that more than 130,000 people have now visited her village to see Ecce Homo.Photograph: Philippe de Poulpiquet/PhotoshotCecilia Giménez became one of Spain’s best-known living artists in August 2012.Her attempt to restore Ecce Homo – a fresco of Jesusin her local church – attracted global attention and becamean online meme. More than two years later,tourists continue to trek to the village of Borjato marvel at what has been dubbed the “worst restoration in history”.Now when I look at Ecce Homo, I see something positive. But it took me a long time to get to this point. At the beginning I suffered a lot. I cried every day. There were people waiting for me at my door, chasing me down with cameras and questions. It was too much for me – I’m an 84-year-old widow.I’m not one of the world’s great painters. But I’ve loved painting my whole life and even had a few of my own art shows. For two decades I looked after the painting of Ecce Homo in the Santuario de Misericordia church, fixing it up whenever I thought it needed it. Because of the salt and humidity in our air here, the paint was always peeling. I’m sure that if I hadn’t taken an interest in saving the painting, it wouldn’t even exist today.The original of Ecce Homo and Gimenez’s restoration.Photograph: APThat day I noticed how badly the paint was peeling. So I wet the painting, making broad strokes. Then I left it to dry and went on holiday for two weeks, thinking I would finish the restoration when I returned.When I came back, everybody in the world had heard about Ecce Homo. The way people reacted still hurts me, because I wasn’t finished with the restoration. I still think about how if I hadn’t gone on holiday, none of this would have ever happened.Reporters told the world the story of the old woman who couldn’t paint and had ruined a painting. That’s not true. It is true that I haven’t done many portraits. But if it hadn’t been for me, the painting would have probably disappeared long ago.A week after the scandal, I received flowers and a card with a message of support. It was little gestures like that kept me going during the first month. It was so hard. I lost six kilos. I had to take medication for anxiety.More than two years later, everyone here sees what I did in a different light. The restoration has put Borja on the world map, meaning I’ve done something for my village that nobody else was able to do. So many people have come here – and to our beautiful church – to see the painting … they tell me more than 130,000 people.When you work in art, your name is everything. And now the name Cecilia Giménez is known. I held an art show last year and I’ve got another planned for the next few months with 20 or so of my paintings. Before all this, my paintings used to sell for low prices, say €500 or €1,000 apiece. Now I’ve been able to sell a few of my pieces for more. I won’t tell you how much – but let’s just say that it was a good price for me.Interview by Ashifa KassamBeejoli Shah‘I’m still secretly proud of that toe-sucking email’Beejoli Shah and Quentin Tarantino on a date night.Photograph: Beejoli Shah/TwitterBeejoli Shah became infamous in Hollywood and online when an explicit email she sent to her friends, about a one-night stand with Quentin Tarantino was forwarded on andwent viral. She was fired from her job and struggled to find another one. She now works as a writer for gossip sitethe Frisky.Three years ago, while working as an assistant at a fancy entertainment management company in Los Angeles, I went to a party in Hollywood with a few friends – my first Hollywood party – and met Quentin Tarantino.We hit it off, one thing led to another, and I found myself back at his home, which was when things started to go off the rails. He was nothing but kind and lovely, but when he made a certain request that was outside my sexual comfort zone (oh, let’s call a spade a spade: instead of asking to have sex, he asked if he could suck on my toes while pleasuring himself), I did what any millennial would do: I told all my friends.In an email that I’m secretly still proud of, but truly never intended for wider consumption, I recounted the facts of the evening, exactly as they happened, to a small army of close friends. I didn’t expect that it would quickly end up being forwarded so many times that friends I hadn’t heard from in years would write me to say: “So, an email you wrote just got sent around my entire trading-room floor.” Given that I worked in entertainment, I lost my job almost instantly, which brought on a feeling of failure that only grew with the rapid internet backlash the email received.I was called a gold digger, a star fucker, an ugly bitch – you name it. Tarantino fans were relentless. Worst of all, the story spread so far that it even reached Indian newspapers, and suddenly it wasn’t something that just young friends I’d lost touch with heard of – my family, and parents especially, were all put in a position of having to defend me.Before I found my new job, I went on dozens of interviews with tiny entertainment companies as my once-promising career stalled. It was the first and last thing every employer brought up – HR rules be damned – each interview ending with a resigned: “Your resume and references are impeccable, but I just can’t hire you ... what if I do business with Quentin one day?”I can see how this is a great story to tell now, three years later, over beers to friends of friends who haven’t heard it before – but the part I often leave out? Just how mortified I was, and honestly, still am. At the time, I went as underground as one can in the digital age. I deleted all traces of social media, ignored every email that poured in from nosy old acquaintances, all inquiring if I’d seen my name splashed across blogs. To this day, it’s never a story I’ll bring up on my own, especially with strangers.Annmarie Chiarini‘I changed the laws on revenge porn’Annmarie Chiarini became a campaigner against online harassment.Photograph: Patrick Semansky/APAnnmarie Chiarini’s ex-boyfriend posted pictures of her on a pornographic website. After being told that law enforcement in her state was unable to do anything about her revenge porn ordeal, she attempted suicide in October 2011. She then became a cyber civil rights advocate, campaigning to change laws relating to nonconsensual pornography in her state.The first time my ex-boyfriend tried to ruin my life, in February of 2010, he attempted to sell a CD containing 88 nude images of me on eBay. He published links on his Facebook page and all the Facebook pages of the college where I teach. He sent links to the auction to family, friends and the chairperson of my department.The second posting, in October 2011, was worse. He included my full name, the town where I live, the college where I teach and a solicitation for sex: “Hot for teacher? Well come get it!” I was driven to suicidal despair and took medical leave from work.The laws in Maryland, where I live, were too weak to make a conviction possible, so I gave up on filing criminal charges and decided to change the laws. Although I still felt humiliated and angry, I told my story to senators and delegates, and in September 2013 a Maryland delegate asked me to work with him to support a bill making nonconsensual pornography a felony.Within a month, I was participating in my first press conference, giving both a voice and a face to an issue that had been invisible. Although the reporters were sympathetic, interviews filled me with self-doubt. I dreaded them because I didn’t trust myself to say the right words, remember the facts and present myself as a composed spokeswoman. For months, I refused to watch an interview. When I finally saw one, I grinned like an idiot as the woman on the screen spoke well, maintained her composure, and smiled back at me.Arriving at this point was messy and chaotic. I stumbled through weeks of sadness, unable to lift my head. I leaned on my friends, then withdrew from them, then wished they would call me. Even though I made it through, I’m still waiting for the scars it left to fade.The bill I campaigned for was signed into law in April 2014.
Name:Facebook status.Age:About 10 years old.Appearance:Constantly updating.My Facebook status is: “I am not in the Facebook.” So what are you talking about?I am talking about people’s increasing unwillingness to put their relationship status up on Facebook.Were they doing that? It sounds awful.Yes, until recently, it wastherite of passage for millennials. Having “the discussion” no longer meant the one about having sex, but whether to change your online category from “single” to “in a relationship”.Oh, nightmare digital world with your ceaseless promulgation of life as a series of binary choices!Umm … yeah.Where is the nuance, the subtlety, the opportunity to reflect the infinite gradations of love, of human feeling? How may we still trace the ever-shifting sands of sentiment?You can LIKE and DISLIKE stuff.To put it in terms you may understand, that makes me :(But there’s no need. People are going off it. A recent and openly unscientific poll by Buzzfeed –??It’s a US internet news media company. Don’t worry about it.:)Anyway, this poll has found that more and more people are deeming that publicly proclaiming yourself single or otherwise is somewhere between cheesy and plain weird.:) :) :) LIKE!I thought you would.Are there any facts, figures or statistics on which to hang my hat of happiness?Ah, you’re back. Well, yes – about 40% of twentysomethings now prefer not to post details of their amorous affiliations (you’re infecting me with polysyllabitis) online.May we hope that this betokens a loosening of the vice-like grip of the Zuckerbergian claw round the hearts and minds of his generation?By the success or otherwise of his recently announced, and potentially 30-million strong book club, we shall know more.Or maybe he will tempt people with more options for classification. A new “Satisfying mere genital curiosity together” button at one end, perhaps, and a Heathcliffian “I cannot live without my life, I cannot die without my soul!” option at the other.Liminal times, my friend, liminal times.Do say:“Love is in the air, every time I look around.”Don’t say:“Desultorily porking each other while we wait for new Sherlock.”
Smartphone messaging app WhatsApp has reached a new milestone: 700 million monthly active users, who are sending 30 billion messages every day.Chief executive Jan Koumpublished the figures as a status updateon Facebook, the company that bought his startup for $22bn for his startup in October 2014.“Today, we’re thrilled to share that WhatsApp has more than 700 million monthly active users. Additionally, every day our users now send over 30 billion messages,” wrote Koum.“As humbled and excited as we are by these numbers and our continued growth, we’re even more excited to keep building a great product in 2015.”WhatsApp’s rapid growth has thus continued since its acquisition by Facebook, whichannounced the then-$19bn deal in February 2014, before completing it at the higher price in October due to the inclusion of Facebook shares that had risen in value in the intervening months.WhatsApp’s last public milestone was 600 million active users in August 2014, so it has added new users at a rate of around 25 million a month since then. Previously, the app grew from 200 million active users in April 2013 to 400 million by December that year.The app’s main new feature in 2014 wasthe addition of end-to-end encryptionto its Android app, making it harder for the authorities to spy on WhatsApp users’ communications.Its next big step in 2015 is expected to be the addition of voice call features, making it a rival to established Voice-over-IP services like Skype. The feature had been tipped to launch last year, butKoum said in October that it would be delayed until the first quarter of 2015due to technical issues.WhatsApp’s co-founder has been steadfast in his promises to users that being owned by Facebook would not change its principles on advertising – it doesn’t carry them – and privacy.“Respect for your privacy is coded into our DNA, and we built WhatsApp around the goal of knowing as little about you as possible,”wrote Koum in March 2014, in response to media speculation about how the acquisition might change WhatsApp.“If partnering with Facebook meant that we had to change our values, we wouldn’t have done it. Instead, we are forming a partnership that would allow us to continue operating independently and autonomously.”WhatsApp’s main rivals include Facebook’s own Messenger app, whichreached 500 million active usersin November 2014, as well as Chinese messaging app WeChat, whichreached 438 million active usersin August that year.•Next for messaging apps: encryption, payments, media and ads
Intel has announced a pledge of $300m (£198m) to encourage greater diversity in the technology sector.The the computer chip multinational corporation hopes to attract more women and black and ethnic minority (BAM) individuals within a five-year timeframe to result in a more representative workforce.If successful,Intelsaid this would mean an increase of at least 14% in the diversity of its employee makeup. Technology is a sector heavily populated by white and Asian men.A 2013diversity reportput Intel’s workforce makeup as just 24% women and 14% non-Asian minorities; including 4% black and African American, and 8% Hispanic and Latino.Speaking about the plan at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, Intel CEO Brian Krzanich said:“This isn’t just good business. It’s the right thing to do. When we all come together and commit, we can make the impossible possible.”Detail from Intel’s last diversity report, conducted in 2013.Photograph: IntelKrzanich impressed that it was not enough to merely talk about diversity without actively creating change.The $300m will be used to fund engineering scholarships and to support majority black colleges and higher education institutions, he said.In addition, the tech sector had to move to make the working environment attractive to women, to prevent women entering the industry and then leaving due to an overly masculine culture.To this end, Krzanich said Intel would also be aiming to introduce more women to the games industry, after the so-calledGamergatefurore, which saw harassment campaigns levelled against female games developers, gamers, and commentators.Intel became wrapped up in Gamergate when the company, lobbied by male internet users, withdrew advertising from the Gamasutra website which had published an essay about the movement by a feminist critic.As well as his comments on improving diversity, Krzanich also previewed new upcoming products at the trade show, most relating to the “Internet of Things”: the term used to describe smart technology which permeated everyday life, including new sensor technology,RealSense.Intel also debuted a robot with the face of a human and cognisant drones that could navigate obstacle courses without intervention.AGuardian surveyon women working in the tech sector, published in November, reported that 73% of both men and women thought it was sexist, and 52% were aware of a woman being paid less than a man for the same job.•Women ‘belittled, under-appreciated and underpaid’ in the tech industry
Visions of humans running around in exoskeletons able to move faster, jump higher and hit harder from films such as Tom Cruise’sEdge of Tomorroware no longer science fiction but a hidden reality right now.What started out as a military application helping soldiers carry large loads has spawned into applications in medicine, rehabilitation, construction and in the near future, possibly even sports.“We see the world of robotics as having a giant wave of human augmentation coming right at it,” said Nate Harding chief executive and co-founder of Ekso Bionics at CES in Las Vegas. “People will be running faster, jumping further and grannies will be showing off their new hip exoskeleton.”‘It’s about wrapping a robot around a person’Harding was speaking at a conference session discussing the future of robotics and brought with him a working exoskeleton that allowed a paraplegic man confined to a wheelchair, 22-year-old Shane Mosko from Connecticut, to simply stand up and walk stunning a hushed audience.“It’s about wrapping a robot around a person,” explained Harding. “In the case of Shane, he’s able to get up and walk without assistance. We know it will have a very positive affect the long term health of people who are stuck in wheel chairs.”The exoskeleton ran down Mosko’s legs to feet plates, powered by a small backpack and controlled partially through two walking sticks that were used to aid balance.“I’ve been using this device for about two years, and it didn’t take long to get to where I can walk,” explained Mosko while walking backwards and forwards across the stage. “I’m paralysed and I’m not supposed to be up and walking, but being at eye level with you all. With this device it’s a possibility.”“With this device I can really work on building strength where I have it. I can basically walk as long as the batteries will allow, which is not possible with some of the other fixed knee solutions. This is only the beginning and there’s so much further we can go. It can only get better.”‘In five years you’ll see exoskeletons on the building site’The exoskeleton has been designed to help paraplegics gain mobility but also to help stroke victims learn how to walk again. It is controlled by buttons on a set of walking sticks, but also with the weight of the wearer.Leaning forward in a natural walking stances while rocking side to side triggers the steps in a very human-like non-robotic way. The exoskeleton detects how much power a person is putting in and fills the shortfall to maintain stability, but also to help people build their strength where they have it.“Our technology started in the military, carrying heavy loads and with our partners Lockheed Martin we’re still doing that. But we melded technologies from people for athletics and people with paralysis to aid people with stroke to walk again,” said Harding.“Now we’re looking at industrial applications – for construction crews holding heavy tools or working on overhead surfaces. That’s our next stage to attack. In five years you’ll see exoskeletons on the building site and on the medical side, someone with paralysis will be using one to get around a party.”•‘Father of Android’ leaves Google for new technology hardware startup•Amazon banks on rise of the robots to speed online orders to customers
There’s a long history of technology appearing in films: from outlandish futuristic advances in science-fiction movies, to social networking and the digital-age presented on screen.From “robot lovers” to “the dangers of selfies”, most themes have been covered. Some films nail their depictions of technology, but a lot of others get it embarrassingly wrong, or at least don’t get it 100% right.Then there’s the fact some consist of around 90% product placement (*cough*Taken 2*cough*). We take a look at films dealing with tech, and whether they’re good, bad or downright ugly.The goodHackers (1995)The film that broughtJonny Lee MillerandAngelina Jolietogether in the pre-Brad Pittera, Hackers has become a cult classic. Made in the mid-90s before the days of infamous hacking collectives such asAnonymousandLulzSec– the plot concerns a group of computer-savvy high school students.The source material for the film was theHacker Manifesto(aka The Conscience of a Hacker), an influential essay written in 1986 by a prominent hacker. As such, Hackers is a mostly accurate depiction.Miller’s character, supreme hacker Dade, who hacked 1,507 computers as an a11-year-old, is very similar to real life computer savants such as the teenageRaphael GrayandJake Davis.Her (2013)Spike Jonze’swidely acclaimedoperating system rom com (never a sentence I thought I’d ever write), was a great reflection on how humans now interact with technology, and the impact it has on our psychology and social conditioning.Joaquin Phoenix’s Theodore begins a relationship withScarlett Johansson’s Samantha (the operating system in question). Eventually, the operating systems in Her evolve beyond their human counterparts, so perhapsStephen Hawking’sassertionthat robots will take over is not that far-fetched.And if you think the premise of forming a relationship with an operation system or a virtual assistant is outrageous, read thislovely articleabout a boy with autism befriendingApple’s Siri.Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind (2004)Who among us hasn’t wanted to rid our brain of memories of an ex? Nobody. Nobody, is the answer.This is the premise ofMichel GondryandCharlie Kaufman’s 2004 sci-fi narrative, in whichJim CarreyandKate Winslet’s former lovers erase each other from their minds, thanks to a futuristic high-tech lab.In real life there are also examples ofbiohacking: including “electronic skin”, introducing computing into the body, andmagnetic finger implants.WALL-E (2008)WALL-E was the darling of 2008 animated film, and was yet another much loved Pixar hit. Critically acclaimed, it holds a96%“fresh rating” on Rotten Tomatoes.The picture envisions a time when robots and artificial intelligence are cognisant and have their own emotions and morality.It could also be seen as an example of how programmed and automated technology has replaced the need for manual labour, given that WALL-E is a programmed waste disposal unit, charged with cleaning up an abandoned, waste covered planet Earth.Is it, therefore, a two-and-a-half hour comment on the decline of industry and the inexorable rise of Silicon Valley? Who knows, but it sure looks pretty.The Social Network (2010)Aaron Sorkin, currently putting the world to rights with his press ethics heavy HBO seriesThe Newsroom, wrote this 2010 narrative of howFacebookcame to be.David FincherofSevenfame directed.The film of the social network’s rise to ubiquity, fromMark Zuckerberg’s initial idea as a Harvard undergraduate student, through his legal battles with theWinklevoss twins, and the teaming up with Napster’s Sean Parker (played by an ableJustin Timberlake).The Social Networkwas critically acclaimed, has a96% fresh ratingon Rotten Tomatoes, and won a slew of awards, includingBest Motion Pictureat the Golden Globes. It also probably had the most redundant wardrobe department ever, given Zuckerberg’snormcorelook.Although Zuckerbergsaidthe film was “hurtful”, for a step-by-step guide to setting up a megalomaniac social media company and earning tons of money, you could do worse. Great trailer too (below).You’ve Got Mail (1998)It’s testament to how perennially loved and resonantYou’ve Got Mailis that itsoriginal websiteis still up and running, a lovingly preserved – like the mosquitoes encased in amber in Jurassic Park – late-90s effort, written in verdana font and featuring a pop-up gallery and not much else.TheNora Ephron-penned film sees veteran rom-com leads Meg Ryan andTom Hanksfall in love via an over-30s chat room, under typically banal usernames (in this case Shopgirl and NY152), and then byAOLinbox. Which I guess in this scenario counts as second base.If You’ve Got Mail was made today, in the age of the naked selfie, it could have turned out a completely different prospect altogether. Lucky escape there.ThebadAI Artificial Intelligence (2001)Any film which involvesJude Lawmuttering seductively: “Once you have a robot lover, you’ll never want a real man again”, is obviously awinner.Steven Spielberg’s 2001 sci fi epic, based on aBrian Aldissshort story, took a haul at the box office, but I remember being so bored by it that I gave up halfway through.If living with AI is gonna be this dull, then pray the robot revolution never comes. If shagging technology is your thing though, there’s plenty of fun to be had IRL. How about aFleshlight? Or theAutoblow 2?AntiTrust (2001)When I was younger, I thought I would marryRyan Phillippe. Part of me still thinks I will, because I’m not the type of person who lets reality stand in the way of ambition.Phillippe moved away from his pretty boy and/or jock roles withAntiTrust, in which he played a nerdy hacker with prescription glasses fighting against an Evil Tech Corporation.AntiTrust was widely panned, because of its ostensibly ludicrous plot (and, to be fair, bad acting). But in a post-Snowdenworld, the idea of a tech behemoth in bed with the Justice Department and surveilling everything and everyone around it, and stealing secrets and information, no longer seems ridiculous. In fact, it seems prescient.The name of the fictional tech company is bang-on in its ambition and cringe-worthiness - Never Underestimate Radical Vision, or NURV - and believe me, programmers really do get as excited about code as they do in this movie. Andapparently, there are lots of inside coding jokes andeaster eggsscattered throughout the film for those in the know.The uglyJobs (2013)The first biopic of the late iconicAppleco-founder and CEOSteve Jobscame out in 2013.Ashton Kutchertakes the role of Jobs, and the film charts the beginnings of Apple in the 1970s, to Jobs’ leaving and returning to the company, and then the massive successes of the i-prefixed product ranges.The film was, obviously, pretty much full of product placement for Apple – as if they didn’t have enough advertising.It was critically a dud, though, with one reviewcalling it“the equivalent of a feature-length slow hand clap”.However, fans of Jobs need not despair – anew biopic, written by The Social Network’s Aaron Sorkin, is due for release this coming year with Christian Bale in the lead role (afterLeonardo DiCaprio dropped out).That version will be based on moments from Walter Isaacson’s bestsellingbiographyof Jobs, including real-time depictions of Apple product launches.Men, Women and Children (2014)The most recent film we’re looking at,Men, Women and Children, addresses the very pertinent issue of internet privacy and the dangers of sharing risque photographs on the internet or across networks.On the back of the hacking scandal which saw stars such asJennifer LawrenceandRihanna’s phones scraped for pictures, it’s an issue which has inspired hundreds of think pieces and become uppermost in the public’s consciousness. Just a shame this flick is so awful.The Fifth Estate(2013)Oh, where to start with this one?Despite being based around a real-life story perfect for the blockbuster treatment: subterfuge, war crimes, government fury and cross-continent chases,The Fifth Estatefloppedmajorly.And it wasn’t justBenedict Cumberbatch’s awful hair do that did it – in fact Cumberbatch was the only good thing about the picture.The hacking scenes could have been an advert for a Fisher Price “My First Hacking” set, so amateurish did they seem, and the strange language the tech whizzes spoke, an attempt at jargon, came off sounding both laboured and ridiculous.This lax approach to accuracy even extended to a awkward replica of theGuardian offices, which is, quite frankly, unforgivable. The Fifth Estate definitely belongs to the category of film in which the trailer is superior to the full feature.Skyfall (2013)Last but not least,Daniel Craig’s portrayal ofJames BondandBen Whishaw’s Q might have attracted critical praise, but there is one particular scene in the third Bond installment of Craig’s tenure which is ridiculously cringeworthy.It’s a hacking scene that includes the usual cliched tropes of a man typing incredibly quickly, muttering about “polymorphic changes”, and scrolling numbers and 3D shapes flashing across a screen.OK, so maybe it’s not that far fetched that somebody could hack into the MI6’s computer network, and by managing to do that, crash a tube in London’s underground, right?Adeleshould totally have sung about that instead.Finally, while not a scene from a feature film, it would be remiss not to mention this beautiful moment in the video for Nelly and Kelly Rowland’s inescapable early 2000s hit, “Dilemma”. Nicely played, Nelly, nicely playedThanks Facebook, now I&#39;m aware that Kelly Rowland tried to text Nelly in the Dilemma video using Microsoft Excelpic.twitter.com/w5Cyysiztm&mdash; Jon D. Barker (@JonDBarker)November 26, 2013What are other examples of tech in films? Please leave your comments below•Crowdfunding: what new film would you want to raise money for?
Video games may be the first use for the Oculus Rift headset, but they are not its end game, according to the now Facebook-owned company’s founder Palmer Luckey.“Gaming is just about the only industry that has the set of tools and skills needed for VR. At it’s core, VR is an extension of gaming,” said Luckey in an appearance at the CES show in Las Vegas.“But it’s the idea of digital parallel worlds, allowing people to communicate and do things in a virtual world. Most don’t spend the majority of their time playing games now, and I can’t see that changing with VR – gaming is not the end game.”The Oculus Rift headset has re-ignited interest in VR, so much so that Luckey’s company was bought by Facebook for $2bn in 2014. Thus far, its primary focus has been gaming, with 360-degree videos emerging as a second area of interest for some developers.Facebook’spurchase of the company, which has talent on its books such as Doom creator John Carmack, raised questions about how precisely a VR headset could be of any use to a social network.Would people be sharing status updates in a 3D VR world, or was it just Mark Zuckerberg’s pet project? “We’re trying to predict where it’s going with the hardware as it is now and it’s very hard,” said Luckey at CES.“Looking at a larger than life News Feed or someone’s photos in VR isn’t interesting. It needs to be new experience. I don’t think it’s going to be Facebook the social network in VR, but people are narcissists and they want people to see what they think are their amazing lives.”VR headsets seal the person wearing them off from the outside world, which some critics see as a major downside: while friends and family members in the same room can watch what the VR user is seeing on a TV screen, it’s not a hugely social experience.Luckey acknowledged the challenge. “I think it’s solvable, but I also think social acceptance changes with society. It’s easy to hate things until you actually need to use them,” he said.“It’s like trying to predict our telephones. Go back to the 1800s and tell people you will be able to call anyone anywhere and they’d picture a room full of phones and expect everyone to have to stay in that room with 20 telephones lining the wall. But that’s not how it worked out with everyone now carrying their own personal phone.”Virtual reality has been closely linked with augmented reality (AR), which overlays digital information on the real world. Luckey said that integrating AR into VR isn’t high on Oculus’ priorities for now.“Once you can simulate a virtual world, there’s nothing to stop you from piping the real world in for AR,” he said. “I’m up for getting VR right first, but at the end of the day they’re going to be the same thing – the same hardware, the same software.”•What a virtual reality art show could say about the future of games•Paul McCartney launches free virtual-reality concert app•The Who to launch virtual reality app for Facebook’s Oculus Rift
British technology firm Torquing Group hasraised more than £2m on crowdfunding site Kickstarterfor a device called Zano that it claims is “the world’s most sophisticated nano drone”.With just over a day to go until the crowdfunding campaign closes, Zano has far surpassed the original fundraising goal of £125,000 set by the Pembrokeshire-based company.The tiny drone can be controlled from a mobile application, although it can also be ordered to “follow” its owner by maintaining a consistent position from their smartphone before returning to it when its battery is low.The device can take photos and shoot video footage while in flight, and will cost £169.95 when it goes on sale later in the year. Kickstarter backers will get their devices in June, if the company hits its manufacturing deadlines.“Our goal was to make aerial photography and video capture truly accessible to everyone,” the company’s head of marketing Reece Crowther explained on its Kickstarter project page.The device’s tagline – “taking your selfies to new heights” – hints at its desire for mainstream appeal, rather than just appealing to the early adopters who’ve been exploring aerial photography with more expensive devices.Another selling point of Zano is its removable battery, with owners able to swap between batteries for more flying time between recharges. The device uses a 5-megapixel HD video camera, and and promises 10-15 minutes of continuous flight time with a top speed of 25mph.Torquing Group is also keen to stress that it is not a newcomer to this space: it has been working on nano drone technology for aerospace and defence clients since 2008.As is common on Kickstarter, the company had promised a series of “stretch goals” for additional features that would be added as it reached various funding totals beyond its original target.At £250,000, it promised to add 360-degree and 180-degree aerial panoramic shots; then the ability to track and video capture targets at £750,000; an image editing suite at £1m; and “swarming” features to enable people to control multiple Zano drones from one device at £2m.•Drones set for $1bn market by 2018 predicts economist
It might look like a scene fromMinority Report, but Constantinos Miltiadis’s hi-tech gear is science fact, not fiction. Created for a postgraduate thesis at ETH university, Zurich, and dubbed Project Anywhere, his proof-of-concept kit conjures a truly immersive digital experience using a smartphone-containing mask, “Inteligloves” and Kinect sensors. “The first thing I realised when I triedOculus Riftwas that it’s very believable. In a matter of minutes, in a matter of seconds actually, you lose your connection to reality,” he says. But something was missing, “The first thing I wanted to do was look at my body and look at my hands.” Miltiadis’s setup transports not only your vision but your body to a digital world: while the Kinect sensors track your skeleton, the gloves capture your hand movements. Both feed information, in real time, to a computer which sends it, via the cloud, to the app on your mask-mounted phone. What’s more, both Miltiadis’s headset and gloves are wireless.But in developing a convincing virtual reality, new conundrums are produced. Among them, Miltiadis is wary of turning his virtual hands to gun-toting games, believing a potent illusion could bring its own dilemmas. “It stops being a game; it is actually a simulation of reality,” he says.The system can sense movements of your hand, and replicate them on screen.Photograph: PRInstead, Miltiadis believes the setup could be used in myriad applications, from “multiplayer” Skype calls in which participants appear to be physically present, to educational offerings such as the creation of a virtual museum. Indeed, Miltiadis envisages a scenario in which “visitors” download an app to their phone, mount the device in the mask and put on the gloves, allowing them to explore displays, pick up and manipulate exhibits and interact with virtual film installations.“You can do a lot more than you can in a physical space,” he says. It’s a concept that has already gained fans – chief among them is the prospective Museum of Science Fiction in the US, which recently awarded Miltiadis the Arthur C Clarke Award in its International Architectural Design competition in recognition of his ingenious approach.It’s a futuristic vision yet it’s one that Miltiadis is not alone is pursuing – techies the world over are developing their own versions of full-body immersion. But one thing’s for sure: the virtual is becoming a reality.Project Anywhere will be presented on 17 January at aTEDx event at National Technical University of Athens.
The future of wearable technology in fitness and health isn’t about the fitness bands and health monitors – it’s about what can be done with the data they collect, according to the founder of health firm LifeQ.The focus from the technology industry has been on getting gadgets on to wrists, but that will change in the very near future as consumers start to demand more from the lumps of plastic attached to their person.“Mobile health is following a very similar evolution to weather forecasting, going from simply going outside, through barometers to sophisticated computational forecasting,” said Riaan Conradie, a computational biologist and founder of LifeQ speaking at CES in Las Vegas.‘Metrics everywhere, spitting out data you don’t know what to do with’“You started with going to the doctor for a snapshot of your health, but it was very hard to know how hard to run before causing injury. Now we’re overwhelmed by the number of devices, with metrics everywhere, spitting out data you don’t know what to do with.”The nascent wearables market has expanded in the last few years, with more than 70m fitness trackers and health gadgets sold globally in 2014 and another 68m expected to ship in 2015, according to data from research firm Gartner.Fitness trackers range from wrist bands and small clips to headphones that can track heart rate. As the capability of the sensors has increased while decreasing in cost, the devices have dropped in price to impulse-buying territory under £50.‘Just adding insult to injury’But the myriad of wearables all report data under different metrics with little in the way of useful interpretation.“The future of wearables is not wearablesper se,” said Conradie. “Just like in weather forecasting, the traditional meteorological recording equipment is still needed, but it’s more about analysing and using that data.“People will become resistant to all the data streams and metrics – they want more valuable, actionable insights. So fitness generation two is about data, about recombining data to make sense of it and creating something actually useful for users.”Conradie’s firm applies computational biology models to the data collected from wearable devices to provide insight into what a user’s body is doing and what it’s trying to tell them.“Checking a device that tells you you’ve had five hours of terrible sleep is just adding insult to injury. You already know that,” said Conradie. “But identifying why I’m not sleeping well after X, Y, Z – after I’ve eaten too much, drank something, not exercised enough – then it becomes useful to change habits and do something about the poor sleep.”Fitness and health tracker manufacturer Jawbone is moving in a similar direction with its new Up3 band, which uses heart rate to track sleep among other metrics, but collates that data and uses it to create useful coaching tips to improve sleep and overall health.Other companies – including Fitbit, Misfit and Intel’s Basis – are also doing similar things, while Google Fit, Microsoft Health and Apple Health services promise to provide a universal store for the personal health data collected by devices for a deeper, more meaningful analysis.‘We have police and security services, but we still lock our door’Conradie said that that kind of deep analysis of data sets is not something a single company can achieve as it will need collaboration between industries, technology, medicine and science to provide meaningful insights.Having a digital copy of a person’s metabolism in the cloud opens up many possibilities to interrogate that data not just for fitness but for overall health. But security of that invasive personal data is crucial.“This was a bad year for security in general, but one critical thing has come out of it: data security should be the responsibility of everyone, from the users to the companies,” said Conradie. “Like how we have police and security services, but we still lock our door. We should be moving to that kind of model, where consumers take responsibility for data security as much as companies do.”•Forget smartwatches – smartclothes are the future, analysts say•Samsung pledges over $100m to make an open Internet of Things finally happen
1. CoffeeIf you’re a coffee lover, you’ve probably found yourself yearning for a fancy espresso machine at some point in your life, whether that’s a £1,400 Rocket Espresso, a somewhat simpler £150 Delonghi, or even just a cheap-n-cheerful Nespresso pod-based system. But here’s the secret: you can get coffee that is just as good from a £20 coffee gadget called anAeroPress.An AeroPress … cheap and cheerful.Sure, if you dedicate months of practice and the price of a second-hand family car, you could pull a better espresso from the pro-level machines. But who wants that fuss? The AeroPress, which produces coffee somewhere between a cafetiere and espresso machine, lets me use whatever coffee I want and make a damned good cup with just the addition of boiling water. I keep one on my desk. It doesn’t even need electricity, provided you have some other way of boiling the water.2. CamerasDigital cameras are the latest devices to fall prey to feature-creep. With the bottom end of the market being consistently eaten away by smartphones, manufacturers are under increasing pressure to offer us some reason to buy an expensive, bulky, standalone device rather than just use the camera we have on us 24/7. But too often, those reasons are yet more complicated features, from GPS chips which tag photos with your location, through facial recognition which lets the camera zoom focus on people, all the way to HD video.None of those will help you take better photos. Instead, go simple – but good. TheLeica M-Eis the stripped-down version ofthe classic Leica M, perhaps the most loved individual camera ever. It’s not cheap (£4,200 for the entry-level model), and you emphaticallydon’tget any features for your money, but take the time to learn how to use it and maybe you will be the next Henri Cartier-Bresson.The Leica M-E.3. LaptopsGoogle Chromebook.The top end of laptops is a world of brushed aluminium and fancy features. The bottom end is a world of crappy plastic and shovelware, with computers shipped full of borderline spyware in order to pad out the minuscule margins earned by their manufacturers. And all of that for a device which is, for most people, vastly overpowered. If you surf the web, answer emails, and write documents, you don’t need a £400 graphics card. You barely need a screen.Google set out to fix that, with theChromebook. It got off to a rocky start, but the latest generations of the laptops largely deliver on that promise. In essence, it’s a laptop stripped of everything but the web browser. You can use Gmail for emails, Google Docs as a word processor, and Picasa for your photos, as well as Google Play Music for your tunes and Google Calendar for your diary.Just try not to be somewhere you don’t have internet access.4. BooksKindle … exactly what you need?I’ve seen it happen. You think: “I’d quite like to read ebooks”, because they’re great: they don’t take up space on shelves, you can shove them in a bag, and read them in the dark. But then the creep begins. First you worry about the lack of colour, because once you read a book with some nice pictures. Then you think that if you’re going to get a colour ereader, you may as well get a full-blown tablet, because some of those apps look good, and it would be nice to share photos. And then you go for a good screen, and before you know it, you’ve talked your way into a full-size iPad.Stop. You were right the first time. If you want to read books, get aKindle. They’re simple, they work, they’re light, they’re cheap, and they’re pretty hardy.5. WatchesDid you knowadvertisers are salivatingat the launch of the Apple Watch? Mobile ad exchange TapSense has already announced the launch of the first ad platform for the device, months before it even arrives. “Hyper-local advertising” is coming to your wrist.That’s terrible. Don’t do that. Get a Casio like me. MyF91W(named back in the days when incomprehensible product designations were all the rage) has an alarmanda stopwatch, just like the Apple Watch does. Unlike the Apple Watch, it’s also waterproof, has a battery life measured in years not hours and only costs £20 rather than £250. In fact it’s so simple that terrorists have disassembled it to use as a bomb timer – Guantanamo analysts have described it as“the sign of al-Qaida”.The Apple Watch.6. Text editorsWhen feature-creep is mentioned, though, there’s only ever one winner: the venerable Microsoft Word, which began as a simple text editor and grew into something used to lay out entire books by professionals who should know better.Microsoft’s notorious Clippy feature.If all you want to do is write, don’t open Word. Just useText Edit, or, failing that, a prettier version of the same idea like IA Writer, TextMate or BBEdit. Words are words, and you want to get them out of you and into the computer as quickly as possible.That way, you won’t find yourself worrying over which font to use, whether to bold the headline or simply italicise it, and how to use links (should you put them in brackets or simply embed them?). Those things come after you start writing, not before. And the easiest way to do that is not even open the program that asks.
This is going to be the year of the smartwatch. Thanks to several incredible boundary-smashing technological vaults, Apple will soon release a product that looks like a wristwatch but is really So Much More Than That. TheApple Watchwill display your Facebook updates. It will tell you who is calling your phone. It will let you show photos to people, even if each photo is the size of a postage stamp and the only way to let anyone actually see it is to awkwardly hold your arm out in a berserk mockery of a CIA stress position while they grab it and squint.The Apple Watch apparently solves a problem. The problem? Sometimes people have to take their telephones out of their pockets. Why would you want to do that, when all the information in the world could be permanently located at the bottom of your arm, on a tiny screen that you have to navigate by twisting a crown so hopelessly minuscule that it makes you look like a drunk bear in boxing gloves trying to pick a needle off the deck of a listing ship?If the rise of the smartwatch has taught me anything, it is that I am perfectly happy with my dumbwatch. The one I can strap to my wrist and look at sometimes if I am not in the immediate vicinity of a clock. My watch can do one thing really well. The Apple Watch, meanwhile, will let you do a million things that you can already do elsewhere, but in a slightly more difficult way. Unless it’s run out of battery, that is, which it probably has because it’s an Apple product.No wonder dumb tech is starting to look so appealing. While Apple continues to break its neck trying to create solutions for problems that don’t exist,Nokia will be quietly rolling out the 215– a bare-bones internet phone that costs $29 and holds its charge for a month. It has been designed as an ideal first phone for those in developing countries who previously haven’t been able to afford the means to get online. But at the same time, my mum would probably love it. Given the many hours of precious life that I have squandered playingPeggleon my iPhone lately, I quite like the sound of it too.I don’t think this is an age thing. I don’t think that I have suddenly hit that horrible threshold where all new technology becomes off-putting and intimidating just because you are too set in your ways to learn how to use it. I haven’t become my dad, ringing me up because he can’t find the “Add Image” button on WordPress. Or my mum, running Sonic the Hedgehog off the end of a cliff 20 times in a row because she can’t find the jump button. Or my gran, staring at a VCR with a stern look of defiant refusal on her face. I don’t think the natural next step of my life is a phone with giant light-up numbers, or cutlery with orthopaedic handles.I am just starting to realise, as others are, that everything doesn’t have to do everything. It is much more preferable to have something that can do one thing well. That is why sales ofvinyl records hit a 21-year peak in 2014. It is why people would rather buy £20 AeroPress coffeemakers than a La Spaziale that costs a hundred times more and looks like a broken-down Terminator. It is why, God help me, I am toying with the idea of getting a landline instead of having to repeat every third word of every single conversation over and over against a noise that sounds like two jet planes having a laserfight in a hurricane.A La Spaziale machine: surely there must be a simpler – and less expensive – way to make coffee at home?Photograph: PRQuite often, usually at this time of year, publications become flooded with pieces about journalists who have decided to turn their backs on technology. They start off by unplugging their routers and consigning their iPads to the bin. They start to read books. They rediscover typewriters. They begin thwanging on about how engaged they feel. Then they start really getting into hummus and that’s the end of them.That is not what this is about. Technology is still brilliant, and completely necessary. If I didn’t have a map of the entire world inside my phone all the time, there’s a fairly reasonable chance that I would still be fruitlessly wandering around continental Europe, starved and frothing because I couldn’t find my way back to the hotel that I had checked into somewhere in the middle of 2012. If I couldn’t look up recipes from my phone, I guarantee that I would be dead from excessive oven-chip consumption by now. Try to part me from my phone, and I would probably have quite an ugly tantrum in front of you.But when you get to the point, as I did recently, where you are buying lightbulbs that can only be switched on and off from your phone, it is time for an intervention. Things like that – and smartwatches, and everything else – sound cool, but they just end up making things more complicated than they need to be. You can do without them. Your smartphone isn’t your entire life. Perhaps it’s time we all dumbed down a little.
Age:15. Moonpig.com was set up in 2000.Appearance:Anything you like. You design it yourself.What?The card, of course.I have no idea what you’re on about.That’s probably because you don’t watch television.Of course I don’t. Meretricious garbage.Which is why you’ve missed the ubiquitous ads for Moonpig, reckoned to be the most annoying commercials on television (with the possible exception ofGoCompare).Do annoying ads work?Apparently so. Getting noticed is the key in a competitive world. It’s the law of the jingle.Very good. But you still haven’t explained what Moonpig actually does.Well, the company allows you to design your own greetings cards using one of the templates on its website. It then prints the cards at its Guernsey production centre and mails it to you to sign, or direct to the lucky recipient.How marvellous. But isn’t it easier just to nip down to WH Smith and buy a card?I feel you may be missing the importance of the personal touch, which the card-mad British – we each send an average of 31 cards a year – value.I send about three, usually ones with tasteful floral designs or dreamy seascapes.Yes, you do seem to have missed this particular business wave. With the death of manufacturing, personalised greetings card production now accounts for 87% of economic activity in the UK.You exaggerate.A little.Why is Moonpig in the news, anyway?Web developer Paul Priceclaims a bug affecting its mobile apps potentially allows hackers to get into customers’ accountsand reveal information including postal and email addresses, birthdays, phone numbers and credit card data. Moonpig insists “all password and payment information is and has always been safe”, but it has suspended use of its apps as a precaution.So, what’s the problem?Price alleges he told the company about the bug almost 18 months ago, but that it only took action after he went public. “I’ve seen some half-arsed security measures in my time, but this takes the biscuit,” he wrote.Do say:“We’re in the business of making people smile.”Don’t say:“We’re in the business of making people change their password.”
A New Year’s Eve partygoer in Atlanta racked up a $908 Uber bill with surge pricing after apparently falling asleep in the car, the company has confirmed to the Guardian.Joseph Martin, whose cousin first posted a screenshot of the receipt on his Twitter page, was reportedly in town for the Peach Bowl, a college football game between Ole Miss and Texas Christian University.Martin toldFox Sportsthat he and three friends got an Uber from the hotel where his sister was staying to an afterparty. He said that one of the other members of the car talked to the driver.“I may have dozed off for a bit,” he said. “My phone woke me up and I didn’t realise we had been driving for about an hour and a half. The other three people in the car were also asleep. I woke one of them up and asked where we were going and what address she gave the driver.”“She told me and the driver the address and when he looked at his phone they didn’t match up … obviously.”It was originally reported that Martin had erroneously put his home address in Mississippi into the app and that the journey had crossed several state lines, but both Martin and Uber said that was not the case, though Martin said that the journey had crossed “one state line twice”.A spokesman for Uber, however, told the Guardian that the journey “never left the Atlanta area”.He added that the high price was due to surge pricing at the moment the car was booked, and a change in destination due to “an incorrect address being put into the app”.He also said that Uber had been in touch with Martin and reduced his fare “because it was a mistake”.
The entrepreneur Elon Musk took to Reddit before the planned launch of his Falcon 9 rocket to answer questions from fans on space travel, robot revolutions, and electronic cars – and teased a full revelation of his planned manned mission to Mars later this year.While the launch of the rocket was eventually postponed to Friday morning, Musk’s answers could still save the day for space travel enthusiasts wanting to know more about his plans to land a person on Mars.For the lay person, Musk’s most interesting answers were perhaps those he gave about his Mars project, the “Mars Colonial Transporter”. Reddit’s SpaceX fan group asked Musk to clarify what the MCT “actually is”: “Is it a crew module like Dragon, a launch vehicle like Falcon, or a mix of both?” But he remained vague, saying only that it “will be a completely new architecture”.“[I] am hoping to present that towards the end of this year. Good thing we didn’t do it sooner, as we have learned a huge amount from Falcon and Dragon.”However it works, his aim is lofty. “[The] goal is 100 metric tons of useful payload to the surface of Mars,” he told another Redditor. That’s the weight required to deliver 100 passengers, and the equipment to support them, to Mars. “This obviously requires a very big spaceship and booster system.”As to how it would work, he gave a small hint, saying that “at first, I was thinking we would just scale up Falcon Heavy, but it looks like it probably makes more sense just to have a single monster boost stage.”Musk also answered a few personal questions, including one asking “How do you learn so much so fast?”“I do kinda feel like my head is full,” he replied. “My context-switching penalty is high and my process isolation is not what it used to be. Frankly, though, I think most people can learn a lot more than they think they can. They sell themselves short without trying.“One bit of advice: it is important to view knowledge as sort of a semantic tree – make sure you understand the fundamental principles, ie the trunk and big branches, before you get into the leaves/details or there is nothing for them to hang on to.”He’s not always deep in thought, though, and happily shares his favourite video games. “I tend to like FPS with a story, like Bioshock, Fallout or Mass Effect, but was also a big fan of Civ and Warcraft.”As for what daily habit he believes has had the largest positive impact on his life, a one-word reply will do: “Showering”.While Musk is famous for being a modern renaissance man, the questions he answered tended to stick to the space side of his life, but he did touch on his work with Tesla Motors, the groundbreaking electric car company, hinting at the design of the firm’s upcoming third model.Not hinting that much, though. He says “It won’t look like other cars”. Thanks, Elon.SpaceX mission could herald new era of reusable rockets
Amazon shipped about 5bn items in 2014, the company has revealed, with more than 40% of those products sold by third-party sellers on its service.The company famously prefers not to release too many hard figures on its business, so its claim that worldwide, third-party sellers sold more than 2bn items in 2014 will be seized upon by rivals and analysts alike.Those two billion items came from more than two million sellers “that account for over 40 percent of the total units sold on Amazon,”the company said.Although it didn’t provide an explicit figure for overall shipments, those stats mean that around five billion items were sold on Amazon in 2014.“It’s been a record-setting year for selling on Amazon. We’re seeing strong growth from sellers listing their items across our global marketplaces,” said Peter Faricy, who heads up Amazon’s third-party selling operation.“In fact, there are now more than a billion offers for customers to browse from sellers who are listing items for sale outside their home country.”Amazon has previously often preferred to give out statistics referring to its growth, rather than specific sales figures. That extends to its digital media business: for example, its claim that in 2014 it “tripled” its video streaming traffic, without revealing the old or new figures.At times, this policy has been taken to almost absurd levels, as when the chief executive, Jeff Bezos, launched the Kindle Fire HD tabletin front of a graph of books sold which had no units and no y-axis.It demonstrated that the company’s Kindle sales had overtaken physical book sales, while divulging precisely nothing about the level of either.The company gave one other hard figure in its 2014 end-of-year round-up: the success of its Cyber Monday promotions, when more than 16 million items were ordered from third-party sellers, three times the average daily total of 5.5m.•Amazon counts cost as Christmas veto campaign gathers momentum
Sony’s CEO, Kaz Hirai, has spoken out about the hacking of Sony Pictures in November, which saw thousands of private emails and documents distributed online by a group calling itself Guardians of Peace.The group later claimed its actions were a protest against the release of the Sony Pictures movie The Interview, which features a fictional CIA plot to assassinate the North Korean dictator, Kim Jong-un, though researchers have subsequently said a former employee may have planned the attack.Introducing the company’s press conference at the giant Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas on Monday, Hirai said: “Sony Pictures Entertainment, former employees and certainly current employees, were unfortunately the victims of one of the most vicious and malicious cyber attacks that we’ve known in recent history.”Hirai went on to thank employees and partners who he said: “Worked tirelessly 24 hours a day, sometimes days on end,” to organise a cinematic and digital online release for the film in North America.In December, the hacking group released a statementthreatening cinemas with terrorist violenceif they showed The Interview.After several major chains decided not to run the film, Sony announced that its theatrical release would be delayed indefinitely – prompting criticism from actors, free speech advocates and president Obama, who called the decision a mistake. The company rescinded,organising a limited theatrical run, mostly through independent cinemas, as well as a digital release.“Freedom of speech, freedom of expression, freedom of association – those are very important lifelines of Sony and our entertainment business,” Hirai continued. “The interview is now available through multiple online venues as well as though our satellite and cable partners and over 580 independent theatres in the United States.”Hirai himself was a victim of the hack, which exposed email conversations between several high-ranking executives at Sony. In amessage to Sony Pictures co-chairman Amy Pascal, Hirai asked for alterations to the movie’s gory assassination scene, in which Kim Jong Un is engulfed in a fireball. Pascal then communicated his requests to Seth Rogen explaining that such an intervention from the Sony parent company was unprecedented.Despite claims that the hacking was orchestrated by North Korea itself, the country has vociferously denied its involvement. The FBI investigation into the cyber-attack continues.‘Nobody stood up’: George Clooney attacks media and Hollywood over Sony hack fallout
Greetings card website Moonpig has shut down its mobile apps after a security bug exposed personal details of 3 million customers.The flaw,described by one observeras “the worst security I’ve ever seen from a large company”, let any attacker access the personal details of every single customer on the website, as well as view past orders and place new ones on any of their accounts.The developer who discovered the vulnerability, Paul Price,says he initiallydisclosed it to MoonPig in private on August 18 2013. After almost 18 months of prevaricating by the firm, Price decided to go public with the flaw.“The industry standard is usually within 90 days, I gave them 13 months,” he told the Guardian. “I then gave them an extra four months and still no fix. It’s at this point I decided to go public with my findings.“It wasn’t an easy decision as it was a live vulnerability but I know it would grab Moonpig’s attention and force them to fix it. Who knows how long this has been ‘in the wild’ and if hackers are routinely scraping Moonpigs customers data for the last two years?”Only after Price’s post was published did MoonPig close access to their mobile apps, sealing off the security hole.“I’ve seen some half-arsed security measures in my time but this just takes the biscuit,”wrote Price. “Whoever architected this system needs to beshotwaterboarded.”The vulnerability is found in the section of software that lets MoonPig’s mobile apps communicate with its servers, called an application programming interface (API). Price found that, rather than securely sending information protected by an individual’s username and password, the API sent every request protected by the same credentials, regardless of which user was signed in.The only way the app knew which user’s account it was dealing with was a nine-digit number, transmitted unencrypted. Accessing another user’s account was as easy for Price as changing that number and re-sending the request, and grants information including postal addresses, birthdays, email addresses, phone numbers, and a portion of credit card data, including the last four digits and expiry dates. Passwords are not leaked, nor enough credit card data to make a purchase.“Most companies use a combination of your address, date of birth and last 4 digits of your card to identity yourself,” Price told the Guardian, “so this leak goes much deeper and compromises Moonpigs customers other third-party accounts.”“Given that customer IDs are sequential,” he added on his blog, “an attacker would find it very easy to build up a database of Moonpig customers along with their addresses and card details in a few hours – very scary indeed.”Surprisingly, the MoonPig flaw is not the first hole Price has found in a British greetings-card website. In October 2013, he disclosed a vulnerability in Funky Pigeon’s website which let an attacker take over a user’s account and gain access to personal data.That flaw was fixed within a week.MoonPig, which is owned by online photo printing company PhotoBox, said in a statement that “we are aware of the claims made this morning regarding the security of customer data within our apps.“We can assure our customers that all password and payment information is and has always been safe. The security of your shopping experience at Moonpig is extremely important to us and we are investigating the detail behind today’s report as a priority. As a precaution, our apps will be unavailable for a time whilst we conduct these investigations and we will work to resume a normal service as soon as possible.“The desktop and mobile websites are unaffected.”•Ping-ponging penguins killed off Clinton Cards
Back in early 2013, the world’s first3D printing penwas introduced by toy companyWobbleWorks, quickly drawing fans across the globe, whofunded the projectonKickstarterto the tune of $2.3m (£1.5m).The 3Doodler allows users to draw in the air and see their creations realised physically as plastic 3D structures.The pen, which measures 4 x 2 inches is similar therefore to a handheld 3D printer, using either ABS or PLA plastic filament as its “ink” in the nozzle, which is heated and then rapidly cools.The pen doesn’t require any software, just a power source. WobbleWorks has to date sold 130,000 units of the first generation model.Now the3Doodler 2.0has arrived, debuted at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas. The new model of 3Doodler works in the same way to the original but is 75% smaller than the first generation model and half the weight.The brand new 3Doodler pen, which is expected to ship in April 2015.Photograph: 3DoodlerNew features include a a double-click control allowing for continuous drawing flow and a new nozzle design with improved air flow.A video showing how the original 3Doodler pen worked.3Doodle 2.0 also introduces a number of accessories including: “jet packs”, a portable power pack, pedal, stand and an “educational bundle” for school use.The 2.0 pen’s Kickstartercampaignhas already raised $262,000 (£170,000) in its first 24 hours, smashing the goal of $30,000. WobbleWorks hope to ship the first pens by April 2015.The first-generation pen was used to draw architecture models, braille text and even dresses. Think of it as rendering shapes in the air with sparklers on Bonfire Night come to life. Brilliant.Check out some examples of its creations below.pokemon doodlePhotograph: 3Doodler•More than 2m 3D printers will be sold in 2018, analysts
If the thought of braving the miserable weather to over-indulge in pubs and bars is about as cheerful as a post-Christmas cracker joke, here’s some good news. A little of the magic from the current board-game revival has seeped into party games. The resulting titles offer more game for your money than the standard fare thronging the seasonal shelves of stationers and booksellers. They’re just as fun and funny, but offer more variety, challenge and replay value. So they’re ideal for entertaining at home and impressing your guests with something off the beaten track, alongside the exotic wine and obscure cheeses.Take the Time’s Up family, for example. After building a deck of 40 cards containing famous names, players take 30-second turns to communicate what’s on the card without saying it out loud. In the first round you can use many words, in the second just one word and in the third you have to mime like charades. The twist is that you use the same cards across all three rounds, adding skill and memory to a party classic without losing any of the hilarity.Alternatively, how about the Dixit group of games? The cards in these titles contain beautifully crafted surrealist pictures. Each round, the active player selects a card and tries to describe it in a sentence. It sounds easy but the catch is that scoring revolves around having some, but not all, of the other players correctly guessing your card. Walking that tight line between obvious clues and subtle ones is tough, especially after you’ve had a few. And the pressure of trying to do it well combined with the bizarre illustrations can lead to some memorable unintended one-liners.For those sick of the typical trivia quiz, Wits and Wagers should prove an effective cure. It’s got the same type of tedious questions, but instead of winning points for getting the answer right, you get them for successfully betting on who else might. Combining the favourite after-dinner pastimes of gossip and gambling, it’s a taut cheesewire of a game, with everyone wondering what everyone else knows down to the final reveal.If the standard “cards in a box” party game isn’t your sort of thing, rest assured that there’s a souped-up version of almost every style imaginable. Instead of Jenga, try Bausack in which the geometric blocks are replaced by improbable turrets and obelisks that rise from your table like the spires of the Kremlin. Rather than pulling blocks, you stack them, and the awkwardly shaped pieces you must add to the tottering tower are chosen for you by the opposition. That lends it the delightful social dynamic which can lead to couples going home in separate cars.Since boards and wooden blocks tend to clutter dining tables, you might prefer something more social. Hobby games in this category are often adaptations of Mafia, also known as Werewolf. In this old title, everyone is assigned a secret role and has to guess who the werewolf is depending on what players get eaten. It’s great fun, filled with tension and that maddening itch of knowing that someone’s bluffing, without being sure who, but it’s a bit long and structured for party play. Modern derivations like The Resistance and One Night Ultimate Werewolf keep things fast and fluid.Social games are often cheap, but there are lots of great party games you can play for nothing at all. A lesser-known favourite is 1,000 Blank White Cards which requires nothing but blank cards, and contrary to the title, only about 10 per player. The aim of the game is to have the most points when the deck runs out, and that’s the only rule at the beginning. Players then write their own cards, containing their own rules additions, with as much silliness as possible being the order of the day. Best of all, once you’re done, you can keep your favourite cards to seed the deck for the next game, creating a uniquely personal experience.Finally, if you feel ready to dip a toe into the geeky waters of hobby gaming, check out Space Cadets: Dice Duel. It’s essentially a team game of competing to see who can roll dice as fast as possible. Each player gets assigned a role on board a starship, and needs certain dice combinations to make their station, like helm or weapons, function. And some poor shmuck has to be the engineer, trying to engineer enough order out of the mad melee of shouting and shaking that ensues, to beat the other ship. It’s a game for anyone who ever secretly yearned to live out a Mr Spock fantasy with their friends at a dinner party. I know I have.
“So, what kind of music do you like?” It’s one of the hardest questions to answer in a social situation, especially as you get older and your tastes diversify.Whenever I’m asked, I tend to end up mumbling a mish-mash of genres and artists. But here’s an alternative question: what kind of music does Spotify think I like? It should know, after all.I’ve been using the streaming music service since it launched in 2008, and since about 2011 it’s been my main music player – including for songs and albums that I’ve bought from other sources like iTunes and Bandcamp during that time.Spotify has my big music data, just like it does for all 50 million of its active users. In 2014, it bought a music technology company called The Echo Nest to help it make sense of all this data, and understand its listeners better.So, does it understandme? I asked the company, which agreed to compile a report of my “taste profile” and talk me through it. A quick caveat: nobody should care about my individual tastes other than myself: this isn’t a look-how-cool-I-am show-off article.However, drilling down to one individual is a useful step towards understanding how the algorithms developed by Spotify and any digital entertainment service worth its salt are making sense of our habits, in order to serve us better.Disclosure: chart-toppers.Photograph: Scott Campbell/Redferns via Getty ImagesThe basic dataSpotify’s product owner of taste profiles, Ajay Kalia, explains that my taste profile is based on music I listened to between 1 January 2013 and 19 December 2014 – Spotify has data before that period, but the taste profile algorithm hasn’t ingested it yet.During that period, I listened to 7,328 individual songs by 2,140 artists on Spotify for 22,780 total “plays” – tracks listened to for at least 30 seconds. The base for anyone’s taste profile then comes from the songs and artists that they’ve listened to most.Here are my most-played artists:Disclosure (675 plays, 68 songs)Kraftwerk (463 plays, 68 songs)Deltron 3030 (378 plays, 44 songs)Hurray for the Riff Raff (373 plays, 48 songs)Jagwar Ma (367 plays, 26 songs)Courtney Barnett (307 plays, 33 songs)AlunaGeorge (292 plays, 29 songs)Laura Marling (283 plays, 54 songs)Haim (274 plays, 25 songs)Cate Le Bon (272 plays, 51 songs)Ron Sexsmith (251 plays, 74 songs)Katy B (227 plays, 32 songs)And here are my most-played songs:Second Summer - YACHT (86 plays)Forever - Lindstrom &amp; Prins Thomas Remix (80 plays)The Throw (Extended Version) - Jagwar Ma (65 plays)Snake Road - Ron Sexsmith (65 plays)Confess To Me - Disclosure - Disclosure (57 plays)F For You - Disclosure (57 plays)White Noise - Disclosure (57 plays)Line of Fire - Junip (56 plays)Big Love - Matthew E White (55 plays)Invisible - Annie (55 plays)Analyser - AlunaGeorge (55 plays)Exercise - Jagwar Ma (54 plays)Waking Dream - Bleeding Rainbow (54 plays)Like a Sundae - Black Moth Super Rainbow (51 plays)A + E feat. Kandaka Moore &amp; Nikki Cislyn - Clean Bandit (50 plays)She Burns - Joe Goddard (50 plays)Don’t Save Me - Haim (48 plays)Pale Green Ghosts - John Grant (48 plays)It’s Alright, It’s OK - Primal Scream (48 plays)Fresh - Summer Camp (47 plays)Next Stop - Bleached (47 plays)When a Fire Starts to Burn - Disclosure (46 plays)Pay Us No MInd - The Staves (45 plays)Love is Only Affection - The Dig-Its (45 plays)Fire! - Steve Mason (44 plays)“We start by trying to understand the songs you’ve been playing and how many times you’ve been playing them, then roll that up into the artist data too, to get a basic grounding of your tastes,” says Kalia, running me through the data.There is more to a taste profile than that, though: my data is then mapped against wider “cultural knowledge” about how those artists are described online, and the characteristics of their music – The Echo Nest famouslyanalyses songs using criteria including acousticness, organicness, tempo and even “danceability”.My personal data can also be mapped against what the 50 million other Spotify users are playing, sharing and adding to playlists. After running all this through an internal Spotify tool called Nestify, Kalia comes up with a more visual representation of my music tastes, sorted by “cluster”.Spotify’s taste profile shows my main artist clusters. Image: SpotifyPhotograph: SpotifyMusic clustersThat’s the map of my tastes above, which certainly sounds cooler than anything I’d usually mumble to a stranger asking me at a party. Indietronica! Synthpop! Future Garage! And whatever Shiver Pop is when it’s at home!If you use Spotify, it’ll have a similar version of this map for you buried in its system. Kalia explains it, saying that three of these bubbles are my “dominant” clusters of music listening, which his report outlines thus:Cluster one: Indietronica, Synthpop, Indie RockHurray for the Riff Raff, Laura Marling, Haim, Shit Robot, YACHT, Veronica Falls, Royal Blood, Kathryn Williams, Primal Scream, Cut Copy, Joe Goddard, The Asphodells, Janelle Monae, The Asteroids Galaxy Tour, Gruff Rhys, Jimi Goodwin, Lady Gaga, Taffy, Aphex Twin, Sophie Ellis-Bextor, Bleached, Hot Chip, Holy Ghost!, The Charlatans, Franz FerdinandCluster two: Shiver Pop, Shimmer Pop, Australian Alternative RockJagwar Ma, CHVRCHES, Deap Vally, Icona Pop, Outfit, Drenge, Young Wonder, Electric Guest, Satellite Stories, Marika Hackman, Daniel Avery, Thumpers, Palma Violets, Austra, Wolf Alice, The Child of Lov, Little Green Cars, Yus, The History of Apple Pie, Charli XCX, Willy Moon, The 1975, She Makes War, Public Service Broadcasting, Glass AnimalsCluster three: Indie R&amp;B, Future Garage, Bass MusicDisclosure, Burial, James Blake, Bondax, Jamie XX, Sampha, Dark0, Gold Panda, Zomby, SBTRKT, Mount Kimbie, Blind Prophet, Scuba, Daphni, Ifan Dafydd, Julio Bashmore, Gorgon City, DCult, Shackleton, TCTS, Royce RollsThere are two smaller clusters too: Kalia tells me that the New Wave / German Techno / Electronic cluster is dominated by Kraftwerk, while the Hip Hop / Underground Hip Hop / Alternative Hip Hop one is dominated by Deltron 3030, with a little input from Jurassic 5, The Roots and The Fugees.Kraftwerk: a short-lived phase.Photograph: Mike Coppola/Getty ImagesWhat this meansKalia adds more information on how Spotify is interpreting my listening data. “You are what I’d informally say is a power user: you’re playing music a lot, and a lot of different songs by a given artist, sampling and moving on or sampling and staying with it,” he says.“While a lot of people might have 100 or 200 plays for a single song, you do seem to be more spread out in your listening. And most of your listening comes from a handful of playlists that you’ve made, which almost seemed to function like a collection.”In fact, more than 50% of my listening in 2014 came from just two playlists that I’d created for exactly that purpose: Stuff To Listen To (a grab-bag of new releases and recommendations from friends, media reviews and radio-station playlists) and Stuff I Like (songs from that grab-bag that I enjoyed).“It’s essentially a lean-forward collection or queue,” he says, before explaining why Spotify has decided that two of my artist clusters aren’t as dominant: the system knows that I spent a month or so listening heavily to Kraftwerk in 2013, but barely since.Meanwhile, my hip-hop listening has zeroed in on a small number of artists: “You haven’t shown a propensity for that kind of music throughout Spotify,” as Kalia puts it.In other words, Spotify’s algorithm thinks I’m more an individual fan of Kraftwerk and Deltron 3030 than I am of their respective genres: I may have played Hurray for the Riff Raff less than either, but it’s more reflective of my overall tastes.Kalia explains that as music recommendation algorithms improve, they’ll regularly encounter challenges like this. Is someone streaming Michael Bublé lots in late December showing a propensity for crooners, or simply exhibiting the Christmas spirit? Is that user heavily playing the Frozen soundtrack a huge Disney fan, or theparentof a huge Disney fan?These and many more questions are, I suspect, what makes the role of Kalia and his peers at rival streaming services one of the most fascinating jobs in the music industry right now. Their algorithms are trying to understand what we listen to, how and when we listen to it, and how that music relates to other music.“There is a lot we’re still trying to understand about our listeners, even within the years and years of data that Spotify already has,” as he puts it. “All this goes towards understanding why you are opening Spotify right now, and what you might want to hear next.”Better recommendations to comeThe Echo Nest can already make recommendations on that score: for each of my clusters, Kalia provides me with three playlists tuned to those tastes: My Music (sticking to tracks and artists I like), Discovery (new songs and artists that I should like, based on this cluster) and Default (a middle ground between the two).Here’s the Discovery playlist for my main cluster, as an example:And here’s the one for my third cluster, if you’re in more of a future garagey indie R&amp;B bass-musicy mood:For now, the Nestify tool is for internal Spotify use only: you can’t go in and browse your own taste profile and demand the service whip up some playlists for you.Kalia says the company is thinking hard about how some of these features could be surfaced: for example, the ability to ask someone how adventurous they’re feeling, then provide a playlist to match.At a time when most streaming services cost more or less the same amount if you subscribe (£9.99/$9.99/€9.99) and have roughly the same catalogues, it may be this kind of personalisation that defines which companies are best at hanging on to their users. In Spotify’s case, it may be crucial as it prepares for a battle against much-richer rivals like Apple and Google.Thom Yorke: no footprint in my Spotify taste profile. PRPhotograph: PRWhat’s missing?As interesting as the data above was, it doesn’t yet tell the full story about my music listening – or, at least, my historical music listening.Spotify doesn’t know that the teenage me’s musical awakening came in the mid-1990s to Britpop; it doesn’t know about my subsequent journey through phases of big beat, pale young men with acoustic guitars, and hairy southern rawk.It doesn’t know that I love the Black Crowes, the Chemical Brothers, the Charlatans, Primal Scream or the Super Furry Animals – my five touchstone bands but, it turns out, all artists I mainly play on CDs in the car nowadays, rather than through Spotify in other contexts.(As a sidenote: I’ve been “scrobbling” to Last.fm from Spotify for a few years too, and my‘most played artists’ page on that servicehas more of my listening from 2012, which brings some artists bubbling back to the top.)Spotify doesn’t know that I really enjoyed Taylor Swift’s 1989 album in 2014, because having bought it – the album isn’t on Spotify – I mainly played it using the main Music app on iPhone. The same for Thom Yorke’s Tomorrow’s Modern Boxes, which through repeated (non-Spotify) listens became one of my favourite albums of the year.These aren’t faults, as such: they just show why streaming taste profiles are still developing, and why there are likely to be a fair few gaps in their knowledge. And perhaps, also, a reminder that we don’t necessarily listen to the bands we “love” as much as we’d think.Again, figuring out how to plug those gaps is one of the most interesting jobs in the digital music industry. One last thought, though: seeing my taste profile made me think about the distinctly un-rock’n’roll issue of data portability.If, in 2015, I suddenly decided I wanted to jump ship to Beats Music, YouTube Music Key, Deezer or another streaming rival, could my taste profile go with me? Or would my new service be trying to learn my tastes all over again?As more people realise the benefits of digital music services having a better understanding of our tastes, I suspect we’ll see more discussion about how (or even whether) we can export that data for use elsewhere.•The future of music sales is here. So how can artists make it pay?
Kickstarter projects attracted $529m (£347m) of pledges from 3.3m people in 2014, according to the crowdfunding website’send-of-year roundup.22,252 projects reached their funding goals on the site that year, with music and film/video the two categories with the most successfully-funded campaigns – 4,009 and 3,846 respectively.However, it was technology that was the biggest category on Kickstarter in terms of dollars pledged: $125m over the course of the year, ahead of design ($96.7m) and games ($89.1m) projects.The overall figures represent new records for Kickstarter. In 2013, the siterecorded $480m of pledges from 3m people, including 19,911 successful projects. In 2012,Kickstarter generated $320m of pledges from 2.2m backers, with 18,109 projects reaching their funding goals.In the roundup for 2014, Kickstarter noted that 2.2m people – two thirds of its pledgers – backed a project for the first time in 2014. However, it added that more than 773,000 backed more than one project, over 71,000 backed more than 10, and 1,125 people backed more than 100.American author and educationalist LeVar Burton had the most popular Kickstarter campaign in terms of backers in 2014, with hisrelaunch of children’s learning brand Reading Rainbowattracting nearly 106,000 backers.Other prominent projects in 2014 highlighted by Kickstarter include theCoolest Cooler drinks cooler; musician Neil Young’sPono Music digital music player; TV-to-film projectBlue Mountain State: The Movie; video gameKingdom Come: Deliverance; and sleep-tracking gadgetSense.Kickstarter remains the most high-profile crowdfunding service, despite competition from direct rivals like Indiegogo, and more sector-specific sites like PledgeMusic, Patreon and Unbound.According toKickstarter’s overall statistics, since its launch in 2009, the site has attracted nearly $1.5bn of pledges, and has successfully funded more than 76,900 projects.•Kickended: the enthralling world of crowdfunding flops
It's Tuesday.
Samsung’s chief executive BK Yoon promised more than $100m in funding for developers and to create an open system to kickstart an ‘internet of things’ (IoT) revolution.Samsung sold 665m devices last year, many of which already have internet connectivity. But Yoon promised that by 2017 90% of those devices will plug into the IoT ecosystem, and 100% in five years.“I’ve heard people say they want to create a single operating system for IoT, but these people only work with their own devices. We can deliver the benefits of IoT only if all sensors can talk to each other,” said Yoon in his opening keynote for CES in Las Vegas where he laid out Samsung’s vision for the future of IoT. “I’m making a promise that our IoT devices and products will be open. We will ensure that others can easily connect to our devices.”‘The IoT is not a pipe dream any more’The ‘internet of things’ essentially describes an environment where everything is connected to the internet creating “swarm intelligence” from individually dumb devices. Bins, toasters, roads and lights will be able to talk to each other for automatic, more efficient control and monitoring.A bin could tell the council when it is full and needs collecting, rather than just on a set schedule, for instance. A fridge could detect when the milk is empty and order another pint. The central heating system could track its owner and only turn on when they are on their way home.But the IoT has promised much for years and was recently identified as the mostover-hyped technology in developmentby research firm Gartner.One of the biggest issues for IoT is the lack of interoperable standards. Each manufacturer has its own system meaning connected lights often can’t talk to the digital door lock, or the smart electricity meter can’t talk to the connected boiler.“The IoT is not a pipe dream any more, it’s ready to go. That’s because there are many consumer devices already out there, ready to connect to IoT,” said Yoon. “The opportunities and benefits of IoT are huge, but so are the challenges. We need an open system and to collaborate across industries, not just within technology.”“IoT is about delivering experiences that change our lives for the better, and it’s developers that come up with the ideas that change our lives. Samsung is committed to supporting them, and will invest more than $100bn into developer community through funding for startups and our incubators, which we are taking global.”‘Security must be baked into hardware and software at every level’Samsung bought Smart Things, an IoT company that connects devices through an open system, in August 2014 and it is leveraging the company to attract developers and connect Samsung’s devices.Yoon also urged caution for the emerging devices: “IoT must be secure - security must be baked into hardware and software at every level. Our whole industry must work closely together to make that happen.”IoT promises to automate many more things based on an understanding of the environment, be that location, time of day, the needs of a user and even their sleep pattern.But that also throws up concerns over data privacy, which Yoon describing how businesses will have more opportunity to sell services and goods through pervasive user tracking did little to dispel. The IoT seems inevitable in one form or another, whether users want it or not.•The internet of things - the next big challenge to our privacy•Sony, Sharp and Philips TVs all bet on Google for smart software•3D TV was a bust, but the UHD Alliance promises 4K will be different•IFTTT: ‘We’re building an intelligence layer for the internet of things’
The old joke about Microsoft was that it took three goes to get anything right; hence Windows 3.1 was the first to be widely used. For Microsoft, now read Google, and TV software. This year’s Android TV is the third iteration of the search company’s efforts to invade television.First was 2010’sGoogle TV software, which lost millions for hardware makers such as Logitech; second in 2013 was Chromecast,a memory stick-sized device to plug into your TV; it has sold “millions”, though Google won’t specify how many.Now in 2015 there’s Android TV. Will it take off? The trouble with “connected TVs” is that though almost every TV now sold can go online, few owners take advantage of it.Samsung and LG, the Korean companies that are the world’s largest TV makers, have spent the past few years talking up the potential to load apps on their smart TVs; surveys suggest people have shunned them. Instead, most people who don’t watch broadcast channels on their TV watch video via streaming services such as Netflix on Apple TV or via games consoles. Google is trying to change that habit, whether through Chromecast or Android TV, because it is sure that the future of TV lies online, with people picking what they want to watch rather than being beholden to schedulers. The TV channels, meanwhile, are fighting back, trying to create “event” programmes that everyone will want to watch at transmission, whether it’s American Idol, X Factor, I’m A Celebrity, or HBO’s Game of Thrones.Online services are still nascent, though. Data from the BBC’s iPlayer suggests perhaps a couple of million people use it instead of TV, but that number is growing rapidly, especially via tablets. Those are the real “Google TV” devices, heavily used to view YouTube, according to data from Google last summer.In that context, HBO’s news that in 2015 HBO Go,its streaming service, will be available online through a subscription plan to anyone, rather than just subscribers to its TV service, is a major defection towards an online world.In the US, frustration with conventional ad-soaked TV channels where the best shows are only available through expensive cable subscriptions is far higher than in Europe. And that is pulling content online, where Netflix and Amazon areoffering original TV seriesand winning significant audiences.Google’s Android TV has plenty of competition: there are about 20m units of Apple’s set-top box, Apple TV, installed worldwide; Roku has sold 10m devices in the US alone since 2008; and Amazon offers Fire TV. Samsung uses its home-grown Tizen software for smart TVs, while LG has webOS.That in turn means content creators such as HBO and the BBC will have to choose “winners” among those platforms for which they will have to customise their software. In that sense, TV looks much like the smartphone wars since 2007 – but it’s less sure that Google will win. And Microsoft? Its only presence is through its Xbox games console, of which about 70m are in use worldwide.
Sony, Sharp and Philips are all betting on Google’s smart TV software for 2015, hoping the streaming product will become a key selling points for dozens of new internet connected TVs.Sony is launching not one but 20 different televisions with Android TV built in, including 12 ultra high definition 4K TVs, meaning only its cheapest sets won’t include the new Google software. Philips and Sharp have also committed to launching Android TV models, leaving Samsung, LG and Panasonic as the only major brands not committed to it.Android TV allows users to stream content to their TVs via a smartphone, tablet or computer, currently offering shows from Netflix and Hulu alongside games and apps from the Google Play store. Users can navigate and search using voice control.Launched at Google’s I/O developer conference in June,Android TVfirst appeared on the Google Nexus Player set top box. It is Google’s third version of a smart TV platform after the first Google TV failed to live up to expectations in 2010, and builds on the popular more popularChromecast dongle.“We need to see it first before being able to make the call as to whether Android TV will be a success unlike Google TV – CES 2015 is the first real opportunity to see it working in products beyond the Nexus Player,” explained Martin Garner from research firm CCS Insight.‘Smartness in TVs may not turn out to be the same as smartness in phones’Google wants Android TV to become the default smart TV service across multiple brands of TV, which currently rely on unimpressive software produced and made by each manufacturer. That has lead to some services, such as Netflix and the BBC iPlayer, not being available on certain smart TVs and software updates taking months to come, if at all.“We have a sense that ‘smartness’ in TVs may not turn out to be the same as ‘smartness’ in phones. In phones it’s all about apps. To do apps in TVs currently involves a user experience that flips between TV mode and apps mode - and this hasn’t been a huge success,” said Garner, pointing out that fiddly control screens have put consumers off exploring smart TV services.“Android would certainly help address that, although most apps will need an optimised user interface (UI) for TV usage so there would still be a large job to do in convincing app developers to support it. We also think that there may be a greater effort from the TV companies on smartness in the form of integrating web content within the TV part of the UI.”Not all manufacturers are in a rush to support Google’s new platform. Samsung announced that all its new TVs would run its own Tizen TV software. Others including TCL have produced models with the popular Roku streaming box built in. The failure of Google TV from 2010 may also play a factor.‘Differentiation difficult’“Generally we expect TV makers to be wary of using Android for fear of suffering the same fate as some of the smartphone manufacturers who went with Android and found differentiation difficult as their offering became rapidly commoditised,” said Garner.Sony is taking a similar approach to the way it subtly modifies the standard Android experience for its smartphones and tablets.“We’ve customised the look and feel of Android TV and injected elements of our one-click entertainment system. It’s a very simple and easy to use interface, with up-down, left-right navigation that should be familiar to anyone who has used Netflix or similar in the past,” Mark Whiteman from Sony told the Guardian.“With Android TV you’ll be able to perform voice searches for content, stream media via Google Cast and can download apps and games, some with controller support and cross-platform play with an Android smartphone or tablet.”‘Dramatic change in the TV landscape’Google hopes that Android TV offers potential for changing the way the television industry operates, by allowing manufacturers to sell models at a lower price, but with less differentiation.“A possible scenario is that Android TV enables semiconductor manufacturers to offer reference designs for TV (as they have done with smartphones),” said Garner. “This would have the effect of lowering the barriers to entry and allowing lots of new companies to enter the market, as we have seen with the many Chinese and Indian smartphone manufacturers.”“The effect would be dramatic change in the TV landscape, similar to the change taking place with smartphones.”•Android TV: Google’s connected TV ambitions reach their third episode•Google Chromecast review: simple, fast internet TV•Amazon Fire TV Stick takes on Google’s Chromecast as $39 streaming device
Major television manufacturers, movie studios and streaming video services have joined together hoping to show that 4K ultra high definition (UHD) television is not a gimmick like its 3D predecessor and is here to stay.UHD video has four times the number of pixels as regular 1080p high definition (HD) for a much clearer picture for large-screen TVs. But it has struggled to take off as the next standard for video, movies and television due to high prices and limited available content, while early consumers were left bruised after the abysmal letdown of the much-heralded 3D TV.Now Samsung, Sony, Panasonic, LG and Sharp, plus Netflix and movie studios Twentieth Century Fox, Warner Brothers and Disney have united to form the UHD Alliance to push the adoption of 4K video and help cement it as the next video standard.‘Trust us, we are taking the TV industry forward with 4K’“The alliance is confirmation that 4K is a technology that is going to be around for some time to come. That it is the next logical step up from full HD,” Gartner principal analyst Paul O’Donovan explained to the Guardian. “Unlike 3D, which is and always has been a gimmick, the industry is saying, ‘Trust us, we are taking the TV industry forward with 4K.’ I think that’s important for consumers to understand.”The cost of 4K TVs is coming down from the highs of $6,000 or more, and models are expected to be available for well under $1,500 in 2015. Every major television manufacturer is launching extended ranges of the new TVs at International CES in Las Vegas this week. Gartner predicts that at least 30% of all TVs manufactured will be 4K by 2018.“Together we will ensure UHD content and devices are ready for the mainstream, for a healthy UHD economy with the best possible content delivered in the easiest and best way to consumers,” said Hyunsuk Kim, Samsung’s president of visual display. “It is a game changer for us in the television industry, but more importantly it is game changer for consumers too.”‘Much broader palette to tell our stories’“These technologies allow us to utilise a much broader palette to tell our stories while providing viewers with true-to-life colours, superior contrast and premium picture quality,” said Ron Sanders, president of Warner Brothers Home Entertainment. “Working with a wide industry consortium is the best way to deliver these experiences within premium entertainment.”The alliance hopes to make more 4K content available and to make it easy for consumers to access, in turn making UHD televisions more appealing. Currently, limited 4K movies and TV shows, including Breaking Bad and House of Cards, are available from Netflix and a few other manufacturer-run video streaming services.However, adoption of 4K televisions at a time when disposable income is limited and hotly contested – with smartphones, smartwatches, fitness bands and any number of gadgets vying for attention – is a tough sell for consumers, to just drop their perfectly good HDTVs.‘The move to 4K has to be part of the normal replacement cycle’“Unlike the move to HD, which also coincided with the move from large tube televisions to LCD and plasma flat-panel TVs, the move to 4K has to be part of the normal replacement cycle,” said O’Donovan. “So although the rumours about the lack of content have had some effect – most consumers haven’t been ready to get rid of their HDTVs yet – but now the replacement cycle is kicking in and we will see consumers replacing HD with UHD.“The announcement of the alliance is unlikely to show a major uptick in sales, but it does offer consumers some level of confidence when it comes time to replace their older HD sets.”
Netflix has been forced to deny rumours that it is cracking down on customers who use virtual private networks (VPNs) to watch shows which aren’t licensed for their country.The TorGuard VPN service is just one provider which reported access problems by its customers, telling TorrentFreak that “This is a brand new development. A few weeks ago we received the first report from a handful of clients that Netflix blocked access due to VPN or proxy usage.“This is the very first time I’ve ever heard Netflix displaying this type of error message to a VPN user.”Users of the streaming video service frequently turn to VPNs in order to view shows which aren’t licensed by the company in their country. For instance, the US version of Netflix offers shows including Twin Peaks, Friends and Broad City, none of which are accessible to UK customers.The popular work-around involves using a VPN service such as TorGuard to make a connection look like it originates in the desired country. While not technically illegal, in most cases use of such a system goes against the terms of service for the streaming provider.After users reported that their VPN connections were being blocked by Netflix, the company issued a statement saying that there was “no change” in the way it handles such connections, instead saying that it had always blocked VPNs when it could, and continued to do so.“Netflix simply uses industry standard methods to prevent illegal VPN use,” the company said.Users of other VPN services report no issues with Netflix so far, butmany are concernedthat the company may begin blocking their providers too. “I’m Australian and don’t have access to Netflix. If I’m locked out I’m cancelling,”wrote one user on Reddit.Commercial VPN providers are used for a number of purposes, not all on the right side of the law. Many users appreciate the security and privacy benefits of the services, which mask a visitor’s true IP address from the site they visit, and prevent connections being eavesdropped on. The services also get around content filters at workplaces, schools and universities.But they are also popular as a way to protect users against legal restrictions on their internet use, from viewing TV shows intended for other nations to downloading material from file-sharing services.Netflix share price falls over disappointing subscriber figures
Drones; they’re everywhere. They’re used in military operations; toshoot pornfilms; to takebeautiful photographs. They form the basis ofthink piecesand breathless reviews of consumer models, available to buy from aslittle as £90.And according to theUS Consumer Electronics Association (CEA), an umbrella group which connects 2,000 tech companies, they are here to stay - a developing global market that will be worth an estimated$1bnby 2018.That’s an increase on the prediction for 2015, which is a market estimate of $130m, and 425,000 units sold.CEA’s chief economist, Shawn DuBravac, speaking at the 2015 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, said around 100 different types of drone could debut this year.The boom in consumer owned toy drones has led to discussions around legislation around the devices. In America, the Federal Aviation Administration is alreadyconsidering tightening lawsto limit commercial drone use.Dubravac also spoke about other potential directions for tech in the coming year.“We are shifting from what something we could do technologically to what is technologically meaningful,” hesaidin a preliminary press briefing.Otherpredictionsfor 2015 include: an increase in virtual reality products, a widening of Netflix’s output and the expansion of 3D printing.•Christmas gift: attack of the drones
Many children are growing up with apps and digital media as part of their lives, alongside reading, physical play, television and other forms of entertainment and learning.Plenty of companies, from the biggest children’s brands to brand new technology startups, are exploring the potential of tablets and apps for kids, so what do they have in store for 2015? Here are some of the key trends for parents to look out for.1. Digital storytelling finds its identitiesIt’s no surprise that the first few waves of children’s apps – at least the ones telling stories – took their cues heavily from books, complete with digital pages to turn. There’s still a place for that, but there’s plenty of room for invention too: less about apps trying to be better than books, and more about beingdifferent.How can text, animation and touchscreen interactivity blend together in new and engaging ways? Children’s apps sit neatly between books, TV and games, and I suspect we’ll see more launched this year that manage to mix those three formats unclunkily. Identities? Plural because there won’t be one single format that works.Existing examples: the genre-blurring fun inJack and the Beanstalk by Nosy CroworDino Dog – A Digging Adventure.2. Children are storytellers tooIt sounds like a blitheringly obvious statement – of course children tell stories. But until relatively recently, it was something ignored by many developers of book-apps: kids could tap on the screen to interact with characters and scenery, but the actual story remained decidedly linear.We’ll see more apps this year that aim to put storytelling tools in the hands of children to create their own tales: whether pre-packed collections of characters, scenery and situations to play with, or stories that get children to write/draw in characters as they read.Existing examples: Tate’sNoisy Neighboursgets kids to draw their own characters, whileTeleStorygets them filming their own TV shows.Nosy Crow Jigsaws uses in-app purchases in a parent-friendly way.3. Responsible use of in-app purchasesChildren’s apps and in-app purchases is a very sensitive topic, thanks to the all-too-regular examples in recent years of kids blowing their parents’ credit cards on virtual items in mobile games. One under-reported point: it’s rarely children’s apps that they’re playing, but usually games intended for adults.This has understandably put many parents offanyapp that uses in-app purchases, but in 2015 we’ll see more actual children’s apps that use the model responsibly: as a way for parents to check if an app is suitable and enjoyable for their child before choosing which bits to pay for.Existing examples:Endless Wordplay, which sells packs of words to practise spelling, orNosy Crow Jigsaws, which sells puzzles but unlocks them for free if parents own its other apps.4. Parents as part of the processYes, children do use apps alone, but that doesn’t mean they’re just “digital babysitters” as critics often suggest. Increasingly, developers are designing their apps in the knowledge that parents will often be sitting alongside their kids and being an active part of the process. Expect a fair few of these in 2015.There’ll also be more development around the idea of parental “dashboards” – ways they can log in from their own devices to see what their children have been doing, and how the apps they’re using are improving various skills. But another encouraging trend is apps that educate parents too: particularly those that suggest more non-digital activities to follow on the learning.Existing examples: Disney’sMickey’s Magical Maths Worldis part of a new series of apps with a separate parental-dashboard app,Disney Imagicademy Parents. MeanwhileCurious Playgroundgets children making games together.5. Kids’ coding apps continue to evolveThe introduction of computer programming into the English curriculum for children as young as five has sparked debate, particularly around the demands it places on teachers. 2015 will provide some answers in that debate, although they might not all be positive ones.Alongside that, though, there is a lot of activity around apps that help children take their first steps in programming (or, at least, programming-like thinking). Can cute characters and blocks of code tempt kids away from pure games, and if so, can they also really be a stepping stone to the programming they’ll be doing later in school? We’ll be finding out over the next 12 months.Existing examples: Take your pick from challenge-based apps likeTynkerto more-freeform apps likeScratchJr, with new entrants likeCodeQuestandThe Foostoo.My Little Monster 3D-prints children’s monsters.6. Rise of the robots and 3D printingHow many children will have access to modern robots or 3D printers at home in 2015? Very few indeed. But there are some technology startups and app developers hoping their products will be an introduction to these areas for children in the year ahead.US startup Play-i will ship itsBo and Yana spherical robotsin 2015 for example, having crowdfunded their first run on its website last year. They’ll come with an app that aims to teach children to program the bots. Elsewhere in hardware, we’ll see what happens next withthe Kano computer, as well as startups likeOsmoexploring physical toys and apps.Meanwhile, on the 3D printing side, there are a number of companies working on apps that will get children to create... things, and then get them printed. It’ll be an expensive niche for now, but the idea of digital creation leading to physical objects has wider applications for kids: whether it’s 3D printing or print-out papercraft.Existing examples: On the 3D printing side,My Little Monstermakes children’s digital beasties into real models, complete with Apple Pay support in the US.7. YouTube filters and other video appsChildren’s videos are massive on YouTube, as a glance at the charts for its most popular channels will tell you:DC Toys Collector, Stampy and Little Baby Bumare all fixtures in the top 10 for the entire site. Yet as a parent, YouTube can still be problematic when your children are watching it: if you’re not breathing down their neck throughout, it’s easy to end up on inappropriate videos.In 2015, we’re going to see more attempts to provide child-friendly filters on YouTube as apps, whether focusing on particular niches like nursery rhymes or Minecraft, or more general curators. Plus more of those YouTube channels will launch their own apps, aiming for a slot on parents’ homescreens, and the growth of Angry Birds’ ToonsTV –four billion views and counting– will continue.Existing examples:Stampy Catis the official app for Stampy’s Minecraft-focused YouTube channel, whileHopstermixes familiar TV shows with educational games.8. Next moves for MinecraftMinecraft as the world’s most popular game for children isn’t a trend of 2015: it’s a long-established fact. But what happens now, with the game’s developer Mojang owned by Microsoft, is going to be very interesting.Expect more attempts to make educational use of Minecraft, from YouTubers like Stampy – who’s about to launch a second, learning-focused channel – to educational groups and museums. But also watch for more children’s brands doing stuff in and around Minecraft, and children coming up with their own mods that find a wider audience.Existing examples:The Beano’s official Dennis and Gnasher modis good fun, while theTate Worlds projecttakes a more artistic approach. And theLearnToModsoftware aims to teach kids to code through Minecraft too.Disco Fingers is a musical treat.9. Making a noise through musical appsThere is something potentially very powerful – and largely untapped so far – about tablets, music and children. Not as replacements for learning traditional instruments, but as tools for musical creativity in other ways: interacting with music or creating it from scratch.This may not always be in apps specifically for children – my seven year-old son discovered GarageBand over Christmas, and we’ve had great fun recording songs together. Again, apps aren’t a replacement for instruments, but there’s a lot more fun to come from them as new ways to explore rhythm and melody.Existing examples:Disco Fingersisn’t quite sure whether it’s a children’s or adults’ music creation app, but the former will love it.Sago Mini Music Boxwill have even toddlers tapping out tunes.10. More apps for Android kidsMost of the links above lead to apps made for Apple devices, and that’s no co-incidence. The children’s apps world remains an iOS-first place for several reasons, including the perception that it’s harder to sell apps on Android, and the fact that many kid-app firms worry they don’t have the resources yet to develop for two platforms.Still, a lot of children are playing on Android tablets nowadays, sold by companies from Amazon and Samsung to Tesco with its impressive Hudl. In 2014, the number of great iPad children’s apps ported to Android increased steadily, and some even came out for both simultaneously. This’ll continue in 2015.Existing examples: From Endless Reader and Skylanders Trap Team to Toca Boo and Makies Fashion, here’sthe Guardian’s top 25 Android children’s apps of 2014.Bonus trend: All the things that aren’t appsMaybe by 2016, it won’t be necessary to add this kind of caveat to any article about children’s apps. But to stave off angry comments for now: YES, kids should be reading books, riding bikes, playing sport, drawing pictures with pencils, digging for worms... doing things away from screens.Using apps shouldn’t replace all that, and it’s a parental responsibility to make sure that it doesn’t.Actually, many of my favourite apps from the last year were the ones where the play, creativity and/or learning carried on when the tablet was switched off: from chasing one another around the house in sheets (aka Real-World Toca Boo) to mock-dinosaur digs in the garden emulating Dino Dog.I hope that 2015 includes more awareness of the way apps can be just one among many ways a child explores particular interests, from animals and history to music and maths.•The best Android apps for kids of 2014•The best iPad apps for kids of 2014
Frontier Developments; PC; £40Elite: Dangerous is quite big, in the same way that a black hole is a bit grabby.It is a game built on top of a scientifically-modeled rendering of the Milky Way galaxy. That’s the entire Milky Way galaxy. If you want to fly to our own solar system, you can – although it’s the year 3300 so things have changed a little. Mars is now blue, for example.You enter this vast expanse as a lowly starship commander with a cheap ship and little bit of money. There are several warring factions out there – the Alliance, the Federation and the Empire – all controlling different star systems, but there’s no real narrative push: what happens next is more or less entirely of your own making. You can be a trader, a mercenary, a miner, a pirate – any role you take is governed by your actions out there in space, not by any pre-game choices or class systems.This is a massively multiplayer game, too, so you’re in a universe with a whole bunch of other people trying to do the same or opposing things (although there is a solo mode, that will ensure you’re only pitted against computer-controlled spacecraft). The galaxy is constantly evolving and the political landscape changes as players choose allegiances, fight battles and run errands for all sides.Living in spaceThere are many things you can do with your time. Running trade missions or mining expeditions; throwing in the occasional opportunistic bounty quest here and there; perhaps trying your hand at piracy. Some missions require you to simply deliver an object, others to pick up a piece of cargo that’s either floating in space or stowed away on someone else’s ship. There are also assassination tasks, which are sometimes slightly illegal, putting you in conflict with the space police. Everything is picked up via in-game bulletin boards, and everything nets you cash to spend on weapons and ship upgrades.In addition to missions, while you’re calling at different stations, there’s nothing stopping you from dropping in to the commodities market and grabbing some additional cargo to sell for a few extra credits as you ply your trade around the galaxy. This can be tricky until you learn what sells well and where. Agricultural worlds tend to export food and import technology and materials that support their economies. Conversely, extraction and refinery sites export metals and minerals and need food stocks shipped in. Use the built-in navigation tools to help work out routes and likely spots to pick up and sell off cargo.If you’re lucky, you may find rare items that, when taken far enough from their source become incredibly valuable. I recently ran 11 cannisters of Leestian Evil Juice from Leesti to Llyr, a journey of 93 light years or so, and gained a very nice profit of 76,000 credits for the trouble. If you’re unlucky, you’ll pass into an anarchic system filled with pirates, whose ships lurk outside a space station’s no-fire zone, picking off traders as they warp into the area.Battling piracyBeing on the receiving end of a pirate attack can be either maddeningly frustrating or very entertaining, depending on your perspective.It’s no fun when you’re hauling a bunch of valuable cargo and have been travelling for a while to your destination when, as the delivery deadline ticks down, that dreaded interdiction warning lights up on your holo displays. There usually follows a period of intense control wrangling as you try to keep the marked escape vector in your sights while your assailant does the same in their attempt to pull you out of hyperspace. If you’re successful and evade interdiction, all is well and you can continue on your way, but if the interdictor wins, they can grab your stuff, and you have to quickly decide what you’ll do as soon as you regain control.Interdiction can be turned into a sport in its own right. If you’re in a well-armed and armoured ship, a sudden violent offensive assault can take a pirate by surprise and send them diving away to re-think. Just be careful before opening up on the other ship in case it’s a system authority vessel and you end up with a nice warm wanted status.Flying and fightingWhat Elite: Dangerous certainly isn’t, is a serious spaceflight simulator. Some of the awkward realities of zero-gravity physics are worked around in the interests of better gameplay. There is, however, an optional Newtonian flight model, which is pretty accurate. The best pilots make extensive use of this feature while the rest of us gingerly drop in and out when we need to get the upper hand in a dogfight.It is possible to be quite creative when taking on an opponent, depending on your weapons load-out and flying skills. You are able to target specific sub-systems of their ship and choose whether you want to immobilise them, blind them or go all out for the kill. By targeting and destroying their shield generator for example, they’ll be much more vulnerable. Take on their frame shift drive to preventing them from escaping into hyperspace. Blow out their canopy in order to remove their targeting HUD, and force them on to emergency oxygen supplies, which generally only last a few minutes. But remember – you are also subject to the same methodical dismantling.There are many ships available to buy and fly, each with different fresh-from-the-showroom characteristics and price tags. You’re given a Sidewinder to start with, kitted out with pretty basic armaments and capabilities. It is not a bad little ship by any means. Certainly enough to get you out and about, and with enough bite to defend yourself while learning the ropes. You may even manage to snag a low-level bounty or two with it. Each ship handles differently, and some such as the cargo transporters just aren’t cut out for combat maneuvers. You can buy upgrades to give you a little more tactical ability in some cases, and lots more in others.One of the best features of Elite: Dangerous however, is the ability to refit any ship you purchase. You can replace pretty much everything from your cargo racks to your hull plating if you have enough galactic credits, which you won’t. At first. And maybe not for a while. You have to get out there into space and start earning. Then slowly but surely your ship becomes an expression of who you are as a player.The beauty of the cosmosRegardless of the gameplay systems, Elite is an astonishing place to just exist in. Every system has something beautiful to see, whether it’s the play of light through a planet’s atmosphere from the star it eclipses, or the sunlight streaming into the habitation ring of an orbital station, and casting hard shadows across the structure itself. It may even the stark shadow cast by your own ship as you approach an outpost in full sunlight. Sometimes you’ll just stop to take in the view of a planet’s ring system, or a moon or a binary star system, or just to look in towards the center of the galaxy and the billions upon billions of stars it contains. There is support for 4K monitors and Oculus Rift to make the experience even more astounding.As you fly around, you’ll see tell-tale signs of other ships travelling against the star-speckled darkness of deep space. At first they’ll be nothing more than a pixel trailing a line of exhaust gases behind, but as you get closer you’ll begin to see visual clues as to what kind of ship it is and what it may be doing. The engines will flare and fade as the pilot adjusts the throttle. Thrusters burn in short bursts in response to changes in pitch, roll and yaw inputs. Ships flash into and out of hyperspace. And you can flash your headlights at each other if you’re so inclined.Imperfect spaceThere are a few glitches. Occasionally during docking landing pad lights don’t come on or turn off before you’ve actually landed, which can be confusing if you’ve lost sight of where the pad was. Also, I recently ran into a situation where I got stuck in the docking aperture of a coriolis station when my Anaconda just refused to go through, having made many successful entrances and exits through the same opening in the same ship. Indeed, even when the docking system is working, the final stage of entry is not as intuitive as it really should be.There have also been some criticisms of Elite’s initial learning curve for new players, and of the gameplay experience in the early hours of your adventure. You have to do a fair bit of grinding in your underdog starter ship before you can upgrade to bigger and better things. But then, hopping from place to place, buying and selling small quantities of goods for moderate profits can be a peaceful and relaxing way to spend a few hours here and there.The need to invest sufficient time will be the separating factor between players who just want to jump in and shoot stuff, and those who are joining for the long haul, the complete experience. The former can do it their way, and I’ve tried, but it is always going to be frustrating and expensive when you’re on the receiving end of a bigger, better ship’s defences.But without doubt, Elite: Dangerous is a purchase that will provide inestimable value, delivering many hours of gameplay opportunities and experiences. Furthermore, this is a developing universe, with many planned updates and new features due over the coming months. It seems likely that the depth and scale of the experience is only going in one direction: to the stars.
Google Glass has yet to set the world alight, but that isn’t stopping other large technology companies from investing in the smart eyewear market.The latest is Intel,paying $24.8m for a 30% stake in US firm Vuzix, which has made its name with devices aimed at consumers and workplaces – for example hospitals, warehouses and call centres – alike.Vuzix says it will use the investment to speed up the development of its next line of “fashion-based wearable display products”, following the launch of its M100 device in 2014 through a partnership with another tech firm, Lenovo.The investment came ahead of the CES show in Las Vegas, where Vuzix will show new products including its V-720, a pair of video eyeglasses that ships with Intel rival Nvidia’s Shield handheld gaming device.Sales of Vuzix’s existing devices have been growing, albeit from a small base: the company reported revenues of $664.6k in the third quarter of 2014, up 96% year-on-year.The investment in Vuzix is Intel’s latest bet on the wearables market, which it sees as the next big growth area for its chipsets. The companybought fitness-gadget maker Basis Sciencein March 2014.“We want to be in this space quickly. We’re like to help drive it. Wearables is one of those things where if someone doesn’t show leadership and make it happen, the hype won’t happen,” Intel’s general manager of new devices, Mike Bell,told the Web Summit conference in November.“We’re making a very big bet on wearables. We have announced we have a family of chipsets coming out in the next year that are wearables specific. It’s a pretty safe bet … Our plan is to partner with the best people, and have them teach us.”Investing in Vuzix, with its plans for more fashion-focused smart glasses, fits into that strategy, with Bell adding at the conference that fashion will be an important part of taking wearables out of their current niche.“We are trying to bring technology companies and fashion companies together,” said Bell.•Google Glass review: useful, but overpriced and socially awkward
Bono has praised Apple and Spotify for their efforts to pay musicians for downloads and streams of their music, while claiming that songwriters still get “a poor deal” in the digital era.The U2 frontman’s latest comments on digital music came in ablog post published on the band’s websiteto mark the start of 2015, written while recovering from a serious cycling accident.Bono said that the band’scontroversial iTunes giveawayof its Songs Of Innocence album was “very annoying to people who a) like being annoyed, and/or b) felt it was like someone robbing their phone in the pub and taking a couple of photos before leaving it back on the table”He added that he empathised with the latter group, but directed the former to aYouTube video by US chat-show host Jimmy Kimmelsuggesting that Bono’s response to complainers should have been “fuck you”.Bono had warm words for Apple, despite the criticism of the band and technology firm’s partnership. “That Apple remains a music company is the best news for any one who wakes up with a melody in their head or wanting to hear one,” he wrote.“Apple is unique in big tech in trying to get artists paid. That they would agree to pay Universal for Songs of Innocence, and then gift it to all the people who still believe music is worth paying for, both makes sense and is a beautiful thing.”Neither U2 nor Apple have revealed how much the company paid for the album, with the$100m reported in the mediaa misleading figure, since it includes the value of Apple’s marketing campaigns featuring music from the album.In his new year’s blog post, Bono also praised streaming music service Spotify, which has fielded criticism from a number of artists –most prominently Taylor Swift– about its payments to artists and songwriters.“We all now understand the Internet is giving us access to information that is mostly flattening an uneven playing field. This is all good except when some technologists think that creative content is only valuable in its ability to show off their wares - hard or soft,” wrote Bono.“Some say musicians should be pleased with new ways to promote live concerts but I remind people that Cole Porter didn’t play live shows. Songwriters are getting a poor deal right now.The reason I respect for-fee services like Spotify is that they are slowly turning people who are used to getting their music for-FREE, into paying ten dollars a month for a subscription model.These payments don’t add up to replacement for income from physical or digital sales at the moment - but I think they can if everyone sits down – record companies, artists and digital services - to figure out a fairer way of doing business.”This is not the first time Bono has defended Spotify from its critics. During an appearance at the Web Summit conference in November, he suggested thatmusicians should be targeting labels with their ire rather than streaming services.“Spotify are giving up 70% of all their revenues to rights owners. It’s just that people don’t know where the money is because the record labels haven’t been transparent,” he said then.•Adele’s manager: ‘Streaming’s the future, whether people like it or not’
Oh great, it's Monday.
There are two things about 2015 of which one can be reasonably certain: there will be a general election in May and it’s unlikely to produce an overall majority for either of the two big parties. In those circumstances, small, localised events might have big implications: a Ukip candidate shoots his mouth off about, er, non-white people; a Labour candidate turns out to have an embarrassing past; a Torygaragistecannot differentiate between sexual harassment and bum pinching. The kind of stuff, in other words, that could affect the outcome in a finely balanced constituency.Which brings us to social media and the question of whether the 2015 general election could be the first one in which the outcome is affected by what goes on there. Could Facebook, for example, be a factor in determining the outcome of some local constituency battles?Far-fetched? Maybe. But the question is worth asking because in the 2010 US congressional elections,Facebook conducted an interesting experimentin social engineering, which made some of us sit up. The company collaborated with some political scientists to see if a social network could persuade apathetic American voters to get off their butts and vote. And the answer was yes.The methodology used was simple enough. Sixty-one million Facebook users were shown an icon containing a link for looking up polling stations, an “I voted” button to click to announce they had voted, and the profile pictures of up to six of their Facebook friends who had indicated they’d already done the same. The icon and button were inserted in the newsfeeds of tens of millions of users, while others were shown either a generic get-out-the-vote exhortation or no message at all. Then the researchers cross-referenced their subjects’ names with the day’s actual voting records from precincts across the country to measure how much the Facebook voting prompt actually increased turnout.The Harvard law professorJonathan Zittrainsummarised the findings thus: “Overall, users notified of their friends’ voting were 0.39% more likely to vote than those in the control group, and any resulting decisions to cast a ballot also appeared to ripple to the behaviour of close Facebook friends, even if those people hadn’t received the original message. That small increase in turnout rates amounted to a lot of new votes. The researchers concluded that their Facebook graphic directly mobilised 60,000 voters, and, thanks to the ripple effect, ultimately caused an additional 340,000 votes to be cast that day. As they point out, [in 2000] George W Bush won Florida, and thus the presidency, by 537 votes – fewer than 0.01% of the votes cast in that state.”In itself, the experiment was innocuous: after all, in a democracy encouraging people to vote can only be a good thing. But Facebook is a big data company and what such companies do is experiment on their usersall the time. Most Facebook users probably have no idea that what appears on their newsfeeds is determined by algorithms, which are constantly making guesses about what they might want to see – and determining what Facebook wants them to see.So far, so unremarkable: that’s the manipulative reality of social networking services. What’s more interesting is that some of these ongoing user “experiments” may have emotional or political dimensions. In one such study, for example, an experiment involving 660,000 Facebook users showed that “emotional states can be transferred to others via emotional contagion, leading people to experience the same emotions without their awareness”. It provided “experimental evidence that emotional contagion occurs without direct interaction between people (exposure to a friend expressing an emotion is sufficient) and in the complete absence of non-verbal cues”.So Facebook can influence the emotions of its users. Could it also influence their interest in politics? Micah L Sifry, the co-founder of Personal Democracy Media,reportsthat in the months leading up to election day in 2012, Facebook made a change to the newsfeeds of 1.9 million users in order to see whether it could influence those users to become more interested in political activity: it did this by increasing the number of hard news items that appeared at the top of a user’s newsfeed. The results were a “statistically significant” increase in the amount of attention users paid to government-related news.None of this amounts to any kind of smoking gun. But, given that social media clearly influence behaviour in many other areas of life, it seems implausible to imagine that when it comes to politics, they don’t have any impact. Which means they now wield power of an unaccountable kind. In an election period, we fiercely regulate broadcasters’ coverage of the campaign to ensure “balance” and “fairness”. Should we now do the same for Facebook? More importantly, could we?
