Vodafone and O2: sharing 18,500 masts. Photograph: PAVodafone and O2 are clubbing together to speed up the roll-out of superfast 4G mobile broadband to virtually everyone.The nation's second- and third-biggest mobile operators say they will pool their network of radio masts and antennas to enable them to cover 98% of the population by 2015.Combined, the companies will share a network of 18,500 masts which, they promise, will extend current 2G and 3G coverage to all but the most remote villages. They will also kit out the masts with 4G technology so they can offer mobile internet speeds fast enough to download and stream TV and music as soon as the government approves the sales of 4G licences.The deal follows the merger of Orange and T-Mobile UK to create the nation's biggest network, run by a new joint venture company called Everything Everywhere. Vodafone and O2's deal is not a full-blown merger and the companies will continue to operate different airwaves. Three, the nation's smallest operator, piggybacks on Everything Everywhere's network.Guy Laurence, chief executive of Vodafone UK, said: "This will create two stronger players who will compete with each other and with other operators to bring the benefits of mobile internet services to consumers and businesses across the country. This partnership will improve the service that customers receive today and give Britain the 4G networks that it will need tomorrow."Ronan Dunne, chief executive of O2, which is owned by Spanish telecoms giant Telefónica, said: "Exceptional customer demand for the mobile internet has challenged the mobile industry to consider innovative solutions. This partnership is about working smarter as an industry."Matthew Howett, lead telecom analyst at Ovum, said the operators are being forced to explore network-sharing deals to save money as consumers reined in spending."In the face of continued downward pressure on revenues (coming from cuts in mobile termination rates and international roaming in Europe), operators are understandably looking to reduce costs where possible," he said. "The sharing of network infrastructure is now a common practice and it's pragmatic that these two operators should do the same."But he warned that the roll-out of 4G services was still dependent on mobile operators resolving their bickering about the much-delayed government auction of 4G spectrum. "Unless swift action is taken, the UK could risk being one of the last countries in Europe to get 4G services," Howett said.4G services are already up and running in Lithuania and most of Scandinavia, and even Angola is scheduled to get 4G before the UK. Jeremy Hunt, the culture secretary, has pledged that Britain will have the best superfast broadband in Europe by 2015.As part of the deal about 2,500 overlapping masts will be removed from towns, cities and the countryside. The companies said the agreement would not lead to any job losses.
This is my second visit to E3, the annual showcase and corporate shindig in Los Angeles at which companies, both huge and tiny, involved in making money from gaming, gather to show off their wares for the next year or so.It's a weird event. I don't know any other business – and it's a BIG business – that attracts such devoted and opinionated commentators and users. Even at the painfully stiff and starchy presentations, at which CEOs and Vice-Presidents in Charge of Product Redistribution for America, North, trade lacklustre pre-scripted repartee which they read with all the conviction of Andy Coulson at Leveson and still get not only laughs but also applause for their efforts. Then get ripped to shreds on blogs and websites 15 minutes later.In the interests of the very fullest disclosure, I must say that I am here as a guest of Nintendo, a company whose products over the past 20 years I have loved and continue to feel great affection for. I also have love for Sony and Microsoft and Sega and NeoGeo and even NEC back when they made consoles and handhelds. Come to think of it, does NEC even exist any more?But anyway, seeing as Nintendo are paying for my hotel they currently have the lion's share. Which, conveniently, they have also earned, for at least showing us something if not exactly new, at least different, in their next generation home console, the Nintendo Wii U. It's not new because they showed it last year as well. Is the fact that it hasn't hit the shops yet a sign that they jumped the gun a little or were they hoping to ride out the first dip in this delightful recession and hit us when a second one seemed impossible? Either way, they promise that it will be out this year, before Christmas, and you will want one.It's the Wii on steroids – faster processor, better resolution and with delusions of grandeur that has encouraged it to grow a screen on the primary controller that not only serves as a backup, so that you can keep playing if someone else comes in and wants to watch another three days of piss-poor jubilee coverage from the BBC on the main screen, but also adds to the gameplay in some rather fun ways.But the kicker is this. Like both of the other big three companies, my guess is that Nintendo wants to be THE one that you have in your front room connected to your high-def ultra-thin TV of the future. They want to be the one, and hopefully the only, that you use not just for games, but also to access LoveFilm and Netflix and YouTube and Twitter and Amazon and everyone else via the internet. They want to be the first device you reach for when you do anything that involves what was once only a television in your life.I can't help but think Microsoft have got the drop on them, but if, as I suspect, you can use the Wii U's extra screen as a universal remote to control the TV and everything else you use in that room linked to it, then the tide may turn. I say I suspect, because Nintendo reps were being irritatingly tight-lipped about the specs of the new device and also exactly what you will get when you buy one. A word to my friends at Nintendo: next year, how about spending less time hiring thin, attractive women to show off the new tech and more people who, regardless of how they look in the company leggings, actually know something about the gear? Just a thought.Anyway, before I got the hands-on experience, here's what was promised at the press conference. Aside from some hugely popular exclusives – a new Batman Arkham City adventure just for the Wii U, with the emphasis on puzzle solving using the new additional screen which also serves as a sort of virtual utility belt, nice feature for middle-aged gamers like me who get confused trying to find where the gear you collect during the game is stashed ... it's now right in front of you, Grandpa!There's a new Assassin's Creed, a fantastic looking multiplayer based on Aliens (no sign of a Prometheus tie-in, unsurprisingly) and Mass Effect 3. These are clearly all part of Nintendo's plan to attract hardcore serious gamers to Nintendo, and they even offer a more conventional-looking grownup joypad to help them get over the shame of playing Ninja Gaiden on the Mario console. Best of all was the new Pikmin game which looked absolutely gorgeous and introduced a new type of character – the rock-pikmin – and a more immersive, deep-strategy gameplay that seems to benefit from the extra screen.They also showed a few new games for the Wii life fitness fan, highlighted in a commercial in which the smuggest couple in the world taunt each other over the number of calories they've burned using the toy that day – and let's face it, it is a toy, not a home gym – until she makes him carry on doing lunges and squats while she watches the Discovery channel. Thankfully the advert ended before he snapped and took both their lives using the Wii balance board as a convenient blunt instrument that would also record the number of calories burned during a double homicide. Or a single homicide and a suicide. Whatever.I really wanted to know what their plans were for NintendoLand, a virtual theme park that gives you access to 12 games featuring a different take on existing Nintendo franchise characters, but unfortunately the model/actor/whatever demonstrating it to me had no idea. So there's a variation of Luigi's Haunted House, a new take on Animal Crossing, a Ninja Game, a Zelda adventure and, best of all, a Donkey Kong-inspired puzzler that is immediately addictive, great fun and managed to create nostalgia for the original Donkey Kong while being almost totally different. But do you buy NintendoLand separately, does it come preloaded, do you download it from the marketplace? No one was saying and I think that's because no one actually knew.From the other companies I saw some stylish, smart and well-programmed-looking new games, but almost all were based on old ones. So we have a new Halo in November, a new Tomb Raider, a new Star Wars bounty hunter game called 1313 which looks to be just smashing, and so on. Too many games with the numeral 3 or 4 in the title and not enough brand new ideas.There were also far too many new singing and dancing games for my taste, although Microsoft's Kinect does seem to be taking hold successfully with a bunch of new titles that further exploits and refines that technology. Meanwhile, Sony is also pursuing the additional screen for the home user, with a tie-in with JK Rowling to launch its new Wonderbook technology – a sort of enhanced reading experience, which might either change the way we interact with popular lit or mark another dead end that Sony has wandered up. And I'm speaking as someone who bought every one of their Aibo robot dogs, so I love it when they get behind something crazy.Nice also to see Sony persevering with the Vita, which is a beautiful piece of kit – even if you can't help but think dedicated portable gaming machines have already lost the battle with smartphones for gaming on the go. But again, the emphasis was on new versions of existing classics – so there's LittleBigPlanet and a Nakashima-style brain-testing game and Assassin's Creed 3 and so on.And on that subject, one thing I noticed was the absence, especially at the stands put up by the big three, of new mobile games or those that make use of the existing social network mania. So it seems the focus at the moment is really in trying to grab hold of our domestic game habits with tried and tested franchises rather than on innovation in games themselves.So with everyone announcing more of what they did last year, only slightly better looking, and with next to no new info being given out from Nintendo re the U that you couldn't have picked up on or guessed last year, the whole E3 experience felt a little underwhelming, to be honest. Nice mini-break though.
It isdescribed by Twitteras "the ultimate representation of freedom, hope and limitless possibility". But Twitter's subtly redesigned logo has brought with it a string of new rules on what users are not allowed to do on the network, including flipping the so-called "Twitterbird".The social network unveiled its new (yes, we checked) design ina blogpost late on Wednesday.Unlike its feather-headed predecessor, the updated logo is crafted purely from three sets of overlapping circles, according to Twitter, and will be the universally recognised symbol of the fledgling social network from now on.But you must not manipulate the bird!The updated logo comes withthese (rather stringent) usage guidelines:Do:• Use our official, unmodified Twitter bird to represent our brand.• Make sure the bird faces right.• Allow for at least 150% buffer space around the bird.Don't:• Use speech bubbles or words around the bird.• Rotate or change the direction of the bird.• Animate the bird.• Duplicate the bird.• Change the colour of the bird.• Use any other marks or logos to represent our brand.If you want to compare and contrast Twitter's policy with those of other cool and happenin' companies, seeherefor Facebook,herefor Starbucks andherefor Apple.Twitter even provides a graphic, helpfully demonstrating which variations of its logo absolutely must not be used without prior permission from the company.The New Statesman describes the rules as Twitter going "trademark crazy", while the guidelines have also been compared to Adobe Photoshop's crackdown on the verb "Photoshopped" (Adobewants you to say: "The image was enhanced using Adobe® Photoshop® software") and the slightly-more-understandable terms of use for "Portaloo" by Portakabin Limited.Twitter, too, is taking its trademark guidelines seriously: its policy page warmly advises that the rules are there so users do no have to "worry about negotiating a separate agreement with us or talking to our lawyers." No one likes talking to trademark lawyers.Twitter repeatedly refused to tell us which of its guidelines were new or how they would be enforced. A spokeswoman for the social network also declined to say how long it took to design the spanking-new logo.(While perusing the new guidelines, we noted that "offline media" – of which the all-singing, all-dancing Guardian is a part – must ask permission from the authors of tweets if their 140-character missives are to be used in print. How long hasthatbeen in place??)Mercifully, Twitter introduced no new rules for use of theonce-famous "Fail Whale" logo, used when the social network either goes down or has unwittingly contributed to the #fail meme. Perhaps it is time to reintroduce the concept?
A caveat before you read any further: this is not one of those articles based on 'sources close to' Apple. I haven't 'run checks' with made-up Taiwanese components suppliers, nor have I stumbled across Tim Cook's WWDC briefing notes in a San Francisco bar.What follows is pure, unsourced, unrequited wishlistery, based on a.) being a parent of children who enjoy using apps, and b.) writing a fair bit about the burgeoning number of apps aimed at them. It's what I'd like to see at some point – and if that's in an iOS 6 reveal at WWDC 2012, so much the better.But yes. A bit of context first. iOS wasn't Apple's first brush with the games industry by any means, but it's fair to say the popularity of games from day one - Super Monkey Ball, anyone? - was something of a surprise.As time went on, though, Apple responded by making more APIs available to games developers, launching the Game Center community platform, and giving games more prominent placement in its keynote events. It recognised an important apps category emerging on its platform, and put more focus on serving it.So, kid-apps now are arguably where games were in those early days of iOS. Lots being made, from big brands and innovative indie developers alike, and lots of parents and children using them - but room for improvement on Apple's part in how it approaches the category.As the banners have started to go up around San Francisco's Moscone Center venue for WWDC, which kicks off on 11 June, a couple of developer friends noticed that icons for some kid-apps featured prominently in the poster collages.It got me thinking, if Apple was planning to do more in this area in iOS 6, what might it do?Two quick wins would be a proper Kids Mode for iOS devices, triggered by a single switch in Settings (like Airplane Mode) locking up everything but pre-set Kids apps folders; and a dedicated Kids category on the App Store, gathering the apps that are currently scattered between Books, Games, Education and Entertainment.More ambitiously, though, what about a Game Center-style platform for these apps to tie into? A mix of social features – the social being between children and their parents / family members, obviously – and achievement/reward mechanisms.For example, features that help parents see how their children are progressing through apps, which ones have engaged their attention most, and the ability for children to easily share creations digitally with family members who aren't with them at that particular moment. Teachers too, potentially.A bonus would be accurate recommendations of other apps that the child might like, based on their habits, and maybe even the ability to sign up for push notifications when favourite publishers bring out a new app.All of this is possible right now, of course, in individual apps and in the platforms of an emerging clutch of startups (FingerPrint Digital,Yogiplay,Ruckus Reader,KinderTownandSmarTotsbeing just five examples) who all have designs on being a social/progress/recommendations apps wrapper for children's apps – or at least one or two of the three.Why should Apple build its own version, or buy one of these companies? To create a standard – a way that these features can work in the same way across children's apps on iOS, rather than fragmenting the progression data and expecting kids to learn different user interfaces for the sharing features.Not every parent would go for it, and a platform that involves storing and making use of data on children's app usage is fraught with sensitivities – although this is possibly another argument for Apple centralising the idea.Big brands (Sesame Street, Disney, Lego and so on) might also prefer their own branded platforms, but that's a similar discussion to the one Apple has had with big games publishers like EA, which is currently balancing its own Origin community with Game Center.A Game Center for children, then. It may not be announced at WWDC 2012, but it's a thought for the future. And if Apple needs any more motivation, how about the prospect of Android getting there first thanks to apps likeFamigo SandBox?Being the most child-friendly smartphone and tablet OS hasn't been a high-profile selling point until now. As more parents consider their children's usage of apps, though, this could change.
The Unfinished Swan began life as a humble tech demo in 2008 called WhiteSpace, created by Ian Dallas. It showed a perfectly white arena, giving the user the opportunity to define it by throwing big globs of black paint everywhere, which spattered convincingly against walls and acted as a sort of acrylic sonar to guide the player through the world.Four years later, Dallas has formed a studio (Giant Sparrow) with the help of Sony, and they're set to release the game later this year as a downloadable title on the Playstation Network. But working out exactly what the game was proved to be the team's first stumbling block: "It took us several iterations over the course of a year to discover what sort of game we wanted to make with these mechanics," says Dallas. The game has moved on from the eerie horror-themed footage in the tech demo (approaching a black door lead to a scary musical sting and the words "Please wake up" would appear, echoing a much-copied piece of text posted around the internet to freak out unsuspecting readers) to a much calmer storybook world – one involving orphans, mysterious kings, strange doors to other worlds and the titular swan."There are still scary parts," says Ben Esposito, level designer on the project, "but not like in the tech demo. It's going to be as scary as you want to make it. There's not a lot of information at the beginning of the game – when we set up, you're in an all-white world – so it's more like you're blind, or you're in a blackout, and you don't know what's around you. There's a sense of tension, like in a lot of children's books where there's an undercurrent of horror. Later on in the game it gets more intense, too."That reliance on sound to provide cues is vital in such a game, and they've clearly put a lot of effort into the noise of seemingly mundane actions, such as the player's footsteps and the different reverberations of paint hitting surfaces. "It's almost a simulation of what it's like to be blind," says Ian, although presumably he means the sort of blindness where you can spit globs of paint everywhere. "It's a different set of tools to the ones you use in your everyday life."There's no user interface to speak of, aside from a tiny reticule which shows where your paint is going to land. "When players first start the game and see that white room, a lot of them wait for instructions, and nothing happens," says Ian. "Then they start pushing buttons, and inevitably out of frustration hit the right shoulder button [which launches a blob of paint], and then they work it all out from there. We wanted to make an experience about exploration and actual surprise. A lot of games feel like big 500 page novels – a challenge, almost – and I wanted ours to feel more like a children's book, to create a sense of wonder and awe in a shorter experience."Players hunt through these entirely white worlds, defining their own spaces, in search of orange swan footprints – these, and the occasional bit of important terrain feature, are all that's visible to guide you through the void until you make your mark. In a wonderful bit about five minutes in, we're watching the player climb a tall building and look at the path he's created, stained black against the white space of the world. "People love this part," Ian remarks, "they really appreciate being able to look back over what they've created."Making the levels was, of course, tremendously difficult. The Unfinished Swan is Esposito's first job working full-time in a game studio, which makes the fact that the levels work all the more impressive."It can be super hard, yeah," he said, "but we play-test all the time. It's interesting: people play at their own pace but, in general, people usually follow similar patterns. Tiny details have big effects – say, a piece of wood will direct every player that sees it in a certain direction."We want to guide the player to very specific details. In other games the textures and the lighting can draw you toward points, but we have to put a lot of weight on one silhouette – a wheelbarrow is super-important in our game whereas in other games it isn't, because it teaches you that you're outside, and there was no way you could've known that before."The unique visuals add elements to play, too, especially when building puzzles. "The moment I realised that this isn't a normal puzzle game was when we just had a white space you walk into, and there's a set of stairs, but the positioning of the stairs means that they're visible from one direction but not from another," explains Esposito. "Depending on where you're standing when you splat, you might never work out that they're there. I realised you could miss something right in front of your face [...] with almost no elements in place, we've made a puzzle already."I'm assured that the entire game isn't just black on white, though, even if the exact details of what other features the final game will possess are being closely guarded. Tools that use senses other than vision will be involved, I'm told. Seeing as taste, smell and touch are pretty tricky to implement using PS3 hardware, signs point to some sort of audio-based power.Balloons hovering around each level open up "toys" when that allow you to use your powers in new ways when collected – bigger splatters, more splats per second, that sort of thing, in a nod to encourage replay value. But aside from these scant details, Giant Sparrow is keeping very quiet about any other features. I pushed for information, regardless."Can you tell me about one other colour in the game?" I asked Esposito, half-jokingly. He looked a little flustered. "Can you perhaps offer me any details on ... say ... red? Can we expect to see red in the game?"He laughed. "Maaaaybe, maybe red might be ..."A man sitting quietly nearby leaned behind me and made a cutting gesture across his throat with a flattened palm. I guess we'll have to wait and see for ourselves.• The Unfinished Swan is set for release in 2012 on PSN
A few years ago, a colleague introduced me to PicPick, a brilliant utility for doing screen grabs and the like. (It allows you to get a complete webpage in one go, even if the page needs to be scrolled.) Although the software is free, I've upgraded to the paid-for version because it's that useful. The problem is that every time it updates, I have to negotiate my anti-virus software (paid-for Avast), which comes up with messages saying that despite it not being able to find anything malicious, I should use the program with extreme caution. I used to use AVG and a similar thing happened.Do I have anything to worry about?OllyI think Avast is, as you suspect, coming up with a "false positive" in this case, though that is not necessarily a bad thing. There are two likely reasons for it to do this. First, Avast and other vendors may have PicPick on their list of suspicious filenames. Second, although the software has not identified a known virus, it might have detected some virus-like activity.PicPick.exe could easily come under suspicion even if it is entirely innocent (which I think is the case), because malware writers have used its name to try to disguise their own software. This is why it's important to consider the size, date and position of a file. I've just installed the free version of PicPick to check, and the file is stored in the expected place: in a PicPick folder in Program Files. A file called PicPick.exe with a different size and date in a Windows System directory would be much more suspicious.Use Windows Explorer to search your hard drive from C:\ to check that you have only one file called PicPick.exe and that it is in the right place. There are several websites, such asFile.net, that have details of common Windows files.Anti-virus programs check for known virus signatures, but many of them also use heuristics to try to identify unknown viruses. This is a good thing, but it can be a problem with utilities that work in the lower levels of the operating system, where viruses tend to operate. A search of the Avast forums reveals that an earlier version of PicPick was flagged by the program's heuristics (Artemis), but double-checking revealed that this was a "false positive".If you have a suspicious file, then there are two simple things you can do. One is to scan your PC with different anti-virus software, perhaps running it from a USB thumb drive. Malwarebytes Anti-Malware (MBAM) and Kaspersky are good choices for cross-checking if you don't run them as standard. The other is to upload the suspicious file to a website for checking. I usedVirusTotal, which checks the file using 42 anti-virus programs (though it told me it had already checked the same file only 16 hours earlier).VirScanis an alternative.Many anti-virus companies also offer to check suspicious files. I have used Kaspersky'sFile Scanner, and in this case triedDr Web(an old Russian security company that just became famous for exposing the Flashback botnet running on hundreds of thousands of Macs).Once you have checked a suspicious file, your anti-virus software should allow you to mark it as safe so the problem doesn't come up again. Since this particular file is updated often, you could tell Avast not to scan the PicPick directory in Program Files.Of course, the best approach is not to download any suspicious files in the first place. This is easier said than done, but downloading a paid-for file direct from the vendor -- which you have done -- is the safest option. Free programs are usually available from a wide range of sources, and the well-known libraries are usually safe, because users would be very quick to post complaints if anything went wrong.The desire for reliable sources is encouraging companies to set up "app stores", though these newbies are not necessarily safer thanMajor Geeks, which I've used for many years, orTucows, which has been around since 1994. (Security expert Charlie Miller managed to get malware apps accepted by both Apple's iTunes store and Google's Android Marketplace.)However, the app store I have recommended here before isAll My Apps. This has a vast store of free and paid-for applications, will install your chosen apps on several different PCs, and will re-install your apps if you reformat your PC or whatever. All My Apps can also update programs automatically when new versions come out, which is a Good Thing from a security point of view.All My Apps may not appeal to geeks, but it's a good solution for people who don't want to be bothered about this sort of thing.Finally, anyone tempted to try the free version of PicPick should be careful because the "Standard Installation (recommended)" currently installs the AVG Security Toolbar, and sets AVG Secure Search as your home page and default search provider. This can be avoided by clicking Custom Installation and unchecking the boxes so that only PicPick is installed. This is not to say there is anything wrong with AVG's offerings, but it's all too easy to install things you don't want when you're installing something you do want.Readers with Microsoft Windows 7 and Vista already have Microsoft's Snipping Tool screen-grab utility installed. Also,Greenshotis a free, open source alternative to PicPick, whileScreenshot Captoris the top pick atGizmo's Freeware.
A selection of 16 new and notable apps for you today:vjayDeveloper Algoriddim made the popular djay DJing app for iOS, but now it's returned with a multimedia affair – "a cutting-edge mashup machine, directly integrated with the media libraries on your iPad". That means mixing and scratching music videos, footage from the iPad camera and music together, streaming it to bigger screens or sharing it on social networks.iPadStories About MeThis is the latest iOS "social stories" app aimed at children with special needs like autism. In this case, it helps parents and teachers work with children to create stories about their day, including photos, text and voice recordings. Dropbox integration enables the results to be shared with other users too.iPadMoomin, Mymble and Little MyMoomins! That's all you need to know, really. But yes, Spinfy's storybook-app is based on a famous Moomin story, adding animations, interactivity and voice narration from Samuel West.iPhone / iPadGoal.com 2012 FinalsNokia has bagged another exclusive Windows Phone app, this time from Goal.com for the Euro 2012 tournament. Expect news, videos, stats and team profiles, as well as the ability to pin your country to the homescreen.Windows Phone (Lumia)Hotmail Greymail InboxerIt's probably best to let this app's official description speak for itself: "The new augmented reality gaming experience from Hotmail. Virtual emails are falling from the sky in the physical space all around you. Catch and sort as many emails as you can to play this unique and immersive game." It's promoting a new feature on Hotmail that weeds out unwanted emails. Links here foriPhone,AndroidandWindows Phone.Android / iPhone / Windows PhoneMonsters Ate My CondoAdult Swim and PikPok's monsterish puzzle game makes its way onto Android, tasking you with matching coloured floors to keep the monsters from going on the rampage. It looks great fun.AndroidThe Little Classical Music App for iTunesRecord label Naxos wants to get more children interested in classical music with this iPhone app. It offers a selection of tracks with animations and explanations of the stories behind them. With added animals.iPhoneTweetDirectorThis is interesting: an iPad Twitter client designed for the broadcast industry. It "uses Dropbox to let users collaborate on a broadcast production, organising Tweets into folders". It says a typical use would be "a member of production staff searching for relevant Tweets that are to be read out or broadcast as graphics". It even pulls in the tweeters' avatar pics for use.iPadTalkSportUK radio station TalkSport has a new BlackBerry app, offering news, commentary and football transfer rumours, as well as the station's Predictor game.BlackBerryFoapCould you make money from your iPhone photos rather than just social prestige? Foap thinks so: "Snap a photo, upload it to Foap Market and it will be available for companies that may buy it," explains its App Store listing. A photo agency for iPhone snaps, in other words. "We love filters and frames but our buyers don't, so be sure to upload photos without," it warns.iPhoneHyundai Piccadilly CircusPhoto Zone/Show TimeNot one app, but two from Hyundai, both tying into Euro 2012, and both designed to work by scanning the QR code on Hyundai's advertising screen at London's Piccadilly Circus. Show Time turns "you and your friends into colourful football-crazy characters", while Photo Zone creates "a picture with the famous players that make up Team Hyundai".iPhoneTravelex Trip PlannerForeign exchange firm Travelex has a new travel app for iPhone, with a mixture of editorial content – packing tips, travel advice etc – and details of currency rates, as well as the ability to order currency for in-store pickup or home delivery.iPhonePirate WoganAs heard on Peter Serafinowicz's radio show, here's Pirate Wogan's app, with 88 samples taken from the show including shout-outs, air horns, DJ scratches and the ability to post to Twitter.iPhone / iPadChatOnIt's not just Nokia getting exclusive Windows Phone apps. Samsung has released its ChatOn messaging app for the platform in its own Samsung Zone, offering messaging and sharing features, which interlock with the ChatOn apps for other smartphones.Windows PhoneMonster Shooter: Lost LevelsDeveloper Gamelion Studios has published what it claims is "the totally ad-free premium edition of possibly the best mobile dual-stick shooter game ever", with bags of monsters to shoot and a kitten to save.AndroidSoccer Rally: Euro 2012Think the fuss over Roy Hodgson picking Martin Kelly over Rio Ferdinand for Euro 2012 is big? Imagine if he'd chosen to take a rally car instead. That's (sort of) the selling point for this app: football played with rally cars, based around the Euros tournament structure.iPhone / iPad
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFacebook App Center Launch &gt;&gt; Business InsiderTake with this health warning: This looks like it's from one source. And note the following paragraph:"This also might not actually happen. We've canvassed a half dozen other developers to find out -- all of which knew little to nothing about a launch date."Like LinkedIn, eHarmony is hacked; 1.5 million passwords stolen &gt;&gt; latimes.comLA Times reports that the eHarmony culprit is suspected of being the LinkedIn hacker.That Was Fast: Criminals Exploit LinkedIn Breach For Phishing Attacks &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comIt was only a matter of time. Hours, in fact.R.I.P. Zune &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comIt was pretty clear that the days of the Zune name were numbered. Microsoft introduced Zune back in 2006, when the most exciting thing happening in the technology and electronics industry was Apple's iPod and iTunes. Zune was both a music-playing device like the iPod and an iTunes-like service that allowed people to load their Zune players with music."Zune is a big investment for us," Bill Gates, Microsoft's chairman, said at the time, adding, "It's a vision that will carry us forward for years."BillG being literal again.All-time US box office takings by film, adjusted for ticket price inflation &gt;&gt; Box Office MojoOK, it's not tech, but it's fascinating to see how good stories tend to win here. See if you can guess which is top before you click. (Hint: it's not Titanic.)Google unveils 3D cities in Google Earth and offline Google Maps for Android &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukWhy, though? 3D cities might look pretty, but what are the actual benefits to this kind of technology besides swooping virtually over San Francisco or London to show off a smartphone or tablet?"Behind the scenes, this is very valuable for future applications like augmented reality," said [Google spatial technologist Ed] Parsons.Take note of that. (Also: Google announces 3D maps for "later"; Apple expected next week to announce new maps for "later". Google is first to announce its "coming later" product.)Text from Xcode &gt;&gt; TumblrYou don't have to develop with Xcode to find this funny.Microsoft has now sold over 600m licenses of Windows 7 &gt;&gt; The VergeMicrosoft previously announced in January that the company had reached 525m licenses sold of Windows 7, and prior to that the operating system reached 240m in sales to mark its first birthday. Windows 7 is now running on more than 39% of internet connected devices worldwide, according to Microsoft.Somehow that feels as though it's underplaying it. Then again, 600m is something like half of the installed base of PCs.Would the real Search Neutrality please stand up &gt;&gt; ORG ZineThe co-founders of Foundem, who complained to the European Commission:Despite being one of network neutrality's most enthusiastic advocates, Google is fighting against the growing calls for search neutrality. In December 2009, weposed a questionto Google: how can discriminatory market power be dangerous in the hands of a network provider, but somehow harmless in the hands of an overwhelmingly dominant search engine? So far, Google's response has been evasive..The competitors Google is referring to when it says "competition is just a click away" are rival horizontal search engines like Yahoo and Bing, but the businesses being harmed by the anti-competitive practices described in our Complaint are not these rival horizontal search engines; they are the thousands of businesses that compete with Google's other services--in price comparison, online video, digital mapping, news aggregation, local search, travel search, financial search, job search, property search, social networking, and so on.Android Expected to Reach Its Peak This Year as Mobile Phone Shipments Slow &gt;&gt; IDCIDC predicts Windows Phone will be the No 2 mobile operating system by 2016.Airtime: not enough there to make me care &gt;&gt; GigaOmRyan Kim reviews Sean Parker's latest startup:"That's not to say that Airtime can't succeed at some point, but I came away feeling like the service needed more seasoning and substance to be really interesting. Now, after spending more time with the application, I feel like Airtime is more of a shallow roll-up of other familiar services: there isn't enough there there yet."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
One day, the only way anyone will ever understand what's going on in the world will be through video games. We're all squeamish about it right now, and it seems strange that Medal of Honor: Warfighter should select a range of real-world conflicts and hot spots in which to base its single-player campaign. But what linear media could ever hope to convey the intricate, random nature of contemporary war? We've all got to live in this world of inexplicable global conflicts, and news programmes don't really help us understand. Yet it is a world Warfighter draws with a flourish.As we all know now, the Medal of Honor series has centred itself on tier one operators, the elite, secretive soldiers who operate behind enemy lines, in small groups, in abject secrecy. In the last game – the series re-boot – it was all about Afghanistan; and say what you like about the game, that moment with the small group of soldiers, out-manned and out-gunned on some desolate hillside, that moment with the men preparing each other for their seemingly inevitable deaths, was one of the most affecting that the military first-person shooter genre has managed to conjure. It's no surprise to learn that developer Danger First has several ex-tier one operatives as advisors, and one as a producer. They want to breath this stuff in. They want us to understand the human cost of it all to the soldiers themselves, and to their families.Right now, Danger First isn't saying much about Warfighter's single-player campaign, apart from the fact that it will take in everything from terror operations in the Philippines to piracy along the African coast - and that we'll be fed with information about these genuine world trouble spots. But in the absence of lone player news, we are finding out about the ever-important multiplayer modes.These are based around 12 different tier one forces from around the world. Each outfit has its own weapons, tactics and special abilities, the latter engaged with the left bumper button. Polish GROM operatives are the all-rounders, toting HK 416 assault rifles and rocket launchers, while the fast-paced US OGA operatives have lightweight HK MP7s. In essence then, they're all covering the familiar military shooter classes, with snipers, heavy machine gunners and speedy recon guys all present and correct. Each different class has its own support option, too. The Canadian JTF2 can call in a Blackhawk helicopter that hovers about the conquest areas, offering both an aerial spawn point and a mini-gun placement for deadly support fire. Meanwhile the Australian SASR point man can call in a devastating air burst mortar strike.The big new feature is Fire Teams. Reflecting the tactics of tier one operatives, it's possible to join up with a friend to take on the maps together. As with Battlefield squads, members will be able to spawn in on each other immediately connecting after any death; they'll also be able to share ammo and health between themselves (but interestingly, only heavy gunners will be able to share ammo outside of the Fire Teams, so this is a relationship of resource as much as anything else). However, Fire Teams also get XP for sticking together and watching each other's backs, with partners getting a percentage of every kill made by the other player; to ensure the relationship can be sustained on the battlefield, your Fire Team twin has a glowing line around them, which can even be spotted through walls. And when one Fire Team member is downed, the survivor can get their comrade back into the game instantly by taking out the killer – an act of vengeance that also earns plenty of points.Our demo map is in a battered pirate village in Somalia, a close collection of crumbling buildings and narrow alleyways, dotted with broken down trucks. We're playing the Sector Control Mode, essentially Conquest, with a set of three bases that have to be captured and protected from the enemy. It's a close, tense level, with loads of nooks and crannies and three major choke points around a couple of dilapidated houses complete with handy first-floor snipe holes. However, this is one for the run-and-gun crew and it's hyper-accelerated shooter fun.What gets you about Warfighter straightaway is that it's even sharper, harder and more clinical than Battlefield 3. Weapon sounds are dull thuds and staccato ticks rather than meaty Hollywood blasts, while stepping into enemy sights is often followed by relentless, sickening volleys of remorseless bullet fire that send brick dust spraying into the atmosphere, and health meters plummeting fast. The authenticity is cruel, but thrilling. Every step must be measured and certain weapons kick back like firecrackers, the bullets spraying like a leaky hose. Any comparisons likely to be made with Black Ops 2 when the titles are released this autumn will be very generalistic: these are two very different games.And the visuals, rendered into pitiless life by the complex Frostbite 2 engine, are grittily sublime. Arcs of blood, atomised brick surfaces, sun beams scorching through damaged brickwork… This is a game that is crafted in every way to appear authentic. Whether or not we want to glamorise these unaccountable forces is one thing, but Medal of Honor: Warfighter - in multiplayer at least - is exciting, challenging stuff. There is balancing to do, but with Fire Team it feels inclusive and social while taking no prisoners.And really, this is a 'brand' slowly growing in to itself. Warfighter presents us with a world it is respectful of and passionate about, a world we genuinely glimpse at understanding. The game's big challenge is conveying this to us so that we want to play in it.Medal of Honor: Warfighter is due out on PS3, PC and Xbox 360 on 26 October. Keith Stuart traveled to E3 as a guest of Electronic Arts.
It's Thursday - the final day of E3! Make sure you stay tuned to our coverage! Oh, and how are you, by the way?
Microsoft's reimagining of Windows is nearly done. The Windows 8 Release Preview, now available for download, is the last test version before the final build which will go to Microsoft's hardware partners, on a date expected in "about 2 months", according to Windows chief Steven Sinofsky.This is a remarkable release, and represents Microsoft's effort to escape the prison it has created for itself in 27 years of Windows (Windows 1.0 appeared in November 1985). Windows is the world's most popular operating system on PCs and laptops, but the buzz in today's computing landscape is elsewhere, in mobile and in tablets – mainly Apple's iPad – which offer users a better experience.The core operating system is locked down and therefore more secure; apps install with a tap from a download store, rather than with complex setup routines; the battery lasts all day; the device itself is lightweight, portable and shareable, in contrast to bulky laptops with flaps for screens.Windows 8 is Microsoft's answer. The company has taken its existing Windows operating system, with all its strengths and all its problems, and parked it in a box it now calls Desktop. Next, it has created a new touch-friendly, mobile, secure, operating system complete with its own app store.Microsoft has carefully avoided giving this a name, preferring that we should just think of it a Windows, but the new platform is called the Windows Runtime and the design style Metro.Metro is not, on the whole, something which Microsoft's existing customers want. Windows 7 succeeded because it was unequivocally better than Windows Vista: faster, more reliable, and with useful innovations like its improved taskbar from which you can launch applications.Metro by contrast is new and unfamiliar, and delivers little obvious benefit when installed on a desktop or laptop with keyboard and mouse but no touch capability. Put Windows 8 on a slate though, and it starts to make sense and come to life.Even on a legacy PC, Windows 8 improves markedly once you learn the basics of navigation. Leaving aside Metro, Windows 8 benefits from three years of engineering improvements since Windows 7 in 2009, resulting in a faster, smoother experience.Nevertheless, the bifurcation of Windows comes at a cost. Desktops apps generally have no knowledge of Metro apps and vice versa. This is confusing, particularly with Internet Explorer 10 (IE10), which exists in both Metro and Desktop versions.The two versions do not share bookmarks (favourites) or cookies, so you can sign into a site such as Amazon on the Metro side, then open it on the Desktop side and find you are not signed in. It is also easy to lose a web page, or to open it twice by mistake.Windows 8 in detailThe Windows 8 experience starts with the installer, where Microsoft has done an excellent job, judging by our experience on a slate, a desktop clean install, a laptop upgrade from Windows 7, and on a virtual machine. All went smoothly. Be warned though: if you install the Release Preview, you cannot uninstall it, nor upgrade it to the final release.Choose a colour scheme and you are in, presented with the blocky Windows 8 Start menu, which runs full screen and cannot be reverted to the Windows 7 pop-up style Start menu.This moment is tough for new users. They click a Metro app and cannot see how to quit it. They find the desktop, but wonder where the Start button is. "I'm not quite sure what's happening," said one victim.Microsoft knows there is a problem, and has as-yet unspecified plans to assist users. "We will be sharing more about specific steps the company is taking to make sure customers start off on the right foot with their Windows 8 PCs. We have confidence that people will quickly find the new paradigms to be second-nature," a spokesman told the Guardian.That said, there are only a few basics to learn. On a desktop or laptop, you mouse to the bottom left corner for the Start screen, or the bottom right corner for the Charms bar, a vertical bar which gives access to settings (including those for the current Metro app), Start screen, Search, Sharing and Devices. Mouse to top left brings up a thumbnail preview of running Metro apps. Touch users swipe from the right for Charms, or from the left to switch apps.Another key point is that within a Metro app, a right-click brings up app menus at top and bottom of the screen. Touch users swipe from top or bottom. Here though, mouse users are disadvantaged, since sometimes a right-click has another meaning. Right-click while editing an appointment in the Calendar, for example, and you get a pop-up menu for paste or selection. Still, there is usually some dead area you can right-click to get what you want.The new Start menu itself is oversized for most desktop screens. Legacy desktop applications have ugly small icons. Metro apps have Live Tiles, first seen on Windows phone, which populate with data drawn from the app, such as a summary of recent mail, or a photo from your library.Live Tiles are an interesting concept, but tend not to be aesthetically pleasing since they display random data. They are also distracting, which is a curious contrast to Microsoft's Immersive UI commitment. You can turn off individual live tiles according to preference.The best way to use the Start Menu, if you have a keyboard, is to start typing. Matching shortcuts appear. Strictly, this is not a feature of the Start menu as such, but a feature of search in Windows 8. You can also display an All apps view, which partially restores the grouping of the old Start menu, but with headings rather than with an expanding tree.Metro appsMicrosoft is emphasising Metro and its apps rather than the Desktop in Windows 8. It is important to consider them appropriately, not as desktop apps that are simplistic and lacking in features, but as touch apps that work smoothly without a keyboard or mouse.Apps installed by default include Mail, Calendar, People, Maps, Weather, Internet Explorer, Music and Video players, Weather, and several apps based on Bing search: News, Sports, Travel and Finance. Used on a touch slate, the supplied apps generally work well though few are exciting.Mail connects to Hotmail, Google or Exchange, but not in this preview to standard POP3 or IMAP, which is an annoying limitation. Hotmail and Google mail work well, but connecting to Exchange can be problematic. Mail is particularly fussy about the way Exchange is set up and the security certificates it uses. If you use another mail provider, the best solution currently is to link it with Hotmail, which is not ideal.Several apps, such as People, aggregate multiple accounts in a manner familiar to Windows Phone users. Connect your Windows Live account with Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and Google, and you can view all your contacts together and see their social status updates. Microsoft has implemented this nicely, presuming that it is something you want to do. You can make a case for Windows 8 as the most social of the major operating systems.The Bing apps are a pleasant surprise, drawing together data from a variety of sources into a pleasing and swipe-friendly format. There is nothing that you could not also get from a web browser, but the user experience is better. The Weather app is also nicely done, with an attractive visual forecast and more detailed information as you scroll right.Head for the Windows Store, and you download more apps, all free during the preview period. Slim pickings so far, but apps do include an Amazon Kindle reader, travel information from National Rail Enquiries, some excellent casual games such as Tap 'n' Pop and Cut the Rope, and productivity apps such as Evernote and Box (an alternative to Skydrive for online storage).Another app called the Xbox Companion is worth calling out, since it is really a preview of Xbox SmartGlass, announced at the E3 press conference on 4 June. SmartGlass is Microsoft's answer to Nintendo's forthcoming Wii U, an app that works as an interactive remote for Xbox.You can use the Companion to navigate the Xbox dashboard, select videos or music, or view information related to the game or video you are watching.  The Music app in Windows 8 is also likely to change. Microsoft has announced Xbox Music, with 30 million tracks for download or subscription play, to work on Windows 8, Xbox and Windows Phone.SmartGlass and Xbox Music are strategically important, since Microsoft is at last making an effort to integrate its various devices, from Xbox to Windows Phone to the PC, into an integrated system.IE10 Metro has a key new feature. It is meant to be plug-in free, but Adobe Flash is baked in, not as a plug-in as such, but as a component which will be updated through Windows Update. This is intended as a legacy support feature, and does not work on all web sites, but only those on a compatibility list maintained by Microsoft. Nevertheless, it is useful for YouTube and major news sites. Oddly Microsoft still has not support for its own Silverlight technology in IE10 Metro.Metro supports a split-view, provided you have sufficient display resolution, where you have two apps side by side in approximately a 75%-25% view. The split app can be the desktop, which conceptually is a single app in Windows 8.It is the earliest of days for Windows 8 Metro apps. This is a new platform, and everything is a preview. At the same time, the success of the new Windows depends on the apps that will appear. This is especially true for WindowsRT, a version of Windows 8 for ARM processors, which will only run Metro apps, Microsoft Office, and whatever Desktop apps Microsoft chooses to bundle. Installation of new Desktop apps on WindowsRT is blocked.Even today though, if you can persuade Mail to talk to your mail server, these Metro apps, plus the web browser and Microsoft Office, are sufficient to get most work done.These are preview apps, and when pressed, Microsoft will not commit to how they will look in the final release. "All Windows 8 apps are intended as previews," we were told. Apps may also continue to be tweaked beyond the release to manufacture deadline, since they can be updated from the Store.The new Windows DesktopMetro is all very well, but it is no more than a distraction, or worse an irritation, for Desktop users. Is there anything in Windows 8 that will persuade Windows 7 users to upgrade?There are a few things. One is Hyper-V, Microsoft's hypervisor. A hypervisor lets you create and run virtual machines, PCs emulated in software so that you can run different operating systems or multiple Windows machines on one box. Hyper-V comes from Microsoft's server business, and works much better than Virtual PC, the hypervisor in Windows 7.There are also tweaks to Windows utilities. Explorer now has a ribbon in place of drop-down menus. The Windows Task Manager now has a richer graphical display and more features.The taskbar, which in Windows 7 can only live on one display, can now be displayed on all screens if you have multiple monitors, with an option to show only applications that are active on that screen.Another change is that the Start menu can appear on any screen, which is handy for Windows 8, since the Start Menu completely fills the screen on which it is used.File History keeps an automated backup of documents, letting you recover earlier versions.Microsoft has further changes to make to the appearance of the Desktop, beyond what is in the Release Preview. The as-yet unseen new style with be more Metro-like, with squared corners and no transparency.Will you want Windows 8?No review of Windows 8 is complete without bringing out what is worse than before. The Immersive UI in Metro has advantages, and lets you bury yourself in a book or game without distraction, but you also lose some valuable features, like a constantly-visible clock and notification area, the ability to display multiple apps on the screen in the size you prefer, and even features that Windows users have taken for granted for years like drag-and-drop.A problem in Windows 8 is that there is no longer a convenient view of all running applications, as provided by the taskbar in Windows 7. The taskbar shows only Desktop apps.If you display thumbnails of running apps using the new gestures (or Windows Key plus Tab), then you only get Metro apps, plus a single thumbnail for all Desktop apps. You do get a unified view with the old Alt-Tab, but this means repeated presses to get where you want, and does not work with touch.Whether or not the Start Menu is an improvement is a matter for debate, but you do lose the convenience hierarchical view in Windows 7. More seriously, the switch from Desktop to Metro every time you need Start is jarring. The Desktop area and taskbar is your saviour here, letting you add shortcuts and avoid Metro Start.Another issue for Desktop users is that some file types, such as PDF and images, are set to open in Metro apps. This can be reset so that Desktop apps are used instead, but the procedure is not obvious to non-technical users.If you are a touch user, the big issue is that you will likely still need Desktop applications, but that these work no better with touch than Windows 7 (though Microsoft is making touch-friendly changes to the new version of Office). A frequent annoyance is that many applications do not play nicely with the on-screen keyboard, and you find yourself typing into the void.DVD support has been removed from Windows 8, and if you want Media Centre, the piece that plays broadcast digital TV, you will have to download it as a paid-for upgrade. It is possible though that OEMs will bundle DVD support with their hardware.None of these problems is a showstopper, but Windows 8 does have more than its fair share of annoyances.The truth is that settled Windows 7 (or Windows XP) users with traditional PCs or laptops will get little benefit from Windows 8, and will have to endure some pain to learn its quirks.That said, there are other classes of user for whom Windows 8 will make sense. The most obvious one is new users who buy hardware designed for Windows 8, such as the early examples from Acer, Asus and Samsung shown at the Computex show in Taipei later in June.Windows 8 will also have value for power users, whether gamers or productivity users with multiple screens and numerous demanding applications. The engineering in Windows 8 is excellent, both on the Desktop and Metro side, and the benefit from this exceeds the pain of the various annoyances.Making sense of Windows 8Windows 8 is a radically new version of Windows. Microsoft is turning its back on the WIMP (Windows, Icons, Menus, Pointer) computer interface in favour of a new touch-centric, single-focus model which has more in common with the iPad or Windows Phone than with traditional Windows.Given that it is doing this, it is perhaps remarkable that the old Desktop Windows works as well as it does. Most of the time, you can ignore Metro and get on with your work.While that may seem faint praise, the inverse view is that if Microsoft pulls this off, it will have turned on a pin and transformed its client and consumer operating system from one that is hopelessly bogged down in legacy and unsuited for modern mobile computing, to one that is beautifully engineered for the next generation of cloud-connected devices.Like it or not, that is what Windows 8 is about. It is well executed, but it is not designed to be a better Windows 7, and nor is it. Rather, it is a means of keeping faith with the past while moving to a new model of computing. Controversy will continue, but there will be nothing out there that does the same job so well.
In the last two years, the unstoppable juggernaut that is Call of Duty has begun to attract negative mutterings. According to the cynics, it has become samey, perhaps falling into a tried-and-tested comfort-zone. Activision, clearly, has heeded such whisperings, and had a word with developer Treyarch.And the result is that the next iteration of the insanely popular first-person shooter, Call of Duty: Black Ops 2, will dare to break the rigid mould of its predecessors, adding branching storylines, gameplay choices and even sandbox-style missions to its single-player game.Combined with a leap from the Cold War to the near future, Treyarch's strand of the huge-selling franchise, at least, looks set to receive an invigorating jolt just when it was in danger of slipping into comfortable somnolence.At E3 2012, Activision and Treyarch showcased two of the game's missions, and while they preserved CoD's Hollywood action-style vibe, both markedly diverged from CoD's usual single-path inevitability.The first one was the more conventional: a typically blockbusting and spectacular story mission, in which you and your squad (in 2025, when the game is set), are escorting the (female) US president to a meeting at the Bonaventure Hotel in Downtown Los Angeles (in real life, a stone's throw from the LA Convention Centre where E3 takes place).Ambushed on the freeway (anyone who has ever been to LA more than once should know to steer well clear of the freeways in the vicinity of Downtown), your armoured vehicle hits an ambush – suddenly, helicopters are crashing around and over you, motorbikes are being catapulted to the ground level far below, and you and your party must proceed on foot.Amid the typical welter of chaos and gunfire – atmospherically speaking, Black Ops 2 throws kitchen-sink intensity at you, as is customary – your first task is to jump into another crashed vehicle and man a Stinger missile battery, in order to take down incoming hostile aircraft.Providing a first glimpse of the futuristic weaponry that Black Ops 2's 2025 setting allows Treyarch to have fun with, it was highly automated – you basically had to move it around until target-locks were achieved on incoming waves of fighter-planes, before unleashing a barrage of missiles.The next portion of the mission introduced the element of choice which, while commonplace in other first-person shooters, is a first for CoD. Regrouping with your squad at the edge of the destroyed freeway, you're offered the option – simply by moving to different points – of staying on the freeway and providing sniper cover, or rappelling down to ground level for some more conventional CoD thick-of-the battle action.Choosing to snipe, another futuristic weapon was unveiled – a sniper with a scope that could heat-sense through metal and concrete, with the kick of a mule. We took out incoming enemies (directed to an extent by those on the ground) before rejoining the rest of the squad, proceeding with the president in tow on foot. General banter revealed that the villain behind the attack was called Menedez, and he had apparently achieved some sort of control over at least part of the US Army.All the while, the squad had been in contact with a woman called Anderson, flying an FA-38 hover-jet and providing air support. After commandeering another vehicle – cueing a sequence of on-rails shooting – another assault saw Anderson landing, before one of the LA Downtown skyscrapers came crashing down.With Anderson knocked out, it was up to us to jump into the FA-38, and fly around (again, a simple task of steering and targeting, with the computer controlling height-variations, making it much less fiddly to fly than, for example, the planes in Battlefield), taking out incoming planes. We ended up back on foot, amid an impressively wrecked Downtown LA – a fate that many would wish on one of the most unloved areas of the mega-city.Away from the story and into the sandboxNext up was a so-called Strikeforce mission – a complete (and therefore welcome) departure from anything we've seen in the single-player element of a CoD game before. Indeed, it was much more reminiscent of the game's multiplayer side.Treyarch explained that is one of a number of missions that exist away from the main storyline arc, which can choose to play whenever you want. Not that they are totally separate – the single-player game's ending will vary according to whether you succeed or fail in the Strikeforce missions.And, for the first time in CoD, the Strikeforce missions (which are squad-based, so you have to work to keep at least some squad-members alive) introduce the concept of failure – no longer is it a case of merely respawning when you die.Set in Singapore's docks, the mission (entitled Keppel Terminal) set you and your squad the objective of working your way to a container ship, calling in an airstrike and destroying it. How you chose to achieve that was entirely up to you.You could take a completely hands-off approach, zooming out to an Overwatch view, setting waypoints for your squad (according to what enemies were incoming), and spawning items like machine-gun-equipped quad-copters, battlefield drones and the like to help them. Or you could zoom into any soldier or piece of battlefield kit and take direct control.Keppel Terminal may have lacked the cinematic Michael Bay spectaculars of the story missions, but it was every bit as intense, with waves of enemies and all the futuristic battlefield toys that you had access to thrown right back at you. The demonstrator jumped into battlefield drones, quad-copters and the like, and powered through multiple objectives, such as taking out missile defence systems in order to facilitate the air-strike at the end.What was striking about Keppel Terminal – and presumably extends to all the Strikeforce missions – was that it required a strategic approach. Which, of course, has always been a feature of the various CoD games' more sophisticated and elaborate multiplayer modes, but has never impinged on the single-player game – you've always been told what to do and where to go in the past.If people still exist who play CoD strictly offline, the Strikeforce missions will introduce to the joys of online play. With the added bonus of adding a random element to the ending you'll get, which in turn adds another layer of replay value.Black Ops 2, then – even on the evidence of a mere two missions – adds a vast amount of gameplay diversity to the CoD blueprint, addressing the biggest recent criticism of the franchise. And it does so without letting the sometimes excruciating levels of intensity slip, even for a moment.In the past, Treyarch has been seen as the least talented of the two developers who take yearly turns at churning out CoD games, but it had to step up to the plate when Infinity Ward suffered its well-publicised meltdown. The added responsibility, it seems, suits it. If the rest of Black Ops 2 turns out as well as the two missions we saw, Infinity Ward will do well to match it.•Steve Boxer travelled to E3 with Activision
Halo 4 marks the return of Master Chief – the closest Microsoft has to a homespun mascot – brought out of the cryogenic sleep into which he was lowered at the end of the previous game for a new tour of the galaxy, albeit one viewed down the barrel of a laser gun.But Microsoft is hoping for more than a straightforward comeback that does little more than scratch consumers' nostalgic itch. Halo 4 instead aims to establish the tone and ambition for the next decade's worth of universe building, the iconic space-marine carrying a greater weight of hope and expectation than ever before.For one, Halo 4 needs to prove that 343 Studios – the crack development team that Microsoft assembled to handle the series after the departure of its creator – has what it takes.With 230 staff working on the game, six months ahead of its release, it's a significant investment of human resources, talent and finance. The game also needs to show that there is fresh innovation left in its particular boundaries – both narrative and functional – while ensuring the experience remains true to Halo-ness in order to not alienate its fanbase."It's been a case of finding the series' strengths and differentiators and then calculating where we can add to that recipe," explains Halo's franchise development director, Frank O'Connor"Halo 4 is laying the foundations for the next decade of the franchise and so we need to strike the balance between being bold and ambitious but also grounded in our identity."That ambition is clear to see in Halo 4's structural edifice, which sees the story begin in the single player campaign and then continue into the multiplayer. It's more than a tokenistic design.Rather, Halo 4 has been structured like a TV series. For the first few months following release, a "Season One" of daily downloadable co-op missions will be released. Every week five co-op missions will be launched, sequentially continuing the story of the main game, allowing up to four player to join together to, in Halo marketing speak terms, continue the fight.Players who presume this is a pure moneymaking exercise are mistaken. Season One will be free to everyone who buys the game, a gigantic amount of content to augment the on-disc experience. As each discrete mission can take upwards of 20 minutes to play through – longer if you're doing so alone with AI back up – it's a wide and generous proposition."A single season will run for months, not weeks," says O'Connor. "It's a significant amount of content: both gameplay and story-wise. And the story will matter. Characters you know and love will be effected in dramatic ways, the story driving the universe forward in a meaningful way."While Microsoft is going to wait and see how Season One performs before committing to a subsequent series, O'Connor is hopeful that the team's creative generosity will pay off. "We believe that players will play episodes day by day – it's short, sharp gaming, something entirely different I think."The hub for all of this content is the Infinity, a giant spaceship that forms your base of operations. Combative multiplayer is slotted into this narrative setting as you take on virtual rivals in on-board simulations, training for the real 'Spartan Ops' missions that form the weekly content drops.Aboard the Infinity you build and customise a character, earning experience points for everything that you do which feed into unlocking new armour and augments.It's a strong and fascinating set-up, and indicates where a great deal of 343's creative energy has been focused. The question of whether the studio can bring the same innovation and freshness of vision to the fine detail play remains to be seen, especially as this is where the greater risks lay in terms of upsetting the Halo faithful.Still, at an E3 defined by conservatism in a disproportionately high number of first-person shooting titles, this kind of structural innovation is a good start.•Simon Parkin travelled to E3 with Microsoft
All eyes are traditionally on the platform holders when the E3 press conferences rumble round each year. We all expect some big news and stunning first-party game debuts from Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo, and at least a shiver of new-hardware excitement to make us feel good about the future of gaming and give the third-party publishers something to work with.This year, though, in the absence of really anything new and impressive at all from the Big Three, it's been left to the publishers to inject some energy into the show.At its press conference on Monday, Ubisoft enlivened a very conservative first day of E3 with both the most exciting sequel (Assassin's Creed 3) and the only impressive-looking new game of the show so far, Watch Dogs.As ever, it was a mixture of the sublime and the ridiculous, with some excellent games and super hosting offset by an astonishingly irritating co-host and an awkward battle-of-the-sexes eSports demonstration that left everyone feeling confused and vaguely unsettled, but after Microsoft's yawn-inducing showing and EA's reliance on number of big-name sequels, Ubisoft's conference showed a publisher at the top of its game.The conference opened with Just Dance 4 – a crowd-pleasing game, or at least it would have been in front of a different crowd. Flo Rida turned up with an absurd bling-studded microphone to complement the obligatory selection of beautiful dancers, adding the first touch of lunacy to the French publisher's yearly showcase.But the real WTF moment came moments later in a demo of Far Cry 3, which opened with what appeared to be first-person sex, with a henna-striped topless woman riding the player in first-person as what looked like some kind of tribal ritual, with blood sacrifices and smoking fires in the background.Things only got weirder: as the Far Cry 3 demonstration went on, we saw a tiger being used as a weapon before being filled with bullets and graphic neck-stabbing violence topped off with a run through a burning house while screens arranged around the walls showed various profanities.As the audience tried to collect itself, we saw the player stabbed with a poisoned knife, sending them off on a colourful hallucinogenic trip involving a gender-morphing stripper and fairly graphic suicide imagery. It was… special.After watching a guy demonstrate Smartglass for what felt like two hours at Microsoft's conference earlier that morning, nobody was really prepared for that.The co-op gameplay shown off at Sony's conference later on Monday evening looked distinctly unimpressive, but Far Cry 3 had already made its impression upon E3 by that point. Another game that cropped up at both Sony's conference and Ubisoft's own was Assassin's Creed 3, a big-name sequel that stands out in a landscape full of big-name sequels by virtue of sheer slickness, visual impact and attention to detail.Earlier in the day we saw protagonist Conor wading through thick snow and  clambering fluidly through the treetops, leaping from branch to branch; later we saw him at the helm in a jaw-dropping naval battle, guiding a ship through choppy, stormy seas and loosing cannon fire at other vessels. It looked genuinely stunning, and restored the reserves of anticipation around the franchise that had been depleted by Assassin's Creed 2, Brotherhood and Revelations arriving in quick succession.A new trailer for Splinter Cell: Blacklist – showcased at Microsoft's conference early on Monday – showed a new direction for one of the publisher's older franchises, casting Sam Fisher as an anti-terrorist operative with enormous resources at his disposal rather than a stealthy lone infiltrator with extreme personal problems.But Ubisoft threw its weight behind the Wii U, too, showing a lengthy multiplayer gameplay demo of Rayman Legends with four players using Wii remotes and one player using the Wii U's Gamepad to help or hinder them. The game shares Rayman Origins' sublime 2D art style and, by the looks of it, its platforming challenge too.But a new game for Wii U drew the most attention: Zombi U, a survival horror shooter set in London after a viral zombie outbreak. It boasts some powerful imagery – seeing a zombified member of the Queen's Guard lurch towards civilians is a novel twist after so much American-dominated zombie fiction – and innovative gameplay, using the touchscreen controller as a scanner, a map and much else.After playing Zombi U on the show floor later, I think it's fair to say that the standout game for Nintendo's new console at this point – although the presence of any classic Nintendo franchises apart from New Super Mario Bros would probably change that.Ubisoft closed its conference with probably the most exciting thing to happen at E3 so far: the unveiling of Watch Dogs, a matrix-inspired open-world action game about a group of hacktivists fighting against government control of information technology.This is the only major new game at E3 that didn't leak beforehand, and it looked fantastic, like a futuristic Grand Theft Auto with touches of Necromancer and, of course, The Matrix.It's usually EA that makes the most noise at this yearly cavalcade of games industry giants, but Ubisoft's much stronger line-up this year had made it the standout publisher of the show.It had a huge presence at all three of the platform holders' conferences as well as its own, ensuring that its games are omnipresent at E3 2012. It's in an enormously strong position for the end of the year.•Keza MacDonald is UK Games Editor atIGN.com
Age:Launched this week.Appearance:32 digits, separated by seven colons, in blocks of four.I'm guessing IPv6 is short for something.It's&nbsp;short for Internet Protocol version 6.And what's that?It's the internet's new address&nbsp;book.The internet has an address book?Of a sort. Every machine connected to the web has an Internet Protocol (IP) number – kind of like a postcode – enabling other computers to find and interact with it. The vast majority of present devices use 32-bit IP numbers from Internet Protocol version 4.Which is?Which is, if you like, the tatty, torn and ink-stained address book with the naff floral pattern we have been using since way back in the&nbsp;1980s.What's wrong with it?It's just too small, designed for a world before toddlers had twitter accounts. As of February last year every possible address has been allocated to one or other of the world's Regional Internet Registries, and they're filling up faster than ever.Because more people are getting online?More people and – worse still – more things, from phones and games consoles to cars and washing machines. Networking giant Cisco predicts that by 2016 online devices will outnumber human beings three to one.So how much better is IPv6 than the current system?More than a trillion, trillion times. The 128-bit system raises the stock of possible IP numbers from a paltry 2^32 – about 4.3bn – under IPv4, to a mind-boggling 2^128 – or&nbsp;340,282,366, 920,938,463,463,374,607,431,768,211,456.How do you even say that number?It's 340 undecillion-something-something-something, or&nbsp;enough for every person alive to have well over&nbsp;a trillion personal internet devices each.Is that ever likely to happen?Probably not. But more than 1,000 each isn't inconceivable.Really?Really. Scientists have already begun to put internet-ready microchips into household goods including medicine bottles, clothes and food packaging. It may only be a matter of time until we're sharing the internet with every individual hair on our own heads.Do say:"If you need me I'll be at fe74:0000:000e:00ee:0202:b3ff:fe1e:8329."Don't say:"Uh-oh. The cat's gone offline."
Google has announced several new features for its mapping services, including 3D cityscapes in Google Earth, and an offline mode for its Google Maps Android application.The announcements today (6 June) will be seen as a pre-emptive strike against Apple, which at its WWDC conference next week is expected to announce that it is ditching Google Maps in favour of its own mapping data and services in its upcoming iOS 6 software.Google has four separate pieces of mapping news. The 3D cityscapes will roll out in Google Earth mobile apps, while the Android version of Google Maps will get the ability to download maps for offline usage in more than 100 countries in the coming weeks.Meanwhile, an initiative called Google Street View Trekker will send rucksack-toting Googlers off to photograph places that aren't accessible to Street View cars, trikes and snowmobiles, while Google is expanding its Map Maker tool to 12 new countries for people to help improve the accuracy of its maps – although this doesn't include the UK yet.Some big announcements, just days before WWDC. Not that Google is framing the news in terms of any rivalry with Apple."It's covering a number of things that we've been doing, and perhaps haven't talked about as much as we should have done," said Ed Parsons, geospatial technologist at Google, in an interview with The Guardian."There's a lot going on in mapping right now, and we wanted to be able to tell our story," added Brian McClendon, vice president of engineering for Google Maps, in a follow-up conference call with a group of European journalists. "We're very proud of how far we've come in comprehensiveness, accuracy and usability."3D cityscapes3D is the most attention-grabbing announcement today, although it's worth re-stressing that it's part of the Google Earth mobile apps, not Google Maps.The cityscapes will be introduced initially into the Google Earth apps for Android and iOS, with the desktop version getting them at a later point. Google says that by the end of 2012, it will have 3D coverage for "metropolitan areas with a combined population of 300 million people".3D models of buildings have been in Google Earth since its early days, said Parsons, but the company has found a way to automate the modelling process using aerial photography. "We can automatically create 3D models not just of buildings, but trees, structures like large monuments and so on," he said.Parsons added that while most 3D in Google Earth has been in North America so far, "we are going to be rolling this out in EMEA over the next few months. The same technology is coming to Europe, and you'll be able to see some UK cities in 3D."Why, though? 3D cities might look pretty, but what are the actual benefits to this kind of technology besides swooping virtually over San Francisco or London to show off a smartphone or tablet?"Behind the scenes, this is very valuable for future applications like augmented reality," said Parsons."It gives you the ability to attach information to objects in three dimensions. For example, I'm currently sitting on the sixth floor of an office in Soho, and that's three-dimensional information. Increasingly, mapping will be more and more 3D both online, and on mobile devices."It's notable that the latter are getting the new 3D feature first: a sign of Google's priorities when it comes to rolling out new mapping functionality across Google Maps and Google Earth."We think mapping and geographical information is probably most useful when you're mobile," said Parsons. "We have been mobile-first in Google Maps for quite a while," added McClendon. "The largest consumers of map data in the future will be mobile."Offline mappingThose priorities are also reflected in the offline Google Maps for Android announcement, which means people will be able to download the map for a specific city or area before travelling there, and save on data usage/costs when they arrive.Parsons says it's one of the most-demanded features from Google Maps users. McClendon said that Google is capping download sizes to around 50MB – "You can get almost all of the San Francisco Bay area… The detail you'll get down to is all of the streets, all of the labels and all of the POIs [points of interest]."Its launch may also encourage more Android users to download the standalone Google Maps app from the Google Play store, rather than wait for their operator / handset maker to push out an update to the Android OS (and thus its embedded maps app).All of this begs the question: what about iOS? All concerned at Google are playing a straight bat, as you'd imagine."The maps application on iOS has always been developed by Apple, who made use of our mapping tiles in the background," said Parsons. "That's always been something that's in their control."McClendon was equally diplomatic on iOS: "It's an excellent platform and we see it as one of the many devices that we'd like to provide Google Maps on."Of course, Google could launch a standalone Google Maps app for iOS, just as it has on Android. But it will be interesting to see any Apple WWDC announcements on its own mapping plans include offline access to match Android.Amid the interest in the 3D Google Earth cities and offline Android maps, the Street View Trekker news risks getting sidelined, but it's noteworthy too.Once, the technology for capturing images for Google Street View had to be carted around in a car. Then it was shrunk down for a tricycle. Now it can be squeezed into a rucksack, enabling Googlers to explore areas on foot (think canyons, mountains, national parks…) and capture them for Street View too."Up Snowdon, down the Grand Canyon, out into the wilds of England, Scotland and Wales… We can take people to places they wouldn't visit," said Parsons. "It's a fantastic opportunity for remote field trips, too."From cars to tricycles to rucksacks. How long before the Street View capture technology fits in a smartphone, and could thus be used by anyone?Parsons said this is already happening, sort of. He cites a product launched by Google six months ago, without much fanfare, calledPhototours, which takes photos that people have taken of landmarks and stitches them together. Not quite a user-generated Street View, but a step in that direction.Contextual cartographyGoogle's announcements today play into a wider picture of how digital maps are evolving: the interconnection between the actual mapping data – 3D images included – and all the other data and content floating about in the cloud with location tags.How to make sense of that, and produce useful maps that also serve up whatever information and/or content is relevant to that particular person at that particular time?"For cartography, it's never been what you include on the map, but what you take off that's important," said Parsons. "We're now taking that beyond traditional cartography: if you're looking through your augmented reality glasses, what information would be relevant to you at that point in time?"A reference there to Google'sProject Glass– the augmented reality spectacles that chief executive Larry Page has been spotted wearing in public several times this year."We're perhaps getting to the point where every map is unique for every individual for their particular task," said Parsons. "A map I would see might be different to a map you'd see."Attention will turn now to see what Apple has up its sleeves, but Google is clearly keen to be ready for any competition. "While we may never create the perfect map, we're going to get much closer than we are today," said McClendon.
Odd genre combinations can really work – see the wonderful Puzzle Quest which seamlessly marries the match-three puzzler with the role-playing adventure. The latest example is Orgarhythm, from Japanese developers ACQUIRE and Neilo (a new studio set up by Space Channel 5 and Rez veteran, Takashi Hirai). This is essentially a real-time strategy game in which you guide colour-coded warriors into intense skirmishes with AI foes.However, there's no pointing and clicking here. Instead, utilising the touchscreen of the PlayStation Vita, the game requires players to tap commands onto the display, staying in time to a pounding techno beat. For every encounter, you tap once to select a colour from Red, Blue or Yellow (each is more effective against a specific hue, in a sort of rock-paper-scissors dynamic), then again to go for a specific weapon. Now you slide your finger across the screen to direct your troops in the direction you want them to head.The skill is in keeping up with the relentless tempo, getting into a rhythm of spotting enemy units, remembering which colour will defeat them and then attacking, over and over again. Both melee and ranged weapons are available, and extra XP is gathered by staying in time and gaining 'excellent' ratings. And naturally, more XP leads to levelling up which augments the strengths and abilities of your units.The isometric visuals aren't exactly thrilling, and the action gets repetitive, but it's strangely compelling, and the small, but diverse environments are designed to encourage score-chasing replays. There's also a two-player co-op mode and multiplayer competitive options.PublisherXSeedis lining up a North American release for the summer – there's no word yet on a European date. In a neat touch, the company is asking budding musicians to submit new tracks for any subsequent DLC. This is very muchthegame of E3 for people who never thought they'd see Rez and Warcraft combined with a Guitar Hero content model.
It's the same conversation everyone has when they bump into friends and colleagues on the vast showfloor of E3: what interesting stuff have you seen so far?Here are the games that British journalists are talking about while running between demo appointments or slumped in the media room trying to get Wi-Fi access. And the good news: not a sequel in sight!ZombiU (Ubisoft, Wii U)Forget Nintendo's in-house titles, the Wii U game everyone loves is this survival horror shooter from Ubisoft Montpellier, the studio behind From Dust and Beyond Good &amp; Evil. Set in London during an undead apocalypse, the game requires players to say alive amid the chaos. But here's the interesting part: if your character dies, you start again as a different survivor and have to track down your previous – now zombified – self to grab back your inventory items. The term 'permadeath' is now furiously trending around the halls and corridors of the LA convention centre.The game also exhibits one of the catchphrases of the Nintendo press conference: asymmetrical gaming. In the two-player mode, the participant with the GamePad becomes the zombie master, spawning monsters all over the map, while the other has to stay alive. It's gruesome, bloody fun and several writers I know have missed appointments because they won't leave the demo stand.Star Wars 1313 (LucasArts, PC, next-gen consoles)Uncharted meets Star Wars? That's what everyone is calling this forthcoming third-person action adventure from LucasArts. It's being shown as an early pre-alpha PC build by the publisher, and the visuals are so astonishing everyone assumes we won't see it on consoles until the next generation.As for plot details, it's very sketchy at the moment, but the action follows a bounty hunter as he shoots and climbs his way through the seedy lower levels of Coruscant. Developed at LucasArts' San Fran studio with the help of Industrial Light and Magic, this could be the title that makes us all care about Star Wars action games again.Beyond: Two Souls (Sony/Quantic Dream, PS3)The latest adventure from David Cage, the writer and director of Heavy Rain, looks to be another dark, downbeat thriller, with a whirlpool of emotional subtext. Lead character Jodie Holmes is a troubled girl, on the run from the cops and accompanied everywhere by a mysterious supernatural entity. We have a preview coming up so we'll leave it there, but expect plenty of Quantic Dream atmosphere and drama, aided by a compelling voice-over performance by Juno actor, Ellen Page in the lead role.Watch Dogs (Ubisoft, platforms TBC)This was the title that ran away with the typically entertaining Ubisoft conference. Developed by the publisher's enormous Montreal studio it's an open-world action romp set in a dense city managed by a corrupt government. The player becomes hacking expert Aiden Pearce, who'll use his skills to break into the regime's mainframe, grabbing control of the many security cameras or causing massive pile-ups by tweaking traffic lights. Okay, so hackers have been rather over-exploited in games, to put it mildly, but this ambitious title is being referred to as a cross between Grand Theft Auto, inFamous and SimCity. Which is interesting.Microsoft Smart Glass (Microsoft, various platforms)This is not a game, of course, and its lengthy introduction at the Microsoft press conference angered some in the audience who just wanted to see the latest mega-blockbusting Xbox titles. However, there's no denying thateveryoneat the show has an opinion on SmartGlass, a smartphone and tablet application that links to your Xbox 360 and TV, turning your handheld device into a games pad (or should that be GamePad), remote control, and interactive TV aid. It's Microsoft's attempt to deflect attention from both Wii U and anything that Apple is cooking up for the TV space – it could be the company's most important land grab since the launch of the original Xbox.
It is rare to be genuinely surprised by a new release these days. For all the bluster of the latest action adventures and role-playing extravaganzas, they all follow similar lines, offer comparable mechanisms and speak in the same language of design and anticipation. We know what to expect and how it will be rolled out to us.GameGlobe is different. Developed by the hitherto unknown Hapti.co, a SquareEnix owned studio based in beautiful Copenhagen, it is a game about game creation. This, of course, is an increasingly familiar theme – we've had the wonderful level editors in LittleBigplanet and Trials Evolution; we've had the phenomenon of Minecraft. But GameGlobe takes all that in a slightly different direction, with a whole heap of clever additions.The concept is sort of straightforward; running entirely in the player's browser it allows participants to create their own third-person action adventure levels. Your personalised avatar (which can be defined using hundreds of items of clothes and facial features) begins the 'game' in a featureless desert. You then use the array of building tools to craft the landscape: by moving the mouse and left clicking you can creating hills, while hitting the right button removes terrain, eventually getting down to a watery base level, allowing the creation of lakes and streams.Using the paint tool it's possible to alter the surface type, from sand to grasslands, or icy tundras to dense jungles. Then, via a large props menu, you add buildings, boats, pathways, bridges and other items. Slap down a house and you can also choose to let your adventurer can go inside - the interiors are customisable too."At the very beginning we had this white board filled with print outs of game screenshots," explains lead programmer, Peter Andreasen. "We had everything from Tomb Raider to Ratchet and Clank, to Mario - we wanted to understand the thread between them. A lot of games are about the same things: getting from A to B, escaping the jail, getting into the castle and finding the treasure, escorting someone,... they are all in different settings, but they have the same mechanisms. We thought we could crystalise those mechanics into building blocks, so that gamers could become the designers."Brilliantly, GameGlobe has its own mechanical scripting system - a bit like Minecraft. There are various levers and switches, all of which can be attached to doors and bridges, via a simple drag and drop interface, which acts like a sort of power cable. For example, put a gate in your environment, then lay down a switch - now connect one to the other, and you have a switch that opens and closes the gate. In a similar way you can pair keys to locks, then hide them around the environment, creating simple locked door puzzles. It's also possible to add text hints and objectives onscreen, letting players know what they need to do next.Meanwhile, every object placed in the world is subject to the built-in physics and lighting engines, so the environment maintains uniform physical rules. There's also a 'World' menu, which lets you select the overall mood of your level - it can be bright sunlight, an overcast afternoon, pitch darkness, or a hellish red, and all of these are tweakable via a series of sliders. Elsewhere, a Gameplay Objects menu adds elements that aren't visible to the player – start and end points, for example, as well as sound effects and musical cues tied to specific areas. Plus, you can also drop in a range of NPCs, which will usually default to aggressive behaviours, but can be modified by the player to become friendlier denizens.All the props are separated into themed graphical styles. At the moment there are three – jungle, pirate and colonial – each offering different architectural styles and characters, and all can be mixed up if the player likes. Hapti.co will apparently be regularly adding new styles: "We're going to be talking with the community," says lead producer, Hugh Grimley. "If people really want, say, Egyptian stuff, we'll put that into the pipeline, too."When you've finished designing, the level is named and saved to your private projects collection on the server. It can also be published, allowing other GameGlobe users to play it. Apparently, every level gets its own URL which can easily be shared with friends, via email or social networks. Inspired by content-sharing sites like Flickr and YouTube, the GameGlobe homepage will display a range of the newest levels, as well as the most popular, and there are plans for this to be personalised, so individual players can select the sorts of content they're interested in seeing when they visit.I got an hour of hands-on time at the studio, and it's a truly compelling experience. Tools and menus are accessed via the function keys, and objects can easily be grabbed and placed on the map via the mouse. It's a little tricky at first: you need to use the shift key to modify the height of the object you're placing, while holding control allows you to move the camera and alt alters the scale of the tool you're using – being able to smoothly switch between these takes time and will rule out younger players (although playing alongside a parent, children will be certainly be able to direct the creative process).Within 20 minutes I'd been able to craft a rudimentary island level, complete with a rope bridge, a locked gate, a cluster of wooden houses and a sunken galleon in a lagoon at the centre. Throughout the process it's possible to come out of the editor and test the level, allowing you to tweak the playability. But cleverly, your avatar is always on screen and controllable, even when you're building – and when you're adding stuff, you get relevant sound effects, so there's a sense of playfulness. It always feels like a game, rather than an austere level design tool."One of the things we really didn't want was for this to feel like hard work," says games director, Rune Vendler, who conceived the original idea for GameGlobe. "One of our biggest challenges was to make sure it was fun to just sit and create levels. We took a lot of inspiration from traditional art. It's quite fun to sit and draw on a piece of paper, to hold a pencil, to doodle - it feels good, it's not just getting to the end result. It's the same with Lego, it's not just about assembling the bricks to get to the vehicle you're making, it's theprocessof building. The activity itself is the important part - that's what we wanted to capture."To tie in with that sense of child-like fun, the visuals have the bright cartoon look of a family platform adventure - something like a decent Pixar game conversion. Models and landscapes are not hugely detailed, but they're pretty enough; and as soon as you start adding buildings and characters, levels begin to look much more complex, populated and professional.The big question of course, is monetisation. GameGlobe will be free to play, and doesn't require a client – it runs in the browser following a quick plug-in download.  Players will earn experience points by creating levels and having people play them – the more plays, the more XP. This can then be traded for an in-game currency, which is used to purchase all the props and paints (although all players start with a basic inventory of items). And of course, instead of earning this currency by playing, participants will be able to buy set amounts of in-game cash.At the moment, the game is in closed beta and the amounts of real money involved are being toyed with – there's no word on how much things will cost just yet. Importantly, Square Enix has brought in experienced freemium publisher Bigpoint to help with this side of the project. "It's a consulting role," says Bigpoint producer, Thorsten Stein. "We're working with Hapti.co on the monetisation side, tying it into the game design. It's not all set in stone, we're still streamlining - the closed beta will allow us to see how different set ups will work."The other consideration is technical. GameGlobe represents a 3D world running on a server and streaming to - the developer says - any PC capable of connecting to the internet. When we saw the game running in Denmark, it is an impressively seamless experience, with little in the way of slow-down, even on the complex levels built by the studio's own staff. They claimed the demo was running live over the net from their game servers – the same ones being used by the closed beta testers."When we began the game we had to start from scratch," says Andreasen. "There was no off the shelf technology that could do fully dynamic real-time shading of a world without all sorts of pre-calculations. So we had to invent a new technology that could so this in a way that was enjoyable to the user. It's been interesting - a new set of constraints. Getting it into a web-side setting has been a challenge for us because our experience has been in developing traditional boxed products. Now we have something that's not just a game engine, it's also a super interactive website and a massively scaleable backend that can take the load of all the distribution and storing of levels."We've seen that it functions well on powerful development PCs with lots of memory. But how about netbooks or older computers? "We're not aiming at super high-end machines," says Andreasen. "And graphically, we're not doing what the latest first-person shooters are doing - we don't have complex shadow calculations or collision calibrations  - we're using the power of the machine in different ways."As for  the bandwidth problems inherent in streaming game data, Andreasen says the team has spent a long time reducing the size of the game assets, using compression, splitting elements into chunks so you're only ever downloading exactly what you need. This is cached locally and is available for the rest of the session; plus, any new game items are inititally downloaded in low resolution, so they're available quickly - but as you use them, the high-res textures are streamed in.The game will also do a quick benchmark test of the user's machine, calibrating the optimum screen resolution accordingly. If you're on a slow old laptop, it can be ramped down considerably. If you have a fast machine on a whizzy broadband connection, you can play in 1080p.Stein is also adamant that we've all got to stop expecting inferior, casual experiences from browser titles – our preconceptions are becoming outmoded. "It's very different to six years ago when we were making flash games," he says. "Drakensang and Battlestar Galactica are already high quality games – things are changing and GameGlobe is a great example of where they're going." Andreasen nods in agreement. "Young people are spending more and more time on front of browsers. These days, it's a really good place to put a game."New features and additions are apparently already being planned. Currently, there is no co-operative creation mode, so players can't collaborate on levels as they can in Minecraft; but that feature may well be coming. Also, the game will only currently run on PC – although it does support a variety of browsers including Chrome, Safari, Opera and IE. Mac, tablet and smartphone iterations are likely in the future. We'll know more when the game goes into open beta in a couple of months.One thing we probably won't see is the ability to customise skins and other game components,  "We put a lot of effort and time into concepting and working with textures, ensuring that all the props and toys fit seamlessly together," says Grimley. "We wouldn't want to spoil that".However, beta testers have managed to push the palette to its limits, using tools and objects in ways they weren't strictly intended. One has created a scale model of the Eiffel tower, another has constructed the vast gates of Mordor using bits and pieces of pirate houses. "We're beginning to see so much different content," says Vendler. "There are some things I wasn't expecting. There is plenty that I was hoping to see, but I thought it would take much more time. There is stuff I can't even figure out how it was made."It is a fascinating project for SquareEnix, a real child of the digital era, in which user-generated content and cloud-based accessibility are becoming the norm. Its success will depend on how smoothly the process runs on PCs all over the world, and on how many props, landscapes and enemies Hapti.co can roll out.Getting the price right, and fostering a large creative community are also massively important elements. With all that in place, I can see this becoming hugely popular and powerful piece of family entertainment, and maybe even a modest new benchmark in the era of browser-based entertainment. There are few surprises in the games industry anymore –  but this small Copenhagen studio may well have an important one in the making.
LinkedIn has launched an investigation into reports that its password database has been compromised with more than 6 million users' details posted online.The business social network is examining claims by security analysts that millions of encrypted passwords have been published on a Russian hackers' website.Graham Cluley, the cyberthreats expert, said the passwords were now likely to be in the hands of criminals. He advised the website's 160m worldwide users to immediately change their login details.The security scare will cause fresh embarrassment for LinkedIn, which is also facingprivacy concerns about its mobile calendar application.LinkedInhas confirmed that some passwords have been compromised, and "apologised for the inconvenience this has caused our members".Per Thorsheim, the security researcher who first raised the alarm about the apparent leak,said on Wednesdaythat the 6.5m encrypted passwords "will probably be a lot more users" because some will have the same login details.Cluley, an analyst at Naked Security,said in a blogpostthat users' emails addresses had not been published on the Russian hackers' website.But he added: "It is reasonable to assume that such information may be in the hands of the criminals. As such, it would seem sensible to suggest to LinkedIn users that they change their passwords as soon as possible as a precautionary step. Of course, make sure that the password you use is unique (in other words, not used on any other websites), and hard to crack."Those accused of being behind the breach have asked other hackers to help decrypt the protected passwords. If linked to a premium users' account, the hackers could gain access to credit card details used to pay for subscriber access to the site.The file posted online reportedly contains 6,458,020 so-called "SHA1 unsalted password hashes", which would be straightforward for a skilled hacker to link to a user's details.Earlier on Wednesday 6 June, LinkedIn wasforced to fend off privacy concernsabout its mobile calendar app. The company said its iPhone and iPad app can access detailed information about its users' daily activity, including location, meeting notes, and the email addresses of people a user meets with.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
Contrary to what outsiders may conclude from its title, the Hitman series' principle draw has never been solely about killing people. Players were drawn to the Hitman games because of the myriad of methods open to them in their execution of Agent 47's targets.The genius of IO Interactive, was it probably realised very early on that if they constructed each of 47's contract kills with only one possible way of solving them, the replay value of their games would be severely diminished. IO offered each level up as some sort of lethal puzzle box contained in an open-ended structure, allowing the player to tackle it anyway they saw fit.Players could use disguises and syringes filled with poison to dispatch targets. They could gerry-rig items in their environments to make their target's death look like an accident. They could even charge in with both guns blazing, although this wasn't advisable because Agent 47 wasn't bulletproof and taking the direct approach was a quick way to put him in the morgue.Those who delighted in Hitman's past iterations have been concerned by the prospect of Hitman: Absolution. Early previews seem to have repositioned Agent 47 as an action hero whose prowess with firearms negates any need to sneak about in the darkness. Early previews show the bald, bar-coded assassin blasting multiple opponents in slow-motion, using a new "instinct" mechanic to see through walls and tackling rooms filled with enemies head on with a fire axe. If you're new to the franchise, it all looks very exciting. If you're a long-time fan, it looks like a travesty.Well, the Hitman faithful can breathe out a tentative sigh of relief, as in my hands-on time with Absolution, I learned that a lot of what made the franchise a hit is still in place – at least, it was in the level I was allowed to play.The level in question, I was told, takes place quite early on in Absolution, and sees the game's titular character on the run after killing his handlerDiana Burnwood. Agent 47 is after some information about the people hunting him and it just so happens a shady character calledBirdycan help him out. There's a catch, though: before Birdy gives 47 what he needs, he wants him to bump off a rival crimelord called the King of Chinatown. The hit is scheduled to go down on the King's stamping grounds.The first thing players are likely to notice about Absolution is how amazingly it all looks. Visually, IO have never been slouches in the past – the odd Kane &amp; Lynch title not withstanding – but the Glacier 2 engine powering the new Hitman game outdoes everything they've done previously. The environments are crisp and clear, character models are sharp and varied, and while you could say IO have a bit too much of a liking for lense-flare, the presentation in Absolution looks detailed and stylish enough to compete with the best cinema has to offer.At the entrance of Chinatown stands a pair of ornate, steel-trimmed gates, with dragons adoring the posts they hang off on either side. Agent 47 adjusts his tie and opens them and as he does, a whoosh of sound floods out of the speakers; market sellers yell prices for their wars at bustling crowds, while chefs flip food in sizzling woks on portable hotplates in front of hungry punters. Agent 47 stalks through the crowd hunting his prey, and it's here the game slings its first new mechanic at me.By holding down on the right-bumper, players can activate 47's new "instinct" power, which allows them to see targets and potential threats in their environments. It also highlights items of interest such as fuse-boxes, fire-extinguishers and – in this case – some barrels on a platform on pulleys. Using instinct, I quickly note the position of Agent 47's quarry, on a bandstand in the centre of the Chinatown market. He's also surrounded by several cops who are on his payroll, so the direct approach is probably out of the question.This isn't to say players can't opt to simple haul out their Silverballers and start a gunfight with the King and his protection detail. It's just that, if they do, they'd better be a deadshot with the reflexes of a cat; Agent 47 is still quite a fragile soul and a couple of bullets can easily take him down. Also, if players choose to shoot their way through the level, it impacts badly on their overall score. Like the recently release pre-order DLC, Sniper Challenge, players earn points for their actions in every level in Hitman: Absolution, and a Silent Assassin rating bumps their score up considerably.I begin to explore Chinatown for some more subtle options for dispatching the King. I spy a nearby cantina that the King eats his lunch at and consider how easily I could knock out the cook, nick his uniform and serve up a potentially lethal dish. I spy a market seller pulling merchandise out of an open basement, and wonder if the King's travels will take him close enough to it to allow me to push him in. I check back on my target and I see that he's talking to some low-level drug dealer, demanding cocaine in a high-pitched voice. Maybe that's the way in.I tail the dealer through the market until he enters an alley, where I prompt Agent 47 to clamp a hand over his mouth and knock him out with a choke hold. As the dealer struggles, the game gives me the option to break his neck, but I'm feeling generous and allow him, instead, to slump to the ground unconscious. I have Agent 47 help himself to the dealer's outfit and dump his body in a nearby dumpster. Then it's back into the market, and after a brief search, I manage to find the dealer's apartment, situated just above a shopfront near the bandstand.In there, I notice a tape for the market's CCTV network – which I take – and a large bag of cocaine on a desk. As I approach it, the game tells me that I need some exotic fish from the marketplace in order to successfully poison it. I briefly consider heading back down to street level and going in search of this item, but time in the demo is running short. Then I spy a rifle by the window that has a silencer and telescopic sight attached to it.Taking out the King with the sniper rifle is certainly effective, but it blows my Silent Assassin rating. The moment the cops notice the King is sitting slumped in his chair with blood gushing from his head, they begin scouring the market and the crowds panic and start leaving. I thread Agent 47 out of Chinatown and away from the mob to complete my mission, which brings the demo to an end.Perhaps the best part of the demo was comparing notes with some of the other journalists who attended it with me. One of them said he got rid of the King by poisoning his cocaine. Another said he waited until the target was under a raised platform with barrels on it, and then used the sniper rifle to shoot the pulley ropes, crushing him. The most creative option I heard that afternoon involved throwing some flammable liquid into a wok as the target walked by a food vendor; both the cook and the King went up like Roman candles.It may sound grisly to say so, but it's reassuring to see that such creative death-dealing is still a key feature of Hitman. As has been the case in past with the Hitman games, in Absolution, players seem to have a whole lot of choices in the way they get rid of Agent 47's targets – each one as lethal as the next.• Previewed on Xbox 360 version. Released on 20 November on PC/PS3/Xbox 360
On the show this weekAleks Krotoskiis joined by Guardian Technology editorCharles Arthurto preview some of the expected highlight at this yearsE3 Conference in LA. and we hear from the Guardian'sStuart O'ConnorandSteve Boxerat the conference on their early encounter withNintendo's new Wii U.Entrepreneur and Silicon Valley tech start-up expertJulia K SzopafromBlackboxdiscusses her recent blog in TechCrunch. Aleks and Julia discuss the reasons why tech start-ups in Europe must learn the 'Valley-way' in order to grow into serious players in the tech world.
Radiohead did it for music with their In Rainbows album. The Humble Indie Bundle did it for games. Sci-fi author Wil Wheaton did it for short stories. And now US developer Binary Hammer is bringing the pay-what-you-like model to the App Store.Well, sort of. The company's30/30 time management appis released tomorrow (7 June), taking its cues as much from the long-established shareware model for PC software as from the more recent entertainment examples listed above.The iPhone app will be free to download from the App Store, but if people like it, they'll be invited to support the developer with one of three in-app purchases: "Bundle of Thanks" for $0.99, "Heap of Thanks" for $1.99 or "Boatload of Thanks" for $2.99. Or, indeed, all three.30/30 itself is an elegant-looking time management app based on the principle of focusing on a single work task for a fixed amount of time (30 minutes, although the app supports anything from one minute to one hour), and then taking a break for a non-work task for the same amount of time.The app may spark interest in the wider world, though – particularly from charities who are currently unable to accept donations directly within their iOS apps. Apple's rules dictate that if they want to take donations, they have to direct people to a website in iOS' Safari browser outside the app.Binary Hammer's Bob Koon tells me that he was very careful with 30/30 not to use the word "donation" – not least because his company isn't a non-profit charity – and has also made it clear to users that they're not unlocking any additional content when they buy a bundle, heap or boatload of thanks.Apple seems happy: the app has been approved. It's unclear whether charities will be able to use a similar model in their own apps ("Buy a bucket of thanks to show your appreciation for our work" for example).If Binary Hammer does well with 30/30, though, it may encourage other independent developers to follow suit – an alternative, at any rate, to shoehorning virtual items into games whose structure isn't really designed for it, just so they can be distributed for free.
Internet users targeted by state-sponsored hackers are to be alerted under a new system introduced by Google.The search giant has said will warn its Gmail users when it believes they are under attack from state forces.The move is significant as Google's web services are used by millions of journalists and human rights campaigners across the world. It comes just weeks afterRussian opposition bloggers claimed they were targeted by Kremlin-sponsored attackersin the runup to Vladimir Putin's re-election in May."We are constantly on the lookout for malicious activity on our systems, in particular attempts by third parties to log into users' accounts unauthorised," said Google's vice-president of security engineering, Eric Grosse, ina blogpost."When we have specific intelligence – either directly from users or from our own monitoring efforts – we show clear warning signs and put in place extra roadblocks to thwart these bad actors."Today, we're taking that a step further for a subset of our users, who we believe may be the target of state-sponsored attacks."Google did not explain how it will determine that state-sponsored attackers have hijacked a user's account, saying only that detailed analysis and victim reports "strongly suggest" orchestrated moves.Grosse added: "We believe it is our duty to be proactive in notifying users about attacks or potential attacks so that they can take action to protect their information. And we will continue to update these notifications based on the latest information."State attackers in China, Russia and several Middle East autocracies have been blamed for a wave of attacks aimed at human rights campaigners, journalists and bloggers in a bid to deter them from their activities.China and Russia have repeatedly denied the allegations, which have risen sharply in the past two years according to testimony from alleged victims, as well as Google and US diplomats in leaked top-secret cables. It was China's alleged interference with campaigners' Gmail accounts that prompted Google to partially withdraw its main search operation from Beijing in 2010.In China, which now has more internet users than any other country, the government recently introduced new "real identity" rules in a bid to rein in the boisterous blogging scene.In May, Googleannouncedthat it will now alert its Chinese users whenever they are using search terms likely to be intercepted or censored by the authorites.
A selection of 12 new and notable apps for you today:Survival Run with Bear GryllsTV survivalist Bear Grylls is the latest celebrity making his way onto the App Store, with this game from F84 Games. At first sight, it looks like essentially Temple Run With More Bear Grylls (And Indeed More Bears). Also rescue choppers.iPhone / iPadThe Dark Knight RisesNokia's love of all things Batman goes back a few years, but the latest example is bagging an exclusive on the Windows Phone app for new film The Dark Knight Rises. It offers trailers, cinema details and a location-based game using Foursquare to battle other Batfans.Windows PhoneOpen GardenThe most potentially-disruptive app of the day is Open Garden, which "interconnects devices to form a wireless peer-to-peer mesh network that provides Internet access... When more devices running Open Garden are nearby, they all connect into a mesh network."Android45 Sound45 Sound wants to make your iPhone-shot gig videos sound better. "We replace the original sound of your video footage (which is usually fairly poor) with a high-quality recording of the exact same part of the concert. Now when you upload your video to YouTube and share it on Facebook, it will sound as good as it looks..."iPhoneWhosHereLocation-based chat-app WhosHere has been ported to Android, promising the ability to text and swap pictures with "new and interesting people nearby", whether for romantic or platonic purposes.AndroidESPNsoccernetESPN's football app boots its way onto Android, offering news, scores, stats and videos from around the footballing world, including the promise of push notification alerts during Euro 2012 to keep tabs on the tournament.AndroidPocket Gallery from Parents MagazineFree up your fridge with this app from US magazine publisher Meredith Corporation. The idea being that you take photos of your children's drawings and paintings for a digital, shareable archive, meaning you can stick up the newest around the house, rather than having piles of yellowing artworks growing on every surface.iPhoneBattleshipBOOM! Battleship has been revamped and released for Windows Phone 7, tying into Microsoft's Xbox Live platform for community features. There's also asynchronous battles and local multiplayer modes.Windows PhonePassion-meter McDonald's 2012A McDonald's 'passion-meter'? GIVE ME TWO BIG MACS AND A SKITTLES MCFLURRY RIGHT NOW! Oh, passion for football. Yes, this is a branded app for Euro 2012, trying to get fans to "show your dedication to your team by cheering as loud as you can". The link above is for Android, buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPadRemixit with CalvertronDJ/producer Calvertron is the latest music artist to get their own remix app for iOS, promising 18 loops, 19 hits and samples taken from the upcoming Deconstruction EP.iPhone / iPadEuro 2012Planning on watching a few Euro 2012 matches? This app from Appsynth turns predicting scores into a game to be played against Facebook friends, scoring points for correct estimates.iPhoneEuro Cookbook 2012And still the Euro 2012 apps keep coming, although this is more foody than footbally. It offers 32 recipes – one for each country taking part in the tournament, as well as cocktails. "Bigos against souvlaki, shashlik vs. roast pork or cottage pie vs. quiche lorraine?"iPhone
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSecurity warnings for state-sponsored attackers &gt;&gt; Google Online Security Blog"We are constantly on the lookout for malicious activity on our systems, in particular attempts by third parties to log into users' accounts unauthorized. When we have specific intelligence--either directly from users or from our own monitoring efforts--we show clear warning signs and put in place extra roadblocks to thwart these bad actors."Hewlett-Packard CEO Meg Whitman Has a Lot to Say (Interview) &gt;&gt; AllThingsDOne takeaway:"Additionally, she [Whitman] doesn't see a scenario where HP would spin off any piece of its operations, because in her mind they all fit together."Are you ok with Airtime secretly taking pictures of you while you're video-chatting? &gt;&gt; ForbesSean Parker's latest work: a video-chatting service that already looks like its in hot water over privacy. A new record?Apple will probably lose German Motorola Mobility Xoom case &gt;&gt; BusinessweekThe German court that banned Samsung Electronics Co.'s Galaxy 10.1 tablet sales last year is unlikely to grant Apple the same victory against Motorola Mobility's device, Presiding Judge Johanna Brueckner-Hofmann said at a Dusseldorf hearing. The assessment is preliminary and may change after today's arguments are reviewed. A ruling is scheduled for July 17."We don't think someone sits in a coffee house using the Xoom and hopes other people will think he owns an iPad," Brueckner-Hofmann said.Might not make a big difference. MMI didn't release figures for Xoom sales for the past quarter in its financial results, unlike every one of the previous five quarters.Google acquires QuickOffice &gt;&gt; Official Google BlogGoogle's first buy for a while. Will this mean a faster Drive?Pre to postmortem: the inside story of the death of Palm and webOS &gt;&gt; The VergeChris Ziegler has a few thousand words on the topic. From zero to, well, pretty much zero in 20 years.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Welcome back! How was your looooong Royal weekend? Did you sneak off from the festivities to play any games? Tell us all about it - we've got a lot of catching up to do.And don't forget to catch up with our E3 coverage! We're not out here for the fun of it, you know!
It's surprising how lightly the Creative Director of AC3, Alex Hutchinson, takes his charge. I asked him how things were going on the project as it gears up for release in Autumn this year after an intensive development cycle lasting almost three years: "Eh, it's okay. It could be better. It'd better if it was about dolphins. I think we should have done dolphins."Ecco the Dolphin did all right; I think I'd want an actual Assassin dolphin, though, because no-one expects the dolphins, right? They spring over the side of the ship and – dead. Perfect. If we really run out of ideas for 4, then yeah, we'll do dolphins. We'll jump the shark. With a dolphin. Yes."He's obviously more than a little tired, but with a game as this under your control, you'd have every right to be. Hopefully he isn't serious about the dolphins.The new title, set against the backdrop of the American civil war and featuring large open woodland areas in addition to the cities that have been the staple of the series so far, has benefited from an entirely new game engine. To differentiate Connor – the new half-British, half-Native American hero - from his predecessors, all his movements have been rebuilt from the ground up. And he's got a lot of movements to throw around."We tried to keep Connor as fluid and as dynamic as possible," continues Alexander, once he finished talking about dolphins. "The game so far has been about fluid movement, and we tried to integrate that movement into the fight. On the controls, now, right-trigger is sprint whether you're inside or outside combat and you no longer need to lock on to enemies, so you can run always out of a fight with ease."For a game ostensibly about free-running, the previous Creed games lacked momentum when it came to combat; assassinations (one-button kills) would effectively stop the flow of play and combat would often descend into a waiting game where the player would stand motionless in a circle of guards, daring one to strike so that they could counter-attack, run him through, and get on with their day. With AC3, though, it looks like that's about to change."You can assassinate people on the move; so instead of running up to someone, stopping and killing them there you can run at someone, kill them and carry on running as long as they're not in open conflict." As long as they're not aware you're about to kill them, in other words. "If they switch to that state you'll have to fight them, but you can chain all these things together: so I could run in, assassinate one guy, go straight into a proper fight with another guy, and at a certain point go 'screw this' and run out of the fight, all of it without ever stopping."On paper it sounds pretty similar to the older Creed games – games where it's traditional to initiate a fight by leaping off a building and killing two men as you land with your trademark hidden wrist blades, and running away has always been an option, albeit an awkward one – but in motion it's far, far superior.Connor moves freely from enemy to enemy and offs them with ease, occasionally taking out more than one in a single kill move (stabbing a man with a bayonet and shooting his friend with the attached musket, for example) and even though it's hard to tell whether the average player will be able to pull off stylish combat like this, it's encouraging to see how straightforward it looks.Plus, both urban chase sequences we've seen so far have ended with Connor bursting through an open first-storey window and out the other side of the building rather than – as was the fashion – laying perfectly still in a bale of hay, or hiding in one of the many curtained boxes that apparently dot the roofs of Jerusalem, Florence, et al. All told, it's good to see the ethos of running as fast as you can carried through to a natural conclusion.That widespread use of firearms has changed the play style a little, too. As well as enemies toting rifles and levelling them at Connor with very little provocation, our hero carries a brace of pistols that he whips out to mop up stragglers at the end of fights.I asked Alexander if all these guns had taken away from the core gameplay element of stabbing enemies with increasingly elaborate bits of metal: "Luckily for us the guns in that period are terrible – the muskets and pistols are inaccurate and I think the record for reloading one after it's fired is a couple of minutes, so they're very slow. We wanted to have you at massive risk at range if you're facing a firing line – they will kill you, so you need to charge them. And similarly for the player – sure, pistols are a one-shot kill, but you're the Assassin. You don't miss. And we're severely limiting ammo for ranged weapons, especially compared to previous games."Also, as blackpowder was a great resource in this period, it gave us a good excuse to sneak in some explosive barrels." he points to one scene in the demo where Connor takes out much of an enemy camp by landing a bullet in amongst their explosives stores; it's not exactly classic Assassin's Creed killing, but at least it beats the pocketful of bombs that Ezio had to carry around in his final adventure, Revelations.Outside of the city the frontier covers a vast distance, and Connor spends a lot of his time traversing the uneven ground there – a feat I'm assured is incredibly difficult to do properly in games. He ducks under branches, braces himself against trees, clambers up rockfaces and generally acts like a convincing human being would in regards to his environment.Making the wilderness, and the trees in particular, look and feel satisfying was a real challenge: "We moved away from metrics," says Alexander, talking about the way they built climbing platforms in the past, "which are established, static handholds that are a set distance away from each other - and into the idea of ranges. So, if you imagine that the range is basically how far my arm can reach, or how far my arm can move, then you can have a handhold that's five centimetres away or half a metre away, and it'll work dynamically. Once we used ranges we were able to have a forest that didn't look gridded but instead looks... well, like a forest."Missions are working a little differently, too, from previous editions. In an expanded version of the Citizen Rescue events from the first game – in which Altair must do a Robin Hood and slay a group of men who look to do harm to some innocent citizen, and is rewarded with allies – we see Connor beckoned down a back alley by a citizen on the streets of Boston. He's told that a friend of hers is being held in the stocks unfairly and needs to be rescued, and Connor rushes to his aid triggering a short combat section.Occasionally, the AI will pop up with requests such as this (similarly, we saw a woman shout for help after a man stole from her, and a trader ask for help with gathering meat for his stall) and layer additional tasks on top of the player's main quests, but they're not just out to serve the player."Each NPC [non-player character] is unique," says Alexander, making a bold claim that I'd be impressed to see backed up in reality, "and they have their own goals and motivations, too." We see Connor infiltrate an enemy encampment while armies are at war, and a squad of soldiers marches off to conflict regardless of the player's actions. Whether or not he uses them as cover, support, or merely as a distraction is up to them.The Brotherhood – a collection of assassins allied to the main player – return too, with a total of six in play at any one time. In order to sneak past a group of guards, Connor recruits four of them dressed as Redcoats to act as though they've captured him, letting them saunter right past the checkpoint. It's not hugely different from hiring a group of courtesans to distract Italian guards with their sexy dancing, but it's a lot more serious and perhaps a better fit considering the setting.And it's not just the humans, either. The addition of animals to the mix – both domesticated ones such as dogs, pigs, cows and chickens and wild beasts such as bears and wolves – has added to the way that interactions play out."Animals will attack NPCS, too," Alexander says, "There are some nice emergent strategies like getting some wolves to chase you and then booking it away and leading them past a redcoat patrol." Although presumably this tactic won't pay off with chickens, barring some Ocarina of Time-style birds.All told, a lot of things have changed. Even the puzzle-based sections hidden in underground tombs are being revamped: "It didn't feel appropriate to have the same thing again," says Alexander. "One of the big rules we put up on the whiteboard at the start of development was "No Retreads.""So even with such a comfortable thing that people loved, when they were getting excited about them and saying 'Oh man, tombs!' we had to say 'No'. In some ways I think we were right because when you have a franchise that goes on this long, and there are some bits you love, you can only eat dessert so many times. It's time to shake it up."I'm assured that there'll still be distinct, structured puzzle sections in the game, but they'll be "very different". Presumably they'll take place up a tree.This third instalment seems to be braving a new frontier in more ways than one, but from the looks of things, it's got a good team behind it. At this point it's impossible to imagine a genuinely poor title emerging from the franchise, but with each gameplay video we see, it seems like this is going to knock the competition out of the water.
In his excellent screenwriting book, Save The Cat, Blake Snyder provides the answer to an important global mystery ... why did no one go to the cinema to see Lara Croft: The Cradle of Life? The Tomb Raider brand could not have been bigger at the time, and Angelina Jolie's own popularity as a Hollywood firebrand was peaking. Yet somehow the movie dived.What the hell went wrong?It's simple, writes Snyder: the filmmakers were so obsessed with making Lara cool, they removed all of her humanity. There were no little moments of personable humour or vulnerability to make viewers root for her. All she had to do was stop shooting and snarling for five minutes to, say, save a cat, and we would have warmed to her. But she didn't, and we didn't.The Lara Croft of Tomb Raider, Crystal Dynamics' reboot of the famed action adventure series, could not be more different. In the early teasers shown last year, we saw her washed up bruised, cold and terrified on a remote island, her boat wrecked, the crew gone. This is Lara at 21, before she becomes the globe-trotting archeologist gunslinger. This is Lara: Year One.At E3 2011, SquareEnix showed an early section from the game, with our heroine hanging upside down in a cavern. She escapes, fleeing down a narrow cave system while persued by mysterious ragtag aggressors. On the way, she passes the body of another shipwreck survivor, strung up in front of a mass of candles, the surrounding walls daubed with religious symbols.This time, SquareEnix is revealing another fraught sequence, taking place soon afterwards – and it hints at some of the wider themes of this intriguing game. Having escaped from the caverns, Lara has to stagger along a coastal path and into a jungle area to locate any other survivors of the crash. It's all dark, stormy and densely atmospheric: we see the giant waves crashing against the rocks far below, carrying debris from the shipwreck in their frothy wake. The forest itself is rich with organic detail, the branches loaded with vines, the air buzzing with insects.Interestingly, this is the same engine as Crystal has been using for most of its previous Tomb Raider games, including Underworld and Guardian of Light – although according to global franchise director, Karl Stewart, it has been heavily updated and customised."We went back to the engine team and said we want physics, we want this level of reality, and they said, okay, we'll build it! Part of the reason it's taken us so long to get where we are, is that we set out with gameplay goals, feature goals, and we set the engine back up based on those requirements. You should never feel like you're shoehorning an experience into an engine that's already there – too many games do that. it's all about the experience – if our engine couldn't have delivered it, we would have found another one."As Lara stumbles through the foliage, breathing heavily (every exertion is accompanied by some grunt or yelp – this must have been a hell of a laugh to record), I'm flashing back to Lost – the set up of confusion and disorientation is so similar. And as if to confirm my allusion, a clearing opens and we see a huge old propeller plane, hanging from the branches of a tree over a vast waterfall.It's JJ Abrams' TV series all over again. Lara must cross this, using the X button to grip on to sections of the fuselage. As she climbs, she whispers to herself, "come on, you can do this, you can DO this" – another clever little play for gamer empathy.We happen across a makeshift camp, where some gear has been left by other survivors, including a walkie-talkie. There's a touching moment where Lara manages to get through to the ship's captain Conrad Roth on the radio and begs him to come and help her, but then resolves to travel further into the island interior to get to him; the emerging vestiges of the heroic Croft we know.We're then in a sort of hub area, an enclosed section of forest that Lara can freely explore – apparently these are dotted throughout the game, providing a break from the linear flow of the story. In this one, our first task is to eat. A shot walk over a babbling stream reveals a skeleton hanging from a nearby tree – he has a bow.Lara has to clamber up and grab it, then collect the arrow packs hidden around the tracks. Everywhere, there are deer running about, and rabbits. Using the bow requires hitting left trigger to aim and right to fire. Lara takes out a deer, then has to hack a chunk of meat from its torso. It's Lara as survivalist.To add a sense of progression and customisation to the adventure, Crystal Dynamics has built in an Experience Points system. When you defeat an enemy, complete a task, or in this case slaughter a majestic wild animal, Lara earns XP; throughout each map there are camps where she can stop and spend these points on upgrading her own skills or any weapons or items she's carrying.We could augment her bow skills for example, perhaps giving her the ability to retrieve arrows from fallen prey. Lara also has a special visual mode known as Survival Instinct, which drops a monochrome hue over your view while picking out enemies and animals in colour – like a sort of physiological infrared scope. Upgrade this, and potential targets become brighter and easier to spot. Later in the game, it seems Lara will be able to use a fast travel system to replay previous hubs using unlocked abilities to track down new side-quests.From here, there's a rather creepy tunnel section, where Lara must wade through dank water into some kind of hidden subterranean base, with skulls lining the walls and those weird symbols painted everywhere. There's a tense cinematic bit, where she finally comes across her friend Sam, apparently being given first aid by a distinctly dodgy character named Matthias, who promptly reveals himself as one of the island's mysterious aggressors and disappears into the undergrowth dragging Lara's terrified chum behind him.Later, Lara manages to hook up with a bunch of survivors who resolve to look for Sam, with Lara sent off up a hillside with a rather limp archeologist character named Whitman. The duo discover a series of relics and symbols relating to Japanese mythology, specifically the Lost Kingdom of Yamatai and some sort of shamanistic cult.Again, this feels very Lost – disparate groups of survivors arriving on an island with mythological significance; one group appears to have got here much earlier and has… well… gone mental. There are also parallels to be drawn with the Hunger Games, another massive franchise about a girl becoming a warrior.Whatever the case, everything appears to have a factual basis, which Stewart says has been an important part of the game design. "We wanted to ground the character," he says. "The situations she's in feel real, they're situationswecould encounter - God forbid! As soon as you start adding the fantastical then you start losing that. Lara goes through emotional turmoil - you think, what if shedidn'tkill that guy? What was he going to do?"So we try to keep it grounded in reality as much as possible, to heighten the emotional moments, and we've stayed away from high fantasy – which is something the Tomb Raider games have had trouble with over the years. You know, within 20 minutes of starting, you shouldn't be fighting Norse gods who can disappear and re-appear…"Our demo ends with Lara captured by another group of gun-toting "locals", this time lead by a vicious Eastern European mercenary. When another prisoner tries to escape, there's a stealth section where Croft has to creep through a rickety base camp, staying low and behind crumbling walls as guards with torch lights search for her.When the leering squad leader discovers her, there's a quick-time combat system in which timed button presses allow Lara, whose hands have been bound behind her back, to bite his hear, kick him to the ground and finally grab his gun, wrestle with him and then finally shoot him. A cinematic at the end shows a distraught Lara weeping with shock and horror, but then as the music swells she rises to her feet, defiant expression, gun in hand. This, you feel, is the beginning of the Tomb Raider character.So far, this is gritty, exciting stuff, with an engaging structure, allowing for both story scenes and contained exploration. Admittedly, some of the drama is heavily choreographed. There's a section where Lara has to cross a ravine via a fallen tree trunk – the sequence requires slow and careful balance controls via the analogue stick, but there's a moment she slips and almost falls, and it happens whatever you do. Both of the key violent confrontations with the island's established community are also staunchly directed.We're also yet to see any really deep environmental puzzles – the stuff we used to love in the original titles. We've had a few conventional sequences where Lara has had to use a torch to burn away flammable debris and reveal hidden items; there's also a section where she has to seek out chests hidden around the forest, salvaging useful items – all the while being attacked by wolves. But nothing epically constructed just yet.But the key aim with these demos, it seems, is to show that Tomb Raider has moved with the times – it's a more mature experience now. Clearly experienced by the James Bond and Batman reboots (which kicked off just as Tomb Raider went into development), it's about getting to the roots of the Lara Croft mythos."I did a big study when I took over running the franchise and it was all about cultural relevance," says Stewart. "There was a time when James Bond was the guy who got the girl and flew to these exotic locations. And then later, you had to Pierce Brosnan and Timothy Dalton trying to replicate what Sean Connery was doing, but people didn't relate to that anymore.""Tomb Raider on PS1 was epic – we loved it because it brought us to worlds we'd never seen before, it let us do things we'd never done before. But as time progressed, people wanted more: we digest movies and TV shows at an enormous rate and we know more about characters and set ups than ever before. And Tomb Raider was close to being left behind in a way, because it didn't have that substance to it."It was just this puzzle solving game where everyone kind of knew who the girl was. We had to bring the life back, and not just in terms of gameplay mechanics. How do we set an emotional tone so that people will look at it and see something similar to Daniel Craig taking over as 007, getting his ass kicked in the first 10 minutes."That was our intention – to set her up in a way that you feel, I was there the first time she killed somebody – I remember the emotion of that situation – now I can see why she has become the character she is today. That's the goal."In that light, the E3 2012 demo has been a mouthwatering success. But now we just need to know that the design matches the emotion.
Batman is coming to Wii U. At Nintendo's E3 press event on Tuesday morning, Warner Bros announced a new version of Batman: Arkham City for the forthcoming console, sub-titled 'Armoured Edition'.Developed by the WB Studio in Montreal, the game contains all the content of the current Arkham City, including the DLC released on Xbox, PS3 and PC. However, it adds a new feature,  Battle Armored Tech (B.A.T.), which allows players to build kinetic energy during combat, which can then be used to unleash savage attacks on enemies. It's not entirely clear how this energy is built, or whether it involves moving the pad itself, but more will become clear later in the event.The GamePad screen also acts as a wrist-mounted Batcomputer throughout the game, allowing players to select items as well as scan the in-game environment by holding the pad up and physically moving it around – a neat use of the device's accelerometer technology. In the same way, players can steer a batarang while it's in mid-air, using the GamePad screen which provides a batarang-eye view of the flight. Players can also use the pad's screen to detonate explosives.You can see the trailer here:Armoured Edition is scheduled for release this winter.
Age:66Appearance:WearyAh yes, it's hard work being an all-conquering conglomerated behemoth.Hmm. Yes. Or an all-surrendering one.That's a perplexing remark. Can you explain  it?I can. You see, Tokyo's world-famous  Sony corporation, purveyor of Walkmen  and PlayStations to all mankind, is going to  the dogs.Which dogs?Oh, just metaphorical ones. But that's still bad. Sony's share price fell below Y1,000 for the first time since 1980, when it launched the Walkman.Ouch.The company is now worth less than 6% of what it was in 2000, when the PlayStation 2 had just come out.Further ouch.Yes, it has been a long  procession of ouches every day at Sony City.That sounds like a Japanese workplace- bonding exercise.It does, yet in fact it's  another metaphor, evoking the company's many setbacks. Sony was the world's leading television maker until 2006, when Samsung overtook it. The PlayStation has since been eclipsed by Nintendo's Wii. The whole  corporation has lost money for the past  three years...Oh dear. They must be sniggering into their sushi down at Panasonic.First, Japanese people don't just eat sushi. Second, Panasonic isn't sniggering into anything right now. On the same day, its own share price fell below Y500 for the first time in 37 years. That old rivalry has got rather maudlin recently.A bit of British spirit, that's what they need  to get them through this!That's what they  have had. British-born, anyway. Sir Howard Stringer, who is now American, has been  chief executive since 2005, and he has done sterling work.Oh, sure. I bet everybody's thrilled.Well,  they don't hate him, anyway. "Were it not  for the strong leadership of Sir Howard Stringer these past seven years, we would have  been in a much more difficult position," says Kazuo Hirai.And he is?The new chief executive.Do say:"I've got it! Launch the iWalkman!"Don't say:"We'll always have Betamax."
With Microsoft and Sony opting not to show the next-generation consoles which they are currently designing, Nintendo could hardly fail to steal the limelight at this year's E3 Show in Los Angeles, thanks to its bizarre and innovative Wii U console, shown for the first time in its final form, and backed with real games, rather than tech demos. Nintendo still wouldn't reveal exactly when the Wii U will launch or how much it will cost, but it will be on sale this Christmas, and should be a must-have item like the Wii once was.At last year's E3, when a prototype form of the Wii U was first unveiled, its strange controller, resembling a tablet, generated bemusement. But this year, Nintendo unveiled it in its final form, officially named the Wii U Gamepad, and slightly wider and more contoured than the prototype. It's a box of tricks that includes a touch-screen, motion-sensing and dual analogue tricks, designed to support new forms of gameplay, and Nintendo at last added some flesh to that promise. Vitally, players will be able to plug two GamePads into a single console at once, multiplying the gaming possibilities.One aspect swiftly became clear at Nintendo's E3 press conference: Wii U will have much more adult-appeal than the Wii: third-party titles in development for it include Darksiders 2, Aliens: Colonial Marines, Mass Effect 3, Ninja Gaiden 3 and Batman: Arkham City Armoured Edition – none of which are suitable for Nintendo's traditionally young audience. Not that the company is neglecting its heartland: Shigeru Miyamoto himself popped up on stage to show Pikmin 3, and the ever-enthusiastic crowds whooped and hollered for Wii Fit U, New Super Mario Bros U, Lego City Undercover and Nintendo Land, a suite of 12 strikingly original mini-games designed to showcase the console's capabilities – a bit like Wii Play on steroids.Although Nintendo Of America head honcho Reggie Fils-Aime kicked off proceedings by stating that Nintendo will wait until a later date to explain how: "Wii U will transform our living-room entertainment experience," a tantalising glimpse of the Wii U's Miiverse, the home screen you will see when you turn on the machine, confirmed that the console will conform to an overwhelming trend in the games industry, by building in strong social networking features. Borrowing from Twitter, games which are "trending" worldwide will feature in your Miiverse, and you'll easily be able to text your friends. No doubt Miiverse will borrow heavily from the 3DS's popular Street Pass and Spot Pass.The Wii U is nowhere near as powerful as the next-generation consoles (likely to arrive in late 2013) from Microsoft and Sony will be, but it is roughly on a par with the Xbox 360 and PS3, which appears to have attracted third-party games publishers disdainful of the Wii's weediness. Giant French publisher Ubisoft, in particular, demonstrated admirable commitment to it, with a raft of games, including Assassin's Creed III, Just Dance 4, Rayman Legends and Zombi U, which generated applause by showing the Wii U gamepad as a means of sniping and even zombifying your own face.Nintendo fanatics would undoubtedly have craved Wii U versions of the company's best-loved franchises, like Zelda, Mario and Metroid and, no doubt, such games are in the pipeline, although Nintendo does not yet feel ready to show them. But the company made a much better fist this year of explaining the Wii U's appeal, and should feel much more confident of launching it successfully later this year.
Yesterday we heard that Facebook is trying to figure out a way to bring kids under 13 to the social networking site. That had us scratching our heads because... aren't kids under 13 already running wild over there? How else to explain these pages…1.Sesame Street.Over half a million people like this page. And that's just the main show page. We lost count of how many fans the pages for Big Bird, Zoe and Co have. Who are all these people? Grownups? And are they really invested in whether Elmo gets to go to the London Olympics? If so, they can clickhere. But only if they're 13 and over!2.Dora the Exploreris soooo popular on Facebook! But the Nick Jr character is only eight years old, so we find the fact that these numbers (1,201,516 likes · 13,717 talking about this) a little creepy.3.Do you love Yo Gabba Gabba? How OLD are you? Over 13? Great then you can go straighthereand post your photo, with these other teenage diaper-wearers.SpongeBob SquarePants. Photograph: Paramount/Everett / Rex Features4.No-one ever outgrowsSpongebob. Which explains why his FB fan page has over 35 million fans. It has tons of fun stuff on it for kids of all ages. And speaking of fun, you can learn how to spell ithere.5.Here'sa game my 9-year-old loves to play. But she can't because she isn't 13.Oh, and here are some more she's not allowed near.6.Have you been toApps for Kids? It's really cool! And it's on Facebook! What is it? Well, its FB page says:Apps for Kids makes fun, educational apps, for the iPhone and iPad. We strive to create apps that encourage imagination and skills development that both teach and entertain kids of all ages."That would be all ages OVER THE AGE OF 13, OF COURSE.7.What's your favorite little kid book?Diary of a Wimpy Kid?Fancy Nancy?,Goodnight Moon?Whatever it is, it's on Facebook!8.Who's your favorite doll? Barbie? She'shere!Lots of Barbies to choose from. Photograph: Scott Houston/  Scott Houston/Sygma/CorbisSo are theBratz Girls. And theAmerican Girls.9.Charlie and Lola have aFacebook page. So doesCharlie Brownand Charlie and the Chocolate Factory – thebookand themovie.So you can see there's already tons of fun for everyone on Facebook. No new technology needed.Facebook – it's our favorite babysitter!
At last year's E3, Nintendo introduced the world to the Wii U, its high-concept replacement for the Wii. The world looked at its bizarre controller – now officially named the Wii U Gamepad – and thought: "What's that all about – it looks like a tablet?"Nintendo's shares fell. But we got our hands on it, played a bunch of tech-demos, and realised that it is a work of borderline genius which adds a new spin to gameplay.On Monday afternoon at E3, in cloak-and-dagger conditions on a Nintendo stand that was being constructed around us, we were treated to another hands-on session with the Wii U, this time in its final form and with some proper games.And we came away thinking that surely, this year, people will be able to get what it's all about. Because it might just be Nintendo's best console since the Super NES.Wii U Gamepad – the final iterationThe most prominent feature of the Wii U – the console itself is small, anonymous and self-effacing – is that peculiar controller which, Nintendo announced a few days ago, will be called the Wii U Gamepad. It has mutated slightly in the period of a year, bringing considerable improvements.The final Wii U Gamepad is wider than the prototype, has two proper analogue sticks than can be clicked down is much more contoured at the back, and has a mysterious near-field communications area that Nintendo is being coy about right now. And there's a button marked TV that lets you use it as a TV remote.As with the prototype, it has all the buttons that you'd expect to find on a Nintendo controller (including two large triggers with plenty of travel and a nice feel, shoulder buttons and so on), plus a front-facing camera, two speakers and a stylus for the touchscreen.It motion-senses, and positively bristles with every conceivable feature. But despite that, it's surprisingly light – just as well when you have to hold it up in front of your face, as some of its games demand you do.The newly added contouring provides natural, comfortable grip-points when you hold it conventionally with two hands, and a transverse rib down the back does the same when you grip it with one end facing towards the TV screen (and yes, it can accommodate both left and right-handers – you just point a different end at the screen accordingly). Versatility could be its middle name.NintendoLandThe first game we played is called NintendoLand, and will be a crucial title for the Wii U as, the company's Tim O'Leary explained, it's designed to fulfil a similar function to that which Wii Play performed for the Wii.That is, to introduce you to the Wii U's multifarious capabilities. Thus, it's a collection of mini-games, each themed around one of Nintendo's classic in-house franchises. It will comprise 12 games, although we only played three.The first was called Takemaru's Ninja Castle, and Nintendo showed a tiny hint of it at its press conference last year. To play it, you hold the Wii U Gamepad flat, with one end pointing at the TV, and if you swipe one or two fingers across the screen towards the TV, you will propel a throwing star towards the screen, in the direction in which you're pointing.So you have to aim the Wii U Gamepad precisely at the cute, almost cloth-textured ninjas that appear on screen, and swipe with sufficient speed for your throwing stars to reach them. They throw stars back at you, but if you're on the ball, you can launch throwing stars that take them down in mid-flight. If you hit ninjas with successive stars, you activate a bonus multiplier.This proved fresh and addictive to play, although it did take a bit of technique-honing: for best results, a long but quick swipe is required; if you do short, frequent swipes (which is tempting because your supply of stars is unlimited), they usually fall short. Takemaru's Ninja Castle was deceptively simple, in that the almost trivial nature of its gameplay masked hidden depths. Which more or less sums up the Wii U.Next up was Legend Of Zelda: Battle Quest. Alas, we didn't get to play a full-blown Zelda game, but this NintendoLand mini-game casts you and co-operative players as Link-like characters, in a recognisably Zelda-ish world.It's designed to be played co-operatively with one player wielding the Wii U Gamepad and, in the case of our demo, two others using Wiimotes. Your characters move on rails, and whereas those playing with Wiimotes can wield them as swords, as in Skyward Sword, whoever has the Wii U Gamepad plays as an archer.Zelda: Battle Quest showed another key principle of the Wii U: the view on the screen of the person playing with the Wii U Gamepad was different to that shown on the TV screen for the WiiMote players. Again, you had to point the Wii U Gamepad to aim, except this time, you held it vertically, in front of your face with both hands.Launching arrows was a simple matter of pulling back on the right analogue stick, then letting go; when you ran out of arrows, you merely had to move the Wii U Gamepad to the horizontal, and they would automatically replenish themselves.In the spirit of Zelda, there was a puzzle element; as well as taking out enemies before they got to your sword-wielding colleagues, you had to take out enemies and switches positioned on higher ground.If, for example, you hit a bird in the air, it would yield health-giving hearts for you and your colleagues. It fostered a lovely feeling of co-operation, felt completely different from Takemaru's Ninja Castle and was thoroughly immersive to play.The third NintendoLand game we played is called Donkey Kong's Crash Course. A single-player game for the Wii U Gamepad, it married the familiar arrangements of girders from the original Donkey Kong games with surprisingly rigorous physics, plus a knitted-and-sewn art style reminiscent of Kirby's Epic Yarn.Instead of playing as Donkey Kong, you control a contraption consisting of your Mii in a plastic bubble, above two wheels attached by springs. You have to negotiate your way from the top-left corner of the screen to the bottom right, by titling the Wii U Gamepad, which you hold vertically with both hands and letting gravity take its course. You encounter switches, which cause bits of rail to tilt and open new areas and which are operated by pressing and holding the triggers, and at one point, a helical bit of track which you wound around using the right analogue stick.There are plentiful checkpoints, and the rigour of the physics dictated that landing jumps wrongly would cause you to derail and fall off your springs (so you respawned at the last checkpoint). Another game which initially appeared laughably simple but proved quite fiendish – and very addictive.Batman: Arkham City Armoured EditionWe didn't get to play the next game – instead we were shown a demo video – but it was quite a surprising one to find in a Wii U games demo: a specific to the console, much-tweaked version of Warner Bros and Rocksteady's Batman: Arkham City (possibly the finest thing ever to come out of Kentish Town).The video promised a large amount of Wii U-specific content, and controls which placed some of the more peripheral, and fiddlier, aspects of Arkham City on the Wii U Gamepad's touch-screen. Thus, you could touch icons of Batman's gadgets to equip them and, for example, there was a completely new touch-based mini-game to operate Batman's Cryptographic Sequencer. And there was a new meter entitled BAT Mode: when filled you could activate it, and Batman would kick arse twice as violently for a short while.We also saw a new move which let Batman launch silent takedowns from miles above his victims and, naturally, the remote-controlled Batarang was now piloted using the Wii U Gamepad's motion-sensing. Graphically, it was great – perhaps slightly better than on the Xbox 360 or PS3, but not significantly so.With the Wii U, Nintendo will lag behind Sony and Microsoft's next-generation machines, but it has a crucial period to itself before they arrive, and at least, unlike the weedy Wii, it is in a graphical ballpark which third-party developers are used to occupying.New Super Mario Bros UThe next game didn't really push the Wii U's graphics, mind – but it will please Nintendo-heads as it's a Wii U-specific side-scrolling New Super Mario Bros game. We played a bit of single-player – discovering a new power up called Acorn Glide, which comes in the form of an acorn, and gives Mario (or your Mii, which you can play as, as well as Luigi and various Toads) a cape which lets him glide; shake the Wii U Gamepad while gliding and he will do an extra boost-jump, but won't be able to glide any further.We also played New Super Mario Bros U in four-player mode – it can accommodate four people playing with Wiimotes plus another on the Wii U Gamepad. And that was pretty intriguing, because the player with the Wii U Gamepad was invited to get out the stylus, and tap the screen around his co-op colleagues, creating short-lived platforms they could use to reach higher levels or avoid attackers.Tap one of those so-called Boost Blocks again, and it turned into a Coin Block, which released a shower of coins when anyone landed on it. You could also use the stylus to distract enemies, keeping them away from your co-players, or put Boost Blocks underneath enemies to raise them out of harm's way. Not the most earth-shattering title, but playing with the Wii U Gamepad left you feeling satisfyingly God-like.Wii U Panorama ViewThe final thing we got our paws on was a considerably developed version of one of last year's most eye-catching tech-demos, now officially dubbed Wii U Panorama View. It wasn't a game as such, but an intriguing collection of 3D videos, filmed using a technology that lets you look around their scenes as if you were actually there, by swinging the Wii U Gamepad around.The first onw we saw placed us in the middle of the procession of dancers at the Rio Carnival: as they danced past you, you could turn around with the Wii U Gamepad and watch their retreating backs. You could also zoom in with the right trigger.Another 3D video placed you upstairs on an open-topped double-decker driving through London, enabling you to twist around for a closer look at any of the myriad landmarks that caught your eye, and to scrutinise your fellow passengers. Cutely, Nintendo had filmed the same routes twice, once in the day and once at night, with the passengers seated in the same positions (although festooned with blankets at night).You could flip seamlessly between the day and night versions, which was impressive. Apparently, the camera used is a sort of globe containing five cameras facing in different directions, which provide overlapping images that can be stitched together. Clearly, this technology could be used to give games photo-realistic backgrounds, which is a mouth-watering prospect.Overall impressionsWhile it would have been nice to have played a full-blown Zelda, Mario, Metroid or Donkey Kong game for the Wii U, such things weren't built in a day, and it's clear that the Wii U won't be arriving long before Christmas (Nintendo refused to be drawn on a launch date or pricing). But what we played confirmed our conviction that the Wii U will be a gameplay tour de force, constructed with sufficient ingenuity to bring what gamers crave above all else: new and distinctive gameplay experiences.All three NintendoLand mini-games we played were brilliant, and highlighted the console's unprecedented ability to shape-shift and support almost dizzyingly diverse types of games which, at the same time, don't feel like anything you've played before. Whether they translate well into descriptions on paper, or even video, is a different matter.We've said this before, and we'll reiterate it now: to understand the Wii U, you need to get your hands on it. Which is going to be a real challenge for Nintendo, even with its track record of previewing new hardware with massive roadshows. Nintendo, though, isn't interested in making things easy for itself – all it cares about is making gamers happy. And that's exactly what the Wii U will do.
Be in no doubt: all the major games console manufacturers want a space in your living room, below your TV and providing all your screened content including games, movies and video chat. Nintendo's hugely successful Wii is largely credited with bringing consoles out of bedrooms and into living rooms with its family friendly titles. But that was just the first stage in the revolution. Now Nintendo, Sony and Microsoft want to controleverythingon that big screen.At Microsoft's pre-E3 press conference on Monday, the company announced SmartGlass, a new smartphone and tablet app, which connect with your Xbox console, providing a second, personal screen to augment your gaming and viewing experience. What does this mean? Well, that's the big question at the moment. The tech industry is banking on this idea of dual-screen entertainment. They've noticed that no one simply sits and watches TV anymore - many of us are on our laptops, tablets and phones at the same time, tweeting, chatting and communicating on Facebook, while we view our large LCD screens.Everyone wants a piece of that. When downloaded to an iPhone, Windows Phone or Android handset, SmartGlass can be linked to your Xbox Live account and will talk to your console. You can now use your device as a touchscreen remote controller for any video and TV content you have on your Xbox. Instead of pressing buttons you swipe menus and no doubt get suggestions on content, based on stuff you've watched before, or things your friends are viewing.Importantly, there will also be SmartGlass compatible games that let you use your handheld device as a controller or repository for extra game info. So, say you're playing an Xbox football game on the TV and you want to change your team's formation seamlessly without interrupting play; you could grab your tablet make the changes on the small screen and they get beamed to the game. Microsoft has already shown off one game, Ascend: New Gods, an action RPG which allows you to check out a map of the game world as well as stats and items on your phone, while you're playing the main adventure on your Xbox.Another big element is augmented TV and movie viewing, providing extra information and content to users watching video content on their console. At a behind-closed-doors event on Monday, Microsoft was showing this off with Game of Thrones. While watching all the axe-wielding action on the main screen, the SmartGlass app on your handheld shows information on the episode, a map of Westeros and other titbits. Social viewing is no doubt also supported, allowing you to chat and trade comments with friends while watching.Microsoft is fighting a battle on two fronts here. Obviously, the company has Nintendo's Wii U in its sights. The forthcoming console features a tablet-style controller with its own screen, which interacts with the action on your main TV. Well, SmartGlass does that, and more. This is a part of Microsoft's sustained campaign to steal that huge mainstream audience from Nintendo – an onslaught that began with the launch of the Xbox Kinect device, which took the original Wii's motion-controlled gaming to the next level.But Microsoft also has a wider fight, and that's the whole new realm of  super connected companion devices, and the dual-screen living room. Everyone is in on this: Apple, Google, Sky, Virgin, the TV manufacturers, the cable TV channels, set-top box suppliers… There's a gold rush for the living room entertainment centre point. Everyone wants their device, their service, at the centre of this complex eco-system of gadgets and digital content.SmartGlass has been dismissed as a fancy remote controller, and in a way that's what it is, but not in the way that snarky pundits mean. It's a way of remotely controlling our access to content in the broadband space. Xbox is a strong brand – there are over 65 million Xbox 360 consoles out there, all of them offering video on demand, music and games in a way that a new generation of consumers is used to consuming them. That's not a bad place to start a dual-screen entertainment revolution. Although, of course, Apple has quite a few devices out there, too.Gamers at E3 groaned when Microsoft started rolling out new video deals, content plans and SmartGlass boasts at its conference, but this stuff is important. No one knows how the battle for the living room will end - there may be several winners, but certainly, no one, however big, can afford to be a loser.
Block 18.51am:Welcome to the main event: Nintendo's E3 press conference at the Nokia Theatre, a stone's throw from the LA Convention Centre.Hopefully, what Nintendo has to show – the Wii U in its final form with a full portfolio of games – will create the biggest splash at the 2012 E3.It's all kicking off at 9am PST – let's hope this flaky Wi-Fi holds up ...Block 29.02am:Shigeru Miyamoto walks on stage to thunderous applause ... the Nintendo guru has the crowd in his hand, as everBlock 39.04am:Nintendo has started off with Miyamoto on stage, playing some augmented reality magic by making Pikmin characters appear on members of the audience. Nintendo are sooo cuddly.Block 49.05am:Miyamoto says the Wii U has the first independent controller screen in game history. Hmm, what about the Dreamcast VMU, Miyamoto?Block 59.06am:"Wii U will change how you watch TV in the living room," says Shigs. But then he reveals the new Pikmin 3, the popular action management game. The visuals are lovely – this is already a well-known title, but lets see if we find some new details...Block 69.08am:In Pikmin 3, the little characters you control can find building materials like twigs and leaves. They also have a new Pikmin who can aim and fire objects to breakdown barriers. The intuitive controls allow you to target Pikmin at specific enemy parts -like their eyes. The visuals are really nice and bright – so cute.Block 79.09am:The touchscreen controls allow you to manipulate the map seamlessly, allowing you to access areas of the world more smoothly. Miyamoto says this will make the game tactically deeper, especially now that you can control up to four leader pikmins.Block 89.11am:Miyamoto says users are moving toward lighter games and publishers have to meet that audience. Pikmin 3 is interesting though – quite a complex strategy title that hides its management depth behind those luscious visuals.Block 99.12am:Miyamoto find a Pikmin character in his jacket. Bless him, he's off the stage now.Reggie Fils-Aime the head of Nintendo America is up now.Block 109.12am:Reggie has promised 23 new titles at the conference. "It's all about the games," he tells us – the opposite to the message that Sony and Microsoft have been sending out.Block 119.13am:At its core Wii U does three things: it changes your gaming, it changes how you interact with your friends and it changes the way you interact with your TV. "It stands to revolutionise your living room". Ah, THAT'S more like Sony and Microsoft!Block 129.15am:There will be no TV announcements about Wii U today says Reggie – it's just about the games and the communication with friends.Block 139.16am:Reggie's telling us to follow Nintendo on Twitter, Facebook and online for new Wii U info."The new disruption: asymmetric gameplay" – on Wii U, players will compete in different ways in same game.Block 149.17am:BIG NEWS: Wii U *will* support two GamePads at the same time. A crucial, crucial factor. This is hugely important for games like Madden where players will be able to use GamePads as playbooks for planning moves without another player in the same room seeing it. Crucial!Block 159.18am:A video is now showing off all the features and buttons on the GamePad, including analogue sticks, stereo speakers, mic and camera, and Home button which will suspend a game so you can connect with friends or check for game updates.Block 169.19am:We're on to Miiverse, the new social network for Wii U. The first thing you see when you switch on the console is a Miiverse "main street" a sort of visual reproduction of your social network. All your friends will appear as Miis on your screen. They all gather around specific tiles, which show trending Nintendo games, as well as titles that individual friends are playing.Block 179.20am:You can use speech bubbles to send messages to your Miiverse friends. You can also send screenshots to friends. And the speech bubble shows emoticons as well so you can communicate your state of mind to friends. So it's sort of social network, texting and tweeting simultaneously. On your TV screen.Block 189.22am:Reggie introduces New Super Mario Bros. U – a new Mario game! It will allow you to connect with other players who are chatting about the game – a real-time social window that opens up while you're playing.Block 199.23am:So yes, New Super Mario Bros. U  is clearly a new take on the New Super Mario Bros. Mii demo shown off at last year's E3. A 2D scrolling platformer, with Mario, gold coins, platforms... and it can be transferred from the TV screen to personal play on GamePad. There's also a boost mode, with up to four people using their Wii motes to get through screen – you can set speed run records and share them in Miiverse.Block 209.25am:Batman: Arkham Asylum is on screen with Harley Quinn talking to Reggie! Martin Tremblay of Warner Bros comes on stage to talk about dark knights on Wii U...Block 219.26am:Tremblay says that the Wii U version of Batman Arkham City will be unique. It will be subtitled Armored Edition. You can direct the GamePad around to scan the in-game environment – a neat little feature.Block 229.28am:The game is being developed by WB Games' Montreal studio, not by Rocksteady.During combat, Batman's new suit has a powerful super special moves feature, which can be activated using the GamePad screen.Block 239.31am:Also, the GamePad accelerometers can be used to guide flying missiles as they go toward a target. That's rather nice. The GamePad can also be used to highlight and set off Batman's planted explosives.Block 249.32am:Warner Bros is bringing in the popular Scribblenauts series to Wii U. It's sold 4 million copies on DS - and makes total sense for Wii U.Block 259.33am:The new version is Scribblenauts Unlimited. It has gorgeous HD cartoon visuals and allows you to think of new objects then create them onscreen to put in the game or share with friends. A trailer onscreen shows someone creating a dog car – a dog with wheels. That can then go in the game. Is this actually happening? A dog with wheels? The tag line is "Imagine anything, explore everything." Basically, instead of writing words as in the previous games, you draw pictures to interact with the game world. Lovely.Block 269.33am:We're getting a sizzle real of upcoming games: Darksiders II, Mass Effect 3, Tank! Tank! Tank! from Namco, Tekken Tag Tournament 2, Trine 2: Director's Cut, Ninja Gaiden 3: Razor's Edge and Aliens Colonial Marines. Big emphasis on traditional action games there.Block 279.34am:Reggie is moving on to music and fitness titles – the bread and butter of the Wii experience.He's dissing the old Wii Fit Board – even though it has virtually made the Wii – they sold more than 43m copies of Wii Fit. What are they up to now?Block 289.35am:Wii Fit U announced!Block 299.36am:A trailer shows a couple getting ready to playThe woman steps on to her Wii Fit board, but also places the GamePad in front – it monitors her performance and offers stats on the mini-screen. The man in the video uses the GamePad as a weight. All the mini-games on screen feed your calorie burning stats into the game and you can compete to lose more with other members of your household. And if someone else is watching TV, there are Wii Fit U games that just use the GamePad.Block 309.38am:Sing is a new performance game where everyone plays. It's a working title and Freestyle Games form lovely Leamington are making it. The GamePad displays the lyrics to songs and everyone can sing along together.Block 319.38am:It looks like different players are prompted in to the song at different times, so everyone gets solos, but there are also group bits like choruses. This is going to be IMMENSE with the karaoke gaming crowd.Block 329.39am:We're on to 3DS now with Scott Moffitt, head of sales at Nintendo America.Block 339.40am:Tomorrow night at 6pm Pacific, Nintendo is doing a full one-hour live webcast dedicated to 3DS games. Wow, they've totally sidelined the handheld device today.Block 349.41am:Still, we're getting New Super Mario Bros 2 for 3DS. It's different form the Wii U game – it's all about collecting gold coins. Players can generate more with their in-game actions. It's coming out in the US on 19 August.Block 359.43am:We're getting a new Paper Mario game, complete with stickers. The whole world is plastered with them. You collect them by pulling them off the scenery and they become your battle commands – choose a shoe sticker to stamp on an enemy, for example. Paper Mario Sticker Star arrives this winter as a physical and digital release.Block 369.44am:Ah, here we are moving on to Luigi's Mansion 2. Now he has multiple mansions each with its own mission-based challenges. there's a new heavier emphasis on ghost catching – and there are new types of spooks, all requiring different ghost-capturing tactics. That one's coming out at Christmas too. Ho, ho, and indeed, ho.Block 379.46am:We're getting a quick third-party teaser video now. The titles are: Castlevania: Lords of Shadow – Mirror of Fate, Disney Epic Mickey, Scribblenauts Unlimited and Kingdom Hearts 3D: Dream Drop Distance. We knew about a lot of those, but nice to see 'em anyway.Block 389.49am:Back to Wii u and Lego City Undercover is a new Lego adventure which allows you to use your GamePad screen to solves mysteries and scan for hidden enemies – again, you move the GamePad around to expore the area - just like Arkham City. The little lego criminals are so adorable – if only crime  really was this cute. The game has exploration and athletic building climbing features.Block 399.50am:Reggie has moved on to Ubisoft, who also featured heavily in the Sony presentation yesterday. Yves Guillemot, the CEO of Ubisoft comes to the stage.Block 409.52am:Yves mentions Rayman Legends and ZombiU on Wii U – he's talking about how the Nintendo vision aligns with Ubi's, and how asymmetrical gaming is the future.Block 419.54am:Ubisoft's Xavier Poix is on stage to show of Just Dance 4. You can dance as a team, selecting moves on the GamePad. Sort of live choreography. So one player is the dance master and the others are his puppets of dance. Nice.Block 429.56am:Now we're onto a trailer for ZombiU, a dark action adventure that lets you use the GamePad as an inventory but also a scanner for scary zombies. And of course, it can be turned into a sniper scope, so you move the GamePad around to target enemies on your TV screen. That accelerometer is going to be worn out! Looks amazingly atmospheric and tense. Lots of big zombie apocalypse shocks. Good stuff.Block 439.57am:The game also has a mini-mode that lets you point the GamePad camera at a friend and turn them into a zombie on your screen. Reggie makes a terrifying zombie. He won't stop. "I'm coming to eat you," he threatens. He's totally immersed himself in this role.Block 449.58am:A quick bunch of Ubisoft games – Rayman, Avengers Battle for the Earth, Assassin's Creed III, Rabbids Land, etc. Lots of support from the French publisher as expected. Ubisoft is really getting around. The world's flirtiest publisher.Is 'flirtiest' a word?Block 4510.01am:Reggie is now talking about NintendoLand - this is the new Wii Sports essentially. Katsuya Eguchi the Wii U software producer at Nintendo Japan is showing off the game. It's a sort of theme park where your Mii can go and try out attractions. So it's Wii Sports meets Disneyland. There are 12 attractions in the game, each themed around a classic Nintendo franchise – eg, Luigi's Mansion, Donkey Kong's Crash Course, etc.Block 4610.03am:You can visit the park with other players or go it alone. The game also connects with Miiverse to create a sort of global social theme park. I think. Frankly this is all moving too fast.Block 4710.05am:One player with a GamePad can take on  special role when playing with other friends who have Wii Remotes. Another asymmetric feature, like Just Dance 4. In the Luigi's Ghost Mansion attraction – the player with the GamePad will be able to direct the scary experiences others have as they explore the environment.The Wii Remote players have to work together to survive. The GamePad players sees all the other players on the game screen, but the players can't see the ghost who the GamePad player is controlling. The Wii Remotes rumble when the invsible ghost is near – players will need to co-operate telling each other when they're rumbling to get the ghost. They then use their torches to 'burn' the ghost.Block 4810.06am:When the ghost attacks a human, the human faints. If the ghost gets everyone it's game over. But humans can revive the downed pal by shining their torches on him. This is cool and remember it's just one of the 12 attractions in the Amusement Park game...Block 4910.07am:That was quite a simple mini-game that they've made quite a meal of explaining.CORRECTION: Its called NintendoLand, not Amusement Park!Block 5010.09am:After a delightful trailer, Reggie is back on stage. NintendoLand will launch with the Wii U hardware this winter.Block 5110.10am:Go toe3.nintendo.comto see trailers of games like NintendoLand and ZombiUBlock 5210.11am:"Families in the same room, today distracted by their personal devices, will soon be interacting together," says Reggie. Nintendo is trying to save our families! Save us Nintendo! Save us!Block 5310.12am:Reggie is off now, but we get one final look at NintendoLand, which is clearly the big launch title for Wii U. No launch date or price info today though. It's all about the content – as Nintendo said it would be.Block 5410.14am:Some interesting stuff there – with two key gaming themes: using the GamePad as a motion controller with its own screen, and using the GamePad for asymmetric gaming experiences in which one player with the GamePad gets to direct the gameplay of others, or at least interact with the game in a fundamentally different way – see NintendoLand's Luigi game and Just Dance 4 with its choreography. Neat stuff. But is it enough to see off the attack of Microsoft and its sneaky SmartGlass technology?
A new Mario game to go with a new Nintendo console? It's a surprise like having a giant turkey dinner presented to you around lunchtime on 25 December is a surprise. It's a surprise like slumping into a chocolate-smeared sugar coma at some point on Easter Sunday. What I'm clumsily saying is, thenew Super Mario Bros game being unveiled at industry mega-conference E3 to go with Nintendo's Wii U consoleisn't much of a surprise at all. Since his birth as "Jumpman" in 1981 arcade game Donkey Kong, wherever Nintendo has gone, Mario has come too.The SNES, N64, Wii, DS: he's nabbed coins, busted Koopas and rescued princesses on all of them. And he's not just a company mascot. Unlikely as it seems when you think about it, this Japanese version of an Italian-American stereotype has been an international icon for the last three decades. His lush moustache and bulbous nose make up the face of gaming generally to a lot of people – up there with Hello Kitty and Mickey Mouse in "bigger than Jesus" territory.That's true even though gaming has changed an extraordinary amount since Mario first platformed into public consciousness. Characters have moved from sprites to polygons, to eerily lifelike motion-capture performances – but there's no chance of Mario making a dimensional leap into realism. He's warmly, resolutely cartoonish. And while the biggest console games have become increasingly "adult" and "serious" (read: beardy and gunny), Mario's stuck to a stupendously successful, primary-coloured mix of perfectly crafted platforming.Of course, that's notallhe's done. Mario's had some interesting sidelines over the years, from racer to tennis ace to brawler in Super Smash Bros. And while he's played the hero many times by rescuing Princess Peach, he's clearly got a dark side – as anyone who's been on the wrong end of a blue shell in a Mario Kart game can tell you.All the same, you can trust Mario: he might make you curse, but he's never going to start dropping F-bombs himself or blowing up the place with rocket-propelled grenades. And his relationship with Peach might not be exactly equal (developer Tim Schafer tweeted a storyabout playing games with his daughter: "Today [she] asked me, 'Who does Princess Peach save?' Is now a good time to tell her everything that's wrong with the world?") it's got an endearing innocence that seems positively puritan compared with the self-conscious sleaze that's increasingly the norm in more grittily styled games likeHitman.Now Mario has to make another jump. The arrival of Wii U is more than just another stage in the inexorable upgrading of console technology. The tablet controller shows that Nintendo knows its most serious competition is no longer from Microsoft and Sony. It's not console-v-console anymore: instead, all three find themselves scrapping to win an audience that'squietly gone over to touchscreen devices. Why switch on the box in the corner when you're likely to be carrying something in your pocket that will give you just as much joy for less fuss and less expense?Nintendo's pre-E3 video was partly a portrait of the tragic plight of the smartphone family: gathered in the living, all lost in their own handheld world, all waiting for Wii U to show up and reunite them. That's Mario's next challenge. He's not battling Bowser this time; instead, he's in a life-or-death struggle to draw gamers out of their technological islands and back into shared experiences where consoles still count. It's a lot for one plumber to do, but if anyone can – with a jump, a power-up and a cheeky cry of "It's a-me!" – surely it's Mario.• Follow Comment is free on Twitter@commentisfree
Disconnecting for a week's holiday is tough, especially when part of your job is a daily roundup of new and interesting apps. While Apps Rush took a break last week (as well as Monday's bank holiday), the apps world kept on rolling.By way of clearing the tubes and ensuring fair coverage for apps released in that six-day period – but also as a (hopefully) interesting snapshot of a week's worth of new apps – here's an Apps Rush catch-up post with 77 to check out.As ever, Apps Rush is compiled from two key sources: manually scanning RSS feeds of new releases on the four main app stores (App Store, Google Play, Windows Phone Marketplace and BlackBerry App World); and emailed press releases and pitches from developers.All platforms are treated equally – the large proportion of iOS apps is a reflection of the priorities of their developers and publishers (although in some cases – Any.do and Music Unlimited for example – they were released first on Android).Take a deep breath, then read on...Instapaper(pictured above)Pioneering read-it-later app Instapaper has been iOS-only since launch, but now it's been ported to Android. As before, it helps you save webpages in text-only format to read later, at your leisure (and offline). It works on Android smartphones and tablets.AndroidAny.doTask manager app Any.do already has a fervent fanbase on Android, but now it's hoping to attract similar buzz on iPhone. It's an elegant To-Do list app with drag'n'drop controls, and the ability to sync tasks across devices.iPhonen0ticePLUG KLAXON. The Guardian's n0tice service now has an official iPhone app, providing a "see it, snap it, share it tool for geo-tagged breaking news". The free app is iPhone-only for now: "Android is not in the immediate short term plans, but we'll get there, as well…"iPhoneBurger KingBear with me on this one: it may be only available in the Salt Lake City area for now, but it's a sign of Burger King's wider mobile plans. This is the "official mobile BK payment app" for people to buy and reload a 'Crown Card' and then pay for their purchases in retail outlets. Essentially what Starbucks has done, but in a limited trial for now.iPhoneCITIA: What Technology WantsWired Magazine co-founder Kevin Kelly's latest book has been turned into a bells'n'whistles-packed iPad app presenting his thoughts on how technology is evolving. "Reading becomes more like a game, with an immersive 3D interface, rich media, and social skills conventional e-books can't touch," promises its App Store listing. Puzzlingly not available in the UK.iPadBlindSquareHere's an interesting idea: an app that draws on data from Foursquare to give spoken recommendations to blind people for places nearby, before guiding them there.iPhone / iPadMusic UnlimitedSony's Music Unlimited is one of the most fully-featured digital music services around, blending Spotify-style streaming, iTunes Match-style cloud lockerage and Pandora-like personal radio. Having debuted on Android in 2011, it's now on iPhone too.iPhoneCloudeeConnected TV set-top box maker Boxee has thrown a curveball, releasing an iPhone app to help people share videos with family and friends. It's invite-only for now, and aims to be a more private form of video-sharing than YouTube or Facebook (or, indeed, Viddy or Socialcam).iPhoneTiger Woods PGA Tour 12EA has ported its latest Tiger Woods golf game from iOS to Android, offering eight licensed swingers to choose from and a selection of real-world courses to play on.AndroidTop GearBBC Worldwide has launched an official Windows Phone app for its Top Gear brand, with "news, videos and random nonsense" from the show's team.Windows PhoneThe AA has launched a London map app that works fully offlineAA – London Map(pictured above)Just in time for the Olympic Games, the AA has launched its London Map for iPhone, providing street-level mapping for the area between West Brompton, Woolwich, Greenwich and Stratford. It all runs locally on the device, so no data connection is required after the initial download.iPhoneEurosport PlayerSports broadcaster Eurosport has launched an official Android app, just in time for its Olympic Games coverage. The company is charging a monthly subscription, and is hoping to repeat the success of its iOS app, which has notched up 845k downloads.AndroidMillion MomentsSony's latest Android app focuses on photo organisation and sharing. Launched by the company's Digital Network Applications division, it imports pics from the device or Facebook, sorts them by date and helps you create digital photo albums.AndroidMuseum of London Royal TimetripThis Museum of London app is a collection of films of the last century of "royal London life", including the weddings of Princes Charles and William, and the coronations of the Queen and her father George VI. Actress Helen Baxendale provides narration.iPhoneZombie SwipeoutZynga has released a follow-up to its ZombieSmash game, and as the name implies, this one takes its cues from Fruit Ninja: zombies on-screen, which have to be sliced in half with a swipe of your finger.iPhoneElmo Story CollectionSesame Street has launched an Elmo-themed e-books app for iPad, offering four e-books all featuring its most famous puppet. ABCs and counting figure prominently.iPadN.O.V.A. 3Gameloft's Halo-esque first-person-shooter franchise got its threequel on iOS earlier in the year, but it's quickly made the leap to Android. Expect impressive graphics, bags of guns and slick multiplayer deathmatches.AndroidEuro 2012 Soccer Stats ZoneFootball magazine FourFourTwo and stat boffins Opta have collaborated on a new iPhone app for the Euro 2012 tournament. It'll serve up live scores and stats for every match, in eye-watering detail.iPhoneDK Top 10 TravelPublisher DK has launched an iPhone app that acts as a container for all its Top 10 destination guides – available to buy individually through in-app purchases. Each offers a selection of lists to help tourists plan their holiday.iPhoneRazor: Salvation looks pretty spectacularRazor: Salvation(pictured above)This attractive-looking action game for iOS is the work of Blowfish Studios and Crescent Moon Games, and sees you fending off an alien invasion while rescuing your fellow humans.iPhone / iPadjetAudio BasicDesktop media player jetAudio has been turned into an Android app, playing a host of different media files, with 32 equalizer presets and a promised high-quality sound. It's a freebie to drum up interest in a forthcoming paid version.AndroidThe Aristocats: Disney ClassicsDisney's latest book-app for iOS is based on classic film The Aristocats, with the core storyline augmented with digital colouring, puzzles, music games and other interactivity.iPhone / iPadDreamworks ComicsDigital comics firm Ape Entertainment has launched a new iOS app for the DreamWorks studio, offering a mixture of previews, prequels and short stories from films like Kung Fu Panda, Megamind, The Penguins of Madagascar, Puss In Boots and Shrek.iPhone / iPadTED BooksThe latest offshoot from the TED technology conference is TED Books, an iOS e-books app that sells titles from its speakers, with an interesting subscription model: pay $14.99 for three months, and you'll get a new e-book every two weeks.iPhone / iPadHello! 3DLots of magazine publishers are experimenting with augmented reality technology at the moment, with Hello! the latest. Its latest issue has Gary Barlow as its cover star, and its own companion app making him pop out in 3D. The magazine worked with developer Digicave, which used Qualcomm's Vuforia AR platform.Android / iPhone / iPadEvernote HelloEvernote's spin-off app for remembering the faces of people you've met has jumped from iPhone to Android. As long as you don't mind asking people if you can take their pic the first time you meet them, it's an invaluable aide de memoire when networking.AndroidTimmy's Number TracingTimmy the lamb, of Timmy Time fame on CBeebies, has a new educational app for iOS. It helps 3-5 year-olds learn to count from one to 10, and is the result of a partnership between Aardman Animations and Pearson's Learn at Home team.iPhone / iPadWith MittPoor old Mitt Romney. Having got his official iPhone app out nice and early in the US presidential race, he was then embarrassed as one of its overlay messages spelt America as 'Amercia'. It was corrected within days, but a meme had already been born.iPhoneDiamond Jubilee TourMore Jubilee appage, this time from AlwaysOnMessage and ITN. It's a walking tour of 15 London locations with a royal history, offering video highlights of their big moments. Everything can be watched remotely if you're not able to get to the hotspots.iPhoneFarm 123 ~ StoryToys JrIrish book-apps publisher StoryToys – previously known as Ideal Binary – has applied its pop-up story engine to education. The app is aimed at toddlers and pre-schoolers learning to count from one to 10, and thus goes head to head with Timmy's Number Tracing.iPhone / iPadRennaissance Blood THD for Android majors on its visualsRenaissance Blood THD(pictured above)Here's another visually-stunning first-person-shooter game for Android, this time published by NCsoft. Aimed at devices with Nvidia Tegra 3 processors inside, it's an FPS set in the Renaissance era, with weapons inspired by Leonardo da Vinci's inventions.AndroidDungeon VillageJapanese developer Kairosoft may be constantly releasing the same game engine just with different subject material, but what an engine. Like Game Dev Story, Mega Mall Story and Epic Astro Story before it, Dungeon Village is ferociously addictive as you build a town to act as the base for RPG adventurers.iPhoneThe Hunger Games CompanionTimed for the DVD and Blu-ray release of Lionsgate's The Hunger Games, this companion app offers behind-the-scenes features, gesture-control for the Blu-ray itself, and a 'Fannotate' feature allowing you to "create and share viewer commentary tracks with your friends".iPhoneCountry Life: Diamond QueenCountry Life magazine has teamed up with Getty Images for a Jubilee-hailing iPad app offering 14 photo galleries of the Queen's life, curated by the magazine's team – fresh from publishing a 370-page collector's edition in print.iPadFunny FiguresSwedish kid-apps developer Wombi has a marvellous-looking new app out for iPhone and iPad called Funny Figures. It's a digital version of that pen'n'paper game where you draw body parts, then fold the paper and pass it to the next player.iPhone / iPadKodak Pic Flick HDKodak's future may be murky, but it's still managed to release a new iPad app for photographers. The free app helps you create photo prints, photo cards and photo frames to be saved to the camera roll, or printed wirelessly on a Kodak All-In-One printer. US-only for now.iPadPhotosynthStill no Instagram for Windows Phone, but Microsoft has its own innovative photography app for its smartphones. Photosynth is a panorama app that captures images in full 360-degree circles both horizontally and vertically. They can then be shared on Facebook and Twitter.Windows PhoneThe Sun Dream Team Euro 2012The Sun is running a £200k Dream Team fantasy football contest alongside Euro 2012 this summer, and it has an official app. Log in for team-tweaking, stats and the latest tweets on the tournament itself.iPhoneXfinity TV PlayerThis is US-only, given that it's an on-demand TV app from cable firm Comcast. Released for Android smartphones and tablets, it promises a catalogue of thousands of hours of shows and films, including the likes of HBO, Starz and BBC Amercia. Sorry, America.AndroidViewdiniHere's another big US service provider – Verizon Wireless – doing something interesting with apps. Viewdini is billed as a "video discovery portal". Users search for a TV show or film, and can find out which digital services (e.g. Netflix, Hulu Plus, mSpot…) have it available.AndroidShakeswearBilling itself as "the world's most advanced Shakespearean insult app", this "brings your insult game to places it has never been before, namely 17th Century England". By which I mean it shouts out random insults from Shakespeare plays, read by actors, when you shake the iPhone.iPhoneBruce Springsteen's career gets Uncut for iPadBruce Springsteen(pictured above)Magazine publisher IPC Media has launched an iPad special issue of its Uncut magazine devoted to The Boss. It includes more than 200 digital pages, with a mixture of archive articles, audio clips, album artwork and photographs.iPadDenon Audio/Denon Club/Denon TravelThese three apps are designed to be used with three different headphone ranges from Denon that are coming out. Denon Audio goes with the Music Maniac range, providing a graphical equalizer, EQ presets and integration with TuneIn Radio. Denon Club goes with the Urban Raver range, and seems to have the same features. Denon Travel goes with the Globe Cruiser 'phones, and does all this plus integrating travel apps.iPhonePanasonic Lumix RemoteHere's another hardware firm launching companion apps. In this case, Panasonic is providing an app to remotely control its DMC-FX90 digital cameras, including a remote shutter feature to set the zoom level.Android / iPhoneScalado PhotoBeamerScalado's photography tech has usually worked behind the scenes in mobile phones, but here's a consumer app for iPhone. The idea: point a big screen to the www.photobeamer.com website, then point your iPhone running this app at it to show photos. "A modern era slide projector," the company suggests.iPhonebitlyURL-shortening website bitly has just revamped itself as more of a social bookmarking service, complete with a new iPhone app. So, browse your 'bitmarks', curate them into 'bundles' and share all of the above to Twitter and Facebook.iPhoneTimmy Tickle!Already an impressive iPad book-app, animated octopus Timmy Tickle has now squeezed himself into an iPhone version. Storytelling, digital painting, fruit-matching and, naturally, tickling all feature.iPhoneDolce &amp; GabbanaFashion brand Dolce &amp; Gabbana maybe needs to work on its pitch to potential downloaders of its Android app: "Its concept is to realize a new way of interaction and contact with the Dolce &amp; Gabbana audience, using mobile devices in order to follow the users in their real life…"AndroidCheck your PhonicsThis is another educational app from the Learn at Home team at Pearson. This time, it's aimed at 5-6 year-olds learning phonics, helping them to practise reading words, record their own voice, and build alien characters as a progress reward.iPhone / iPadPrincess Fairy Tale MakerWell-regarded kid-apps developer Duck Duck Moose is focusing on all things pink and sparkly in its new iOS app, helping children create stories featuring princesses, fairies, mermaids and ballerinas with animated stickers, digital crayons and voice recording.iPhone / iPadTwisted CircusScrolling rollercoaster game Twisted Circus is picking up some warm reviews on Android, as cartoon characters race over 45 levels, complete with ghost-racing multiplayer features.AndroidCamp Bestival gets a finger-painting iPad app for kidsCamp Bestival – Finger Paints (pictured above)Camp Bestival is one of the most family-friendly music festivals in the UK, and its new iPad is similarly accessible to youngsters. It's a digital finger-painting app with 12 animal pictures to colour in, and the chance to win tickets to this year's event.iPadBobsled MessagingT-Mobile's Bobsled Messaging app mashes up text messaging and MMS with instant messaging, running across apps and a website, storing messages in the cloud. Its new iPhone client looks a polished affair.iPhonePlants WarKorean publisher Gamevil's latest Android game is a cross between a real-time strategy (RTS) game and an action-RPG, with forest plants taking on a horde of nefarious beasts.AndroidRemiix Dusty KidItalian techno artist Dusty Kid gets the iOS remixing treatment from music technology firm Liine, with six tracks to loop, reverb and echo to your heart's content.iPhone / iPadWKD CocktailsThe latest boozy branded app appears on iOS, courtesy of WKD. Here, it's a series of cocktail recipes with a slot-machine user interface wrapped around them.iPhoneSnap MagazineA surprising spin-off from photo-sharing app Hipstamatic, this: a "monthly snapshot of the world" that takes the form of a digital magazine promising that it "showcases the driving forces behind global creative culture".iPadStrongroom Radio"Broadcasting from the heart of Shoreditch to the World", this Android app joins the existing iPhone version streaming music from the likes of Ninja Tune, Dazed and Confused and Vice Magazine.AndroidThe new Bentley motor has its own iPad appBentley GT V8(pictured above)In 2012, pretty much every car-maker is working on glossy iPad apps to showcase their new models. Do they sell more cars? Who knows, but Bentley is the latest brand to join the bandwagon. This app shows off its GT V8: expect videos, photo galleries and a soundboard.iPadPlay SafeThis new Android app aims to be "the safest way to let your child play on your Android phone". That means defining what apps they can access, as well as a full child lock when required. A good idea, and one being explored by other apps like Famigo Sandbox too.AndroidQuipTwitter infamously suggested to developers that they may want to consider steering away from making straight Twitter apps. One result: a number of companies making apps that put a different spin on micro-blogging. Quip is the latest, promising "a special focus on streamlining and condensing your timeline", including showing conversations in their entirety.iPadMobblesImagine Nintendo's Pokemon given a location-based augmented-reality twist. That's Mobbles, a new critter-catching game launched simultaneously on Android and iPhone. More than 60 creatures are available to capture by scanning the world around you.Android / iPhoneHorrible Hauntings LiteAnother augmented reality app aiming at a younger audience, this goes with a children's book called Horrible Hauntings. Point the device at the book to see augmented, interactive ghosts including The Headless Horseman, the Flying Dutchman, and the Princes in the Tower.iPhone / iPadGame InformerVideo games magazine Game Informer – big in the US – has launched its official iPad app, selling individual issues and subscriptions to its digital edition.iPadARTisticA social network for art lovers on Windows Phone? A bit of a niche at the moment, perhaps, but ARTistic still looks interesting. It's a community that helps artists showcase their work.Windows PhoneThe Dream by SwipeaChildren's app The Dream wants to help kids explore the Arabic world through a mixture of storytelling, mini-games and facts. Aimed at four year-olds and above, it's part of Swipea's World Explorer series, which "prepares children to be global citizens".AndroidDjRunA new spin on Android music players, this: DjRun uses your Android smartphone's accelerometer to detect your running or walking tempo, then plays songs that match your tempo.AndroidCollider QuestCollider World is an intriguing transmedia project taking in apps, web videos, social media and a film, telling its story across them all. This is a collection of puzzle games set in the Collider World…iPhone / iPadCollider Comics…and here's the second half of Collider's app presence: an iPad comic book-app that explains the story of six people "involved in a race against time to find a way to get back to the present and save mankind". Two stories are free, with four more unlocked using IAP.iPadWhen the crowd gets hot, say Beach Selecta! Maybe.Beach Selecta(pictured above)This free app is the work of Arup and the UK Environment Agency. It provides data on the water quality at more than 500 beaches across England and Wales, updating regularly using Environment Agency data.iPhoneLondon Eye App (Official)There's now an official iPhone app for London's big-wheel attraction, including 360-degree panorama photos, three audio tours, and information on tickets and opening times.iPhoneMonstaFishThe latest Xbox Live game for Windows Phone comes from developer Ironsun Studios, with four modes to "keep the water clean of polluting mutant MonstaFish", complete with bags of achievements to unlock.Windows PhoneAvocado for iPhoneAnd still the 'social network for two people' apps keep coming. Avocado, like Cupple, Pair and Between before it, is aimed at couples who want to send private messages and photos to one another. Here, one twist is the ability to "selectively share photos to Twitter, as a couple".iPhonePaper RaceriOS racing game Paper Racer makes the leap to Android, with 16 courses and a suitably bumpy physics engine. The interesting twist, though, remains the way you can draw a car on a piece of paper in the real world, then import it into the game.AndroidAnsel and Clair: Cretaceous DinosaursThis stylish-looking kid-app aims to introduce children to dinosaurs of the Cretaceous period, including T-Rex, Velociraptor and the 15-horned Kosmoceratops. It follows a well-received app by the same developer focusing on African animals.iPadCaracal DiagnosisThis "clinical decision diagnosis support system" claims to be a medical search engine, taking in signs, symptoms and lab results, and suggesting what disease or condition may be at work. It's aimed at doctors and medical professionals, although hypochondriacs will surely be interested too.Android / iPhonePhew! Back to daily duties tomorrow (Wednesday 6 June).
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamOracle sues to smash patent troll Lodsys &gt;&gt; Mobile Technology NewsOracle, it seems, is not one for irony. Right after an epic court fight with Google in which it was accused of abusing its intellectual property, the software maker is now trying to dissolve another company's patents.This time, though, Larry Ellison's company gets to be the good guy. In a lawsuit filed in Wisconsin federal court, Oracle is asking the court to invalidate four patents belonging to a patent troll that has been terrorizing corporations and small software developers across the country.Oracle's claim against Lodsys is to say "we don't infringe your patents and neither do our customers." Clearly, it's trying to draw it into a court fight, perhaps to bankrupt it. Apple is also trying to do the same, because Lodsys's approach is bad for app developers. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Corning sees flexible glass in consumer electronics by 2013 &gt;&gt; BusinessweekCorning sent out samples of the glass to makers of phones, tablets and televisions today. The glass, which can be wrapped around a device or structure, can be manufactured in a roll, similar to how newsprint is produced, and will support thinner displays, Corning Chief Financial Officer James Flaws said."We're hopeful that by 2013, just a short 7 months away, it'll be available in consumer products," Flaws said in an interview today in New York. "There's a revolution coming in new types of displays -- displays will be more conformable."Sounds fun.Don't mean to be alarmist, but the TV business may be starting to collapse &gt;&gt; Business InsiderHenry Blodget, in alarmist mode:We still consume some TV content, but we consume it when and where we want it, and we consume it deliberately: In other words, we don't settle down in front of the TV and watch "what's on." And, again with the exception of live sports, we've gotten so used to watching shows and series without ads that ads now seem extraordinarily intrusive and annoying. Our kids see TV ads so rarely that they're actually curious about and confused by them: "What is that? A commercial?"More true of the US business than others.Oracle v Google: No perks for Java &gt;&gt; The EconomistWhat Judge William Alsup decided about APIs:"So long as the specific code used to implement a method is different," the judge wrote, "anyone is free under the Copyright Act to write his or her own code to carry out exactly the same function or specification of any methods used [to achieve work-alike functionality]," adding that "where there is only one way to express an idea or function, then everyone is free to do so and no one can monopolise that expression."House members hear why ITU can't be trusted with Internet regulation &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaOn Thursday morning, Vint Cerf, the most famous member of the "fathers of the Internet" club (whose secret greeting is the TCP 3-Way handshake) testified before the House of Representatives Energy and Commerce Committee. He's leading the charge of tech luminaries and leaders of industry that are calling for the Internet to be kept just the way it is, Ryan Gosling memes and all.Nearly all Western countries and tech companies are opposed to the pending plan that is set to be heard at the December 2012 World Conference on International Telecommunications in Dubai (or if you prefer, its catchier title: WCIT-12), where all 193 member nations are set to convene.Microsoft Update and The Nightmare Scenario - F-Secure Weblog : News from the LabAbout 900 million Windows computers get their updates from Microsoft Update. In addition to the DNS root servers, this update system has always been considered one of the weak points of the net. Antivirus people have nightmares about a variant of malware spoofing the update mechanism and replicating via it.Turns out, it looks like this has now been done. And not by just any malware, but by Flame.ASUS' 'Rear' Tweet Puts Sexism Front And CenterASUS' post, which smacks of sexism, shows a photo, taken from behind, of a shapely woman displaying ASUS' Transformer AIO tablet to a crowd of men and encourages followers to check out the woman's "pretty nice" looking "rear".Asus later deleted the tweet, and said: "We apologise for the inappropriate comment on Twitter earlier. We will take steps to ensure this doesn't happen again." Sounds like someone got fired.Trouble with the robot? &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu, based on latest ComScore data:It's perhaps too early to suggest that we're seeing a slowdown in the US for Android. Perhaps there will be a return to growth in the fall. The concern has to be that rather than seeing the net adds growing-as they have for two years with only two contiguous months of decline-Android net adds have been falling for four months.First reaction: it's because buyers were waiting for high-profile phones such as the Samsung Galaxy S3 and HTC One series. But ComScore looks at the installed base, not overall sales. Dediu says the number of people switching from featurephones to Android phones is falling. Is it likely those featurephone owners have waited until now to go for top-end Android phones? You'd expect they would have bought one a year or two ago. Other notable points: RIM installed base is really dropping fast; Windows Mobile/Phone installed base seems to have bottomed out, and has been positive for the past two months after falling for five.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Block 16.05pm:The final press conference of the day, has Sony hosting the world's press at the really rather gigantic LA Memorial Sports Arena. Nintendo has already had its mini-announcement on Sunday, and Microsoft started the days off this morning, so this is the last console manufacturer of E3.What can we expect? We know the new Quanitic Dream game will be a key announcement. MCV leaked the name of it this morning:Beyond. We also know that a big deal will be made of Naughty Dog's survival adventure, The Last of Us.We're expecting lots of Vita stuff, and a formal announcement of Sony's deal with Gaikai for cloud-based gaming onPlayStation. PS4? Very, very doubtful. There's been a lot of pressure of course, but Microsoft didn't blink first this morning, so Sony won't either. All that is next year.But, you know, this is E3, there is always room for a surprise or two…Block 26.07pm:Sony is launching its E3 presence with a long sizzle reel of key titles, including Metal Gear, Tomb Raider, Sonic Allstars Racing, Hitman, Lollipop Chainsaw... oh, everything.Jack Tretton, the CEO of Sony is taking to the stage. "If that video didn't get your heart pumping, you've come to the wrong place" he tells us.Block 36.08pm:Tretton is whipping the crowd up into a frenzy by mentioning Solid Snake, Nathan Drake, and co. His broad accent always makes me think of a minor character in a Scorsese movie.Block 46.09pm:Now Jack is bigging up Kaz Hirai, an old PlayStation guy who now runs the whole shop at Sony. He's probably chuffed not to have to get up on stage himself this year.Block 56.10pm:Okay, Quantic Dream's new title is up first. David Cage is coming on stage.Block 66.13pm:At last, a proper new IP announcement. The new Quantic Dreams game is called Beyond. David, in his maverick Gallic way, is waxing lyrical about death.Block 76.14pm:"Death is the greatest mystery facing mankind," says David Cage. This is a guy who's clearly never pondered the ongoing celebrity career of Jedward.Beyond is about a women who senses the spirits of the dead around her. The lead character Jodie Holmes will be played by Ellen Page from Juno and Inception.Block 86.15pm:Here's one of the first scenes of Beyond. A sad-looking, mute girl with a cop trying to be kind to her. As is typical for a David Cage game, it's clearly all about the emotional punch. I'm sure we'll see some gameplay soon.Block 96.16pm:Wow, this is creepy stuff from Quantic Dreams. Feels sort of Carrie, Sixth Sense... No one does cinematic atmosphere like these guys.Block 106.17pm:Telekinesis would be a fun power to have in a game.Block 116.19pm:"We want to create unique moments that players will remember for a long time," says Cage. He says that if you make the right decisions that you will discover "what lies beyond". A PS3 games looks set to solve what thousands of years of philosophy and religion failed to explain. That's the POWER of gaming.Block 126.20pm:The trailer has moved from that tense cop station scene to a series of clips from the game - lots more action, burning cops, burning vehicles on the streets.Block 136.21pm:Next up, PlayStation Allstars Battle Royale. A brief trailer is followed by a group of hip young gamers taking to the stage to play the game – LIVE.Block 146.23pm:The game is coming to Vita as well as PS3. The versions will be cross-compatible, allowing handheld and console gamers to compete against each other. The demo team on stage are playing as Fat Princess, Sly Copper and Kratos. Characters build up energy during combat to access super moves. They're playing in Metropolis from the Ratchet and Crank Universe.Block 156.25pm:Some characters are melee-based, some like Sly Copper do a lot of sneaking. Oh yes, this is an erna-battle game, by the way. If you're old enough to remember Dreamcast, you'll know PowerStone, right? Yeah, this is Powerstone with Fat Princess. If your prayers have just been answered, you are a strange and special individual.Block 166.27pm:So yes, lots of Super Smash Brothers references to make too. The camera zooms in and out on the action as super powers cause characters to become super giants with super big machine guns.And ... Nathan Drake and Big Daddy from Bioshick have been announced as playable characters in the game.Block 176.29pm:There's a new cross controller function coming to PS3 - allowing Vita to be used as the joypad for LittleBigPlanet and other titles. Hey, it's another dual screen announcement.Block 186.31pm:Cross Controller will facilitate both cross-platform gaming, and the use of Vita with PS3 titles. Tretton mentions Journey in a long talk about PS3, Vita and online gaming – gets a huge applause. Go Journey!Block 196.32pm:PlayStation Plus is set to be amplified with a host of free games. North American P Plus subscribers will be able to download 12 free games from tomorrow including Saint's Row 3 and Little Big Planet.Block 206.33pm:Jack Tretton has given everyone in the room a year's free access to PlayStation Plus. Thanks, Jack!Block 216.34pm:PSone classics are coming to Vita via PlayStation Network. Final Fantasy VII and the original Tomb Raider will be downloadable to play on Sony's handheld. Should we be whooping accessibility to old games? It seems so.Block 226.35pm:It's the obligatory section about video on demand. "There's no doubt that PS3 is the centre of your living room," says Tretton. That's a dangerous place to put it, Jack, it's crying out to be tripped over.Block 236.36pm:Jack moves on to Activision. He talks about Call of Duty coming to Vita. Call of Duty: Black Ops Declassified will launch this Christmas.Block 246.38pm:Assassin's Creed is coming to Vita as Assassins Creed III Liberation. As rumoured a while ago, this is an exclusive side-story just for the handheld. The trailer shows a new character female character. It's an open-world experience with touch controls and there are cross-functions with PS3. You can unlock a new character skin, an upgrade to ammo pouches and a tomahawk by connecting the two. It's out 30 October.Block 256.39pm:Sony has also announced a crystal white Assassin's Creed III Vita bundle pack.Block 266.40pm:The producers of Assassin's Creed III are on stage to talk about the title. They reveal that the game will have sea battle sections. The trailer shows the Caribbean Sea in the 18th century, complete with real weather system that changes sea conditions.Block 276.41pm:Have you ever dreamed of sailing an 18th century galleon around the Caribbean? Well, now you can. take the fights of the revolution to the high seas! I want a large wooden wheel as a peripheral!Block 286.42pm:Ship vs ship combat via Assassin's Creed III, complete with cannons and shouting sailors. Avast, me hearties! Is that something sailors said? It is now.Block 296.43pm:Beautiful sea visuals - the wave effects are genuinely awesome. The demo on the screen shows the player's ship blasting an enemy with cannon fire - splinters of wood and huge billowing explosions fill the screen. The ship is consumed in the froth of the ocean.Block 306.44pm:There should be more pirate-themed games. And what we've got here is proper naval warfare. Which looks as impressive as you'd expect from Assassin's Creed. And to think we thought the last one was a bit samey...Block 316.45pm:Now two ships are alongside each other. Your crew prepare to do gun and hand-to-hand combat. It's Master and Commander!Assasin's Creed III will launch with a PS3 bundle, complete with exclusive DLC.Block 326.46pm:Far Cry 3 is next up – Ubisoft has really got in there with Sony.The Far Cry 3 producer is onstage to announce four-player co-op for the game.Block 336.47pm:There are four-people on stage playing. They're attacking an enemy base on the island. There are sniper rifles, throats being cut, explosions. The actors are taking it very seriously. It has those lovely bright Far cry visuals. As the co-op team runs over a railway bridge into the jungle, another fight erupts. The heavy gunners are at the front, while someone plants a bomb.Block 346.48pm:And shooting from a zipline. Looks fun, but four-player co-op always requires organisational skills and a lot of free time. Hardcore stuff.Block 356.49pm:I like the fact that they've given the lone female character the big box of dynamite to carry. In war, there are no gentlemen.Far Cry 3: you get an island dedicated to multiplayer, plus a map editor so you can create your own levels. Quite a package there from Ubisoft.Block 366.50pm:Far Cry 3 making a convincing bid for multiplayer credibility there.Shouldn't have mentioned credibility -- here's the PlayStation Move segment.Block 376.51pm:This is going to be a tough sell for Jack.Andrew House, group president of Sony is on stage. Steve Boxer is interviewing him tomorrow for The Guardian! (Again).Block 386.52pm:Right, okay, Sony is moving in to the ebook market. A trailer onscreen shows a child playing with an interactive pop-up book with stories the player/reader can change.Steve Boxer:Got a lot of time for Andy – a Welshman made good. He reckons "Words can't do this new product justice". That product is Wonderbook. Books coming to life on your console? Ah, it has a physical book element, and uses Augmented Reality.Block 396.54pm:It's called Wonderbook – it's a physical book using augmented reality technology via PlayStation Eye.Block 406.55pm:And now JK Rowling's name has been dropped -- she's collaborating with Book of Spells for Wonderbook. With new and original writing from Rowling herself.Block 416.56pm:This is interesting. While Microsoft went after Nintendo Wii U with its SmartGlass, Sony is going after Kindle.It won't excite many gamers here, but Sony may have hit the motherlode commissioning new content from JK Rowling for its Book of Spells interactive ebook concept. This will be HUGE with Potter fans.Block 426.57pm:Crikey. We've got a demo, involving a physical book accessory and Move. The Potter-freaks will love this.Onstage, there are a couple of actors playing Book of Spells. It's running on PS3, with Eye watching their actions. They're also using Move to interact. It appears that Move controls an onscreen wand.Obviously, the Move operates as your wand, and AR makes all sorts of mad stuff happen on and around the book.Block 437.00pm:So, we have augmented reality, mixed with motion controls, spell-casting and JK Rowling. I was thinking this was about competing with Kindle, but actually, the real target is Skylanders and the new market it has created for alternative interactive entertainment.Block 447.01pm:Oh dear. She seems to be having trouble with her spell-casting technique. Obviously trickier than you'd imagine.Can you cast a spell to make people buy Move?Block 457.02pm:Good visuals: paper-effect room morphing into 3D, with you being shown through a mini-portal. This looks infinitely more fun than any previous Potter game.Block 467.04pm:Players are rewarded for successful spell-casting mini-missions with a note from your professor and a photo of your most exciting spell-casting moment. It's such a clever play on the fantasies so many Potter fans have of existing within Hogwarts.Block 477.05pm:A bit more impressive than Eye of Judgement, but along the same principles. And it looks more fun than any previous Potter games, which isn't saying much.Fifteen house points earned there. The first middle-class game?According to JK herself, it's the closest a Muggle can get to a spellbook. No argument from us.Books of Spells and Wonderbook are coming in autumn 2012.Block 487.07pm:PlayStation Suite is the subject now - it's the new platform for allowing developers to create PlayStation-certified games on Android platforms.PlayStation Certified games are coming to other Android handsets than just those sold by Sony. HTC has signed up, so PlayStation games will be on its handsets.Andy House banging the open platforms drum (always an advantage Sony has had over the ultra-closed Microsoft).Block 497.08pm:PlayStation Suite is being renamed PlayStation Mobile to reflect how the aim is to bring PlayStation games specifically to mobile platforms. That got a cheer. A cheer for a rename.Andy finished by saying that PlayStation is all about the gaming, to paraphrase. Another dig at Microsoft?Block 507.09pm:Jack Tretton is back on stage to introduce Sony Santa Monica's God of War Ascension. Lots of whoops. It's a whoop frenzy in here.Ah, Kratos, we've missed you. he looks as mean and dodgy as ever.Block 517.11pm:Here's another bunch of gods with horns. Kratos has removed a blade from a dead guy and set up his enemies with his usual vigour and bloodthirstiness. Bit of an evil boss has arrived, but Kratos still has his moves, including charged-up attacks and kicks. And, of course, the finishing moves.The combat is mega-brutal. Kratos is pulling heads off, exploding enemies, juggling them into the air, then chopping them all the way down as the camera dances around the action, sometimes going into slow-mo for brutal finishing moves. Ascension is a game in love with the God of War mythos.Block 527.13pm:There's a kraken taking down a ship. And now Kratos ha demoed a new ability, to rebuild stuff – in this case a wooden dock. Another new move (green colour-coded, like the rebuilding) sees him suspending two enemies in mid-air. And now for that kraken.Block 537.15pm:And another boss with a giant hammer. As full-on as ever.You know all the stuff you loved about God of War? It's back. Lovely visual effects too, from flaming attacks to Kratos grabbing on to the tentacle of a vast sea monster and swishing through the air – all under a blistering sun, that bathes the action in orange light, like some Ridley Scott mythological hack-'n-slash flick.Block 547.16pm:Christ on a bike, it's an elephant warrior! Kratos is wrestling a giant muscular elephant man. This never happened in the David Lynch film.The crowd goes bloody mad. It's coming out 12 March 2013Block 557.18pm:Here's a half-man half-elephant. The character artists at Sony Santa Monica have been enjoying themselves. Kratos has just exposed his brain with a finishing move, though.Darkness, with the sound of wind and birdsong. A hint of creaking wood, and some impressive 3D sound effects in the auditorium. It's The Last of Us...Block 567.20pm:So we're on a playthrough of The Last of Us. Lead characters Ellie and Joel are exploring an abandoned building, its once lavish interior ravaged and deserted.Block 577.21pm:Visually, it's very much from the Uncharted school. Looks great, of course.Joel is out on a roof, when he hears a couple of characters talking. Are they good or bad? Seems bad, because Joel has just strangled one to death.Block 587.22pm:Stealth is to the fore in this sequence – as is the liberal use of the word fuck. Gtess this will be an 18-cert game, then.As expected Joel has a protective relationship with Ellie - she hides while he fights. Blasting enemies, and fighting off a chap who comes at him with an axe. There is fear, panic and uncertainty. Joel runs out of ammo, the baddies says "I know that sound, I've got you now" but Ellie chucks something at him, getting a loud cheer from the audience.Block 597.24pm:A great take-down generates a cheer.There's a lot of man-on-man wrestling – how much of this is interactive? It's brutal stuff as the demo ends with Joel blasting someone in the face. This is what Nathan Drake would be doing in a post-apocalyptic hell hole.Block 607.25pm:Jack Tretton makes a 'mind blowing' joke. Polite laughter.Block 617.26pm:Steve:"The best is yet to come," he says – and with that Tretton disappears off stage. That was fun.Keith:Jack's off now, by the look of it. And that's it. Heaps of PS3 exclusives, and some real innovation with that Wonderbook thing. Not a bad effort, Sony. Much meatier than Microsoft's conference earlier.•Stuart O'Connor travelled to E3 2012 with Sony
Groupon, the online deals site, hit a new bargain basement price on Monday, falling below $6bn (£4bn), the price Google offered for the company in 2010.The Chicago-based firm was once described by Forbes magazine as the fastest-growing company ever – but it has struggled since it joined the Nasdaq stock market last November.The company's shares closed at $8.95 on Monday, down 7.64%, which left the firm valued at $5.77bn.Groupon's shares fell heavily last week when insiders were given their first opportunity to sell their holdings and seized the chance to do so. The shares ended Friday trading 9% down.Groupon, which offers daily discount deals, was the first big initial public offering (IPO) of the new generation of social media companies.While some analysts poured scorn on its sky-high valuation and were critical of Google's offer, founder Andrew Mason was dismissive of Google's $6bn price tag, believing the firm was worth far more.According to Groupon's Biggest Deal Ever, a book by Frank Sennett on the company's rapid rise to prominence, Mason believed that Groupon could be more than 10 times larger if it "fully optimised its data processes".The company made its debut on Nasdaq last November, selling shares at $20 apiece, making the company worth $12.65bn.The shares initially soared, coming close to $30, but have been on a steady downward slide since February.In March the company announced better than expected profits, lower marketing costs and expanding overseas sales. The shares briefly rallied but have still fallen 52.7% in the past six months.The company is not the only former high-flying tech star to have got off to a bad start this week. Shares in BlackBerry maker Research in Motion (RIM) slid below $10 on Monday.Last week, RIM appointed bankers to assess its options as sales have continued to slide, and the company said it expected to report a loss this quarter.Facebook's shares, too, continued to slide. Shares dipped to $26.90 on Monday, more than $10 less than the $38 price set at its IPO last month.The shares at hit a record low of $26.79 earlier in the day after analyst Sanford C Bernstein &amp; Co launched coverage of the company with an underperform rating and a $25 target price."It is difficult to argue for owning the stock today," Carlos Kirjner, an analyst at Bernstein in New York, wrote in a research report.
The latest round in the console wars starts on Tuesday when Nintendo  launches Wii U, its latest and most sophisticated games machine. But times have changed since the 2006 launch of Wii, its phenomenally successful predecessor, and analysts are already doubting that the firm can make as big a splash in a world ruled by Angry Birds and iPads."This is probably the most important week Nintendo have had in years," said Chris Scullion, online editor of games siteNintendo-Gamer.net. "Casual gamers have lost interest in Wii and the hardcore gamers lost interest years ago," he said. "What they are doing is interesting but it remains to be seen how well they can sell it."For some the fight is already over. Wedbush Securities analyst Michael Pachter said the "addressable market" for the Wii U is only half of the market size that existed for the Wii. Since that launch, Apple has sold 67m iPads and is expected to sell north of 116m iPhones this year. Add to that the host of other tablets and smartphones snapping at Apple's heels.Gaming dominates the apps charts for iPad and its rivals. "Once they moved on, they are not likely to come back," Pachter told a marketing summit in San Francisco earlier this year.Something is certainly hurting Nintendo. In April the company announced its first ever operating loss, with a deficit of ¥37.3bn, or $460m. Sales had slid hard, the company said. Nintendo had expected to sell 13m Wii consoles and ended up selling 9.8m. Sales of its new handheld device – the 3DS – also disappointed.The Japanese gaming firm will unveil Wii U at the giant E3 gaming show in Los Angeles. Amid a flurry of speculation the firm has already let some information out. Games will effectively be played using two screens with a touch pad controller interacting with games on a big screen and capable of being used as a standalone device.But the big pitch is about recapturing what made Wii an instant global phenomenon: a video games console for people who didn't play video games.  Its family-friendly games and the novelty of motion controllers were not aimed at the hardcore gamer market. Anyone could pick up a Wii and play.The launch of the Wii proved a pivotal moment for the gaming industry, ushering in a new era of "casual gaming" and introducing Super Mario and Zelda to a whole new audience.The Wii U is all about family fun again. The company put out adeliberately hokey videoMonday that showed how our multi-screen society had pulled people apart, accompanied by pictures of a family all staring at their respective devices."People are gathered together in the same room, but they are not truly connected. They are paying more attention to their devices than to each other," Nintendo's chief executive Satoru Iwata said in the video. "We have to wonder what this will mean for the nature of human relationships moving forward. So one of the challenges we set for ourselves was creating something that will help unite people rather than divide them."Wii U will be a uniting force for family fun, he suggested. And Nintendo has its own social network – the Miiverse – to bring us all together. In the Miiverse players will be able to see who else is online, video chat and get help from other players when they are stuck. It all looks a lot more cuddly than the more macho, competitive chat on Sony's PlayStation or Microsoft's Xbox, Nintendo's core rivals.Ben Kuchera, senior editor ofpenny-arcade.com, a gaming industry website, said things looked tough for Nintendo and that price would be a big issue. Wii cost $249 in the US when it was launched in 2006 and few believe Nintendo could get away for charging more six years later.But he said he wasn't prepared to count Nintendo out. "There's traditionally been three chapters to the Nintendo launch. First the launch, then the ridicule and then they are tremendously successful. We haven't seen any games yet. They could really surprise us. Nintendo has the games people really want."
Block 112.57pm:Here we are at the glorious old Orpheum Theatre in downtown LA for the second of the big E3 press conferences. This time it's the turn of Electronic Arts, which has lwready figured in the Microsoft briefing, thanks for Fifa 13.What will be on show? Fifa again, of course, with a splash of Madden for the locals. We can also expect Dead Space 3 and something Need For Speed flavoured. Medal of Honor will be around, too. As for surprises… Well, everyone's hoping for an announcement from Respawn, the studio set up by ex-Infinity Ward heads, Jason Ward and Vince Zampella. The legal dispute has just been settled with Activision so that may free them up to talk about their project - but have they had enough time to crowbar something in to the event today?It'll be interesting to see how much support there is for Wii U. Will anything be accompanying Fifa 13 on the platform?Anyway, we're about to kick off (seamless football metaphor there), so let's settle back and enjoy the show.Block 212.59pm:Okay, it's about to start. We have taken our seats. This theatre is so beautiful.Block 31.01pm:The Wi-Fi is a bit flaky in here and one of our USB 3G dongles doesn't want to play, so we may have a patchy service. We'll try out best - bear with us!Block 41.02pm:Ow, really, really loud music.Block 51.03pm:The intro movie is showing us what to expect - SimCity Social, Crysis 3, Dead Space 3, Madden, Fifa 13...Block 61.03pm:It's John Riccitiello, the head honcho on stage!Block 71.04pm:He's promising that this will be more like Sundance than The Oscars. Does that mean we won't recognise half the games, and they'll all have sad endings?Block 81.04pm:We're starting out with Dead Space 3 from Visceral. Loud applause. Isaac is on the planet where the Necromorph pestilence started.Block 91.05pm:Looks like LV 426 on a bad day...Block 10Trailer is showing lots of shooitng, massive monsters - same old IsaacThe game will have new environments, drop-in, drop-out co-op. Plus a new character, as we already knew. He's John carver.It's a demo now, as John and Isaac battle along the ice planet. Will co-op meddle with the gruelling solitude of the Dead Space experience?John and Isaac are battling a large piece of spinning metal. They are really swearing at each other.They are now fighting some new necromoprhs which grow massive flailing, stabbing tentacles of death when shot in half. Vintage Dead Space.The boys are now fighting an absolutely gigantic monster It's spitting eggs at them. It is the size of a block of flats and twice as scary.Ugh, Isaac has been swallowed into a gigantic stomach-like 'thing'. First ever lead character lead character consumption. It's coming out in Feb 2013.Next up it's Madden. The onscreen trailer shows an angry football player talking about legacy.Block 111.17pm:It looks like Madden will be adopting a lot of the physics based gameplay we're seeing in the Fifa series. The new infinity engine will apparently assure that every physical contact in the field is unique.Block 121.17pm:Madden 13 will also have lots of social integration with the online leagues.NFL playmaker Michael Irvin on stage to talk about the career mode, which will allow you to live out a glorious sporting career. He's a good speaker.Block 131.18pm:You can start a career as a legend like John Madden, upgrading your abilities on the way and improving your legacy score, which will get you into the NFL Hall of Fame - it's all about personal development in the sport. Very connected, complete with a virtual twitter feed that comments on your performance.Block 141.19pm:Lucy Bradshaw, GM of Maxis is on stage now. Hurray, Sim City!Block 151.22pm:Sim City Social is coming to Facebook. Zynga, they're looking at you...In Sim City Social you can build a city and share with friends, helping or inhibiting them. The demo says 'More City, less ville' - a big reference to Zynga of course. Cheeky scamps.Lucy says it will be out in a few weeks.Block 161.21pm:We're on to Sim City, the PC version. A trailer shows the lush new visuals, multiplayer functionality and the fact that players can choose to specialise their city, concentrating on, say, power, industry, sports, etc.Block 171.23pm:The choices oyu make for your city will affect the cities of your friends based in the same online district. If you text a burger bar name to "Simcity" at 44144 you get a chance to name the first burger joint in the game!Keep it clean, folks.Block 181.24pm:John is back on stage. He's pointing to Jason West and Vince Zampella in the crowd 0 they get a roar of approval from the crowd - they did the same thing last year!Peter Moore and Patrick Bach are on stage to talk about Battlefield.Block 191.24pm:Peter Moore is all in black – he looks like a cunning magician.Block 201.26pm:EA DICE has announced Battlefield 3 Premium, a new digital membership scheme for the game, with new game features, access to five new themed digital expansion packs. It's Call of Duty Elite, for Battlefield. Kind of.Block 211.27pm:"That's hundreds of hours of brand new Battlefield 3 content." says Peter Moore. You can join today. More on the subscription rates later.Block 221.28pm:EA is now showing some of the new maps and weapons in Battlefield 3 Premium – over 10 news vehicles, more customisation, unique dog tags. More game modes, etc.Block 231.29pm:Bioware are in the house! Ray Muzyka is on stage to talk about Old Republic.Block 241.30pm:"We're adding new content and refining the game at a rapid rate," says Dr Ray.Block 251.30pm:More PvP war zones and higher level content coming, including a new version of hardcore nightmare mode for veterans.Ranked PvP is coming, plus a new planet. I missed the name, the force wasn't with me.Block 261.32pm:New Space Station Assault mission is coming this year. A new assassin droid companion. New level cap and combat abilities. Ancient Hypergates Warzone.Block 271.35pm:Greg Goodrich from Medal of Honor is on stage – it's war time."Every single mission in this game has a dotted line to an actual event or a real-world hotspot," says Greg. The trailer is based in a pirate enclave in Somalia.We're on a dinghy heading toward a wrecked building on the coast. Lots of partially submerged boats. And... oops they're shooting at us! No fair!Block 281.36pm:Frostbite 2 engine is looking capable. Lots of particle effects, dust exploding from wooden posts as the bullets fly in. Bricks chip to dust in the onslaught.Block 291.36pm:The demo onscreen is showing the new option to select your own way into rooms via breach. You can blow the lock or shotgun it to bits. The tier one boys are in a wrecked old building shooting at enemies nearby – there is destruction everywhere. It's real-time destruction porn.Block 301.38pm:In the current sequence, the player character is controlling a recon droid as it checks out an unstable building. Handily, the droid also has a submachine gun. This is familiar stuff from FPS games these days – it's all about conveying the increasingly remote and mechanised nature of combat.Block 311.39pm:Greg introduces the new multiplayer campaign, which features 12 real-life tier one organisations from around the world, but says little else. It's coming out on 23 October.Block 321.40pm:OGA, GROM, SEAL, SAS, SFOD-D – no, they're not rappers, they're elite military squads appearing in the game.Block 331.41pm:A trailer for multiplayer shows lots more destructions as well as airstrikes. Loud applause.Block 341.42pm:Andrew Wilson from EA Sports is on the stage now. They want to connect every game you play on every platform you play on. Madden NFL social is a new free to play game on Facebook and mobile, with seamless interoperability.Block 351.43pm:NBA Live 13 is coming this fall with live interaction with the real sport – sort of like Fifa games.Fifa exemplifies the new EA Sports tech architecture apparently.They're showing the glorious end of the footie season on the stage! Come on, City!Block 361.44pm:That match was apparently replayed 5 million times in Fifa, within a day of it happening. Wow.Block 371.46pm:"Fifa is football's social network," says EA's Matt Bielby.EA Sports Football club has 11m members, apparently. All Fifa 12 players will be able to take their saves and XP into Fifa 13 – so it's a totally seamless transition. Fifa 13 on iPad and iPhone will also be connected to Football Club, so players on mobile devices will be able to level up their main game while on the go.Block 381.47pm:Messi personifies the new dribbling engine, apparently. He's on the box across all territories for Fifa 13.Lots of Fifa detail coming, but then if you read Gamesblog you know all this because it was in our preview last week!Block 391.49pm:The new gameplay trailer shows the new physicality of the game, as well as the increased attacking creativity, and the tactical freekicks which let you line up lots of players to fake and trick each kick.Block 401.50pm:Next up - a movie showing UFC game - loud applause from the audience. The president of the UFC is on stage - lots of excitement in the audience!Block 411.51pm:EA has a new multi-year multi-game partnership with UFC. They've grabbed the license.Block 421.52pm:This is big for EA - their mixed martial arts game suffered due to the lack of this license.Block 431.53pm:Next up: a trailer for the next Need for Speed: Most Wanted from Criterion. The studio redefined NFS with its last game. This looks veeeery cool.Block 441.54pm:Matt Webster, the exec producer is on stage. "We looked at the entire history of NFS and focused on our favourite." So now it's an open world racing game where you'll compete against friends.Block 451.55pm:Playlist-multiplayer lets you compete on everything from race times to longest jumps.Craig Sullivan the creative director is demo-ing now. Driving through a city really very fast indeed in a yellow Porsche. Classy.Block 461.57pm:Amazing visuals - beautiful reflections on pools of rain water on the streets. Lovely lens flare. Great crashes. Real thudding impacts with cop cars.Block 471.58pm:Lots of shortcuts to get through - crashing through gates into alleys, gunning it across wastelands. Lots of freedom. Did anyone say Burnout Paradise?!Block 482.16pm:Need for Speed Most Wanted is coming out on 30 October.Cevat Yerli, CEO of Crytek, is on now to talk about Crysis 3. He's talking about the 'urban rainforest' feel of the game's seven massive new New York environments. An onscreen playthrough shows some more physics-strewn battle.The player is trying to blow up a vast generator amid the wreckage of Manhattan. He talked out a helicopter with an explosive arrow, and swims through a submerged entrance into a dam complex. Water starts crashing through in a huge destructive wave of water, debris and chaos. The crowds lap it up. It's out in February 2013.John is back on stage. 10 games, 10 spectacular experiences, he says. And that's it - all over. The UFC license is the big surprise. Nothing from old West and Zampella. Maybe next year, folks!•Keith Stuart travelled to E3 2012 with EA
Block 15.25pm:Good morning!The 2012 Electronic Entertainment Expo is but one hour old and it's already time for the first major set of announcements from the show by way of Microsoft's media briefing. ENDS3000-odd journalists from across the world are gathered in the cavernous Galen Centre - its floor bathed in Xbox pea green lighting - ready to report to the world news that the world is free to view in real-time as it's streamed across the internet.Block 25.28pm:Yup. Anessentialservice I am providing right hereBlock 35.30pm:But look! We'll be offering you some searing analysis, crucial reporting on the smells here on the show floor, pointless verbosity and "humour".So stick with us! Oh, and definitely join in the conversation by posting in the comments below to point out mistakes and – WE CAN BUT DREAM – encouragement.Wait. Let me just sort out my StreetPass hits. The best thing about E3 is StreetPass. In fact, StreetPass is pretty much the best thing about video games.I wonder if Master Chief is on StreetPass?"My dream for the future is to be a princess."I would give him the spaghetti hat for sure.Block 45.33pm:Imagine if Master Chief took the helmet off and it turned out he was a Mistress Chief all along?We're getting off topic here. Although you can bet on Halo 4 forming a substantial part of this press briefing's content, so gimme a break, OK?Announcement telling everyone to take their seasts which we have already taken. The NEWS and GOSSIP starts in five minutes.There were four LAPD police officers all with guns in their holsters manning the entrance to the hall.Microsoft: beinging new definition to the term "policing embargos" etc.OK, we're off.Block 55.34pm:Live action Halo film on screen. Could this be the oft-rumoured Halo TV series?Block 65.34pm:Now we are in-game. Cortana is whispering in Master Chief's ear. Her voice is so comforting.Block 75.39pm:Don A. Mattrick President of the Interactive Entertainment Business at Microsoft has taken to the stage."We're ona  mission to make entertainment even more amazing."Block 85.40pm:Mattrick talking about how Xbox is the only hub to bring together all of the entertainment you could ever want in one place.Probably not true, but 10/10 for hyperbole.Block 95.42pm:Cut to footage of Splinter Cell: Blacklist, Ubisoft Toronto's first announced title, developed under the stewardship of Jade Raymond.Block 105.43pm:Fisher, looking more like Snake than ever, marking and executing targets, as in the previous title, Conviction.Block 115.44pm:It seems Splinter Cell has morphed into a cross between Ghost Recon and Black Ops.Block 125.45pm:Unusually the expedition is taking place in full daylight in the Middle East.Fisher fires a bolt of electricity into a puddle that two soldiers are standing in. Then leaps into town square for a ballsy firefight.Block 135.47pm:Interesting use of Kinect mic, allowing gamers to shout at enemies to attract their attention. That's going to sound weird to your neighbours...Block 145.48pm:Makes it to a nearby building. Camera under the door to scope out inhabitants. Goes in blasting, before interrogating the main guy therein."You damn Americans. Always playing cowboy."Canadian developers revealing their true views through antagonist dialogue there.Block 155.49pm:Andrew Wilson, Head of EA SPORTS at Electronic Arts, takes to the stage.Kinect support coming to Madden 13 and FIFA 13.Video showing player making subsititutions and adjustments to team formation by shouting at Kinect, just like a real manager probably.Block 165.50pm:Live substitutions via Kinect mic in Fifa 13 is a neat idea. More shouting at the screen though. I'm not sure my neighbour wants to hear me yelling "get Mario off the pitch he's a liability!"Block 175.51pm:Now Joe Montana takes to the stage to talk about some of Madden 13's new features.Block 185.51pm:There was definitely a Montana football game or two for MegaDrive, right? They were direct competitors to the Madden games oncer upon a time. That's gotta sting...Block 195.52pm:Montana controlling his team via a headset on stage.John Madden, meanwhile, rolls around naked in piles of licensing money backstage.Block 205.53pm:Joe Montana is not what you'd term a natural and engaging stage presence.Block 215.53pm:From one type of field to another as we take to Lionhead's latest fantasy RPG instalment, Fable: The Journey...Block 225.54pm:Head of Microsoft Studios Phil Spencer takes to the stage. Location, location, location, he says, repeatedly.Block 235.55pm:Keith Stuart says: Kinect mic is kind of a gift to American football simulation though - a genre dictated by heavy use of menus. Would like to have seen some Wii U implementation though - the GamePad as playbook... maybe at Nintendo conference tomorrow.Block 245.56pm:Perhaps Kirstie Allsopp is going to rush to the stage to demo Gears of War 4 by gesticulating wildly at Kinect?Block 255.57pm:Ah! Speaking of which, a trailer featuring sweaty, homoerotic fighters can mean just one thing: Gears of War: Judgement.Short one that, very little shown and we are straight into gameplay footage of Forza Horizon.DUBSTEP NOSEBLEED SOUNDTRACKBlock 265.59pm:Keith Stuart: So Forza Horizon confirmed as a festival-based cross-country racer - as expected. Is this the game everyone wanted from need Fort Speed: the Run?Block 276.00pm:This will be the year of dubstep trailer soundracks. Mark our words.Phew! They are really racing through this.Now the news that Bing will now work in various different languages.Block 286.02pm:Correction - " Need for Speed: The Run"Block 296.03pm:Keith Stuart: Ah, Microsoft is bringing the gaming channel Machinima to Xbox Live system. That may explain why the company has shut down all its in-house games video content channels.Block 306.03pm:Microsoft announcing many different Sports media partners. New channels centring around Hockey, Baseball and the NBA. Moderate applause. Not many American Sports fans in this audience, I guess.Block 316.05pm:Announcing media partners for Xbox 360 at E3 doesn't quite feel right.Block 326.05pm:Keith Stuart: Okay, so lots of American sports coverage via Xbox. No word whether that will be available internationally or whether territories will get their own versions. Hey Microsoft, how about us 'soccer' fans?Block 336.06pm:Microsoft's efforts to claw media hub dominance away from Apple ahead of the presumed announcement of a connected Apple smart TV continue apace with Xbox Music, the company's rival to iTunes.Block 346.07pm:Keith Stuart: Lots of game journalists on Twitter, asking if E3 is really the place for all these media announcements. Shouldn't this be about games? Microsoft, of course, would argue that, no, this isn't just about games anymore. The battle for the living room and all that...Block 356.08pm:Announcing media partners for Xbox 360 at E3 doesn't quite feel right.Block 366.10pm:And, rounding off this slew of on-game announcements, Nike steps up with news of a Kinect partnership.Stefan Olander, Vice President of Digital Sport at Nike, talking abput Kinect's amazing ability to analyse the human body.Ninke Plus Kinect Training offers "most personalised digital training experience in the world."Block 376.12pm:Nike Plus Kinect Training allows you to find people to challenge and work-out with.I oner if Nike Plus Kinect Training players will be as abusive as your average Modern Warfare player?Block 386.12pm:Keith Stuart: Nike + for Kinect is a really, really neat idea. People can match themselves against friends and compare work-out achievements. It's the gamification of personal training. Nike + is already cropping up on more and more Facebook"If you have a body, you are an athlete" says Nike spokesperson. I'm having that written on a T-shirt. XXL obviously.Block 396.14pm:Because the missing piece of working out was trash-talking all along.Block 406.15pm:Lots of information about how Xbox connects to your tablets and smartphones. Would be interesting to produce a pie-chart displaying how much time the company has dedicated to talking about Xbox as a media hub versus Xbox as a game machine this morning.Block 416.16pm:Keith Stuart: This is it, SmartGlass IS Microsoft's attempt to wrestle consumers away from the Apple/Google twin behemoth. Steamed content across multiple platforms with live transition from tablet to TV and back. Being able to pause on one platform and take up an episode of TV on another is the future.Block 426.18pm:Video showing how a tablet can be used in game to supplement play experience through "Smartglass" technology. For example, a player using the second screen to set Madden plays, off TV. This is essentially Microsoft trying to compete with the Wii-U controller.Block 436.18pm:Keith Stuart: Aha, SmartGlass works with games - they're showing tablet being used as a playbook in an American Football console game - just as I predicted for Madden! Microsoft isn't just going after Apple and Google, it's going after Nintendo Wii U as well.Block 446.19pm:And now for the big news of the show: Internet Explorer coming to Xbox!Block 456.20pm:Could be the shot in the arm that Microsoft's browser has needed for some years now, having lost a great deal of ground to Firefox and Chrome.Block 466.22pm:Smartglass-powered web browsing for TV makes a lot of sense. Yet more evidence of Microsoft trying to get its foot in the door with these features ahead of its rivals, both within the traditional games industry and without.Block 476.22pm:Keith Stuart: Internet Explorer on Xbox may well open up some interesting security issues. One reason Xbox has been relatively safe from hackers it its totally closed status. PS3 has a browser and that has offered backdoors. Xbox will have to be super, super secure from now on.Block 486.23pm:OH MY GOD SOMEONE IS GOING TO TALK ABOUT A VIDEO GAMEGorgeous footage of the new Tomb Raider from Crystal Dynamics. Alongside Capcom's Resident Evil 6 this is likelyBlock 496.24pm:Notch has just tweeted: "Microsoft, I love you, but nobody wants to shout at their games or get interrupted with "fun facts" on their phone while watching a movie."Block 506.26pm:Lara racing through an overcast jungle environment. Far more pacey and cinematic that the older PlayStation titles, Nathan Drake's influence clear.Block 516.27pm:Keith Stuart: Hmm, this is the new sensitive vulnerable Lara - immolating bad guys.Block 526.28pm:If watching girls heaving for breath while having their bones broken is your thing then this is the game for you.First piece of DLC for Tomb Raider will be exclusive to Xbox.Block 536.29pm:New game announcement from Signal Studios, the creator of Toy Soldiers XBLA games offering asynchronous multiplayer across Xbox and Windows Phone.Block 546.30pm:Ascend: New Gods, due for release in 2013.Block 556.32pm:Keith Stuart: Ascend is promising asynchronous multiplayer across Xbox and Windows Phone, which is something Microsoft has been pushing for a while - and it's their counterbalance to the PS3/Vita/android interconnectivity. Another battle front addressed, then.Block 566.33pm:Capcom's Hiroyuki Kobayashi executive producer of Resident Evil 6 takes to the stage to show off a new trailer for what is undoubtedly the company's biggest title of 2012.Block 576.34pm:More than 600 people (including contractors) are currently working on Resi 6, a huge scale of team in these austere times.Block 586.36pm:Resident Evil 6 will be playable at E3 this week - the first playable build available to journalists - so expect an in-depth preview from us over the next couple of days.Block 596.37pm:Those short presentations of LocoCycle and Matter aren't going down well on Twitter. One ex-Lionhead executive tweeted, "That was the WTF section"Block 606.39pm:First woman on stage? An hour into the event...Block 616.40pm:Great tweet about Resi Evil 6 trailer from @eggsterlad: "its a zombie apocalypse but the trains still run"Block 626.41pm:Wreckateer, Microsoft's 3D take on Angry Birds looks pretty sweet. English accents a-plenty as you man a ballista with Kinect and seek to destroy castles with well-aimed projectiles.Block 636.42pm:Trey Parker and Matt Stone take to the stage to introduce South Park: The Stick Of Truth.Block 646.44pm:Keith Stuart: "We need a saviour who can undo what's been did" classic stuff from South Park.Block 656.45pm:Open with a joke poking fun of Microsoft's interconnectivity announcements. Great stuff.More Kinect content with the announcement of Harmonix' Dance Central 3. Features real-life dance moves from Usher.Block 666.46pm:Keef: Trey and Matt are great on stage - funny, self-depreciating, slightly mocking. This is the best double act an E3 press conference has ever seen.Block 676.46pm:Oh! Usher is actually here singing and dancing.He really wants us to get up :(What would be amazing is if, for the final move, he brought a copy of Amplitude 2 out of his leather jacket...I miss that Harmonix pretty hard right now.Block 686.49pm:Keith Stuart: Microsoft is pulling out all the stops here. It's the biggest ever attempt to stop us asking, 'Yes, but what about Xbox 720?'Block 696.52pm:I will never be able to dance like this and neither will you. Sorry.Although I am all over that power tug right there.(Usher continues to dance).The crowd didn't get on their feet.Usher retreats to his dressing room in fits of tears.Time for some BLOPS2 (Call of Duty: Black Ops 2). This feels like it might be the climax to the showing...Block 706.53pm:So many men dying on screen right now.Block 716.54pm:The game sounds INCREDIBLE in this theatre. Bone-rattling with each explosion, which, considering this is ONLY explosions, means a lot of rattling.Block 726.54pm:Sending arthritis bills to Microsoft.Block 736.55pm:Come the apocalypse the highways are always first to go.Block 746.56pm:Men barking at other men: "STAY ALIVE". You know, 30 years into this medium's evolution, we get that's the basic mission.Block 756.57pm:VoidBurger just tweeted: "Xbox, play game for me."Block 766.59pm:Soldier now stumbling through smoke, eyes bleary, heart-racing...Block 777.00pm:Is that... is that? Jason West and Vince Zampella?!Block 787.00pm:No wait! It's just two enemy soldiers that needed shooting. False alarm!Block 797.01pm:OH MY GOD WE GET THE IDEA ALREADY.Block 807.03pm:And...That's all folks. No new Xbox and only a few surprises in there.Block 817.03pm:Big takeaway is Microsoft's frantic plans to establish the Xbox as the essential living room media hub. Whether they can stave off the Smart TV invasion over the next few years remains to be seen.Block 827.04pm:What is certain is that, if they fail, a lot of time and money were diverted from orthodox game production to no avail.Stick with us for the EA presentation, which comrade Keith Stuart will be live-blogging shortly.•Simon Parkin travelled to E3 in LA as a guest of Microsoft UK
Great things were expected. In the run up to E3, there were strong rumours that Microsoft would be unveiling the successor to the Xbox 360. This was followed by speculation that Sony's hand would be forced and that a PlayStation 4 announcement would be reluctantly cobbled together. It seems now that, unless one of the manufacturers is about to pull off the greatest sleight of hand trick in gaming history, we're unlikely to see a new generation machine from either.In hardware terms, this leaves the cavernous E3 stage to be dominated by Wii U, Nintendo's latest grab at the ever-more-difficult-to-define mainstream gaming sector. With its unusual tablet-based GamePad controller and improved IBM multi-core processor, we can expect a neat box of fun, with some cool interface ideas – which will probably be portrayed best by first party titles like New Super Mario Bros Mii, Pikmin 3 and a possible Zelda.It will be interesting to see which third-party publishers clamber aboard the Wii U bus: although Ubisoft is always a sure thing (Assassin's Creed III is being converted) and we know EA is lining up a couple of titles (Fifa 13 among them). I'm not sure we can expect Black Ops II to be coming over, though.The least we're hopping for from Nintendo's conference on Tuesday is a release date, price, some tech specs and some decent launch titles – although it seems the emphasis will be very much on the latter. There's also the 3DS to support, with Paper Mario, Luigi's Mansion 2, another Zelda game and Kingdom Hearts 3D all expected to figure.Meanwhile, Sony has its own handheld to support at the show - and lots of pundits are expecting a Vita price cut announcement from the company's conference on Monday evening. As for games, we know that Call of Duty and Killzone are coming to the device, but what else? Assassin's Creed 3 is expected in some form –rumours suggesta dedicated spin-off from the main console release is possible. That certainly worked with Uncharted. As for PlayStation 3, the stars are going to be Naughty Dog's apocalyptic adventure, The Last of Us, and the mysterious new announcement from Heavy Rain creator Quantic Dream.Over at Microsoft, the big games will be Halo 4 (especially its multiplayer mode) and Forza Horizon, the spin-off title being developed by Leamington Spa's own PlayGround Games. It also looks as though People Can Fly, the developer behind the monstrously under-rated Bulletstorm,are unveiling a Gears of War prequel. After that, we can expect lots of new Kinect titles, and a few fresh content deals with big video-on-demand suppliers. I'm also hoping for a couple of left field XBLA titles to steal the show, a la Limbo a from 2010. The Massively multiplayer battle arena game, Guardians of Middle Earth, which ties in with the forthcoming Hobbit movie, may well attract some interest. And will Microsoft be able to resist at leastteasingthe next gen Xbox? I doubt it.Among the major publishers, Activision has Black Ops 2, of course, as well as Skylanders Giants; EA will show Fifa 13, Dead Space 3 and Crysis 3; Bethesda has the fascinating stealth game, Dishonored; and Namco has its big new Star Trek title. Warner has just announced Lego lord of the Rings so we can probably expect that. Ubisoft will be showing more of Far Cry 3 and Assassin's Creed III. On PC, the big titles will be the likes of Elder Scolls Online, DayZ, SimCity and Planetside 2. There are also lots of big free-to-play and MMO publishers at the show this year, while Nvidia is revealing new hardware, includingits intriguing new GeForce GRIDcloud-based graphics platform.Theme of the show? Hmm, the calm before the storm, perhaps? There are a lot of titles here that we knew about last year, and a similar sense of stasis from Sony and Microsoft, who have current hardware to push, and perhaps a certain hesitancy about kickstarting a nightmarishly expensive new console generation. Microsoft is up soon though. The battle is about to commence.
In the run-up to E3, developer 343 Industries has been slowly unveiling the key new features of Halo 4. Back in spring we discovered that the single-player campaign would once again be following Master Chief – only this time in a new fight against an ancient force. The smart money, of course, is on the Forerunners, the super advanced race responsible for the mega Halo structures.On top of that, we know a little about how multiplayer will work. The whole mode will have a narrative wraparound, based on the UNSC Infinity, which acts as a hub world to the action. Here, players will get to test the new Spartan Ops mode, an intriguing episodic co-op campaign, set to be delivered in chapters in the weeks after the game's release, and accompanied by epic cinematic sequences.It's also where we'll experience War Games, the new name for competitive multiplayer combat in Halo 4. Here players will compete against each other in a range of play modes, customising their load-outs and activating new combat enhancements called "Specialisations", which augment key elements of individual play styles.In the last week before E3, we got the chance to put some questions to franchise development director Frank O'Connor about the new features, and what we can expect at E3. Here's what he said in our exclusive chat.How did you come up with the idea of housing all the multiplayer components within a narrative framework?The seed of that decision happened three, maybe four years ago, when Bonnie Ross first set up 343 Industries. We were just trying not to make the same mistakes that other franchises have made where they enjoy success but don't really plan for it, then just have to make it up as they go along.We had the luxury of know what the next few years would look like and we decided at that point that one of the simplest strategic decisions we could come to, was to make sure that everything mattered; that every single piece of fiction we made counted, that every storyline and character we created actually had some worth and value and was part of a long term investment in the Halo universe. Taking that philosophy through books and comics and graphic novels is one thing, but applying it adds a wrapper for the entire game experience is something really different.What that enabled us to do was to move separate components of the game, together. Normally, the campaign, the competitive multiplayer and the half-way house of the co-op mode are ring fenced apart from each other. Wrapping the whole thing together allowed us to make sure that all the fiction in all of those pieces actually mattered – in this case, it connects directly to your career as well as the narrative experience.Also, it allowed us to make everything feel much more comprehensively connected, more thoughts out. I think when you played multiplayer in the past it felt a little ... surreal. There's definitely a charm to that, that we've retained, where there seems to be this purposelessness for your fighting. But ultimately, all the effort that you put into that experience would feel a little futile because you were just shooting for a single number that our True Skill system would identify for you and then keep you there. We wanted to turn the whole thing on its head while keeping the core gameplay that people love.So does the UNSC Infinity exist within the single-player campaign as well?The Infinity is going to be a real object in the game, it's a really significant part of the plot. You'll start hearing more about it after E3, but once you've completed the campaign and move on to other aspects of the game, then you'll start to find that the Infinity and the characters who live and work about it, are all deeply interconnected via the story that happensafterthe Infinity leaves the campaign story in Halo 4.The idea of Spartan Ops as an episodic adventure is an interesting one. What was the thinking there?Well, we talked about some of the independent components of that separately. We talked about what would be a cool co-op experience, what would be a cool fiction ... but ultimately, it came down to this conversation we had a few years ago about, what is a really interesting water cooler experience as it relates to video games? People will typically buy a new game, they'll talk about the big set-pieces in that game, and then they'll move on to the multiplayer component, and often just stop talking about it.We wanted gamers to have a continual water cooler conversation that revolves around shared gameplay experiences. So if you have four people working together to get through these missions and then watching and experiencing fiction at the same time ... it's not that you have to go and blow up a reactor and then you watch a cinematic sequence of a reactor blowing up; it's real characters with really significant universe-changing events going on in the narrative.We have the Spartan Ops story mapped out, at least loosely, for a few years. The first season is very rigid at this point and we know where this story goes. If it's successful, if people enjoy it, we have a narrative arc that can last for years, with a known beginning, a middle and an end.So if we're talking about multi-season interactive episodic content, there's quite a cost to developing that. Will you be charging at some point?The first season is absolutely free if you buy either the special edition or the regular edition - that's a really significant amount of content; it's being compared to an entire campaign on top of the one that ships with the game.Yes, it's a lot of content and yes it's an expense, but we think it's worthwhile. Halo has long tradition of doing innovative things: Halo 2 had Xbox Live multiplayer; Halo 3 had social and sharing aspects. It's a tradition that goes back to the first game and we wanted to continue that spirit of experimentation. But this works, it's fun and it's testing really well. It's going to be interesting to see if those water cooler conversations emerge organically and naturally. We have our fingers crossed that they will.Have your writers had to adapt the way they build and structure a story for this episodic approach? Have they all been watching Battlestar Galactica and Game of Thrones to swot up?I think you'd be hard pressed to find a video game writer whodoesn'twatch Battlestar Galactica and Game of Thrones! But yes, they're paying close attention to that, and a couple of our writers have Hollywood and TV experience – they're bringing that to the game.The episodic structure is kind of a luxury. We tend to think of video games like movies, with a three-act structure, which is maybe not appropriate. People tend to play games in fits and starts; you may get a few who sit down and play in eight-hour sittings, but typically people play in increments of 15 minutes to half an hour, trying single player, multiplayer... and all of those things add up to their narrative experience.The problem with that is, you can't really control the pace of the drama as rigidly as you can when you know someone is going to sit in front of a movie for two hours. With films, you know exactly when to build tension, atmosphere and so on. TV is much more analogous to how people digest content in video games – which is in these short spurts.People were very interested in the concept of episodic content a few years ago, but little has happened with the format since then. It's only smaller studios like Telltale that seem to be having success with the format. Is it because there are major technical complexities involved for larger titles?I think we've had a pretty significant luxury in that we work very closely with Microsoft and the platform. The 360 has evolved into a great hub for digital distribution and all the systems and tools we need for future efforts are there already – we kind of don't have to worry about that.Most of the experimentation and prototyping we've done is not about delivery – most of that content will be on your disc. It's more about how you experience it, how you co-operate with people and then how the pieces of gameplay that you win through have an effect on the story. So a lot of it is about creative challenges. Our engineers are going to kill me for saying this, but the technical challenges are nowhere near as trying as the challenge of making little discreet chunks of content and story and entertainment that fit together seamlessly and make sense together. Technology is not the biggest part of the problem.With the War Games online multiplayer content, a few gamers have voiced fears that the customisable load-outs and character progression elements are moving the series closer to Call of Duty. How would you allay those fears?One thing I've learned over 10 years of working with video game communities is that trying to allay fears is like trying to put out a fire with gasoline. You just have to believe in what you're doing. I've been in this industry for twenty years, and most of the comparative systems that people think are being ripped off or borrowed from one title have been around in the industry for longer than I have.It's not so much that we're doing completely new things or that we're taking things from other games, it's just that, every time we go through the process of making a new Halo game, we have to evolve it to move it forward – otherwise you just increase the resolution of the successful maps and put out the same game every year. That wouldn't work, that would be terrible business.So youhaveto evolve the game naturally and sometimes fairly radically. Some of the things we've done would seem fairly trivial to the average man in the street, but they make a really significant difference to players who take this stuff seriously. And of course, in the vacuum of not having played it – or in our case, they haven't evenseena lot of it – there's this panic and resistance to change.Typically we find that, as long as we do our jobs correctly and ensure everything is balanced and fun and makes sense for our game, which has a very specific heart to it, then eventually even the most resistant players will figure out what's good and what's bad for them, and then pick their matchmaking style based on those premises. Eventually, they adapt.Do you see Halo 4 at the forefront of a new era of games in which all the elements – campaign, multiplayer, co-op – do exist within a single narrative experience? Can multiplayer contribute to stories in this way?We're seeing that already, especially on PC. Something like World of Warcraft often creates those moments – it doesn't do them in a serialised form, but you do hear people having water cooler conversations about MMOs, for example. But I think what we're talking about here are console action games, which have typically been either fairly solitary or hyper competitive experiences. We have a blend of those ideas in Spartan Ops and in some of the other stuff we haven't talked about yet...Is there anything you're interested in seeing at E3?I have been to every single E3 and I've always been working. I can honestly tell you I've never seen the whole thing! I'll probably check most of it out on the internet when I get back to my hotel. It's like being in Willy Wonka's chocolate factory, except we're the  Oompa Loompas rather than Violet Beauregarde.I think that's the best simile I've ever heard about being a developer at E3...Even as the words were falling out of my mouth I was regretting saying that.Halo 4 is released on Xbox 360 on 6 November
Parental controls may be part of a new suite of tools available to parents who wish to allow children under 13 to access Facebook.Jump to live chat highlights|View the comment stream on Facebook.Citing unnamed sources, the Wall Street Journal isreportingthat under-13 "features" could be appended to games and entertainment on the site, giving parents an opportunity to ensure a safer experience.Facebook told the paper that it is "in continuous dialogue with stakeholders, regulators and other policy makers about how best to help parents keep their kids safe in an evolving online environment".Zuckerberg haslong been a proponentof allowing greater access for youngsters. He has has said the potential for educational opportunity trumps a mandate by the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (Coppa) that websites collecting data about users allow children under age 13 to enroll."That will be a fight we take on at some point," Zuckerberg said, referencing Coppa in May 2011. "My philosophy is that for education you need to start at a really, really young age."Reaction to the story hints that Facebook would just be allowing what already happens. Asmore than a few parentshave admitted, sometimes kids are allowed to sneak their way around the site's terms of service by lying about their ages or using a family profile.What do you think? Will allowing children under 13 to use the site change much about Facebook's landscape? Take the poll below, tell us in the comments or tweet to@GuardianUS. We'll feature some of your replies in this post.PollYour responsesLive chatShould preteens be allowed to use Facebook? Jason Schultz, director of the Samuelson Law, Technology &amp; Public Policy Clinic at the University of California–Berkeley and co-author of "Why Parents Help their children lie to Facebook about age: Unintended Consequences of the 'Children's Online Privacy Protection Act" was on ourFacebook pagetaking reader questions and discussing concerns our readers voiced. You can view the chathere. Here are a few of the highlights:
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRIM: What the hell happened? &gt;&gt; Fortune TechIf aliens had disembarked at Orlando's Marriott Hotel in early May, they would have probably thought the BlackBerry the latest and greatest technology on Earth.But this feature is there to disabuse them.Android vs. iPhone: how the users differ &gt;&gt; Hunch BlogWe delved into our Teach Hunch About You (THAY) questions to figure out what we can learn about Android vs. iPhone users, and our friends at Column Five Media performed some of their infographic magic on the resulting data.Note that this is only representative of people on Hunch, and that it talks about likelihood (eg likelihood of using Yahoo Mail v Gmail), not proportion. So "50% more likely to use Yahoo Mail" means that you'd have (say)foursix out of 50 using Yahoo Mail in that group, andthreefour out of 50 in the reference group. (Oops.)iOS 6: Higher hanging fruit &gt;&gt; iMoreA list of suggestions of things Apple could stea.. incorporate from other mobile OSs (and even its desktop OSX). Largely unlikely to happen because they would complicate life enormously, though inter-app communication like Android and Windows Phone offer ("intents" and "contracts") is overdue.HTML5 Rubik's cubeTremendous fun. Needs a "current" browser, obviously. Best thing: solves it for you once you've messed it all up.Do Not Track: It's the user's voice that matters &gt;&gt; Mozilla Privacy BlogFollowing Microsoft's announcement that IE10 will enable "Do Not Track" (of users by third-party cookies) by default, Mozilla's privacy officers speak up:There are three different signals to consider in broadcasting the user's preferences for tracking:User says they accept tracking; User says they reject tracking; User hasn't chosen anythingFirefox defaults to state 3: we don't know what the user wants, so we're not sending any signals to servers.Which is the equivalent default of state21, that the user accepts tracking. See if you can think of a company which pays Firefox to be its default search engine, and might benefit from tracking being enabled. (Thanks @gaudie for the correction in comments.)Advancing Consumer Trust and Privacy: Internet Explorer in Windows 8 &gt;&gt; Microsoft TechNet BlogsBrendon Lynch, Microsoft's chief privacy officer, on why IE10 will have "Do Not Track" turned on by default:We've made today's decision because we believe in putting people first. We believe that consumers should have more control over how information about their online behavior is tracked, shared and used. Online advertising is an important part of the economy supporting publishers and content owners and helping businesses of all shapes and sizes to go to market.See if you can think of a company that will be affected by this which Microsoft doesn't like.The Girl With The ANSI Tattoo &gt;&gt; Oracle WTF blogThe US remake of Girl With The Dragon Tattoo uses, gasp, SQL to solve a cold case:Shocked moviegoers will have been left wondering why a genius-level hacker would outer-join to the Victims and Keywords tables only to use literal-text filter predicates that defeat the outer joins, whether MySQL has a LIKE operator, and why none of the victims' initials are 'R L'.Reminiscent of The Matrix's use of open source hacking tools.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
