He may have been one of the marketing sensations of the year but even Monkey, the woollen toy who became the face of ITV Digital, has been unable to close the yawning gap between the digital terrestrial pay TV service and Rupert Murdoch's satellite leviathan BSkyB.While ITV Digital, launched in 1998 as ONdigital, has struggled to sign up and hold on to subscribers, BSkyB has gone from strength to strength, becoming Europe's most successful digital television service.Despite four years of hard slog and &#163;800m of investment, ITV Digital is still two years away from breaking even and continues to lose money hand over fist. Out of every four customers it signs up, at least one ditches the service.Last month ITV Digital's shareholders, the television companies Carlton and Granada, conceded that an urgent restructuring was needed to save the business from closure.Rivals blame ITV Digital's problems on a mixture of strategic errors, poor management, inferior technology, piracy and bad luck. "ITV Digital couldn't run a bath," BSkyB's chief executive, Tony Ball, quipped recently.Analysts say that ITV Digital's biggest mistake was trying to take BSkyB on at its own game, rather than tailoring a lighter package for people who do not want 200 channels, are not prepared to pay almost &#163;40 a month for football and films, and are reluctant to put a satellite dish on their houses.Instead it paid &#163;315m for exclusive rights to Nationwide League football and a further &#163;200m each year on its own sports channel, boxing ITV Digital into a corner that it is struggling to get out of. Executives admit they cannot make the deals pay and are desperately trying to renegotiate them.At the same time ITV Digital is trying to get the government to improve the strength of the digital signal that it depends on to broadcast programmes. Around half the country cannot receive ITV Digital signals and many who can experience poor reception.Piracy is a growing problem but Canal Plus, the supplier of the subscription cards that have been copied by hackers, believes it has finally pinpointed the source.Sadly for ITV Digital it may have come too late. A recession in advertising spending has led to budgets at Carlton and Granada being cut to the bone.
The process was complex, time-consuming, and very expensive. This was not about a lone hacker sitting at a computer screen trying to guess passwords. Instead, it was an attempt to split the foundation stone supporting an entire industry - the technology protecting pay TV.The challenge handed in the autumn of 1997 to a team of scientists working quietly at a laboratory in Haifa, northern Israel, was to crack the encryption technique used to unscramble TV signals delivered to many paying customers through cable and satellite across Europe and the US.The so-called "smart" or "conditional access" cards used to access Sky, ITV Digital, and other premium channels contain wafer-thin computer chips holding complex codes to make sure viewers see only what they have paid to see.The Haifa team knew all about this. They worked for NDS, a Murdoch company which had begun life as a start-up firm, News Datacom, in Israel eight years earlier. Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation had backed the venture in the belief that the coming digital age required a quantum leap in areas such as data security and the encryption of communications.NDS was to go on and design the encryption process that would be used on the smart cards handed out with every Murdoch pay TV package in the world. With 27m viewers using its cards in 40% of the world's satellite receivers, it would become a company valued at well over $1bn in its own right.But NDS had one important rival, an encryption technology developed in France by the local broadcaster Canal Plus which had been adopted by just about all News Corporation's rival broadcasters.The NDS team in Haifi, according to a lawsuit filed in the US district court for the Nothern District of California, set out to "sabotage Canal Plus technological security measures engineered into its smart cards."Breaking the encryption alone would cost up to $5m. The process demanded the use of ultra-expensive electron-scanning microscopes, with the team probing wafer-thin chips no bigger than a thumbnail. Each chip contained up to 50 layers, with each layer in turn carrying up to 1,000 transistors, every one of which had to be pulled apart and analysed.Unlimited fundingEven with access to the most sophisticated equipment and seemingly unlimited funding, it took the Haifa team six months to unravel a code which was supposed to be impossible to decipher.From there, according to Canal Plus's $1bn claim for damages, it was a relatively straightforward matter of releasing the information and then waiting for the world's counterfeiters to undermine every rival broadcaster using the French encryption system.In early 1999, the NDS team isolated a piece of the encryption software known as the UserROM, a portion of computer memory on a smart card which controls access to the rest of the digital data. This information was dropped into a downloadable internet file called Secarom.zip, which, according to the Canal Plus claim, was then sent to the Haifa team's colleagues in California at NDS Americas with instructions that it be published on the internet so that anyone wanting to produce pirate Canal Plus cards could do so.Canal Plus claims that the file was then transferred to a web operator called Al Menart, who ran a website known as DR7.com, a geekish internet service which promptly published the Canal Plus code for all to see.By late 1999 the first counterfeit cards   had begun to appear and, according to Canal Plus, by September 2000 the Italian market was flooded. Proliferation across Europe was in full swing.The cards have become commonplace in Britain, with ITV Digital complaining recently that more than 100,000 pirate cards are in circulation here.Executives at ITV Digital, which has struggled to build a strong base of subscribers and which continues to haemorrhage cash, were apparently appalled recently by comments made by Sky's chief executive, Tony Ball, during an address to the company's US investors. "ITV Digital/DTT is completely pirated, a joke. For $7 you can buy a card for all channels," he is reported to have said.Canal Plus faces the exhaustive process of renewing the technology in the 12 million cards issued worldwide. ITV Digital customers can expect completely new plastic by the end of the year.Fran&#231;ois Carayol, chairman and chief executive of Canal Plus Technologies, said: "When it emerged that the most secure part of our smart card system had been invaded we immediately launched an investigation into why and how it happened."We certainly didn't expect our investigations to lead us to NDS. It is not the type   of action we would have expected from such a well-established firm."For its part, NDS says the whole piracy claim is an outlandish fabrication. A statement from Abe Peled, the company's president and chief executive, last night said the counterfeiters had simply targeted an inferior technology and succeeded without any help from anyone.He suggested that Canal Plus is in commercial trouble and revealed that the French firm had approached NDS before Christmas suggesting a merger, adding that the French had been trying to poach the NDS employee accused of leaking Canal Plus's code.Corporate battleIn a pointer to the corporate battle that is unfolding, Mr Peled also drew attention to news reports over recent weeks suggesting disagreement within Canal Plus's parent company, Vivendi Universal, over what direction the French media business should take.Vivendi, in its current form as a media and communications giant with interests ranging from Hollywood movies to third-generation mobile phones, has been built in double-quick speed by a former investment banker called Jean Marie Messier.   He is known as Jean 2M and considered a messianic figure in French business circles, having burst out of the confines of the French national market to create a real threat to Mr Murdoch.But he built Vivendi with a furious round of acquisitions just as the internet boom was hitting its peak.Last week he was forced to take a write-down in Vivendi's accounts to cover the value which has been destroyed as dotcom and technology companies have imploded.The battle with NDS is likely to test his mettle even further.As for News Corporation, executives there will be well aware that this is not the first time that its 80% owned associate NDS has polluted the group's public image.One morning in October 1996, Israeli tax officials, apparently acting on a tip-off from a former employee, raided the company's Jerusalem offices and also the site in Haifa. They were looking for evidence that NDS had evaded &#163;100m in tax oversix years; 70 tax officers removed more than 50 cartons of papers from the NDS offices.In the event, the allegations never stuck. But the mud did.
Among your emails and junk mail this year, it's a fair bet there will be several messages from big charities about their new way of putting fun into fundraising - an online raffle, offering exotic prizes such as an exclusive trip to the Russian space centre in Moscow, or a team-signed Manchester United shirt.If, logged on to home or office computer, you are tempted to buy online "chances", at &#163;1 each, you will be assisting a good cause - and helping to justify one man's prediction that soon we will be spending up to &#163;12m a year in this way.Peter Sweatman is the guy with the golden hunch. He is a tall, tanned former merchant banker who, stressed out after a decade with JP Morgan in London and New York, took time out to seek a more fulfilling career. He came up with the idea of founding the Charity Technology Trust (CTT), which, he says, radically cuts the costs to charities of organising raffles.He had read a book by Howard Lake about the potential of online fundraising. And though it appeared in 1994, Sweatman realised through chatting with contacts, that voluntary bodies were scarcely using emails to contact donors.That, plus the realisation that charities are permitted by the gaming board to run their own raffles up to a ceiling of &#163;5m a year, set him thinking. Why not streamline the traditional raffle - a &#163;100m a year source of funds - by putting it on the web?Costs saved are huge, says Sweatman, sitting in CTT's office in Waterloo, south London. "With paper-based raffles, only 47% of revenues reach the charity; the rest is spent on prizes and process costs."The contract offered by CTT - itself a charity - takes just 20% of the total in costs, leaving 80% for good causes. The deal was attractive enough to sign up a first group of charities - including Oxfam, Barnardo's, the National Trust and Guide Dogs for the Blind - though results of the first online raffles were very modest.Total proceeds ranged from &#163;2,000 a game to &#163;11,000. None of the participating charities contacted by Society said it was disappointed; they were keen to try more, not only for financial returns but to attract more, younger supporters.Sweatman says the returns for the raffles in the first few months are on target. But how will CTT reach that &#163;12m figure he speaks of? "2001 - nothing to speak of. 2002 - I think it will be &#163;372,000. That's very precise because it's in my business plan. 2003 - &#163;1.5m; 2004 - &#163;2.8m; 2005 - call it &#163;4m or &#163;5m; 2006 - &#163;7m." By then, he reckons that an additional &#163;5m will be coming from other online raffles. "I can't suppose there won't be others," he says. "The national lottery might put out a charity raffle."Sweatman, 32, is so determined to make his idea work that he is taking no salary until CTT breaks even; after that, it will be capped at &#163;50,000 - rather less, one imagines (for he is coy on this point), than he was earning at JP Morgan.His special brand of evangelism has been directed at the new technology sector, which has donated equipment and expertise and has provided sites for advertising raffles. Right now, he is happily counting new converts. In recent weeks, Mencap, the Royal British Legion, the NSPCC and the Landmark Trust have asked CTT to run online raffles for them.In Sweatman's new role, there are strong traces of the corporate culture of international banking, which he entered as a Cambridge   graduate. But an earlier formative influence has been asserting itself. "My mother was an active fundraiser for Barnardo's," he says. "She felt it was important to play a strong part in the community. And she was a very strong role model for me."So he was a "box-shaker" as a teenager, and when his mother died - by then his banking career was launched - Barnardo's contacted him and asked if he would be interested in continuing her valued work. "I was chair of their young professionals group - organising balls and theatre visits," he says. "We were raising between &#163;70,000 and &#163;100,000 for them."Years later, when he was casting round for the career change that led to CTT, that interest coincided with his father's business interests. He co-founded a publishing company of technical magazines. "He started the business selling advertising space from a basement, with my mother typing and making phone calls," says Sweatman. "I have deep admiration for that achievement."But while his father was an entrepreneur, the big leap Sweatman aspires to make is to be a social entrepreneur. He is confident that social business is a fecund field - for job satisfaction, rather than great riches."Given the area I'm in," he says, "I imagine I will find it easier to have a brilliant idea that will save charities money rather than a brilliant idea that will make me money."The Charity Technology Trust is on 020-7401 5400 orwww.ctt.org
The question is:what is it?
EBN has had a look at Microsoft's impressive performance in "time to volume" inXbox production, though to be accurate, all the systems have actually been built by its contractor, Flextronics. Either way, it would be interesting to see the company shipping 100 million consoles a year. In an idle moment, someone might then think about withdrawing Windows XP, say, and applying the same integration of proprietary hardware and proprietary software that is practised by Apple, Sony, Nintendo and other companies with monopoly control of their systems. If you can ship a 100 million Microsoft Xbox consoles (with XP, Intel processors, hard drives, nVidia graphics and built-in networking) then it is a safe bet you could ship 100 million Microsoft PCs (with XP, Intel processors, hard drives, nVidia graphics and built-in networking). Michael Dell would make a great contractor....
Yet anothersecurity hole in GNU/Linux-- hey, buffer overflow problems can happen to anyone.
The very very long awaitedHurdkernel could make it this year, according to Richard Stallman, founder of the free software movement. (Today, Stallman's GNU operating system is used with the Linux kernel. With Hurd, users should be able to run what everyone calls "Linux" without using Linux code.)
Nokia looked as though it was being left behind in the move tocolour-screen mobiles, but today's announcement at CeBIT shows it just wasn't leaking news ahead of time.
Saudi billionaire Prince Alwaleed is betting on the recovery of the new media sector. Yesterday he said he had ploughed $450m into AOL Time Warner, the world's largest media group, and $100m into Priceline.com over the past six months.Prince Alwaleed said he had also invested $500m in the Wall Street firm Citigroup, where he is already the largest single shareholder.A statement from his company, Kingdom Holdings, said the AOL Time Warner share price had fallen to attractive levels. The prince has developed a reputation for taking significant positions in companies he considers to be undervalued. He put money into Disney and Apple when both were unfashionable.AOL Time Warner shares have fallen almost 25% this year as it admitted to slowing growth rates. In January, the company, which owns Warner Bros, IPC magazines and Warner Music, pared back revenue forecasts for the coming year. The company was downgraded by investment bank Lehman Brothers two weeks ago.Prince Alwaleed said the weakness of the share price was temporary. "I believe in the power of the AOL brand and I am already a shareholder in this global media giant. Therefore, when the price reached a lucrative level, we decided to increase our stake."His endorsement prompted a rise in the price yesterday. AOL Time Warner was trading 1.5% higher by midday at $26.85. Priceline.com was 7% better at $5.31. Citigroup was flat. Priceline.com, which invites users to name their price for a range of travel services, saw a 12-month peak of $10.35. The prince described Priceline.com as one of the few internet companies that "survived the turbulence witnessed by the internet arena".&#183;Warren Buffett, the billionaire investor, said his conglomerate, Berkshire Hathaway, had suffered a sharp fall in profits during 2001. In the annual report to shareholders issued at the weekend, the company reported income of $795m, down from $3.3bn.
Virgin Mobile is in talks with the adult magazine publisher Playboy about launching soft-core pornography services on mobile phones.Already acknowledged as one of the few money-spinners on the web, mobile phone operators are turning to adult material in an effort to claw back the billions they have paid for third generation licences.If Virgin seals a deal with Playboy it could launch a service allowing users to download colour pictures from the web and send them to each other.The latest mobile handsets, featuring high-definition colour screens and faster web access, make such content feasible for the first time.With the launch of 3G services later this year, adult content could range from short video clips to games of strip poker.Hutchison 3G, which will launch the first next generation mobile service this autumn, has already signed content deals with media companies such as Emap and TeamTalk and is looking to add an adult content partner to its roster.Last year it appointed a head of adult services to explore a range of content ideas, including pornography and gambling.In Japan, where faster mobile web access is widely available, virtual girlfriends and sexually themed sites are among the most popular mobile internet services.
Sony has unveiled two new Palm-compatibleCliepalmtops in the US.
This column comes to you from the garden shed. I'm typing away on an Apple iBook and when it's finished I will cut and paste the text into my email program and dispatch it across the net to  The Observer's office in London.Every so often, I switch to a browser to check a site or a reference, or to see what's in my inbox. Yet there are no wires to be seen - no physical connection links my laptop to the net.Welcome to the world of wireless networking. In my house there is a small box plugged into the phone line. The box contains two things: a standard modem; and a small radio transceiver. In my laptop is a PCMCIA card, which is also a radio transceiver. Installed in both the base-station and the laptop card is some software that enables them to exchange data wirelessly at ethernet speeds.Having a wireless network is an eye-opening experience - analogous to the liberation people felt when mobile phones first arrived. Because you don't have to be tethered, like a goat, to the wall in order to be connected to the net, you can work anywhere in the house or garden. It also means that a number of computers can share the same internet connection, and pass files from one to the other at ethernet speeds.And by plugging a wireless card into a personal digital assistant such as a Compaq iPAQ, you can walk around with the net in the palm of your hand.Techies refer to this technology as 802.11b networking - the name of the IEEE technological standard to which it conforms. Marketers call it Wi-Fi. You can buy the kit in any decent computer store. It's still relatively expensive - about &#163;200 for a base station and &#163;100 per PCMCIA card - but these costs will fall. And even at current costs it's a lot more convenient than putting ethernet cable round the house.Wi-Fi is a classic 'disruptive technology' as defined by Clayton Christensen in his book  The Innovator's Dilemma. A disruptive technology is one that slips in below corporate radars and radically undermines the established way of doing things.To see why Wi-Fi fits this mould, take a walk with me. I can go to a neighbour's house and still access the net using my wireless connection. More significantly, so can my neighbour, provided I am willing to let her have the password. With an ordinary base-station, wireless networking is possible within a range of about 75 metres. But if I put a simple antenna on my roof the range increases considerably - certainly to 500m, and maybe more. I know people who are making repeater antennae out of coffee tins and extending the range of Wi-Fi transmissions to several kilometres.Now suppose I had a broadband link to the net, via a cable modem or an ADSL line. With existing Wi-Fi kit and a roof antenna I could easily share this bandwidth with every home in the small village where I live.Everyone within walking distance of my house could effectively enjoy broadband access. Because of a quirk of UK legislation, I could not legally  charge my neighbours for this boon, but I could grant them access, gratis, to my high-speed link. (They could, perhaps, chip in informally to help with my monthly cable modem subscription.)None of this is rocket science. It's happening now all over the world - especially in the US. We are looking at the emergence of a new grassroots phenomenon - the Neighbourhood Area Network or Nan. It could bring broadband to whole swathes of the UK ignored by BT and the cable operators. And the beauty of it is that we can do it ourselves.john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes
US officials sayAl Qaeda is using the Internet to regroup, reports the New York Times [free subscription required].
Network Associates hasabandoned the struggle to sell PGP, the Pretty Good Privacy encryption system. Phil Zimmerman released PGP as "freeware" in 1991, but sold the commercial rights to Network Associates in 1997. However,the technology will survive, Zimmerman says.
Sun Microsystems, having sued Microsoft and stopped it from distributing Java, has nowsued Microsoftfor not distributing Java. This is entirely in keeping with Sun's desire to make Java a standard while failing to put it through the standards process, and with attacking Linux while taking over a Linux supplier, amongst other things. Apparently Sun's fundamentalist belief in network computing doesn't stretch quite far enough for it to understand that people who want Java can simply download it.
Microsoft today denied that the Xbox, its much-hyped games console that goes on sale in the UK next week, has developed an embarrassing fault.As competition in the games console market hots up reports from Japan, where the Xbox was launched a fortnight ago, suggested some machines scratched CD and DVD games, forcing the company to carry out urgent repairs.The claims have been dismissed by Microsoft, who said that less than 1% of Japan buyers had complained.It added that the light scratching did not in any way stop the machine being used or interfere with game play.The company also denied it was carrying out repairs or having to offer customers replacements.The games console industry is at present beset by bitter rivalries as the Microsoft Xbox prepares to go head to head with the Sony PlayStation 2, the current market leader.Microsoft said misinformation from Japan had led to rumours that its console was being recalled and subsequent press reports about the scratching.The Xbox is Microsoft's first venture into the lucrative games market and it hopes to sell between 4.5 million and 6 million units worldwide by the end of June. It was launched in the US in November and will go on sale in the UK on March 14 for £299.Another threat comes from the Nintendo GameCube, which goes on sale in the UK on May 3 priced at around £150.Anticipating the arrival of the two new competitors, Sony slashed the price of the PS2 from £299 to £199 just before Christmas.Richard Teversham, UK head of marketing for Microsoft, said: "People want to try and find something here but the fact is less than 1% of new owners in Japan have found the machines have left scratches on their DVDs."The scratching is only on the edge of the disc and does not effect the game play. If it did we would have done something about it."
TMI?It stands for text message injury.WTWIAH?Pardon?I said, what's that when it's at home?Oh, sorry. It's a blanket term for the various types of muscle and tendon damage caused by the sending of too many text messages on one's mobile phone apparatus.Rlly? Wht r th symptms?Anything from stiff little fingers to a big pain in the arm, if you asked what I think you asked. With 45 million text messages sent every day in Britain, and a total of 12.2 billion messages sent last year, a veritable TMI epidemic is expected.Hw mny ppl in UK suffR fr TMI?Well, only one actually. Louise Thompson, a clinical psychologist from Hackney, east London, is reckoned to be Britain's first victim. She sends up to 15 texts a day to her boyfriend while he travels the world.Awwww, thy mst rlly b n luv.Sorry, didn't quite catch that. Anyway, now Louise has stiff finger joints and constant shooting pains in her forearms. Her chiropractor diagnosed TMI.!!!! Is sh gng 2 b OK?Not to worry. Her boyfriend is coming back in June.AAMOF, my fngrs sumtms hrt whn I snd txts.No, I didn't get that either. Can you spell it out properly?I can't! it hurts too much!Perhaps u should try the "textercises" which Virgin Mobile offers its users.GTG, M8. Im n trrbl pain.Come again?CYA. TTFN. BCNU. CUL8R.Oh. We'll leave it there then.N2BConfuzdW/:DTI, TLC, ICI, ECT.Dnt say:"I love you more than words can wield the matter; dearer than eye-sight, space and liberty; beyond that which can be valued, rich or rare."Do say:"ILUVU."
Today's Online isonline.
American users who want to play PlayStation 2 games online will have towait until Augustfor the $39.99 communications adaptor, reports Reuters.
Well, who'd have thunk it: scientists can spy on your data by reading theflashing lightson your (external) modem.
Ted Constable asked whether it was worth refilling printer cartridges to save money. Many readers responded. Most had successfully filled black ink cartridges, with care and a little practice. A smaller number advocated compatible cartridges, usually purchased from websites such asChoice Stationery. No one was particularly keen on refilling colour cartridges. Thanks to all who contributed tips and tricks to help fellow readers.Jack SchofieldI have been refilling cartridges for more than a year, using bottles of ink and medical syringes. Instead of paying close to &#163;30 for a set, the cost is just over a pound. The results are indistinguishable. But from friends' experiences, I suspect that some printers are more tolerant than others. Important tricks are:&#183;keep everything clean;&#183;make sure refilled cartridges are sealed properly - I use a glue gun&#183;replace the cartridges occasionally to avoid build up of contaminants.Richard Towersrtowers@tyndal.u-net.comThe best way to start is to buy a black refill kit, which contains instructions for different brands and types of cartridges. Read the instructions, then have a go. Anyone can do it, with care. Once you are comfortable with the idea, get a half-litre bottle of ink and a medical syringe, all to be found on refill sites. When you reach the end of the road, buy a new cartridge and start again. As for colour, the only real success I have had was when topping up one colour in a three-colour cartridge.Stanley Challenger Grahamwww.barnoldswick.comI have been using refills for several years, mostly successfully. I started with a JR Inkjet Refill kit, which provided a syringe and instructions for filling 19 different makes of cartridge. Then I bought a 250ml bottle of dye-based ink for &#163;8. At 20ml per refill, the economics are acceptable. Since the cartridge is the print head, the cheap ink can't harm the printer. I have learned the usual way, that as soon as the printer warns me the cartridge is running low, I must refill it. Once a cartridge runs dry, it's dead.Ken LeeStoke-on-TrentRefills can be messy, you sometimes need to clean the printer's print head, and a bottle of print cleaning fluid and some cotton buds can be useful. Experiment with a few makes, see what suits you best. Have courage!Tim Preecetimpreece@freenet.co.ukI refill printer cartridges for my Canon BJ-4200 by dripping the ink through the pad at the bottom. They work fine for about three refills. Also, check out Photoglossy.com, which sells a wide variety of cheap cartridges.Simon Scholeysimon@scs-it.comI had a lot of experience with ink refill kits in the Windows 3.1 days. I found you can only refill a cartridge with a built-in print head two or three times before it becomes unusable due to constant blocking. I saved money but at the cost of time and aggravation. I eventually kept two cartridges: one new one for quality work, and a refilled one for rough drafts.Patrick Quinnpatrick@thequinns.worldonline.co.ukThe main points: fill as soon as one colour runs out, or before; and don't expect the cartridge print-head to last more than a couple of fills.Bill HathawayPAT-BILL@the-beach88.freeserve.co.ukAs a watercolourist, I have found that unless one uses the Epson colour ink cartridge in the Epson printer, the colour balance in printing photographs is impossible to get right.Derek HeckleI tried one of these kits, but the results were disappointing. The root of the problem is probably that the makers have to specify just one ink that will flow through every make of nozzle. One size doesn't really fit all. A much better buy, I think, are the factory recycled cartridges sold as "compatibles". These are ecologically attractive, give good quality and still offer a real saving compared with manufacturers' originals.Frank Entwistleentwistle@clara.co.ukThere is a simpler and less messy way of dealing with the manufacturers' price rip-off: use "generic" cartridges from independent manufacturers. The saving is enormous, the results the same, and so far the dire consequences of printer disintegration have not materialised.Gordon ClaridgeOxfordAfter my experience - three "new" recycled tri-colour cartridges (not all the same brand) not working, taking them back and paying the extra for the genuine (HP) article which then works perfectly - I have to ask whether it's worth the hassle. Haven't had any trouble with recycled black cartridges, though.Chris Miltonc.milton@ntlworld.comRefills looked like a good deal, I succumbed to blandishments, bought the pack, and totally gummed up my printer. Tried cleaning fluid supplied and then isopropyl alcohol -- no joy! It looks like a new printer. That'll teach me that cheap is dear, unless anyone has any ideas?Frank Abrahamsfrank.abrahams@virgin.net
The first question you have to ask about the Xbox is: whybother? Microsoft does not need the money, and like every othergames console, Xbox will initially be sold at a loss. It is a biginvestment to make in an unfamiliar market that is alreadydominated by a rich and powerful consumer electronics giant:Sony. Analysts naturally wonder if it is a Trojan horse, likeSony's PlayStation 2, or a precursor of TV-based systems yetto come.Microsoft is very clear about this, and always has been. Theparty line from "Mr Xbox" J Allard in Redmond is that the Xbox isjust a games console, albeit one that pushes back the frontiers.It is the first to ship with a built-in hard drive, and to be designedfor network game playing. But Microsoft has no plans to turn itinto a multi-function home terminal, which is Sony's strategy.At the moment, it seems Microsoft and, particularly, Nintendoare right to emphasise "games, games, games". Paul Jackson,an analyst based in Forrester Research's Amsterdam office,says consumers are not interested in additional functionality. Ina European survey, Forrester found only 17% of buyers wereinterested in playing DVDs on their console, while homeshopping only attracted 6%.More than half said they already had a device that did the samething. Most console buyers own a PC.With PCs in the majority of homes, Microsoft may not need aTrojan horse. And while Microsoft denies the existence ofmultifunction non-PC devices such as the long-rumouredHomeStation home gateway, Jackson says: "Xbox already hasnine-tenths of what you would require. Add a TV tuner and youhave a sophisticated PVR" &#91;personal video recorder&#93;.Microsoft is certainly working on what it calls "the 10 footexperience", which is different from "the three foot experience" ofusing a personal computer. Its forthcoming Mira wirelesshandheld controller is one way of doing that. But, says Jackson:"You will have a lot more games consoles than networkedhomes or Mira tablets." Forrester's projection is 70mnext-generation consoles in Europe by the end of 2006.Nick Gibson, games analyst with Durlacher in the City, says theXbox is a learning experience for Microsoft, but one that allows itto exploit its expertise in creating platforms and games."Microsoft has been a dominant force in PC games publishingand the Xbox lets it exploit its skills base and intellectualproperty more broadly."One of Microsoft's long-term aims is building up a reputationwithin the games business, that it will be able to exploit in thefuture."However, Gibson's answer to my question - why bother? - was"purely financial. Microsoft has seen how successful Sony'svideo game business has been over the past five years".Peter Tyson, games industry analyst with Datamonitor inLondon, adds that although Microsoft may not need the money,it wants the growth. "The PC market is slowing down, andbecoming a replacement business," says Tyson. "If Microsoftwants to grow more than a few per cent a year, it makes senseto enter an industry that is proven, that's reliable, and that will bearound for many years to come."PC users may only buy a new copy of Windows or MicrosoftOffice every four or five years, but Xbox owners could buy four orfive new games every year.
Metal Gear Solid 2PlayStation 2 	&#163;44.99 Konami 	*****The demarcation lines between film and game are blurring once more as Metal Gear Solid 2 finally launches in Europe. Despite the four-month delay since the US release - essentially a Sony marketing block against next week's Xbox launch - this has been well worth the wait.A sequel to the 1998 PlayStation hit, MGS2 takes the innovative stealth play style of the original - avoidance rather than confrontation -and adds a host of gaming and visual improvements. While not quite as striking as when first shown in 2000, the graphics are still some of    the most realistic yet seen on the PS2. Most impressive of all is the eerily realistic artificial intelligence (AI), with soldiers, who gang up and hunt mercilessly, even reacting to your shadow. But while the action is addictive, the story is equally important.In a game as plot-driven as this,   it would be cruel to reveal too much, although expect a similar amount of psychobabble and conspiracy theory to the original, as well as some unexpected treats.  Unfortunately, the emphasis on non-interactive narrative detracts from the action, with long periods spent watching rather than doing. While some games designers are retreating to a more purist vision - see Rez and Frequency - the team behind MGS2 seems to place as much importance on the story as the game. Luckily, there are so many nice touches - such as hiding under a box to escape detection - that the occasionally clumsy dialogue matters less. When MGS2 attempts to be a movie it becomes strictly B-list. But, when it concentrates on being a game, Metal Gear Solid 2 is up there with the best.Command &amp; Conquer RenegadePC	&#163;29.99 Westwood Studios/ EA 	***There is a fine line between bravery and foolhardiness and, in the build-up to its launch, there was an enormous amount of speculation about which side of that line Command &amp; Conquer: Renegade would fall. With the Command &amp; Conquer series, Westwood Studios ripped the real-time strategy (RTS) genre out of the hands of a small band of enthusiasts and brought it into the mainstream. But with the latest instalment, the RTS format has been replaced by a first-person shoot-'em-up set in the Command &amp; Conquer universe. Would the baby remain after the bathwater had gone?The answer is equivocal. Command &amp; Conquer devotees will love the ability to get inside buildings previously viewed from a hovering camera. The air of familiarity   that greets you in Renegade is instant and pleasurable. But when viewed as a first-person shoot-'em-up, Renegade can only be described as basic.You play Captain Nick "Havoc" Parker, yet another masochistically gung-ho computer game character. As a rogue global defence initiative operative, you get pitched into a number of missions against the sinister Nod and their Black Hand elite unit, encountering your old unit, your psychotic ex-girlfriend and countless secondary objectives along the way. Renegade's plot would love to hit Metal Gear Solid heights, but it is hopelessly two-dimensional in comparison.A hint of cooperative multiplay is provided by the   constant presence of supporting GDI forces, although their antiquated artificial intelligence - in common with that of the enemy - renders them of little practical help. You also get to drive various ground-based vehicles, all equipped with a simple control system. But the multiplayer element of the game is what will excite Command &amp; Conquer fans most, as it cleverly includes an element of resource management.Command &amp; Conquer: Renegade is basic, action-packed, cliched, reassuringly familiar, graphically average, innovative only in multiplayer mode - and great fun to play in an atavistic way. A curate's egg.  (SB)
It is bulky, black and aesthetically challenged, but the Xbox is Microsoft's entry into the &#163;11bn videogame industry. Launching in Europe next Thursday, the Xbox is set to spark a huge battle in a market dominated by Sony's PlayStation 2.A successful US launch has put the software giant in a confident mood, but this is virgin territory for Microsoft. The PlayStation 2 is the market leader worldwide, while gaming veteran Nintendo is set to release its latest console, the GameCube, in    Europe in May. But while the latter, despite some notable announcements such as exclusive development of the Resident Evil series, remains aimed at the younger audience, the Xbox is the main competitor for the PS2.The machine itself is large - reminiscent of an 1980s VCR - and unlikely to be moved once stowed under the telly. The controllers are similarly oversized, although relatively comfortable with prolonged play. Unlike the PS2, the Xbox doesn't play DVDs as standard, but buy a separate remote control (about &#163;20) and    you've got DVD playback that is better than the PS2.  Online connectivity is important too, with the Xbox having a built-in Ethernet adapter, although you'll have to wait until a network is developed for full broadband gaming.Michel Cassius, head of publishing at Xbox Europe says: "Broadband online video gaming will have as dramatic an impact on video games in this generation as the move from 2D to 3D did in the last generation."Sony has also announced a hard drive and a broadband connector for the PS2, with Telewest currently running networking trials. A first for a console, the hard drive doesn't just keep the price high - &#163;299 compared to PS2 (&#163;199) and GameCube (approx &#163;160) - but offers developers a host of opportunities. There is the chance to create more realistic environments and game worlds, with less delay in loading. And there is the potential of episodic gaming, where small sections are downloaded on a regular basis, creating a "soap opera" style commitment to the title.Realising that any console is only as good as its games, Microsoft has tried to make development as easy as possible. Unlike the arcane intricacies that need mastering to develop for the PS2, the Xbox is based on fairly standard PC and Windows technology. After all, it is essentially a medium spec PC, with a great graphics card.  "We have very good tools, and developers can also start development of their games/concept on a PC and get to a very good prototype very quickly," says Cassius.Mark Gordon, technical director of Climax London is typical of many developers: "The Xbox is a very powerful machine, which means that we can go quickly from artist to console without too much reduction in texture size or polygon count."Microsoft has also started a developer support programme which has been popular in the UK. Complementing Microsoft's releases, there are 14 third-party titles due out on launch day, from companies such as Eidos and Activision. John Davis of Eidos says: "Microsoft has the objective of growing the overall market, rather than just pinching customers from competitor platforms."And Roger Walkden, European marketing director of Activision, is similarly upbeat: "It's always encouraging to see healthy competition at the beginning of the life of a new hardware platform as it shows that developers and publishers have committed themselves to its success."With 20 games available on day one - the biggest in gaming history - the results    are mixed, although of a higher quality than the initial PS2 launch line-up. The one standout title is Halo. Ostensibly a first person shooter (FPS), Halo mixes team and vehicular combat with a surprisingly enjoyable sci-fi story. The 5.1 Dolby digital sound is impressive but the graphics really demonstrate the leap forward from the PS2, with high-resolution textures creating incredibly realistic environments.While none of the other Microsoft titles can match the quality of Halo, there is an eclectic mix to choose from. Project Gotham Racing may be an update of a Dreamcast game but its innovative scoring system - drive daringly to gain points - make it a must for petrolheads. Another Dreamcast update and published by Sega is Jet Set Radio Future, the unique and stylish skateboarding title.Dead or Alive 2 is a gorgeous fighting game, with stunning character animation, while Amped is the finest looking snowboarding sim around. But perhaps the most interesting release is Oddworld: Munch's Oddysee, a platforming, puzzling hybrid that should appeal to all ages. The other Microsoft releases are the mediocre puzzle game Fuzion Frenzy and the disappointing boat shooter Blood Wake.The third party release schedule includes big name publishers such as EA, Eidos and Activision, although as with the Microsoft releases, the results are predictably   mixed. PS2 ports predominate, with Xbox conversions of Max Payne, Tony Hawks 3, and NBA Live offering few surprises. Eidos and Activision do offer some exclusivity though, with both Mad Dash Racing and Wreckless: the Yakuza missions only available on the Xbox. The former is an enjoyable, if limited, cartoon racing game, while the latter is essential for racing fans looking to steer fast cars through crowded cities. With a large urban environment to cause havoc in, Wreckless is a worthy rival to Project Gotham in the Xbox driver rankings.More releases are scheduled later in March - including EA's Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Championship Manager 2002 - the Xbox hard drive making this the first-ever console release for the football management sim. This is only the beginning of the battle for Microsoft and it has some big hurdles to leap. Despite a fairly impressive launch line-up, reports from the US suggest that some of the momentum has been lost with a mediocre second wave of releases. Microsoft also lacks the brand sexiness of Sony, which did much to bring gaming to an older audience.Nevertheless, it's clear that Microsoft is here for the long haul. It won't win any design awards, but with powerful graphical and broadband capabilities, and most importantly, a massive marketing budget, it is hard to see the Xbox failing.
On the mapVictor Keegan, in common with other metropolitan commentators, discusses     broadband without mentioning its widespread unavailability (Second sight, February 28).BT's own     advertising admits that it has only enabled about 60% of exchanges for ADSL. I live within a     radius of 20 miles from Gloucester, Bristol and Newport but the exchange has not been     upgraded. And the absence of ADSL is not confined to rural areas - parts of central London have     not been upgraded.Discussions about the cost of broadband are irrelevant to the very large     number of people who don't have a choice as ADSL is simply not available. Online should publish a     map of the exact availability of broadband in the UK - and get BT to say when it will upgrade the     "disenfranchised" areas.D Watkins LydneyGloucestershireBT SometimesI welcome BT's new     ADSL pricing, but alas I live in "broadband dry" South Wales (not Central Cardiff, which gets cable     and ADSL). It is not financially viable for BT to upgrade its already "bursting at the seams"     telephone exchanges, so all I get is very poor "narrowband", which proves to be more BT     Sometimes than BT Anytime.Andrew Wilcoxandrewwilcox@btinternet.comMore e-tony?The     government is still not managing the new technology well enough to encourage people to use     broadband at affordable prices. The regulator has no power to address the quality of provision.     We will be offered the last mile at 10 times the speed of analogue modems, but in front of that     is an extremely slow web. It will take some time for broadband to mature and be capable of     providing speeds suitable for video streaming.Mario ChomiczMario.Chomicz@uk.ngrid.comSocket to 'emVictor Keegan expresses concern that increased charges could hold back adoption     of broadband. Connection charges have fallen dramatically through the introduction of self     install broadband. This simple "plug and play" technology reduces the wholesale connection fee to     £50, as opposed to £210 for an engineer's visit. Rebecca Webster Head of broadband marketing,     BT Wholesale Another word I'm happy to correct sceptical former user James Haley's reading of     Another.com's switch to charging for email. The first day's 1,000 subscriptions has swelled to     tens of thousands. The reaction of paying subscribers so far has been almost universally     positive. And James, do come back - we miss you!Steve Bowbricksteve@uk.another.comIn     CahootsI would love to join Paul Jacklin (Feedback, February 28) as a Smile customer. As a     member of the Co-operative Party with an account at the Co-op Bank, what would be more     natural? Alas, Smile refuses to recognise the existence of Apple Mac users. Now I bank with     Cahoot and Nationwide. Judy Dickinson judic@leven.karoo.co.ukGrin and bear itIn my experience     of internet banks, Smile so far outstrips the rest that the omission was perverse, unfair, and     (at best) sloppy journalism.Nick Steinitzsteinitz.fam@which.netScience fictionIn Online     (Dedicated to the cause, February 28), Maxine Packer of Logica says: "We'd be highly unlikely to     look at someone who had, say, an English degree and who'd done a C++ course." Being from an     arts background, and now an IT specialist, I find the implications as offensive as they are     foolish. Programming draws as much on an artistic sense as it does on skills acquired in the     study of science.Charles Johnsonmail@charlesjohnson.co.ukCheap trickHowever stunning the     new iMacs, I see Apple is adhering to the "rip-off Britain" tradition that UK prices in pounds     approximately equal US prices in dollars. Another argument for the euro?David LewinD.Lewin@rl.ac.ukMozilla a MacIf you want a good OS X internet experience, ditch IE and try     Omni's fantastic Omniweb, or Mozilla.Jonathan GitlinjonboyG@mac.com
DivX is making a play for the mainstream market with the release of the MPEG-4 compatibleDivX 5, which includes facilities fordigital rights management(ie copyright protection). DivX 3 and 4 proved hugely popular for encoding and distributing "ripped" copies of hardcore porn videos over the net.The DivX 5 opinion poll on the download site includes the option: "You are all corporate sellout bastards. I will hunt you down and make you pay." One of the things missing from the SiliconValley.com (San Jose Mercury News) article is thatDivXNetworkshas licensed DivX toThe Fraunhofer Institute, which owns MP3 technology.
"Linux company lays off 90 percent", says the headline. What is surprising is that the company, Mission Critical Linux, is not targeting the desktop, where Linux has flopped, but the server market where it has been making good progress."We didn't have anywhere near the sales we hoped for," said the start-up's chairman.
Stewart McClean left his office in a former textile mill in Batley, Yorkshire a few weeks ago with some colleagues to promote his new product at the prestigious 3GSM Mobile Congress in Cannes.It claims to allow a PC user to create a secure video-conference chatroom using conventional phone lines for up to 20 people anywhere in the world for &#163;24.99 (excluding the cost of the web cam and microphone).The company, Cybahous, couldn't afford &#163;50,000 for a stand, so distributed thousands of leaflets by hand. McClean went to find out what his competitors were up to but generated so much interest that he came back wondering whether he has a world-beating product on his hands.The company has been asked to demonstrate their software for the 3G (third generation) network at    Monaco Telecom for the parent company, Vivendi and other telcos such as Vodafone and France Telecom. They are extending the technology to mobile phones such as Ericsson's T68 and personal digital assistants (PDAs) to enable them to link up with the same video conference as others who are using PCs.The software has been developed mainly by two brothers, Craig and Ian Hardcastle, aged 18 and 21, who worked night and day for months to get it ready in time for this week's launch. The chatroom works thus: your live image is at the bottom right of the screen, the other live images fill most of the rest of the screen. At the bottom there is space to type in words (if participants do not want to use the phone).  McClean, owner and chief executive, claims it beats competitors by enabling    many people to have live video links simultaneously (as opposed to one-to-one), by offering 10 to 15 frames a second (or four to five for mobile phones) and because it is secure: you don't get pornographers logging in.In effect, he says, people and communities can set up their own secure video chatrooms without shelling out thousands of pounds for their own server. The idea, developed with the help of &#163;250,00 from the Birmingham-based Advan  tage Technology Fund, sprang from the company's experience with training youngsters in animation techniques.Many were abroad and had to communicate with each other, at a time when companies were cutting business travel. It seems unlikely that a converted textile mill in Batley has beaten the brain power of America and Japan to provide affordable video conferencing. But if they have, then Silicon Mill may spark another small industrial revolution from the ruins of the first.
Paper may seem fragile and ephemeral as a means of preserving information, but its virtues are all too apparent when compared to data stored digitally. Vast amounts of information are created, stored and accessed electronically, bringing with it enormous advantages.If you want to find out about the Phillips curve, a quick trip to Ask Jeeves will provide more than a bluffer's guide on the tradeoff between inflation and unemployment. But digitally stored information brings its own headaches.Technological advancement means there is a real danger that digital material will become inaccessible because of software and hardware upgrades.The BBC recently encountered this problem when it found that its &#163;2.5m multimedia Domesday disk could no longer be opened, just 16 years after its creation. Now just think of all the masses of information stored on floppy disks, CD-Roms and DVD drives.Digital photos are all the rage now, but for how long will they be accessible?If it was only happy memories that disappeared, the problem would not be too troublesome. But the fact that digitally stored information can disappear is a serious issue for business.Firms with electronic records run the risk of not being able to access records, leading to problems of liability. Content companies such as publishers exploit their data in secondary markets and thus need it to be on "future-proof" formats.  The government's emphasis on broadband delivery of an increasing number of public services could come a cropper unless the data generated by such delivery is properly preserved and is accessible.This is not just a theoretical problem, as George MacKenzie, keeper of the records of Scotland, discovered. "We have lost potentially important records," he said."We advised a public body who were decommissioning their mainframe. We found a number of data sets that could not be read, either because the   coding systems were not clear and the staff involved had left, or because the documentation had disappeared. We found out the hard way how important it is to keep the explanatory data."In another case, a department kept important policy documents in its email system. The department offered MacKenzie the entire contents of its email to preserve, but he declined because it would have been impossible for users to sort through the trivial stuff to find the important material.There are 2.7m web domain names in the UK. Only a fraction is archive material. Even major sites such as the BBC have only recently started to archive content. The UK even lacks an equivalent of the legal deposit system for the printed word, although the government has accepted that digital archiving should be subject to similar kind of legislation."The fragility of digital media, the need to develop new skills and expertise, and the technological obsolescence of digital storage techniques combine to create a formidable series of challenges," says the digital preservation coalition, a group of 17 organisations formed last year that includes the British Library, the Public Record Office and Consortium of University Research Libraries."If the status quo is maintained, there is a real danger that much of the informational content now available online and in other digital forms will be inaccessible for future generations."The nature and scale of the problem are such that the government and private sector will have to get involved. Some parts of the private sector have made headway, notably pharmaceutical and oil companies.Drug giants have to preserve data for regulatory purposes and scientific research. The Food and Drug Administration requires all drug records relating to development and testing to be retained. Those records must be retained in the form they in which they are created.Oil companies generate huge amounts of data from seismic surveys. They collaborate on surveys and have for years agreed to share the costs of maintaining the warehouses full of magnetic tape that holds the raw data."Far better to keep the data," says Kevin Ashley, service manager of National Digital Archive of Datasets, "for that 30 years rather than pay to acquire it all over again, if it is indeed possible."
Cold startFree speech is one of the greatest benefits of the net, but there are countless     attempts to block and censor what is available. Chilling Effects has been set up to create a     database of things like the "cease and desist" letters sent to people running protest, parody or     even fan sites. It is a joint project by the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the Harvard,     Stanford, Berkeley, and University of San Francisco law school clinics. The legal issues are     obviously American, but the impact is global.Bank itViral email     messages are all the rage, especially among advertising types, but you may be feeling left out:     all your friends are far too smart to forward this sort of mailbox-clogging junk. But now, driven     by curiosity, you can head for the Viralbank site, look at a vast number of things that are being     circulated online, and even forward copies to people you like - or perhaps don't like. Most of the     exhibits are not commercial, but you can ask for information about getting paid for forwarding     viral email advertisements.Added classStarting today, schools will be able to     get impartial advice and help with their computing and communications technologies via a website     launched by Becta, the British Educational Communications and Technology Agency. Also,     Macromedia has extended the web design competition it is running for British primary and     secondary schools until April 1. You don't have to use any Macromedia products, though entries     are being judged by the company's website designers. In the summer term, there will be a Flash     competition for individual students.Play onOne category inexplicably missing from the     Grammys is the Jorge Luis Borges award for the best fictional band. There would be lots of     competition, to judge by the richness of Rocklopedia Fakebandica, even though that is restricted     to films and TV series. It runs from the Afrodisiacs to Zorak via such giants of the genre as The     Partridge Family, The Rutles and Spinal Tap. Almost all of these are more amusing than the     real-life recordings featured at Miserable Melodies. This offers treats ranging from Leonard     Nimoy (The Ballad of Bilbo Baggins) to the Temple City Kazoo Orchestra's rendition of Whole     Lotta Love.Inside infoIt is a pretty safe bet that - unless you are a geek - you either never really knew what was inside     your PC, or you have long since forgotten. This could make it tricky to buy extra memory chips,     and Crucial, the direct sales division of a very large memory chip manufacturer, reckons this is a     bad thing. It has therefore done a deal to provide non-commercial users with a free copy of     Belarc Advisor. Download and run it, and it tells you what you need to know.G-forceWhat would you look like if your face     was distorted by gravity? In a spirit of inquiry, no doubt, Sony has launched a site that uses     Shockwave and some small accessory programs to find out. The G-Force experience is also, by     the way, a promotion for WipEout Fusion, the latest anti-gravity hover-racing game for the     PlayStation 2.New worldScience fiction writer Piers Anthony is working     with Codemasters on Dragon Empires, a multiplayer online game that will be launched for the PC     before Christmas. Gamers can now read about the game and apply to be play-testers.WondersAttention, citizens of the world: the deadline has been extended, and you now have until     the end of the year to cast your vote. The question is: what are the seven new wonders of the     world? You can pick your favourites from what seems an odd list, which stretches from the     Great Wall of China to Sydney Opera House. The current leader is the Taj Mahal. The winning     wonders will be the subject of a TV series.
Last December Christine Pelton, a high-school teacher in the small town of Piper near Kansas City, assigned 118 biology pupils to write essays about a variety of tree leaves they had collected. Her subsequent investigation revealed that 28 of those students had copied their work from the same internet site and handed it in as their own. The incident sparked a national debate about declining standards, the integrity of scholarship, the moral fabric of the nation - and the role of the net in all   of the above. There was, according to the University of South Alabama's student newspaper, the Vanguard, "an epidemic going on".If there is an epidemic of internet plagiarism going on, it has yet to achieve critical mass. For writers of all kinds, the inclusion of "smart tags" within the new Office XP software is an embryonic version of the promise of "always on" broadband internet: a seamless weaving of the work in progress on our desktop computers with the masses of material already published on the World Wide Web.Smart tags work in a number of ways. In the first place, they burrow quietly in the background to direct the writer at a desktop to related information available on the web. When a smart tag finds something useful, it then offers to paste it into your Word document in the correct format and style. As the technology develops and the electronic databases on the web available for smart tags to link to become more sophisticated, they will become as ordinary as the word processor. A Scottish software company, Gael, has even been commissioned by Microsoft to help smart tags identify when a writer is having a mental block - and to respond by throwing up   immediate inspiration from the web.Surrounded by the temptation to cut and paste the work of others into their own, however, writers are likely to face an explosion of allegations of plagiarism. In a sign of the times to come, a magazine editor recently wrote to Time magazine to bemoan "the vast amounts of information available on the internet &#91;that&#93; provide endless opportunities for free 'cut-and-paste' material. In one year, my publication caught three writers who had lifted - almost directly - internet information for use in their stories."The growth of "homework sites" in the US where students swap papers and examination answers is also cited as evidence that the internet is a haven for plagiarists and cheats. One such site , urges its readers to "download your workload." Another, boasts a reserve of 9,500 essays in 44 different categories and claims 5m student customers.But surely the most important moral of the Piper case was that the offending pupils were caught. Almost missed in the subsequent furore was that Christine Pelton had used Turnitin.com - a plagiarism detection service that scours the internet for   matching phrases that students might have copied and pasted into an essay.Teachers in schools and universities in the US have long been developing online resources of their own - a growing crop of websites and software that traces the copy cats by identifying similarities in phraseology in submitted work. Students who think that cut-and-pasting from the internet offers a magical solution to an essay deadline aren't as clever as they think. A suspicious teacher can discover the source of a precocious student essay by simply typing a sentence or two into an internet search engine. In some schools in the US, students are even asked to submit essays electronically so their authorship can be more easily verified using electronic detection software.Far from offering a resource for copycats, the increasing sophistication of search engines such as Google and subscription databases like Lexis-Nexis makes it   possible to trace literary origins much more carefully. In his book Author Unknown: On the Trail of Anonymous, the professor and literary sleuth Don Foster offered an arresting example. Foster used the Lexis-Nexis electronic database of published news stories to prove that articles written in the Sun newspaper, and purportedly authored by the heads of state of Japan and Argentina, were so similar in their phraseology they must have been written by the same person.If we can only see past panics about cheating and copyright infringement, the internet holds up an exciting new model for the written word. Since the dawn of the modern age, the work of the writer has been characterised by loneliness and self-imposed alienation. In future, the lone writer at a desktop will be able to work supported by a fluid and potentially interactive conversation with the work of his peers, making possible new literary forms as well as new tapestries of connection between published work.If nothing else, it might offer a novel remedy for the old-fashioned curse of writer's block.
In an office block on a windswept Isle of Man hillside, a small team at Manx Telecom is quietly, politely, attempting to set a few records straight. Their point? That the next generation of mobile phones really will work.A steady stream of journalists, analysts and industry colleagues has braved the choppy flight across the Irish Sea to visit the Manx men and women who are among the first in the world to try to get 3G technology to work outside the lab. Manx Telecom is owned by mm02, the mobile operator formerly known as BT Cellnet, which has a hefty stake in the success - or otherwise - of 3G.And the news is: yes, the technology on which $66bn has been gambled in Europe does go, albeit on a very small scale. There are just 50 handsets working in an island-wide trial today, although that is due to rise to 200 by the end of this month. But Mark Briers, director of Manx Telecom's UMTS Programme, is quick to point out that some    experts doubted they would even get this far. What's more, he is also telling stories about the locals who are putting their new-found mobile power to use. One early adopter has been a local estate agent now sending photographs from clients' homes to his company's website "in seconds", from a living room, rather than having to drive 15 long island miles to upload them. That, says Briers, is saving him hours - a fine example of where 3G will do well when it eventually makes the mainland.And in the Manx Telecom demonstrations, 3G's speed certainly seems impressive. In one room five identical laptops - each running a different kind of internet connection - are racing each other. Asked to download a typical web page, the laptop hooked up to an NEC 3G mobile phone is vastly out-performing one connected to a current second generation GSM mobile. It is also much faster than the 56k modem laptop - which represents the means of connection for most surfers in the UK - and is obviously faster than ISDN. Only ADSL, 10 times the speed of the 56k modem, beats 3G. The websites I choose at random appear quicker than on many corporate networks I've used. To be fair, even with identical laptops loading identical webpages, 3G is still being shown in a light that can only be flattering: with just 50 active handsets, and 24 base stations round the island, the    number of users battling for capacity on each base station is very low. Some estimates suggest 28,000 extra masts and base stations will need to be built in the UK alone to get reasonable 3G performance.And the vast amounts of bandwidth serving the Isle of Man mean there are unlikely to be any bottlenecks between the    masts on the island and the internet at large - another problem that might trouble larger networks. But, even given these reservations, it is easy to see the    attraction of 3G for laptop users: with 3G, suddenly you could have a mobile connection substantially faster than the one you have at home, as fast as the one in the office. But while Manx Telecom refuses to talk about pricing - all the trial users are on a free tariff for the first three months while their usage is monitored and analysed - it is likely that 3G will not be priced to rival fixed broadband services. Plug-in 3G PC cards for laptops are likely to be popular ways to use the technology, for travelling business people who need their corporate email or presentations from a central server, or online games players who need a quick deathmatch on the move.And as we drove round the island in the back of a specially equipped 3G van, it was clear that problems 3G developers had found in maintaining a high-speed link on the move - problems that some sceptics had said could kill the 3G idea before it took off - have been solved. But it is inevitable that the greatest attention will focus on the sexy, sophisticated phones that will use 3G. Our appetites whetted by the slinky concept designs from the likes of Nokia and Ericsson two years back, expectations are high.And it is here where 3G remains disappointing. The NEC phones are attractive to look at - as compact and light as the best GSM phones around today -but that also means the colour   screen can only be a little larger than the norm. And, while it's a perfectly good, sharp display, it is tiny. We were shown live still images from security cameras around the Manx Telecom HQ, but it would be difficult - maybe impossible - to recognise anyone. And, crucially, those images are still: the phones do not yet have the ability to play video, so we are still having to imagine what the most hyped feature of this new technology looks like. Manx Telecom blames the handset manufacturers for not getting round to building in video capability yet, and says moving pictures remain a key part of what 3G will offer. Indeed it will. From downloadable football highlights (not for nothing is Vodafone sponsoring Manchester United) to movie trailers to help you book cinema tickets, video will be the big difference between 3G and what has come before. Video conferencing, such a damp squib to date, could perhaps make it on 3G as well - when the technology is ready. Until it arrives, 3G content is going to be vulnerable to suggestions that this is just like Wap - only with pictures and a big bill attached. And, as a handful of people on the Isle of Man can tell you, that would be very harsh indeed.&#183;Neil McIntosh was one of a group of journalists flown to the Isle of Man by the Manx government's e-commerce division.
On Monday morning the voice of Phill Jupitus will introduce the first national music radio station to be launched by the BBC in 32 years. The chubby comedian is presenting the breakfast show on 6 Music; other names include Liz Kershaw and Craig Charles, who will all be offering an eclectic play-list that takes in New Order, Jimi Hendrix, Muse and Turin Brakes.With radio listening figures on the increase, this is an exciting launch, albeit one dented by the fact that you can only hear 6 Music if you own one of the 50,000 DAB (digital audio broadcasting) radio receivers that have been sold in Britain.Digital radio was dogged in its early days by broadcasters waiting for manufacturers to produce receivers on a mass scale and manufacturers waiting for broadcasters to produce specific programming. With the introduction in 1999 of Digital One, the national digital radio service, and then local multiplexes, the number of digitally transmitted services, both simulcasts and digital-only channels, now stands at just over 200. The number of digital receivers on the market for both in-car and home hi-fi use has also risen.Amid fears in both the radio industry and the EU that the high price of receivers, combined with broadcaster inertia, would stifle the development of digital radio, a small breakthrough came last year when Psion repositioned its genie's lamp Wavefinder, which connects to PCs and provides extra multimedia material, at &#163;199. Despite this, there was still the perception of listener resistance.In an attempt to show that consumers would buy digital radios at the right price, Digital One and the manufacturer VideoLogic produced a heavily subsidised, one-off digital radio for &#163;99. Only 300 of these retro-styled radios were produced. Available from eight shops around the country and through a special website, they sold out in under an hour in early December last year. "It's the beginning of the market," says Glyn Jones, operations director of Digital One. "Some time people say 'It's only radio, what are you getting excited about?' but last December proved that    people will queue around the block in the cold for digital radios at the right price."Jones points to the availability of such specialist, digital-only channels as Planet Rock, Oneword, dedicated to plays and books, and London's first gay station, Purple Radio, as serious draws. The BBC launched Radio Five Live Sports Extra as a full-time service in February but it is 6 Music that heralds a new age for the corporation. This will be followed in the spring by a contemporary black music station, 1Extra, and then by a channel dedicated to drama and comedy and a national, digital version of the regional Asian network.According to BBC figures, DAB covers 65% of the UK population. The aim is to increase this to 80% next year, and 85% by the    beginning of 2004. Manufacturers are capitalising on this activity. Roke Manor last year introduced a prototype of the world's first pocket DAB receiver, while Goodmans has announced it will launch six radios during the second half of this year. These will cover the &#163;99 to &#163;199 price range.New PC chips are also expected and, as FM radios have been built into mobile phones, DAB on the move is another potential growth area. With digital-only services and new receivers now available, the next stage is full text, multimedia and internet-connected facilities. "We're encouraging the new services to think of themselves as digital, not analogue," says Rachell Fox, new media liaison manager of BBC Radio Music New Media. "We've got to think about the text read-out, the website and how the screen looks on digital satellite.There are many opportunities." Command Audio, producer of the personal radio system, has entered into a joint development programme with Digital One and the chip manufacturer Imagination Technologies to develop on-demand audio services for   new single chip digital radios. The aim is to allow listeners to produce a personalised schedule, featuring programmes and information that interest them. The key is the electronic programme guide. Noel Edmond's Unique Broadcasting and the GWR group have created the Digizone, a databroadcasting service for Digital One.Unique is also involved in trials in London and Glasgow where listeners are able to email presenters, search for information and, ultimately, record programmes. There are plans to link to e-commerce sites, enabling listeners to buy the CDs being played. But it is the potential for TiVo-like functions -time-shift recording, pausing live transmissions, record settings for regular features, such as the Archers - on a radio that is exciting broadcasters and manufacturers. New programming is driving the interest in digital radio, not the technology. Given the earlier confusion, this can be only a good thing.
What's good and bad about the web at the moment?Everything about the web is good from an underlying trend standpoint. The better websites such as Yahoo and Amazon did survive more than others. Two or three years on, a lot of businesses have figured out that their customers are looking to the web as a primary channel. On top of it was this cycle of hype, and the boom and bust cycle. That was an economic phenomenon. But even as the economy is in recession, innovation continues at a very rapid pace. Consumers continue to use the internet. Expectations are coming radically down at the same time as the reality is getting better and better. Bad? Not much. Broadband is not rolling out as fast as anyone would like. The internet is a tool and, like every tool, can be used for good or bad - and it is disturbing that terrorists use it.Netscape was king, and then dethroned. Would you do it differently second time? The important qualification is whether you would have the same information you had at the time. Without hindsight, I would do exactly the same things. It created for investors more than $10bn of value in five years. Netscape people are now operating all kinds of companies. It's been like Apple was in its day or Intel. They include Loudcloud, founded in late 1999, with a lot of talent from Netscape. We have 50 out of 400 employees from Netscape.Microsoft: saint or sinner?Microsoft is a very powerful company. I'm largely out of the business of commenting because we work closely with it. Netscape was a direct competitor of Microsoft but Loudcloud ( is a partner.)What's happening in the Valley now?The companies that are going to succeed in Silicon Valley are hardcore technology companies. We are in the mother of all shakeouts. Where two or three years ago you would have had 30 or 40 companies in a market, now the numbers are down to two or three and rapidly going to one. The companies that survive trial by fire are going to come out at the other end highly successful.Which computer do you use for pleasure?Replay. It is a digital video recorder like TiVo. It is not a PC but a computer with a big hard drive. It makes TV something you watch when you want to watch it. It is TV on demand. When you come home you could have 100 or 200 hours of video waiting. It automatically skips commercials. You need never see another commercial if you don't want to.websites?I'm a huge fan of Amazon and read all the major media sites including USA Today. Yahoo Finance in the US is  the reference site for business news.Favourite gadgets?It's a showdown between the Replay  and the Blackberry  but the one I can't live without is the Blackberry. I could live without a PC and a Replay. If I had to give one up I'd give the PC up first.
For something that sounds like so much technology jargon and hype, peer-to-peer technology (P2P) is the fastest-growing idea in the history of computing. Napster, the first P2P application to come to popular attention, went from nothing to 30m users in less than a year,Its successors are even more popular: 2bn files a month are being transferred over the FastTrack system used by Morpheus and Kazaa. Peter Chernin, president of News Corporation, told a Financial Times conference this week that 1m movie files were downloaded illegally every day. But P2P technology is much bigger than the file sharing services that first brought it to public attention and its new uses could be even more revolutionary.The power of the internet reinforces the concept of distributed computing. This allows the spare computing power inside home PCs to be used by those who need it. For example, medical research takes vast amounts of computing power. Instead of buying a supercomputer, many companies are using the spare power of thousands    of volunteers who participate in everything from research into cancer and Aids vaccines to the testing of strong codes, and the search for extraterrestrial life, just by downloading a small program and running it in the background.With P2PQ, a British P2P project currently in development, users can have a small P2P application with a list of keywords on specialist subjects. Users can then ask questions via the P2PQ website, which are routed to the relevant specialist. Instant messaging services are also being enhanced by P2P.Jabber is an instant messaging system that uses P2P to pass messages between users and is rapidly gaining popularity. It is also being heavily developed as a system for allowing applications to talk to people, and to each other. This person-to-application concept allows you to speak to an application on one computer, that may in turn deliver information it gets from many others. Why not, for example, use Jabber to talk to another machine running a file sharing service?With some language understanding built in, typing "find me a Kylie Minogue video" into your instant messenger application could eventually    deliver cavorting hotpants to your screen, all without the need for a centralised service. It is this decentralisation that is particularly fascinating to the P2P developers. P2P topology - the way the networks of P2P applications create themselves, and change shape over time, is a new and complex field of study, but one that points out the special nature of P2P networks: truly decentralised systems can't be shut down.P2P networks that rely on some central servers can, however, and this is what happened to Napster last year. Although users transferred their MP3s directly between themselves, the search facility required a central server. It was this that was shutdown by court order. All might not be lost for the P2P music services. On January 16, judge Marilyn Patel, presiding over the case between Napster and the Recording Industry Association of America, granted Napster leave to explore whether the labels were colluding to prevent it licensing music for online distribution - and if the record companies' copyright extends online anyway. Meanwhile, Morpheus and Grokster, two companies that    use a much more decentralised system to allow the sharing of any type of file, and not just MP3s, are in court on March 4 under the same charges. Their defence, however, is a lot more radical. Because, they say, their network is not specifically for sharing music, if they are guilty of facilitating copyright theft, so must the internet Service providers, and the makers of multimedia software.The Grokster filing says: "The 'network' at issue here is the internet itself ... &#91;But the media companies&#93; do not contend that Microsoft is contributorily liable simply because virtually every music pirate in the world uses Microsoft's software, or that AOL is contributorily liable simply because millions of its users connect to the internet and steal music through AOL's network." If anything, this defence is a perfect example of the philosophy behind P2P, and the real post dot.com spirit of the internet. Rather than a place where millions of users all connect to a handful of large sites, the internet is rapidly reclaiming its status as a place where everyone talks to everyone else, equal to equal, peer to peer.
ZD Net wants to help if you are thinking ofbuying a PDA.
The Columbine lawsuit against video game manufacturers and movie studios, which followed a US high school massacre, has beendismissed. The judge said there was no way the makers of violent games and movies could have reasonably foreseen that their products would cause the Columbine shooting or any other violent acts, reports AP.
Anyone for3DTV? An idea whose time has never come.....
A computer game in which players are encouraged to form the "most notorious" group of football hooligans in Europe by killing, maiming and destroying their rivals goes on sale today in the UK.Despite calls for it to be banned by the Football Association, Hooligans: Storm Over Europe has been granted an 18 certificate by the British Board of Film Classification.Players of the game are invited to prove that their gang is the most violent and anti-social by engaging in bloody battles against other hooligans and against riot police while   visiting football stadiums across Europe."You muster and control your faithful troops by administering drugs, alcohol and, of course, a good dose of violence every now and then," according to the promotional leaflet.It adds: "Not only good strategic skills are required, but also a good political mindset and managing capabilities to keep your troops happy and violent."Whoever is victorious, and catches the public's attention in the media, will end up the most notorious hooligans in Europe and the world! A title that every hooligan with his heart in the right place loves to fight for!"The Football Association has condemned the game for encouraging and glamourising the kind of behaviour which it is working hard to stamp out in the run-up to the World Cup in June.Scenes featured in the game bear similarities to those witnessed during the Euro 2000 tournament in Belgium and Holland - in particular, the fighting between fans and police that blighted the England v Germany game in Charleroi.An FA spokesman said: "Games like this will just attract attention and encourage violence at football matches. It is just a cheap ploy to get young people to act out fighting and it should be banned,   especially at such a sensitive time."But the Dutch creators, Darxabre, last night defended their product, which has topped the computer games charts in Holland and Belgium since it went on sale in January.Jason Garber, chief executive, said he and his colleagues had thought up the idea after getting bored with battles against trolls, aliens and ogres. We were looking for something contemporary in a war game, as well as humour and sarcasm."We felt that if we could do it with humour, strategic thinking and gameplay as the most important ingredients, we   could get a good game going."Why single out this one game? If it's not correct, then why, apparently, is it correct to make games about the second world war in which millions died?"High street retailers in the UK, however, are thought to be reticent about stocking the game.A spokesperson for the HMV shop in Oxford Street, London, said the store had no plans to stock Hooligans now, or in the future.PC Gamer, a leading computer games magazine, said it was not planning to review the game because it did not want to give it the "oxygen of publicity".
Captain Kirk and his daughter have updated theirWeb site, as reported at length byUSA Today.
Forbes.com has put together a special report onDigital Music.
Londoners have emerged as the most immoral users of email in the country, regularly indulging in behaviour which would make even Jo Moore blush, according to a survey published today.While dastardly email dealings eventually cost the transport secretary Stephen Byers' special adviser her job, most London employees questioned admitted using office emails to backstab their colleagues and more than a third said they had distributed offensive material from their desks.White collar workers in seven other cities fared only marginally better, prompting calls for the office email culture to be reformed.Across the country, almost 30% of respondents to the NOP email ethics survey admitted sending racist, sexist or pornographic messages at work. Almost 40% said they used email to further their own careers at the expense of colleagues.London-based workers topped both categories, with 55% admitting using email to undermine their colleagues.Workers in Manchester tied with counterparts in London in their willingness to distribute offensive material, with 36% of respondents in each city admitting behaviour which risked legal action against themselves and their employers.By contrast, Liverpudlians emerged as the most clean-living email users. Only 29% said they would use it to backstab their workmates and 18% said they had sent offensive messages. The culture gap between Liverpool and London is underlined by respondents' attitude to colleagues who hide behind email to avoid dealing with sensitive issues in person: while Londoners were the least likely to object to this behaviour, it was cited most often by those in Liverpool as the thing they hated most about email.Martino Corbelli, of the internet filtering company SurfControl, which commissioned the survey, said workers across the country should hang their heads in shame at the results."This has to be a wake-up call for the UK. It is not as if this sort of thing didn't happen before but email has made it much easier for people to behave improperly. Liverpool might have done better than the rest but it is still only the best of a bad bunch." He called on companies to lay down clear rules about email use by their staff. "This is a fantastic communication tool but its growth raises serious issues. Too few companies have written policies laying out exactly what is and what is not acceptable."
Oracle, second only to Microsoft in the software market, yesterday suffered a share price fall of up to 19% after warning that it would miss its profit targets for the third quarter.The software group said that a slowdown in Asia was likely to result in a 1% drop in earnings when they are reported later this month. The estimate from the company, based in Redwood, California, was put out late on Friday night after the close of the markets.The warning delivered a blow to the still fragile IT market, which had been seeing some signs of recovery.Sun Microsystems will provide an update on the market on Thursday and Merrill Lynch, the investment bank, said it expects it to report further sluggish demand. Analyst Steve Milunovich said he anticipated further job cuts, perhaps accompanied by another profit warning."Checks indicate that US   business is weak, especially at the high end," he said. "We are nervous about the June quarter as well."Analysts were nevertheless    surprised by the Oracle announcement. As recently as January 30, Oracle's chief financial officer, Jeff Henley, said he was confident that the company would meet current forecasts after missing targets in the second quarter.Mr Henley said on Friday that growth rates during the third quarter were similar to those in the second. Merrill Lynch has revised full year forecasts for Oracle downwards for 2002 and 2003.In a brief statement, Oracle chairman and chief executive Larry Ellison said: "While software sales in the US and Europe increased slightly over the second quarter, that increase was not enough to offset a slowdown in Asia."He attempted to inject an upbeat note and said the recent signs of an improving US economy would bolster Oracle sales. "As companies become more confident in the economy, we expect that capital spending will increase and our business will improve - first in the US and then around the world."Sales have been particularly tough in Japan. In the second quarter, sales of new software licences in Asia fell 19% to $178m.
"Customers in the UK can now purchase the English version of Treo for £299, subject to connection to BT Cellnet," saysHandspring.
Here's an idea: SonyPlayStations in schools.
Details and photos oftwo new Palmsexpected tomorrow are already on the Web.
Hewlett-Packard's takeover of Compaq Computer is still getting the thumbs down from columnists such asDan GillmorandLarry Magid...
It was once the darling of the dotcom world, with a stock market value of more than &#163;300 million. But internet sports firm Sportal ended up filing for bankruptcy after burning through more than &#163;100m of its investors' cash.However, Sportal has risen from the ashes and tomorrow will be relaunched by its new owner, which bought it for just &#163;1.UKbetting, the internet gambling firm, which also   owns SportingLife.com, intends to turn Sportal into a site dedicated to the more light-hearted side of sport, featuring competitions, chat rooms and online games.David Annat, managing director of SportingLife, said the move would make his company more attractive to advertisers. 'It will give us much better brand proposition,' he added.The plan is for SportingLife to concentrate on becoming a news and information   provider, while its gambling site, bettingzone.co.uk, which will launch in two weeks' time, targets those who want a flutter. Sportal will be used to drive traffic to the site.'It lost a huge amount of money, but the one thing it did do was establish a strong brand,' Annat said.'We're going to move all the games and polls we have in SportingLife.com to Sportal. They were just getting lost before.'The SportingLife website is   all that remains of the old newspaper once owned by Trinity Mirror. In January it generated more than 50 million page impressions. 'People don't realise we're the biggest sports site in the UK,' Annat said.Sportal is not the only former sports site to relaunch. The online games firm E-comsport, rechristened Podia, has become a sports marketing company for Formula One racing teams.
Who needs to use a mobile phone to pay for things? In Illinois, Timex is testing a system that lets you buy a burger, say, with yourwatch.
And I thought I was bad.... somenew iMac buyerslead desperately impoverished lives.
