A selection of 14 new and notable apps for you today:The Sonnets by William ShakespeareTouch Press has unleashed its latest iPad book-app, with the full text of Shakespeare's sonnets complemented by Arden Shakespeare notes, interviews with experts, sharing features and – most importantly – videos of a host of actors reading the sonnets. Sir Patrick Stewart, David Tennant, Fiona Shaw, Stephen Fry, Dominic West and Kim Cattrall.iPadGoogle+As announced at Google's I/O conference, the company's Android app for its Google+ social network has been updated with a native tablet build – in good time for the new Nexus 7 device. Expect a magazine-style layout and more space for Hangout video chats.AndroidWhere's My Perry?Where's My Water? was Disney's first attempt to create a brand new character in a mobile app, rather than rely on Mickey and co. Now there's a sequel, but starring an established character this time: Perry the Platypus from cartoon show Phineas and Ferb. The gameplay remains physics-based water puzzles.iPhone / iPadThe Amazing Spider-ManWe've seen a few Spider-Man book-apps and comic-apps on iOS, but Gameloft has now turned Spidey into an action game based on the upcoming film. Set in New York, there's 25 missions of web-slinging building-crawling action.iPhone / iPadBelkin @TV for iPadYes, Belkin really does have a gadget called @TV, which makes me wiggle in embarrassment on their behalf. It's interesting though: hardware to enable you to watch live and recorded TV on mobile devices. In this case, the app is for iPad, streaming over 3G/4G and Wi-Fi, with a channel guide built in.iPadSuper Monkey Ball 2: Sakura EditionRemember the days when Sega's Super Monkey Ball was the first hit game on Apple's App Store? Happy times. Now its latest incarnation has rolled onto Windows Phone, with monkeys, balls and Xbox Live functionality in spades.Windows PhoneIce Is Nice!: All About the North and South PolesThis app is part of Oceanhouse Media's range of Dr. Seuss book-apps, with an educational focus to teach children about the North and South Poles. Aimed at 5-10 year-olds, it includes icebergs, penguins and The Cat In The Hat.iPhone / iPadTap Pet HotelPocket Gems is one of the publishers making lots of money from freemium social games on smartphones, with Tap Pet Hotel its latest title to jump from iOS to Android. Cute pets in a hotel fuelled by in-app purchases is the formula, although parents may want to keep an eye on their children's spending habits.AndroidHeroes Call THDDefiant Development's action RPG looks like it could be a hit on Android, with its version optimised for devices with Tegra processors inside. Expect plenty of dungeon crawling with monsters, items and lots of little visual touches to show off the hardware.AndroidShortifySilverBinary's Shortify app is a URL shortener for Android devices, which uses Google's own Goo.gl service. You can also log in using your Google account to save shortened URLs and see stats on who's clicked them.AndroidKingdom RushCritically-acclaimed iPad tower defence game Kingdom Rush has been squeezed down for iPhone, keeping its fantasy theme (orcs, trolls, capes aplenty), with big boss battles and 50 achievements to gain.iPhoneAllergy AssassinThis app could be really useful if you suffer from food allergies. It's a database of recipes, cross-referenced with various allergies. Tell it your allergy and a dish you've read on a restaurant menu, and the app will let you know if you should be cautious about ordering it.Android / iPhoneForever DriveMarvellous futuristic racing game Forever Drive has been out on iOS for a few months, but now it's available on Android too. It's great fun to play, but the twist is the simple track editor to create your own sections to race on – which are then joined with those of other players to create neverending tracks.AndroidFrisbee Forever 2Kiloo's first Frisbee Forever game was a big hit, not least because it was free to download. The sequel continues that pricing model, offering more than 75 tracks to fling your (officially-licensed) frisbee through.iPhone / iPad
Attempts to extradite internet entrepreneur Kim Dotcom to the US have suffered a further setback, with a ruling in the New Zealand high court that a raid on his Auckland mansion was illegal.Justice Helen Winkelmann said the warrants used when more than 90 New Zealand officers stormed the Megaupload founder's home and other properties in January were too broadly cast, "lacking adequate specificity as to the offence"."The search and seizure was therefore illegal," she ruled, adding that it was "clear that the police, in executing the warrants, have exceeded what they could lawfully be authorised to do".In a strongly worded, 56-pagejudgment, which may call into question the admissibility of evidence in any future extradition hearings, Winkelmann said police had acted unlawfully by refusing to release material that was not relevant to the charges, and that their provision to the FBI of cloned hard drives seized in the raid was in breach of extradition legislation. Among the seized items that police have refused to release is video footage captured by Dotcom's surveillance cameras of the raid on the mansion.The German-born New Zealand resident and several of his associates are being sought on copyright and racketeering charges as part of what the FBI calls a "mega-conspiracy". US prosecutors allege that Dotcom abetted the widespread exchange of copyright-protected material through the Megaupload site.Winkelmann ordered both sides to appear in court on 4 July to consider "appropriate remedy or remedies".In a statement, Kim Dotcom and his fellow accused said: "We are very happy with today's decision. We are digesting and analysing Justice Winkelmann's judgment and considering our next steps."The police declined to comment.On Friday, Dotcom's lawyers will argue at the Virginia federal court that the US justice department's case against Megaupload should be thrown out. "As a foreign corporation with no agents or offices in the United States,"they say, the company is beyond US jurisdiction. They will also ask the court to order that the Megaupload site, which was shut down in January, be restored so that users can retrieve material saved there.In New Zealand, meanwhile, Dotcom has been on  something of a charm offensive, making a series of appearances at public events and creating a minor media storm byhosting a trio of his Twitter followers at a pool partyat his mansion on Sunday evening. Such was the success of#swimatkimsthat Dotcom has promised to stage a public pool party in Auckland to raise funds for charities and "swim for internet freedom".
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamEXCLUSIVE: Google+ History API will bring in your past updates from around the web &gt;&gt; VentureBeatStop the dadgum presses! Googler Louis Gray just told us about a new Google+ feature that you won't read about anywhere else.Called Google+ History, this new API will let you add past statuses, updates, purchases, pictures, and more to you personal Google+ timeline from a variety of social and mobile services. These objects are displayed in pretty tiles called "moments."Pretty tiles, but will you have pretty things to put in them?Australia goes cold on ACTA &gt;&gt; The RegisterAnother bit of flesh dropped off the decaying zombie that is ACTA, with the Australian parliamentary Treaties Committee recommending that ratification be deferred - partly because of its near-collapse in Europe.Acta as a zombie stalking the earth, waiting to be killed? Actually, yes.Nexus Q can't be used standalone, powered exclusively by Android devices on the same network &gt;&gt; The VergeWith theNexus Q[its home media streamer], Google is planting its flag in the living room, allowing users to share media from Google Play with their home entertainment center. But unlike its closest competitor, the Apple TV, the Nexus Q isn't a standalone platform and requires an Android smartphone or tablet connected to the same Wi-Fi network to access content.Apple TV isn't exactly promiscuous about streaming content, but this is just weird. Not even clear whether Netflix and Hulu (in the US) will be able to share media with it. Isn't Android meant to be open?Exclusive: Google's Rubin and Asus's Shih on cooking up the Nexus 7 &gt;&gt; AllThingsD[Andy] Rubin gives [Stan] Shih and the team at Asus immense credit."I don't think there would have been any other partner that could move that fast.," Rubin told AllThingsD. "We went from zero to working product in four months."But, having built the device, the big question now is will consumers bite?Rubin admits that he was upset a year ago that Android tablets just weren't selling. After looking into some of the reasons, Rubin learned that while hardware really matters on phones, consumers are buying into a content ecosystem with tablets. Or, in Google's case, not buying into an ecosystem. In particular, Rubin said that Google lacked some of the ecosystem pieces that were necessary, such as a full compliment of TV shows, movies for purchase, and magazines that people want to consume on a tablet."I think that was the missing piece," Rubin said.Er.. anyone here who couldn't have told him that ahead of time?800m smart devices &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansAt Google IO, the company announced it's now passed 400m cumulative activations*. Apple hasn't reported the June quarter (the 365m number above is from the March quarter), but iOS sales have almost certainly also now passed 400m, giving the two competing platforms 800m cumulative sales in total.Estimating how many of those are active is a bit trickier, but it's probably somewhere over 600m. This is pretty much the same as the total number of broadband lines there are in the world today.Why the integrated approach to mobile devices is winning &gt;&gt; Chris DixonIf you believe [disruptive theorist Clay] Christensen's theory (and most senior people at large technology companies do), the interesting question now is: when will smartphones and tablets be "good enough" (respectively) for non-integrated to beat integrated approaches? My guess is it will be at least 5-10 years before customers are no longer willing to pay significantly more for faster bandwidth, more features, longer battery life, increased storage, faster processors, etc. But no one really knows.It isn't hard to see how Google, Microsoft and pretty much everyone but Apple missed the key difference between PCs and the new generation of mobile devices. Christensen himself missed itWhat happened to Silicon Values? &gt;&gt; The AtlanticBill Davidow, ex-HP staffer:Many other things have changed in the valley over the past five decades. I've become increasingly concerned about one thing that is seldom discussed: the valley is no longer as concerned about serving the customer, and even sees great opportunity in exploitation. We are beginning to act like the bankers who sold subprime mortgages to naïve consumers. In such an environment, we are less likely to create the role models of the past who guided the valley to its future.The unapologetic pursuit of wealth is perhaps the most obvious explanation. Less obvious is the loss of customer power.Review: JoyTAB 8" Android tablet. Do you need to spend more? &gt;&gt; Gadget WritingOnly if you don't enjoy doing your own support, such as downloading unsigned drivers or figuring out how to make your PC recognise it as a USB storage device.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Hope the week is panning out well for you so far. Tell us all about it.
Facebook received a mixed report card Wednesday from analysts at the banks that worked on its controversial share sale.Stock exchange rules have kept them quiet for 40 days but by lunchtime analysts at the banks that had worked on Facebook's initial public offering had published their first reports on the company. Eight said "buy", nine said "hold" and one, BMO Capital Markets, issued the equivalent of a rare "sell".Facebook's shares were priced at $38 a piece when the company went public in May. After a disastrous debut they fell as low as $25 but have since recovered to $32. The new analysts' reports set targets for the shares between $25 and $45, with the average $37.71.Morgan Stanley, the lead underwriter on the IPO, set its price at $38 for the next 12 months, ie exactly where it began. The bank and others now face lawsuits from investors angry about Facebook's disappointing sale.Bankers at Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan were more bullish, setting targets of $45 over 18 months and $42 over the next year, respectively. The most negative report was from Daniel Salmon at BMO. Salmon set a price of $25 arguing user growth was slowing and Facebook would struggle in a tougher market for internet advertising sales.The reports came as Facebook was forced to apologise after changing the email people displayed on their profiles. On Monday the firm started changing the email addresses displayed on a user's account to an @facebook.com account.Facebook users' other email addresses were hidden by a change in settings that the company said were easily reversed, and were meant to add greater consistency to the way information is displayed on the service.The company said in hindsight it could have explained the changes more fully.
Block 14.50pm:Ecosystems! Ecosystems! Ecosystems! *Steve Ballmer dance*You can't escape the E-word in today's mobile industry, and in June 2012 in particular. The month has already seen Apple gather its developer community at WWDC tounveil iOS 6, and a pair of Microsoft events unveiling itsSurface tabletand plans for Windows Phone 8. Now it's Android's turn.Google is holding its I/O conference in San Francisco, with tonight's keynote focusing on its own smartphone and tablet ecosystem. We're expecting talk of the next version of Android, codenamed Jelly Bean, as well as a reveal of a Nexus-branded tablet made for Google by Asus.I'm not in San Francisco: I'm in Google's office in east London, where the company is livestreaming the keynote, then providing hands-ons with whatever is announced. Which should also mean getting a firm steer on European plans for those products too.Block 24.51pm:Just to reiterate the known unknowns (or unknown knowns?) about tonight's announcements, though. Gizmodo Australiabagged the big scoopon Google's new tablet, sourcing training materials showing a 7-inch device called the Nexus 7:"According to the leak, it's built by Asus, with a 1.3Ghz quad-core Tegra 3 processor, GeForce 12-core GPU and 1GB of RAM with two different storage variants: 8GB and 16GB… The Nexus tablet will also feature NFC and run Google Wallet (probably only in the US) and Android Beam… The 8GB model will set you back $US199 and the 16GB will cost $US249. No word in the document on local prices."And Jelly Bean? Google handled its own leak for that byinstalling the latest in a series of Android statuesat its headquarters, right alongside the statues for Ice Cream Sandwich, Gingerbread and Honeycomb.Thought to be numbered Android 4.1 rather than Android 5.0, hard information on Jelly Bean's new features is thin on the ground. The Google Play store may get a revamp, there will probably be support for more powerful devices, but otherwise it's an open book.Block 3I want one of these for my back garden. Don't you? As seen on CNET.Block 44.56pm:What else? It might be a bit soon for Google to reveal that 1m Android devices are being activated every day – Android boss Andy Rubinpegged the figure at 900kon 10 June.It would be good to see Google talk in wider terms about its Android ecosystem though: directly address app developers on why they should be making apps for Android devices, and the rewards if they do it well. Maybe some success stories on-stage, and some app demos that show what Jelly Bean is capable of?Google TV may be part of the mix too, although there's another I/O keynote tomorrow, so it's unclear how Google plans to split things up.Block 55.05pm:There'll be a short presentation from Richard Turner, director of Android EMEA partnerships, at 5.15pm BST, before the main keynote kicks off at 5.30pm.In the meantime, here's Charles Arthur'spreview of the anticipated Google tablet– Charles himself has been in Amsterdam today for Microsoft's TechEd Europe 2012 eventcovering its Windows 8 plans.Block 65.12pm:Here's anotherleaked image of the Nexus 7 tablet, as rooted out by a tipster and passed to The Verge. It looks... tablety.Block 75.16pm:Two good points from @Damien in the comments. First, Google Music could play a role in tonight's keynote too – it would be nice to see it rolling into Europe sometime soon, if Google has managed to strike the necessary licensing deals.Second, will Google have anything to say about Android updates – and specifically how it plans to dismantle the roadblocks from mobile operators and/or handset makers to getting them onto people's Android smartphones quickly?Block 8Google Nexus 75.20pm:Here's that latest leaked image of the new tablet.Block 95.22pm:While we're waiting – and I suspect we may go straight to the keynote livestream here, since there's no sign of Turner yet – here's some ahead-of-time predictions from Context analyst Salman Chaudhry:Overall, we shouldn't expect this particular tablet to take on the iPad despite Google's efforts to differentiate it. Lessons haven't been learnt from previous Tablet failures. The 7 inch sized tablets have been by and large unsuccessful (RIM Playbook, HTC Flyer etc.) and only really suitable for content consumption. Against this backdrop, strategy needs to be more aligned towards the Kindle Fire's purely 'content consumption' orientated device. However, if Google is looking to take a bite out of Amazon's share, it will find that it's competing against a much more well-developed entertainment orientated platform with a huge, well organised catalogues of books and media content.Thoughts? It does hammer home the point that the Nexus 7 is much more of a Kindle Fire rival than an iPad-killer. I bet we'll still see lots of 'iPad-killer' headlines tonight though (even if they're preceded by "not a").Block 105.25pm:The Google Play store is springing leaks left, right and centre. How about aGoogle Nexus Q"social streaming media player" for the living room? Expect more on this later tonight.Block 115.26pm:Ah, here's Turner. He's addressing the (mainly-developer) audience here: "You're the heart of Google and everything we do," he says. The developers around me are all drinking beers, but I am staying sober and alert.(This may change if someone hands me a couple of bottles of wine and there's aNew York Times / Flipboard angleto this evening's announcements, obviously.)Block 125.33pm:That was quite short: we're now waiting for the livestream to fire up – it seems there's quite a crush getting into the keynote auditorium in San Francisco, so it looks like they'll be starting late.The keynote is scheduled to last until 7.45pm, incidentally. A whopper. My laptop is currently on 82% battery life, so it could be squeaky-bum time towards the end. Heaven help me if there's an Apple-style "one more thing..." moment.Block 135.36pm:And we're off, after a 40-second countdown and some squelchy robot-techno. The keynote starts with senior vice president of engineering Vic Gundotra, in a nice jumper, who notes that there are more than 350 I/O "viewing parties" around the world, including this one in London. Pass the wine!"We still have some surprises left," says Gundotra, who clearly hasn't been reading The Verge backstage before coming on.Block 145.39pm:Oh, but he swiftly tags out to director of Android product management Hugo Barra. The themes this year, as last year: "Momentum, mobile and more".At I/O 2011, Android had activated 100m devices. "I'm thrilled to anounce our latest milestone: 400m Android devices," says Barra. "400m is a pretty huge number, but we're definitely not slowing down."Daily activations? 1m a day – up from that 900k tweeted by Rubin just a few days ago. "That's about 12 new Android devices every second of every day," says Barra.Block 155.42pm:And the new release: Android 4.1 Jelly Bean, as predicted. "Jelly Bean builds upon what we created with Ice Cream Sandwich. We want things to be simple, beautiful and really smart," says Barra.So what's new? First is Project Butter, introduced by engineering director Dave Burke. It's all about making the Android user interface faster, smoother and more fluid. And there's also "triple buffering in the graphics pipeline". Which is nice.But yes, Project Butter is about making Android "buttery smooth" to use – something Burke is going into in some depth for his audience of developers. But it boils down to the fact that when you touch the screen, the CPU instantly springs into action.There is a rendering-interruption graph to illustrate this, but I'll let you imagine that for yourselves. Nice, eh?Block 165.46pm:Back to Barra, who says "we've touched every corner of Android" with other improvements in Jelly Bean. Starting with the homescreen."When you've got a lot of stuff on your homescreen, adding another widget or getting things to fit just right can be a little bit difficult," he says. The solution in Jelly Bean? Widgets resizing and snapping around one another to fit on-screen.Text input has also been improved: more accurate and relevant, and the "keyboard learns intelligently over time", including guessing what word you're going to type next. PAGING SWIFTKEY, PAGING SWIFTKEY.Block 175.50pm:Google has also shrunk its speech recogniser to fit on devices: you can still "type with your voice" even when offline or on a poor connection. Which should provide an interesting contrast with Apple's Siri.US English initially, with more following "pretty soon". A quick demo – interesting because the tech misheard "though" as "know" but instantly corrected itself.Outside voice recognition, there are 18 new input languages for traditional typing, and new accessibility features including support for external Braille devices.Block 185.53pm:"Let's talk about camera," says Barra. Android's native camera app is faster at reviewing photos you've just taken – swiping them back in from the right of the viewfinder and then scrolling along a line of shots.Android Beam – introduced in Ice Cream Sandwich – is also part of tonight. Barra says that 1m NFC-enabled Android devices are shipping every week, so Android Beam is getting new features including the ability to pair phones with external devices (speakers for example) by tapping them.The Notifications feature is getting beefed up, for example the ability to call someone back directly from the notification of a missed call, or tap a button to email guests from a meeting notification to say you're going to be late.This feels quite granular as an opening to a keynote: interesting features, but a contrast to Apple's preferred tentpole approach of focusing on big features in its iOS unveilings.Block 195.58pm:The notifications do look very good. Talking of tentpoles, though: Search. It's been redesigned with a new user interface, faster and more natural voice search, and a new feature called Google Now.Voice search? The demo involves asking questions like "Who is the prime minister of Japan?", "What is the definition of robot?" and "How tall is the Space Needle?" – all of which the phone handles with aplomb. "Show me pictures of pygmy marmosets." And it does that too."Siri can't do that," the man next to me whispers.Block 206.01pm:Onto Google Now, which Barra says "gets you just the right information at just the right time, and all of it happens automatically". This is based on search history, location history and calendar "to figure out what information you might need, and when".How so? Google Now aims to understand when and how you commute to and from work, suggesting faster routes if there's traffic. If you're at a train or subway station, Google Now will tell you when the next train will arrive. And it will also show places of interest around you as you walk down the street.Oh, and calendar events: "If you normally take the bus to get around, Google Now will tell you when to leave based on how long it will take you to walk to the bus stop, when that next bus arrives, and how long the bus will take."Google Now also gets sporty, serving up scores and upcoming games for favourite teams. "You don't have to set them up. You've already done that by searching on Google..."Block 216.04pm:I'm sure chief executive Larry Page has talked about this being a big part of Google's mission in analyst calls before: the idea of knowing what you want before you have to manually search for it, and the fact that this will be very much a mobile thing.All based on your search history though, which could be fun. "It's 10pm, don't you usually search for Kim Kardashian's latest bikini photos around now? Here's today's batch..."Block 226.06pm:Joking aside, Google Now is really intriguing. But that's enough Jelly Bean features. When can people get their hands on it?Over-the-air updates to a few devices in mid-July over-the-air, but the SDK will be made available to Android app developers today.And there's also an Android Platform Development Kit (PDK) for hardware developers, to help them port Jelly Bean to their existing and upcoming devices. In the future, the PDK for each Android update will be made available to device makers and chipset firms two to three months before its official release.Block 236.09pm:Onto Google Play now, with Joe Britt, engineering director at Google. "Today there are more than 600k apps and games in Google Play, we're seeing more than 1.5bn installs every month, and we've just reached a total of 20bn app installs," he says.Android apps are now available in 190 countries, and paid apps in 132 of those. More than 50% of Android apps revenue comes from in-app billing, a year after the feature was made available to developers.Block 246.12pm:A new feature in Jelly Bean: app encryption. "Paid apps in Google Play are encrypted with a device-specific key, both before they're delivered to the device and after they're stored on the device."There'll also be smart app updates: users won't have to download the entire app every time they update it, just the new elements. Across the most popular apps, a smart APK update is about a third of the size of an existing update, says Britt. This will be supported on Gingerbread and above, incidentally.Block 256.14pm:More new features: Google Cloud Messaging, a messaging service for developers to use in their apps – "completely free and there are no quota limitations".Onto content: movies, music and e-books, sold in Google's store and also stored in its cloud locker services. Today: more content. Android users will be able to buy films as well as rent them. TV shows are being added too: episodes and entire seasons.Disney, ABC, NBC Universal, Sony Pictures and Paramount are all signed up – this essentially makes Google Play more of a match for iTunes, obviously. And magazines are coming to Google Play too, to match Apple's Newsstand, with single issues or subscriptions. Again, lots of big publishers on board.No music announcement...Block 266.17pm:Okay, tablet time. Barra returns: "We wanted to design a best-of-Google experience that is optimised around all this great content in Google Play," he says. He confirms Asus as the partner for the new device: Nexus 7."A beautiful seven-inch tablet. It's built for Google Play, it's running Android 4.1 Jelly Bean, and here it is," he says, whipping it out from under a cloth on-stage. "It's super-thin, light and portable and yet we've managed to pack a lot into this device."Features: 1280x800 HD display, a Tegra 3 chipset with a quad-core CPU and a 12-core GPU. A front-facing camera for Google+ Hangouts and video-chatting. Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and NFC, and up to nine hours of video playback battery life and up to 300 hours standby time.Block 276.20pm:"That's Nexus 7. Music, movies, books, magazines, apps and games. All the great content from Google Play, right at your fingertips."So yes, a straight Kindle Fire rival, although hopefully getting global sooner than Amazon's tablet.Britt retakes the stage to show it off: very slick swipey store apps. Google has clearly been doing a lot of work to make the Google Play store user-friendly and attractive on its new device.The magazine-reader app is interesting, too: you can tap a button to strip out the text and images, Instapaper-style.There's also a "powerful new recommendations engine" in the Nexus 7, delivered through homescreen widgets. Intelligent widgets, no less: Britt says they'll get smarter the more you use them, either downloading/buying content that's recommended, or dismissing the recommendation if it's not interesting.Block 286.25pm:Nexus 7 will, naturally, have a suite of Google apps. Chrome will be its standard browser – the first Android device to ship with this – along with YouTube, Gmail, Google Maps and others.The YouTube app has been optimised for the tablet, with an emphasis on HD videos. And the tablet has the new version of Google Maps with 3D cityscapes, and "see inside" features for venues like bars and restaurants: panoramic photos that can be spun around using the gyroscope.Block 296.28pm:Google's Flipboard-esque Google Currents app will be preloaded on the Nexus 7 too, pulling in articles from various websites and reformatting them for its screen. And Google Translate is also built in: translating articles into a host of languages.Britt says it's also a "serious gaming device", starting with a demo of a game called Horn by Phosphor Games: all lens-flare, dappled sunlight and floating leaves to show off the processors (it's also coming out for iOS, so isn't an exclusive).Next up: Dead Trigger from Madfinger Games, a zombie-themed first-person shooter that was unveiled at E3. "Who says mobile gaming has to be casual?" says Britt. Well, who does?Block 306.32pm:Nexus 7 is orderable in the US, Canada, UK and Australia today, shipping in mid-July, and will cost $199, including a $25 credit to spend in the Google Play store, and some free content including magazines and a Transformers movie.Block 316.33pm:Ah, that wasn't Joe Britt for the last few updates: the real Joe Britt has just strolled on to show off another project. Apologies, I'll figure out who that was and amend the earlier entries.Anyway, Real Joe Britt is introducing the Nexus Q, which was leaked earlier. Something "unexpected, powerful and mysterious" according to the teaser vid that he's showing on-stage.So yes, Nexus Q is a "small Android-powered computer that's designed to live in your home", connecting to speakers and the cloud, as well as the Google Play store. It's controlled from a smartphone or tablet, but not to stream content from the device to the Nexus Q.If you painted it silver and put a face on the front, it would be a bit Terrahawks. That may invalidate the warranty, mind.Block 32Google's new Nexus Q6.40pm:I'd say this will pose some questions for companies like Sonos... I wonder if you can use apps like Spotify on it, rather than just Google's music service.Block 336.41pm:How is it social? Several people can play DJ at once, adding songs to the Nexus Q's, er, queue. Which reminds me of the passive-aggressive Sonos sessions (not a euphemism) my wife and I enjoy at home."Anyone can move songs around the queue, and anyone can control the experience... It's pretty cool that my friends can now play their music in my living room," says Britt. The device is multi-room too – another challenge to Sonos.The demo moves on to films, and streaming a Transformers film from a Nexus 7 tablet to a big-screen TV – this is Google pointing out that Android can do just what Apple's AirPlay can. YouTube is also supported: controlled from an Android device, piped through the Nexus Q onto the TV.Block 346.45pm:Nexus Q will sell for $299, initially in the US, and it can be pre-ordered today on the Google Play store, with shipments starting in July.Block 356.46pm:Barra is back on-stage, talking up Android developers again. Are I/O attendees going to get a free Nexus 7 each? He's not saying, but he is showing a Muppets video on YouTube.Gundotra is back on-stage now though, talking Google+ – it's one year old tomorrow. "Thank you all for your support for Google+," he says to the assembled developers (more than a few of whom may be wondering about  "We really think we're onto something special."Block 366.50pm:BUT LOOK: The Nexus 7 really ispre-orderable now, here in the UK. £159. Go Johnny Gogogo!Block 376.51pm:Back to Google+: 150m active users, and 50% sign in every day (but this happens automatically if it's linked to, say, your Gmail, right?)Active Google+ users spend more than 12 minutes a day in their stream, though – up from nine minutes a few months ago – says Gundotra. "We now have more people using Google+ from mobile than desktop," he adds. "This is a significant situation, and one we take very seriously."And Gundotra says that today, Google will release a native tablet app for Google+. "I believe it's the best version of Google+ we've ever designed," he says. Interesting choice of word too: "designed". It does look very nice.Block 386.54pm:Gundotra is talking up Hangout video chats on tablets: it looks like having a Hangout with a bunch of people will work a lot better on the larger screen. And it still automatically switches video based on whoever's talking.Incidentally, are you trying to buy a Nexus 7 tablet right now? I'm getting an error message when trying to check out (research reasons, obv).The Google+ tablet app is "coming soon" to the iPad, and on Android from today. Meanwhile, the Android smartphone version is also being updated today with a bunch of new features.Block 396.57pm:A new feature for Google+ itself though: more focus on events. "The substance of a real-world event is lost online," says Gundotra. "Online event tools are basically glorified web forms that ask you 'Are you going? Yes or no?'"So Google is aiming to shake this up with Google+ Events, for use before, during and after events. Including "cinemagraph theme" invites: animated graphics of crackling barbecues, beaches and so on. These invites then appear in people's Google+ streams, but also in Google Calendar.During events, there's a feature called Party Mode for Google+ on mobile devices, which add photos to an event in real-time. "Google+ Events gives your party a visual pulse. We've even added a live slideshow that you can show during the event..."Block 407.03pm:This is interesting as a feature that goes beyond what Facebook offers between its photos and events sections – and as a sign of Google doubling down on photographic features in Google+.This works well after the event too: photos sorted into chronological order from everyone attending (well, everyone attending who's been posting photos using Google+). Complete with the ability to browse by the people who've been tagged in shots, or the photographers.But oh: Sergey Brin has just strolled on wearing a pair of Google's augmented reality glasses, for an extra demo...Block 417.08pm:He has a friend in a helicopter above San Francisco, also with a pair of the glasses. I think he's about to jump out and livestream footage via a Google+ Hangout as he falls onto the Moscone Center."Hey Vic, this is a Hangout On Air," is Brin's punchline. Quite.Block 427.13pm:This is a marvellous stunt. I'm not quite sure what it says about Google+ though. The social network of choice for people jumping out of helicopter wearing augmented reality glasses, perhaps. They're abseiling down the side of the building now.Block 437.15pm:It would be good if this heralds a new era of tech-keynote oneupmanship though. Tim Cook to teleport onto the stage at the iPhone 5 launch, strafe the media section with eyeball-lasers and then pull a stream of rabbits out of his sleeve?(Apple, I am available for live-event consultancy).Block 44Yo-ho-ho.7.17pm:But seriously now, Brin and colleagues are going to talk about Project Glass, and Google's augmented reality ambitions. The current prototypes, with a dark screen/touch-panel hovering over the right eye, look quite piratical.The screen has been positioned above the eye so as not to get in the way of the real world: an image is shown on-screen of a mother looking into the eyes of her baby as an example.Also: "If this is not ridiculously light, it doesn't belong on your face," says the project's lead designer. "The latest prototype weighs less on your nose than many sunglasses."Block 457.23pm:Two key use cases: taking photographs fast, and rapid access to information. They're working the parents/children angle: the idea of capturing moments that would otherwise be lost in the time taken to pull out a phone.Which is an argument. Yet that requires wearing the specs all the time, which is perhaps a harder sell. In 2012, at least.Block 467.29pm:But second: accessing information quickly using Glass. I'm interested to see if this ties in with Google Now, which was announced earlier – so piping those alerts based on your location and habits INTO YOUR EYES.There's not much information on how this will work, though. The suggestion being that the developers at I/O can come up with some ideas. Is there an API yet? Nobody's mentioned it. Back to photos of babies instead in a video.But Brin walks back on and says that capturing images and video is "only part of what a wearable computer can do". And Google wants developers to start dreaming up ideas, with a "Google Glass Explorer Edition". US-based attendees of I/O can pre-order a set of the specs (a message has just flashed up on the livestream warning that consumers aren't allowed).They'll cost $1,500, and will ship "early next year". Brin continues: "This is a really new technology, and we want you to help shape it. That's why we want to get it out into the hands of passionate people as soon as possible."Block 477.39pm:TheNexus 7 pre-order pageappears to be working again here in the UK.Meanwhile, Gundotra is back on-stage telling I/O attendees that Train and Paul Oakenfold will be playing the conference party tonight (presumably separately, although it's a thought...)Oh, and there's a "one more thing" coming, as Barra returns to the stage. Bet it's everyone getting a Nexus 7 today. Oh, an Android Developer Pack with a Galaxy Nexus phone, a Nexus 7 tablet with Jelly Bean, and a Nexus Q. Cue whoops and applause. And that's a wrap for the keynote.Block 489.01pm:One last thing: here's somehands-on impressions of the Nexus 7.
Googleunveiled its Nexus 7 tableton Wednesday night, and there were units available to play with at the company's I/O Extended event in London, where I've been liveblogging from. So how does it shape up?The 7in size is familiar from the BlackBerry PlayBook and Amazon Kindle Fire, of course, but the Asus-made Nexus 7 gets the light/rugged balance just about right: it's comfortable in the hand(s).The display is good too: that 1280x800 resolution is a bump up from the PlayBook and Kindle Fire, and is sharp and bright. The device is running Android 4.1 Jelly Bean, which feels snappy when switching between screens and applications. Everything feels … zippy.I'm impressed by the Google Play Store, which has come on leaps and bounds since its early incarnation as Android Market on smartphones. There are recommendation widgets for one of your homescreens, suggesting apps and content you might like, and – according to Google – learning your preferences over time.Obviously, a 20-minute play at the launch event isn't enough to judge the success of that, but the idea is very good: I sense smart recommendation engines will be one of the more interesting battlegrounds between Apple and Google over the next year.Chrome is looking good as the preloaded browser, albeit still feeling very much like a desktop web browser ported onto a touchscreen device, rather than built from the ground up for touch.Chrome is the preloaded web browser, and there are Google Play recommendation widgets on the homescreenGoogle Currents remains an usable alternative to Flipboard – including pulling in articles from a range of British news sites. Google's new magazine-reading app also works well, although its value will rest on how many publishers support it, and how quickly.YouTube, Gmail, Google Maps, Google Earth – they've all been smartly optimised for the 7in display. Google+ looks beautiful, with the obvious caveat that if your friends aren't actively using it, that beauty will count for nothing.No games were on the device, but it will be interesting to see how the Nexus 7's quad-core CPU and 12-core GPU perform.Judging by the demos of Horn and Dead Trigger shown during the keynote, it's good for 3D games requiring more grunt – yet the "Who says mobile gaming has to be casual?" quote in the keynote struck a slight bum-note.I suspect the Nexus 7's key gaming use will be games more like Angry Birds, Cut the Rope and Draw Something, and that's nothing to be ashamed about.So, the Nexus 7 is a powerful device, the software is good, the store is vastly improved, and there should be plenty of content and apps available for it when it ships in July.Google needs to work hard to get more developers to launch native Android tablet apps though: the availability of this device alongside the Kindle Fire should at least nudge a few more into putting in the effort. There is also work to do in bringing some of Google's entertainment services to Europe, such as its cloud music service.Google Earth is also preloaded on the Nexus 7But it's the price that stands out for me with the Nexus 7, at £159 plus shipping for the 8GB version and £199 for the 16GB model. This isn't an iPad-killer, it's looking to establish (together with Kindle Fire) a separate market.For now, the Nexus 7 is being sold online from the Google Play Store. It's unclear at this point when (or, indeed, whether) it will find its way to other online and offline retailers – something that will be important for it to find a mainstream audience.It's Wi-Fi rather than 3G, so there's not an obvious operator angle – but the price may be low enough for some to bundle it when selling high-end Android smartphones.The Nexus 7 is impressive, though: a valuable addition to the tablet market. Google's challenge now is to put some real welly behind getting the device into people's hands, securing more innovative, high-quality apps for its store, and ensuring that its music, films, TV shows, e-books and magazine offering is good around the world, not just in the US.
Google has unveiled its first own-branded tablet computer, taking the search engine company into competition with Apple, Amazon and Microsoft in an increasingly crowded and fast-growing market.The company has partnered with Taiwanese manufacturer Asus to launch the Nexus 7, a 7in tablet computer built around Google's popular Android software.The announcement, which came at Google's I/O developer conference in California, will pitch Google into battle with Apple's iPad and the online retailer Amazon, whose Kindle Fire tablet was launched in the US seven months ago. Priced at $199 (£127), Google's Nexus 7 is both more affordable and physically smaller than many of its rivals. Like the Nexus 7, Amazon's Kindle Fire has a 7in screen and is priced at £127.Google's engineering director, Chris Yerga, said the Nexus 7 was a serious gaming device and that its small size meant it was ideal for emailing, browsing the web and downloading applications.The Nexus 7 will be the first tablet computer to run Google's latest Jelly Bean Android software. It has a 1.2-megapixel camera – unlike the Kindle Fire – and is available with 8GB of memory (£159) or 16GB (£199).Google has made repeated efforts to break into the tablet market, which was defined by Apple with the launch of the iPad in January 2010. Its first tablet-only software, Android 3.0 – which was known as Honeycomb – was introduced in January last year and was expected to create challengers to Apple's dominance, but fewer than 10m were sold in the first year, while Apple shipped more than 38m iPads last year.Microsoft has also indicated that it thinks tablets are of growing importance. Last week the software multinational announced that it would be offering its own tablet, called Surface, which will run its next Windows 8 operating system – though it offered no dates or prices for the release. Windows 8 is expected in the autumn, probably in October.Total sales of tablet computers will reach 105m units this year and 143m in 2013, according to the research firm IDC – compared with total PC sales of about 400m, of which more than 60% will be laptops.Apple is expected to remain the dominant player in the tablet market for the foreseeable future, with Gartner forecasting that the iPad will account for 61.4% of all sales this year. Android tablets – which include a variety of manufacturers, including Sony and Motorola – are forecast to account for 31.9% of tablet computer sales this year.Some analysts are sceptical that it will be able to make substantial inroads into Apple's dominant share.Salman Chaudhry, analyst at the research firm Context, said: "Overall, we shouldn't expect this particular tablet to take on the iPad despite Google's efforts to differentiate it. Lessons haven't been learnt from previous tablet failures. The 7in tablets – RIM PlayBook, HTC Flyer – have been by and large unsuccessful, and are only really suitable for content consumption."Against this backdrop, strategy needs to be more aligned towards the Kindle Fire's purely 'content-consumption' orientated device. However, if Google is looking to take a bite out of Amazon's share, it will find that it's competing against a much more well-developed entertainment-orientated platform with huge, well-organised catalogues of books and media content."Hugo Barra, head of Android product management, said 400m devices based on its operating system had been activated to date – up from 100m in June last year.• This article has been updated to correct erroneous pricing information. Thanks to commenters for pointing this out.
Five years after the first iPhone went onsale, the sales of smartphones – loosely defined as phones that can run third-party "apps", and access the internet directly – now make up nearly two-thirds of mobile phones sold in western Europe and north America, although only about half of mobile users in both regions own one. (The difference arises because some early smartphone adopters have upgraded a number of times, while many "featurephone" users have not.)Analyists predict that in two years, 90% of mobile users will have no choice but to own smartphones – even if all they want to do is call and text.Yet the revolution has had its casualties, with BlackBerry-maker RIM expected to announce a second quarter of losses this Thursday, and the sector's former dominant player Nokia's debts downgraded to junk status. Some analysts wonder whether both companies will see the sixth anniversary of the phone that undermined them."The iPhone had three big effects," says Neil Mawston, executive director of the research company Strategy Analytics. "We moved from keyboards and keypads to finger-driven touchscreens; it meant a shift away from the painfully slow mobile phone browser toapp stores; and it revolutionised the market by encouraging more use of data, beyond just text messaging." The fact that the first iPhone contracts offered completely unlimited data use transformed a market where mobile internet connectivity had previously been parcelled in per-megabyte allocations, to screens with tiny displays.But the real agent of change was the arrival in late 2008 ofGoogle's Android mobile software, which soon offered the same touch-driven experience, with multiple handset companies – including Korea's Samsung – vying for the top spot. "Android democratised touchscreens and app stores," says Mawston. "The iPhone was relatively expensive. Android brought smartphones in at low price points."That brought in all sorts of other transformations – particularly the ubiquitous "apps", without which no company seems to be complete. Android phones now make up more than half of all smartphone sales globally (with Samsung's making up half of those on its own, outpacing Apple).And Apple has grabbed a huge share of the profit in the mobile market:according to Horace Dediu, who runs the Asymco consultancy, in the first quarter of 2012 Apple grabbed 73% of the handset industry's operating profits, Samsung 26%, and HTC 1%; meanwhile LG, Motorola, Sony, RIM and Nokia all posted losses.Even so, the profit in the handset industry has grown enormously, from a total of $5.3bn (£3.4bn) in the first three months of 2009 to $14.4bn (£9.2bn) at the same time in 2012, Dediu points out. Apple has grown its profits hugely – in effect, sucking them out of mobile operators, which have seen their per-user profits diminish even as smartphone use has risen.They're not alone in feeling the pinch. Nokiahas seen smartphone sales collapseas it struggles to reinvent itself after abandoning its own pre-2007 Symbian software. Some analysts worry it could run short of cash before Microsoft's new Windows Phone software can revive it.As for BlackBerry, Mawston says: "Arguably its new handsets in autumn are its last chance. If they're a hit it will be back on an upward track. Otherwise it will continue downward."The economic crunch in many eurozone countries is already showing that the 50% of consumers yet to buy a smartphone will be very different from those who queued up five years ago. "In some countries such as Portugal, most iPhones are sold without a data plan," says Francisco Jeronimo, smartphones analyst for the research company IDC. "They're used at home or offices, where people connect to the internet via wifi, because in most European countries and the US – though not the UK – people have to pay extra to get internet data on their phone plan. But if you pay €50 per month for an iPhone, you don't want to be paying another €20 for the data."Even so, Jeronimo sees the market becoming 90% smartphone-based by 2016 (Mawston puts it at 2015): There's no price point where carriers can make any money with them," he explains.Now, Chinese manufacturers such as Huawei and ZTE have begun making smartphones for carriers using Google's Android for just £100 – an indication of how commoditised the business has become. "They'll just be used for voice and text," says Jeronimo.At the same time, carriers are also trying to inch away from subsidising phone sales, because they make almost no money from selling them, even at the top end.Ironically, the models on which carriers make the most money are RIM's BlackBerrys – and the prospects of an Apple-Android (or even Apple-Samsung) duopoly has them worried. What they are hoping is that Nokia will come back with a resilient showing – though it may be 2013 before that happens, on most analysts' reckoning.Mawston, meanwhile, is certain that smartphones will almost see off other models, whether users want them or not. "In Europe, all the young and rich segments have purchased one already," he says. "The older and less wealthy won't have a choice – they'll have to buy them. But they'll tend to go for simpler versions. They'll use them for voice and text – and the app stores."
Europe's general court has upheld almost all of a giant fine levied against Microsoft over an antitrust case first brought by the European Commission's competition watchdog in 1998.The General Court of the European Union turned down Microsoft's request to dismiss a €900m (£721m) fine levied in 2008, though it did cut it slightly – to €860m.In all, with two previous fines, the case has cost Microsoft a total of €1.64bn.That makes it the largest total fine from a single European antitrust case. The largest single fine, of €1.09bn, was levied in 2009 against chipmaker Intel.Microsoft was found guilty of failing to provide interface code to allow rivals to hook into its Windows server software at a reasonable price; the EC in 2004 exacted a "penalty for noncompliance", claiming the prices being charged for access to the code was exorbitant – and hence tantamount to non-compliance.The court upheld that finding, but noted a 2005 letter from the commission which said Microsoft didn't have to freely distribute code that wasn't its own and which was freely available elsewhere.That letter gave Microsoft some room to think it was permitted to continue acting the way it had until 2004, and should have been "taken into account in determining the gravity of the conduct found to be unlawful", the written decision said.The EC's competition commissioner, Joaquin Almunia, said the judgment fully vindicated his office's action against Microsoft and brought significant benefits to users."A range of innovative products that would otherwise not have seen the light of day were introduced on the market," thanks to the Commission, he said.Microsoft was less pleased: "Although the General Court slightly reduced the fine, we are disappointed with the Court's ruling," the company said in a statement.Microsoft was initially fined €497m along with the 2004 order, and then another €280.5m for noncompliance in 2006, and then another €899m in 2008.The company has already booked provisions in its financial statements for the fines and penalties. The ruling means it has no active disputes with European regulators."In 2009 Microsoft entered into a broad understanding with the Commission that resolved its competition law concerns," the company said.Most notably in the 2009 deal, Microsoft ended an investigation into allegedly abusive practices for bundling its Internet Explorer web browser along with its operating systems.Microsoft agreed to instead offer customers a range of browsers to choose from in a system that was presented to users when they logged on, and offered them a random selection to pick from which the user could make the default.Separately, Google's Chrome browser, released in late 2008, is drawing level with Internet Explorer according to browser share metrics companies.In some countries, Chrome is used more than IE, according to some measurements.In a sign of the times, Microsoft itself turned to the competition watchdog in 2012, asking it to investigate Google for anticompetitive practices.That has led to investigations which are expected to come to a head in early July when Almunia has set a deadline for Google to respond to a number of questions about its competitive tactics and strategy.Microsoft alleged that Google was demanding unreasonable fees to license its technologies and asking courts to pull Microsoft products from shelves if it did not pay up.Google shot back in May with a similar request for the commission to again investigate Microsoft.Many observers say companies such as Apple, Google and Microsoft are increasingly acting as "patent trolls," using the legal and regulatory systems as tools to thwart competitors as part of their wider struggle for market share.Almunia said in February: "The Commission will continue to keep a close eye on the behavior of all market players in the sector, particularly the increasingly strategic use of patents."Both Samsung and Motorola – now owned by Google – are under investigation by Almunia's office over questions about whether they abused control of essential patents in order to restrict sales of products respectively from especially Apple and Microsoft.
Google is expected to move into the tablet market, following Apple, Amazon and Microsoft, with an own-brand product aimed at pushing its own Android software into an increasingly crowded and fast-growing market.Expected to be called the Nexus 7, it is forecast to be have a seven-inch diagonal screen and run a new version of Google's tablet software.But some analysts are sceptical that it will be able to make substantial inroads into Apple's dominant share.The announcement, expected at its I/O developer conference in California, will pitch Google into battle with Apple, whose iPad dominates sales of tablets – with almost 70% of the worldwide market in the first quarter of 2012 according to researchers IDC – and with online retailer Amazon, which sells its Kindle Fire tablet in the US and is expected to bring it to Europe later this year.Rather than tackling the 10in iPad head-on, Google is expected instead to attack the Kindle Fire, which also has a 7in screen. "It's targeting Amazon," an executive at Taiwan's Asus, which is believed to be making the device, told Reuters. "The Kindle is based on Google's platform but with its own service, so Google has to launch its own service, too."Online rumours suggest it will be called the Nexus 7 – which would follow the pattern it has followed with its own-brand smartphones, which have all used the Nexus naming convention, even while being made by other companies such as Samsung and HTC.Industry rumours say the Nexus 7 has been made for Google by Taiwan's Asus – a surprising move given that Google last August bid for Motorola Mobility, which made the Xoom tablet. That takeover was completed in May.Google has made repeated efforts to break into the tablet market defined by Apple with the launch of the iPad in January 2010. Its first tablet-only software, Android 3.0 – known as Honeycomb – introduced in January 2011 was expected to create challengers to Apple's product, but fewer than 10m sold in the first year, while the iPad sold more than 38m in 2011.The software giant Microsoft has also indicated that it thinks tablets are of growing importance. Last week it announced that it would be offering its own tablet, called Surface, which will run its next Windows 8 operating system – though it offered no dates or prices for the release. Windows 8 is expected in the autumn, probably in October.And speaking in Amsterdam on Wednesday, Microsoft corporate vice-president Antoine Leblond forecast that "next year, tablets will outsell desktop [PCs]". According to the researchers IDC, total tablet sales will be almost 105 this year, and will hit 143m in 2013 – compared to total PC sales of about 400m, of which more than 60% will be laptops.The Nexus 7 is expected to go on sale later this year, and possibly running an as-yet unreleased version 5.0 of Android, called Jelly Bean, rather than the current 4.0 version, Ice Cream Sandwich.Salman Chaudhry, analyst at the research company Context, said the tablet "must run Jelly Bean rather than Ice Cream Sandwich if Google is looking at creating interest and support from the developer community. Google mobile platforms have already suffered from fragmented operating systems as Google continues to work on standardising both operating system and user interface".He expects pricing to be "in line" with the Kindle Fire, which sells for $199 in the US – at which price analysts claim Amazon loses money, which it recoups in profit on books, films and other items bought through it. The Kindle Fire was a hit in the US last Christmas, selling an estimated 2m, but sales since have slowed substantially, according to analyst calculations. Amazon has not given any figures for sales.But Chaudhry said: "I wouldn't expect it to eat into Kindle Fire share either for a number of reasons. Overall, we shouldn't expect this particular tablet to take on the iPad despite Google's efforts to differentiate it. Lessons haven't been learnt from previous Tablet failures. The 7in tablets – RIM Playbook, HTC Flyer – have been by and large unsuccessful, and are only really suitable for content consumption."Against this backdrop, strategy needs to be more aligned towards the Kindle Fire's purely 'content consumption' orientated device. However, if Google is looking to take a bite out of Amazon's share, it will find that it's competing against a much more well-developed entertainment orientated platform with a huge, well organised catalogues of books and media content."Pricing it close to the Kindle Fire's $199 in the US would suggest that it was not cutting edge, Chaudhry added: "This might make the iPad even more desirable in the consumer's eyes. By appealing to a demographic which is already price-conscious, average user spend per device will also be lower than on more high-end tablets such as the iPad."
This is it – Zynga, the next generation. At the second annualZynga Unleashed event, held on Tuesday within its ultra-hip San Francisco office, the company unveiled Zynga With Friends, a social gaming network designed to connect fellow Zynga gamers, whether they're playing on Facebook, smartphone or via web.Users will be able to chat with each other, organise multiplayer gaming sessions and use a Twitter-like service called Social Stream, which constantly updates participants on what others in the wider community are playing, unlocking and scoring within Zynga's range of titles.Several of the network's key features have already been rolled out via the company'sZynga.com website, but this is the first time they will be unified into a single social service and available across all the major platforms."We've acknowledged that our players are on different devices," said Zynga general manager Manuel Bronstein. "But no matter where you're playing, you want to play with other people. So we're trying to make sure we can connect all of those experiences."Some days you play on Facebook, others on smartphone, but we want to ensure that all your friends, your scores, your achievements follow you wherever you are. You are one player across the entire network."The company has also developed a unified backend infrastructure, which all its current and forthcoming titles will be able to tap into.It is making the tools to access this system – Zynga API – available to third-party developers, allowing other studios to quickly and easily put their titles on the Zynga.com website. Major names like Konami have signed up as well as a raft of smaller studios such as 50 Cubes and Portalarium.In a similar vein, the company's mobile division also announced a new partners programme. This offers smartphone developers a chance to work with Zynga, providing their games via its With Friends network and directly to its 22 million daily active mobile players.Revenues will be shared between the studio and Zynga, with the latter providing its advertising and analytics infrastructures. Several small studios have already signed up to provide their games via the partners programme, including two British outfits: Crashlab and Fat Pebble.The idea behind the Partners concept is simple. Zynga is keen to move into new genres and wants to create a larger ecosystem around its key gaming outlets. It is hoping to attract mobile developers who have expertise in areas the company's in-house studios haven't explored."We're excited about genres we're not currently active in," said Rob Dyer, head of the partners programme, who previously worked for on publisher relations at Sony Computer Entertainment America."That means sports, first-person shooters, hardcore strategy games, role-playing games … that's what really gets us excited."To underline this, one of the partner titles announced during the Zynga Unleashed event was Horn, a 3D action role-playing game from Phosphor Games Studios.Dyer was candid in his response to questions about Zynga's less than favourable reputation within the development community. The company has been accused of effectively cloning concepts and failing to acknowledge ideas "inspired" by smaller developers."We're seen as big bad Zynga," he said. "People look at us and worry their ideas will be ripped off. But Zynga has gone out and hired people like me – I ran third party at Sony."I understand that if we do anything like that, we'll go out of business. I reside in a different building from the rest of Zynga in order to keep that separation. We take that very seriously."A big part of the new service is a move toward more "hardcore" elements that veteran gamers are used to through services such as PlayStation Network and Xbox Live.Alongside the Friends feature of Zynga.com, which allows players to find and challenge other gamers who like similar titles and are of comparable skill level, the company has introduced real-time multiplayer to its portfolio, starting with its Puzzle Bubble-alike title, Bubble Safarai.This will be rolled out to most of the titles available on the Zynga website over the coming months.The whole idea of supporting smaller independent studios with a global gaming network is also something we've previously seen from the console manufacturers. It's just that Zynga, of course, has a network of almost 300 million players.The company also announced a large selection of new titles at its Tuesday event. Matching With Friends is a "match three" puzzle game available via iOS, which includes in-game chat and turn-based multiplayer.Zynga designer Mark Skaggs talks about The Ville. Photograph: Paul Sakuma/APArriving on Wednesday on Facebook, and overseen by key Zynga designer Mark Skaggs, The Ville is essentially Zynga's answer to The Sims, a home-building soap opera simulation, allowing participants to design dream homes and then invite their friends around.Avatars are able to meet up in each other's houses, engaging in social activities such as dancing and watching movies. As players build the relationships between their avatars, they unlock more advanced interactions, eventually able to jam together on virtual instruments and even start sexual relationships."Social is built into the core loop of the game," said Skaggs. "The relationships you build determine your progress in the game."The company also announced ChefVille, a social cooking game which allows players to build their own themed restaurants, as well as design menus.Participants have to gather resources and then use their ovens as Minecraft-style crafting areas to combine ingredients – friends are able to share foodstuffs and invite each other around to their virtual eateries to sample the wares.Cleverly, players who master recipes in the game are sent real-life recipes via email. It's due "soon" on Zynga.com and Facebook.A couple of follow-up titles were also revealed, suggesting that Zynga is not adverse to the concept of extending franchises beyond updates and add-ons. Zynga Elite Slots is a new version of its slot machine simulator, featuring enhanced social and multiplayer features, allowing friends to complete on the variously themed machines each other, sharing the virtual earnings.More significant though, was a brief teaser for Farmville 2, which appears to offer a more advanced farming mechanic, with deeper crafting and animal rearing elements.Jam-packed with announcements and well attended by upper level Zynga managers, the Unleashed event was clearly a public relations offensive designed to reverse the recent plunge in share value, and the apparent levelling out of its Facebook game business.Investors have worried about a seeming inability to make headway in the mobile sector, but with its partner programme and the integration of smartphone, Facebook and tablet gaming via Zynga With Friends, the company is clearly hoping to boost its presence.Zynga Arcade title Ruby Blast, for example, is set to offer real-time multiplayer gaming and will be available on phones and tablets soon.Chief executive Mark Pincus, meanwhile, reiterated his desire to forge a Zynga community of a billion gamers."We founded the company on one simple premise: that we could put play back into our lives," he said.It's what investors want to hear, it's what pundits have been doubting and its what the company's detractors have been dreading.But a platform agnostic social network encompassing the whole range of Zynga titles into one seamless multiplayer experience is only likely to move them closer to that goal.
Public sales figures are notoriously hard to come by in the book-apps world, but HarperCollins has shared some details of how itsBrian Cox's Wonders of the Universeapp performed following its release in March 2012.The publisher paid developer The Other Media more than £50k to make the app, while also investing in a PR and marketing campaign. According to digital publisher Alex Gatrell, HarperCollins needed to sell 20k copies to recoup its investment."Within three days we'd recouped the cost, so it was a massive success," he said, speaking at the Publishing Apps event in London.The app combined text from two of Cox's astronomy books with footage from his BBC TV shows, but HarperCollins opted against the £9.99 App Store price chosen by publishers of some comparable apps. Instead, it sold for £4.99 from launch."We just had this feeling that if you have a greater volume your value is actually more than if you have a smaller chunk at a higher price point," said Gatrell. "You're benefiting from the social spreading of the word there."Gatrell wasn't the only speaker revealing figures at the event. Michael Bhaskar, digital publishing director at Profile Books, talked about his company's Frankenstein app, which launched in April with a £2.99 price."In two months we've sold 10,000 copies, which we're really happy about," he said. "I know a lot of apps that have sold a lot less… We haven't broken even yet, but we're steaming towards that."Bhaskar added that book publishers are far savvier than they were in the past about balancing the costs of developing book-apps with the likely returns, whether on individual projects, or when commissioning engines that can be reskinned for multiple apps."They probably won't overpay, or at least won't overpay twice," he said. Independent publisher Nosy Crow has gone a step further by hiring coders and animators to work in-house on its book-apps."We do have now a bunch of code that is our code, that we're able to redeploy, so each time we take something to market it's slightly shorter [to produce]," said managing director Kate Wilson.However, other speakers highlighted that there remains work to do when it comes to marketing book-apps.John Ozimek, from marketing and PR agency Dimoso, pointed out that few major publishers even promote their apps on their websites. He also suggested that the biggest factor in driving sales of an app is not media coverage or even Apple promotions, but word of mouth."Brands cannot shoulder small publishers aside. It becomes an issue of quality, and quality drives word-of-mouth," he said. "Generally if your app gets poor reviews, it is going to sink like a stone."Edit: Brian Cox has many talents, but writing "astrology" books isn't one of them. That's been corrected to "astronomy". It's not my fault, I'm a Virgo...
A selection of eight new and notable apps today:PodcastsApple has stripped podcasts out of its iTunes app in favour of a standalone Podcasts app for iOS. That means browsing the company's catalogue of hundreds of thousands of audio and video podcasts, with the ability to subscribe to favourites, then stream or download individual episodes.iPhone / iPadMatching With FriendsZynga sprang a surprise last night with the release of its latest With Friends game for iPhone. Matching With Friends is a match-three puzzle using "jelly blocks", with the usual asynchronous social features to play against friends.iPhoneFacewatch idThe Metropolitan Police has worked with Facewatch to make an app that encourages the public to identify people "that the Police would like to speak to" – low-level criminals, rioters and so on. The idea being that people type in their postcode, browse the photos and send in details like name and address of any they know.Android / BlackBerry / iPhoneWhere Is The Light by The AmplifetesSwedish band The Amplifetes are releasing their latest video as an interactive iPhone app: "a music video game, set to the title track, which immerses the player into The Amplifetes world". Players who stick with it to the end get a free download, and if they get the highest points, they might win a trip to the Arctic Circle.iPhoneYouTube for PS VitaYes! It's not just about apps for smartphones and tablets on this blog. Sony has launched an official YouTube app for its PS Vita handheld, providing a way for gamers to stream videos over Wi-Fi or 3G on the device.PS VitaSquids Wild WestiOS RPG Squids has been hailed as a cross between Angry Birds and Final Fantasy Tactics (except with more tentacles, obviously). Now it has a sequel set in the underwater Wild West, with the squiddy heroes battling crabs, shrimp and other villains in turn-based strategic action.iPhone / iPadMeMeTales - Children's BooksThe latest developer looking to offer lots of children's stories within one app (rather than separate, individual book-apps) is MeMeTales. It's released its Android app with 20 free stories, and the promise of one more every week. It's working with a range of publishers to bring their books to the app.AndroidBo's Jigsaw PuzzlesChildren's brand Heppi has launched a new app based on its Bo the Giraffe character. Aimed at 2-6 year-olds, it includes digital jigsaw puzzles with four, nine and 16 pieces.iPhone / iPad
Stepping into Sega's E3 demo room forThe Cavewas like entering an alternate reality in which the point-n-click adventure had become the dominant genre of the nineties rather than the first-person shooter.It is a vintage platform puzzler, with all the lateral thinking challenges and quirky charm of the old LucasArts adventures. This is no coincidence – it is designed by Ron Gilbert, the co-creator of classic titles like Maniac Mansion and The Secret of Monkey Island. Gilbert knows a thing or two about vintage adventure game design.But the important thing is that The Cave also looks beautiful and modern. Its intricately animated characters wander a detailed landscape in which flaming torches send out billowing smoke particles and shadows loom authentically across the myriad props and objects.This isn't nostalgia. Like Rayman Origins and the forthcoming XBLA adventure Deadlight, it is a glimpse at another interpretation of advanced visuals and cutting edge game play. It's also really, really funny.If you've not encountered it yet, The Cave is set within a vast subterranean lair – which just happens to talk, and acts as the game's narrator."People have been coming to the cave for thousands of years," explains Gilbert. "They come to find what they desire most, to confront their fears, or just to get away from the kids for the weekend. Whatever, they come to here to learn something about themselves."Players choose a group of three characters from a cast of seven – a monk, an adventurer, a hillbilly, a scientist, a knight, a time traveller and a duo of creepy twins. They must then venture into the cavernous realm, battling with dragons, repairing giant hotdog machines and working out how to steal amulets from rich princesses.Each explorer has their own reason for entering this mystical underground lair, and each has a unique special ability to help with the quest. The knight, for example, is here to seek the Sword of Unequal Power, and has a guardian angel power that lets him sprout angel wings to fall long distances – handy in a cave full of massive chasms.The player can switch between the characters whenever they like, and all must work together to defeat certain puzzles. This might be something simple, like one character pulling a lever, while another slips under a heavy door; or they can be more complex, with all three characters working together to, say, capture a monster in a giant mechanical claw.Players can either do all this alone or make use of the drop-in/drop-out multiplayer to bring two friends into the story. "When I played adventure games as a kid, it was always me and my friends gathered around the computer, shouting things out," says Gilbert. "If you have them running around on screen with you it just gets them more involved."So how did The Cave come about? "This is an idea I've had for 25 years, it really pre-dates Maniac Mansion in a lot of ways," says Gilbert. "It goes back to when I first started playing adventure games; I loved the original Adventure and Colossal Cave, which I played  on a college mainframe computer."Over the years this idea has percolated in my head every so often, then it goes away and I do other things. A couple of years ago, I was hanging out with Tim Schafer, we were talking about game designs, which is pretty muchallwe talk about, and I brought up this idea of a talking cave. He said, that's a great idea you should come to DoubleFine and lets make that. So here we are!"The brilliant thing about Gilbert's games is the perfect interplay of puzzles and story – everything fits together within the adventure's logic system. However weird the narrative may be, however wacky the puzzles, there is a throughline of sense to it all, that guides the gameplay."It's not a formalised thing," Gilbert says about structure. "We don't have a puzzle design bible where we list all that stuff. But it is important in an adventure game that all the puzzles seem logical to some degree – even if you couldn't figure it out beforehand, once you do solve it, itdoesmake sense – you're suddenly like, 'oh yeah, I should have figured that out'. All the puzzles have to fit the logic of how the world works. It has to be consistent."LucasArts adventures, then, always constructed these perfect eco-systems of gameplay, puzzles, jokes and story. The Cave seems to be following that tradition. So which element comes first?"For me, it almost always starts with the world," says Gilbert. "Maniac Mansion is really all about that mansion, that was the genesis of it. The Secret of Monkey Island all started for me because I loved the Pirates of the Caribbean ride at Disney – I wanted to live in that world."It's the same thing with The Cave; it started with the setting and the characters kind of get built up from that – I think, okay, now I have the world, who would live there? Who would want to adventure in that place?"So the characters come about, then the story starts to form, and very quickly after that I start to figure out the major puzzle beats – because in an adventure game it's the puzzles that drive the narrative forward. I start with that over-arching narrative then, I go, 'okay, I need a big puzzle here, another one here, and one there', and I start building backwards from all those big puzzles to all the little ones that lead up to them."In essence then, Gilbert works like a screenwriter – except for him, the transitions between acts aren't big emotional scenes, they're the key puzzles. I wonder if he does other stereotypical screenwriter stuff. Does he take a notebook everywhere , scribbling down puzzle ideas in response to things that happen to him. "Yes, everything's a puzzle to me!" he says, laying on the irony. "Everything's an adventure. I pick up every object I see and I try to stuff down my pants… That's my life."Okay, let's try this another way. Are any of his characters inspired by people he knows? "Yeah!" he laughs. "It's like, sign this release form , you're going to be in a game!"No, I wanted to have a lot of very different characters in The Cave. Very early on in the design I had this white board and it wasfilledwith characters. There were was a movie starlet, an opera singer, a CIA agent… and then it was thinking about, okay why are these people in the cave?"With the CIA agent, it really wasn't panning out, I couldn't think of a good reason – that's how we narrowed it down. I also wanted to make sure there's a good spread of motives – the hillbilly is looking for love, the twins are looking for their parents; not everyone is searching for treasure."Although The Cave has a lot of signature LucasArts elements, it's a very different sort of game – it's not a point-n-click interface for a start – it feels like more of an accessible platformer with puzzle elements, rather than a head-scratching setoff lateral brain teasers.Gilbert concedes that both he and his audience have changed since those days. "Back when I was doing Monkey Island, adventure games were pretty hardcore," he says. "We needed to provide 40 hours of gameplay, because that was the standard. And people expected really hard puzzles – they wanted to be bashing their heads against the screen for days on end trying to figure it out. That was the enjoyment. I've changed, I'm older, I've got a lot of other things going on in my life right now."But I also think that gamers have changed – gaming is much more of a mass market thing, it's more casual. While there is still a niche that loves that super hardcore stuff, there are a lot more people who view games as just a wonderful experience, like watching a movie – they don't necessarily want to go in and fail repeatedly. So my design is a little more forgiving now, it's a little more accommodating to people who just want to be enveloped in the world."At the close of the interview, we talk briefly about DoubleFine productions, where Gilbert now works with Schafer, his longtime collaborator. The duo are also working on a classic point-and-click adventure, which was funded earlier this year by a spectacularly successful Kickstarter appeal. They set out to raise $400,000 (£256,000) – the fund closed on more than $3m. It says something about the understated charm of these guys, that they never expected to garner so much support – but that no one is surprised that they did."We set it up to end right at GDC," says Gilbert. "We figured that we'd be begging people to get all the money we needed and we thought we could use GDC as a platform to say, 'please, please give us the money to make this game!' And in one day we passed a million dollars. It was … an absolute shock."But it wasn't. Not for those of us who have grown up playing these games. And not when you begin to deconstruct the labyrinthine nature of their intricate design, and glimpse the ingenous systems behind them.The Cave looks unlike anything else on the Sega stand, but it is important that it's here. It means big publishers are looking at smart, funny, cleverly crafted games. And we don't always have to be queueing up for the next big shooter.•The Cave is coming to PC and as-yet unspecified consoles in early 2013
Block 18.22am:Welcome - it's an hour ahead of the UK and we're in a huge hall somewhere in Amsterdam. We've got some banging club music, it's dark, and there are lots of machines clearly running Metro sitting on the stage. Yes, it's Windows 8 for sure.Despite our picture, it's not obvious from this distance whether there are any Surface tablets up there. We'll have to see..Block 21.31am:As is obligatory at any large conference, the Wi-Fi is very patchy here, so we may drift in and out like a radio station. We'll see.Block 31.36am:Here we go. Microsoft corporate vice-president of Windows Web Services! Antoine LeBlond! I've never heard of him.Today to talk about the desktop. "Used to be everything was desktops.. now over 60% of PCs that are selling are laptops, next year tablets will outsellf desktop PCs." Not heard that latter one before. "Moving to a world that's battery-powered. In that sort of world we care a lot about the CPU, try to preserve battery life. It's a very fundamental change."Touch is interesting. Five years ago we had very few devices"Touch-based products... if you go back to the first touch-based cellphones, people thought they were going to be niche products because nobody would want a product without a keyboard." (Wasn't Steve Ballmer one of those "people"?) Anyhow, he's making the point that touch is everywhere. Even in bank stuff.Block 41.42am:It's all about mobility, touch, connectivity, content [is in the cloud], people, home and enterprise.Namecheck for Dropbox as well as Skydrive. "We've designed Windows 8 for the billion people that use Windows today... and reimagined the way it works with hardware."(The basic dichotomy is that Microsoft is thinking of the tablet as an extension of the desktop/laptop, while Apple and Google are treating it as another beast - something between the smartphone and the laptop.)"Everything you could do with Windows before you can still do with Windows 8. Devices keep working, apps keep working. And you don't have to compromise. Works equally well on a tablet or desktop or laptop. Works in mixed environment of Windows 8 PCs and Windows 7 PCs. And you don't have to choose between a small thin light tablet and running the apps .. that your enteprise uses."(Which, again, is the basic dichotomy. Microsoft is presenting the tablet as a sorta-laptop-without-the-screen. You can be pretty confident that Google's Nexus tablet won't have a keyboard to attach to it.)Block 51.49am:Demo of a Windows 8 tablet. The "gesture to unlock" (you choose a picture and then touch points on it) is rather cool.(Comments are on.)Pinch-and-zoom to zoom out so that you can get an overview of all the "home screens" - again, very cool. The UI for the top level is neatly thought through.Block 6At Microsoft's TechEd 2012 in Amsterdam1.53am:Demo of a sort of CRM schedule. (The lack of "chrome" - stuff around the edges of windows - may strike some dyed-in-the-wool XP users as a big stark. Then again, it makes sense as a way to get rid of a lot of the unnecessary junk as screens haven't been getting bigger, but smaller.)"Windows fades into the background when you're using these apps... but how do I get back to the main screen? We thought a lot about this. We thought about how do you physically hold it. The natural way is to hold your fingers on the bezels at the side... and swipe it." Swipes from the right and the "charms" icons appear on the right. "Start" charm is middle. And then you can start other apps. Very quick switching between apps. "Really fast and really confortable to do."Block 71.57am:Hmm, our timestamp seems to be in a different location. Let's see...aha, it's because we're using Microsoft's internet, and it is diverting everything through Houston. Well, we have a problem with that. Just a moment..Block 89.00am:Ah, that's better. OK, Joe stegman is now here and doing some more demos. (This comes across really well in a text-blog, doesn't it?)Block 99.01am:Stegman now demoing the UK National Rail Enquiries app: "this is a great app which gives you information about the UK rail system." Yay for British apps.Showing how the app takes you between maps and other representations.(Watching this, one question that suggests itself is how, if you don't have any chrome to delineate windows, that you know which of multiple tabs you might be in. It's OK for Microsoft, which has had years to work on Metro style and can show the best; but not all Windows third-party software is the greatest example of design. How is this going to pan out once some of the gronkier apps get upgraded?)"There are probably some power users of Windows in here.." You'd hope so, as it's a developer conference of sorts.And next, the "modern touch pad". Back to the Start screen, Going to use two fingers to scroll... scroll... nothing happens. "Go back to the Start screen.. and back to the app, and scroll..." Phew, it worked. Mistakenly starts another app. Seems like the touchpad isn't quite doing what he wants. "Two fingers on here and pinch..." nothing happens "AND PINCH" (some laughter in the audience) "AND PIINCCHHH" and he gets the "semantic zoom". A few things on the UI that don't seem to be quite ironed out.Block 109.08am:LeBlond is back. (That sounds like a film tagline, doesn't it?) Showing how you can have two functioning windows side-by-side (one is about 3/4 of the window, the other a quarter). Again, very neat - Windows 8 seems again and again like a product that Microsoft's programs are going to sing in. (I'm less certain about third-party apps. After all, look how horrible some of them are in Win32.)"I'm going to bring up settings and just tap here... tap here" (the responsiveness isn't quite there. This is a surprising number of unresponsive-to-taps responses. The machines are really quick, but I'm getting a nagging feeling about the interaction.)(Live Tiles on the Start screen - just like on Windows Phone, they live-update with information If and when Windows 8 gets some traction among consumers, and when they start to like it, that could be enormously helpful to Nokia in selling its Lumia series. In retrospect, it's been tough on Nokia: if only Symbian had lasted a year long, or Android had happened a year later, or Windows 8 had been ready a year earlier, it could have surfed a wave of interest in the whole Metro/live tile thing. As it stands, it's having to bridge an uncomfortable gap. SeeHorace Dediu's prediction on Nokiafor more.)Block 119.15am:Joe Stegman is back. (That sounds like a less interesting film.)By the way, for the Windows wonks in the audience, it's build 8400 evaluation copy of Windows 8 Enterprise that they're running here. Apparently this sort of thing makesall the differencein some circles. (Why?) Stegman is showing a Windows 7 virtual machine, running in a virtual HD.RemoteFX: how remote clients talk to back-end infrastructure. "Remoting" used as a.. participle? Showing Remote Desktop, initiating into a Windows 8 box - sorry,remotinginto a Windows 8 box. Microsoft never saw a word it couldn't jargonificise.Now using touch to control the remote machine."Now all I need is one more thing... it's in here.." reaches into pocket "it's in here... no, really, it is.." more fumbling. "It's here!" 32GB USB stick which can run Windows 8. (Nice, though 32GB would have been an amazing amount of memory when Windows 7 was released.)Block 12Antoine LeBlond of Microsoft on stage talking about Windows 89.27am:Leblond is back, here to talk about developing for Windows 8. About how you can build using all sorts of formats - HTML5, or C++, or .Net or WPF."Reuse your skills and assets... use your existing developer tools... leverage the existing Microsoft developer ecosystem." He's going to do a LOB (line of business, one of those essential internal-to-business) app. Originally written in C#.Dual-monitor: two different background images. (You couldn't do this before?) The lower tool bar takes up icons for apps shifted into whichever monitor."If I have four monitors.." That's ambitious - even Ballmer draws the line at two, doesn't he? Bill Gates uses four. Hacking through the XAML code for his "expenses" app. The sense of excitement isn't palpable here. Points out the "await" keyword in XAML which is for asynchronous routines. Awaits data from (in this case) the web service that it connects to.First mention of Silverlight but suggests that this is going to be stuff which will be easier to write for Windows 8... and seems to edge away from Silverlight. (The message I heard here was "this will be easier to do this way than it would be if you stick to Silverlight.")Block 139.41am:Joe Stegman is back, and is trying to detach the keyboard form an Asus device. "It's really easy to do.." he says as he nearly rips it off. "SUCCESS!" he says as the cameraman who was filming it from 6 inches away leaps away to avoid getting an elbow in the face.Not devoid of glitches, then. "Quick little discussion of malware, They are craft, crafty, crafty individuals. They understand how booting works on machines." Ya think? "They have figured out that when the OS loads that's when the antivirus kicks in, if we can replace the bootloader then we can do our stuff."UEFI.. replacement for BIOS.. it has trusted bootloaders that are burned in.. UEFI asks if it's a trusted bootloader.. you can install apps on this new class knowing that they have super-strong defences against anti-malware types of attacks."OK?"Antoine showed that app.. can run just as well on the ARM-architecture as the Intel architecture. To get them on your Windows RT devices, for apps through the store but as an enterprise you have a couple of different options, you use your existing management infrastructure you can sideload apps, using your Group Policy settings.But a Windows RT device can't be domain joined" (my emphasis( "so you need a management app." (Domain joining is very big for enterprises.)"This management app.. IT for the enterprise can set up this app to show me as a user in the enterprise what I can see and download.."Showing off an app that could be loaded onto a tablet and then pushed out to Excel. (You can see it working - sales people carrying around tablets and taking orders and then pushing it out on the back end.)Block 149.48am:Bonjour again LeBlond. He's wrapping up: "please go and download the preview of Windows 8. And I want you to think about building Windows 8 apps, there's a lot of really great things you can do.. lot of great opportunities for writing apps.."And we're done.Wrapup: the most interesting thing in the whole of that was LeBlond saying that tablets will outsell desktops next year - which is a dramatic idea to consider.The data I've got (IDC predictions) doesn't bear that out worldwide, but it does if you take total tablet sales and compare them to desktop sales in either the developed world or developing world - tablets are forecast to shift 106.1m by IDC this year, against 51.6m desktops in the "mature" markets and 93m in the developing markets. Either way, pretty impressive for tablets. And Microsoft really wants to get on board there.For third-party developers, how good will they be at adapting to the zero-chrome life of Metro, which Windows 8 (and Windows Phone) uses? And how good will they be at writing code that respects the desire not to work the CPU if you're on the battery, rather than plugged in? Big and important questions.What we didn't get today: clear ideas on when Windows 8 will actually launch, and anything to do with Surface - still no dates, prices or configurations. But there's another session with some Microsoft folk for the media now, so we'll see where we go. Thanks for joining us.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTechRadar site hacked passwords stolen security breached &gt;&gt; PC AdvisorUK tech site TechRadar tonight told its registered users that its user registration database had been compromised. In a statement published on TechRadar.com and sent to individual registered users, the Future Publishing website's publisher informs users that details including email addresses and passwords, dates of birth and usernames have been stolen.Oh dear. Some members of pre-existing forums may not know their password has leaked. If you're a member at all, change your password.Kcom's fibre-optic rollout puts rural Yorkshire at forefront of 'digital spring' &gt;&gt; The GuardianGreat report by Juliette Garside. It really is about time for "digital spring". Even now.Apple drops 'We don't get PC viruses' schtick &gt;&gt; Wired.comApple has made a small change to a Mac marketing webpage that is a big deal to people who care about computer security.We're talking about the "Why you'll love a Mac" webpage. For the past couple of years, Apple has claimed that the Mac "doesn't get PC viruses," adding that "a Mac isn't susceptible to the thousands of viruses plaguing Windows-based computers."That's a tough one to argue with. After all, Windows software doesn't work on the Mac operating system. But now, it's a claim that Apple doesn't seem comfortable making anymore.Finally. Something like that, anyway.In a big network of computers, evidence of machine learning &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comInside Google's secretive X laboratory, known for inventing self-driving cars and augmented reality glasses, a small group of researchers began working several years ago on a simulation of the human brain.Andrew Y. Ng, a Stanford computer scientist, is cautiously optimistic about neural networks. There Google scientists created one of the largest neural networks for machine learning by connecting 16,000 computer processors, which they turned loose on the Internet to learn on its own.Presented with 10 million digital images found in YouTube videos, what did Google's brain do? What millions of humans do with YouTube: looked for cats.Sounds trivial, but has huge applications.US trade body to 'revisit' Motorola's sole patent win over Apple &gt;&gt; The RegisterThe commission said it will review the determination in part and wants both Apple and Motorola to come up with answers to a number of questions, including whether patents that are supposed to be licensed under fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory (FRAND) terms can ever be used to ban imports.The ITC said that whatever decision it came up with, it would have to consider the public interest when it thought about remedies, implying that even if it agrees with either party, it still might refuse to implement a ban anyway.A decision from the commission is expected in August.The speed of change &gt;&gt; Government Digital ServiceWhen a user sent a tweet about a possible improvement on GOV.UK, it became a great example of how quickly an agile team can respond to feedback. Chris Heathcote from the GDS design team explains how size doesn't necessarily mean slowing of processes.What will happen to Nokia? &gt;&gt; asymcoFor over a year I've been chronicling the decline of incumbents in the mobile phone industry. However, decline cannot continue indefinitely. At some point a company "exits" the industry. Either through a sale or divestiture or, rarely bankruptcy. The list of exits is already long. The length and the correlation between exit and the lack of recovery implies that Nokia will also exit.But how, exactly?Not by being sold to Microsoft. But read on. Will Nokia be acquired? If so, then by whom? What other options exist? How can we analyze this?Online Infringement of Copyright: Implementation of the Online Infringement of Copyright (Initial Obligations) (Sharing of Costs) Order 2012 &gt;&gt; OfcomHere is Ofcom's proposals on the working of the Digital Economy Act. First letters expected to go out in March 2014 - yes, almost four years to the date when the bill was given Royal Assent.Sorry, but Microsoft screwing Windows Phone fans is the right thing to do &gt;&gt; Gizmodo UKSam Biddle:What Microsoft is doing with Windows Phone 8 is what it has to do: laying cement for an OS that will last deep into the future -- or at least as long as you'll own your phone. Your Lumia is based on Windows CE, software that was first released back in the early 90s. It's ancient, and it's holding the entire platform back. WP8, and its incompatibility with the phone you might own right now, is a much-needed fresh start.More than that, it's a fundamental shift, uprooting everything; Microsoft's packing up the house, putting it on the back of a truck, and moving it out of the dead-end suburban cul-de-sac and onto a gorgeous country estate. WP8 will now share common code with the impending desktop and tablet versions of Windows 8. If this sounds complicated, it shouldn't: by next year, every new Windows computer, slate, and phone will have the same modern software DNA, which will give Microsoft-friendly handsets access to the best programming magic available.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Six people have been arrested in Britain as part of an FBI-led sting targeting 24 online financial fraudsters involved in the illegal trade of stolen bank and credit card information, and in selling viruses to take over users' computers.A total of 24 suspects were held across four continents on Tuesday, following an undercover operation begun in June 2010 and described as the biggest of its kind to be launched against financial cybercriminals.However four others, against whom charges were unsealed in a New York court, remain at large, the FBI said.The FBI said that the sting, which used a honeypot website to attract "carders" who exchange stolen credit card details, had protected more than 400,000 potential victims and prevented losses of $205m (£131m) from debit and credit cards.A total of 11 people were arrested in the US, while suspects were held in 12 other countries including the UK, Norway, Italy and Japan. They were running carding schemes in America, Europe, Asia and Australia.Among those arrestedwere 12 in the US, including one person – Mir Islam – who had been said to be the leader of Ugnazi, a hacking group which claimed to have brought down Twitter last week. Twitter has denied the claim, saying it was due to an internal software bug.Islam was arrested after he met a man in Manhattan who he believed to be a fellow carder with stolen card details, but was instead arrested after he tried to take money from an ATM using the details.The FBI also seized the web server for ugnazi.com and carders.org, which Islam had controlled.All those arrested are accused of buying and selling hacking programs and stolen personal information online. Two of those arrested were minors.If convicted, many of those involved face jail terms of 10 years or more.Manhattan US Attorney Preet Bharara said: "The coordinated law enforcement actions taken by an unprecedented number of countries around the world demonstrate that hackers and fraudsters cannot count on being able to prowl the internet in anonymity and with impunity, even across national boundaries."Clever computer criminals operating behind the supposed veil of the Internet are still subject to the long arm of the law."As alleged, the defendants casually offered every stripe of malware and virus to fellow fraudsters, even including software-enabling cyber voyeurs to hijack an unsuspecting consumer's personal computer camera."To expose and prosecute individuals like the alleged cyber criminals charged today will continue to require exactly the kind of coordinated response and international cooperation that made today's arrests possible."
What are your mid-week gaming plans?
In this week's edition of Tech Weekly presented byCharles Arthur, we look at theGoogle/Sony smart TV launch. Plus, Charles meetsIlja Laurs, the founder ofGetjar.com, an apps market that is taking on Apple and Google. Ilja discusses his company and the future of virtual currencies and app markets. Charles is also joined by Guardian mobile and apps writerStuart Dredgeand Guardian programmerDan Cattto discuss the launch ofMicrosoft's tablet and mobile strategy with Windows 8, as well as discussingLe Web 2012which took place recently in London.
Oreo, theself-proclaimed  "world's favourite cookie", has stirred up controversy on Facebook by pledging support for gay pride.An image posted to theOreo fan pageshows rainbow layers betwixt its biscuity wafers, instead of the usual dollop of white cream. The photo was accompanied by the message "Proudly support love!".The post came afterthousands of people attended gay pride eventsin New York, San Francisco and elsewhere over the weekend.While most commenters were in support of the multi-coloured equal rights cookie, others disagreed with Oreo's tolerant stance, some even threatening a biscuit-boycott."This is absolutely disgusting," opined Desean Washington. "Your attempt to 'normalize' the behaviour of homosexuals has cost you a customer."Steven Osoria was another to express displeasure with the post, which provoked such a violent response that he had decided he was "never eating an oreo ever again".Facebook user Steve Permar, whose interests on the site include "Sarah Palin" and "I Love Jesus", posted: "Guess I won't be buying oreo's [sic] anymore", while Mike Wirth declared the Oreo post was evidence of "more homosexuality shoved down our throats".Oreo, which Adweek describes asone of the most successful brands on Facebook, has some 26m fans on the social networking website, with 145,000 liking the pride post.As the comments descended into a bakery-product civil war on Tuesday morning, the majority of posters were supportive of the chocolate-flavoured sandwich cookie."Way to go Oreo!" wrote Christopher Kahle. "You used to be able to tell how much guts a brand had by their advertising, today we get to see it with their compassion.""Thank you Oreo, thank you!" gushed Megan Amanda Duran.Oreo is manufactured by food giant Kraft, a detail not lost onone Tumblr wag, who promptly posted all the Kraft products that a truly principled Oreo-boycott should include – a veritable diabetes wish-list which includes Jell-O, Kool-Aid, Cool Whip and Tombstone Pizza.
David Kushner's biography on id Software quotes John Carmack positing the idea that stories in video games are like stories in porn films – they're expected to be there, but they're not that important.If ever there was a video game that stands in resolute opposition to Carmack's opinion in this regard, it's Spec Ops: The Line. Yager's new third-person shooter is all about story. In fact, story is its principle asset. Whether it becomes a success or failure depends entirely on the willingness of players to engage with its story to the extent that they look past its erratic mechanics and unsatisfying gameplay.The game opens with a rather stunning set-piece involving a helicopter chase through the rooftops of Dubai. The player controls a soldier firing a chaingun from the door of a chopper as enemy copters swarm and buzz the vehicle. As the chase unfolds, the player inevitable tears through buildings and rips up rooftops with high-calibre rounds as they try to fend off their attackers.The contemporary trappings of the soldiers and the high-octane feel of the scene immediately recall the CoD: Modern Warfare games, but a closer inspections reveals something else; the back and forth between the player's character and his AI pilot ally sounds strained and cracked – a million miles away from the professional zeal of CoD's soldiers. The chase ends in a crash, and then the plot flashes back to a few weeks earlier.Dubai, it turns out, is in ruins after a cataclysmic sandstorm demolished a lot of the city, and cut it off from the outside world. After an appeal was sent out, a US army regiment called the 33rd diverted their progression home from Afghanistan and headed into the buried city. That was some time ago and it turns out that that US high command hasn't heard from the 33rd, or its commander, Colonel Konrad, in quite some time.To that end, it dispatches a three-man Delta Squad to Dubai to find out the reason Konrad isn't answering their attempts to contact him. The team consists of Adams, a heavy gunner; Lugo, a mouthy sniper; and their commanding officer, Captain Walker, a man who served under Konrad in Afghanistan and considers him both a hero and a patriot.The game's opening salvo unfolds in mere minutes and this set-up is typical of the drum-tight pacing of the game's plot. There's hardly an ounce of fat on the story and, even though Spec Ops: The Line has a couple of glaring issues in how it plays, the player never feels like they're being shunted from one room to another in order to activate another drab cutscene.Unlike other shooters featuring the modern military, the game's story takes few cues from contemporary action cinema, the odd epic gun battle notwithstanding. Instead, Yager is aiming for grittier territory in Spec Ops: The Line, which forgoes the usual machismo of a game of this type for something far darker; Apocalypse Now – and, by extension, Joseph Conrad's Heart Of Darkness – looms large over the proceedings.As Walker and his men head into Dubai, they soon become aware that something very disturbing has taken place in the wake of Konrad's arrival in the city. They come across refugees who fire at anyone wearing a US army uniform, dead bodies strung up from lamp-posts and overpasses and walls covered in the pictures of lost loved ones. These signs of order breaking down in the city soon give way to scenes of abject trauma, testing the resolve of Walker and his men, whose core relationship soon begins to crack under the strain of what they're seeing around them.The sense that madness has been allowed to run riot is compounded by the fact that all of this horror is surrounded by the remnants of a bastion to luxury and affluence. The game's Dubai may lie in ruins, but what of it that remains in tact sits garishly next to the grisly scenes it houses. One minute, Walker and his men are wading through a mass grave, knee deep in charred corpses. The next, they're standing in the lobby of a hotel staring up at two giant gold giraffes that flank a marble staircase in front of them, as fish swim in an aquarium in the floor beneath their feet. This bizarre clash of opulence and gore lends the city an otherworldly atmosphere and feeds into the unhinged mood of the story.Unfortunately, the gameplay augmenting all the action in the story is nowhere near as well realised. The controls are fairly straightforward: LT and RT are aim and shoot respectively, Y switches weapons, A snaps the player to cover, X is reload, B is a melee attack or it vaults the player over nearby walls and LB activates thrown projectiles. The right bumper allows players to target enemies with their squad members and the D-Pad switches between projectiles and, in a nice touch, makes Walker place a silencer on certain weapons for stealth kills.At its core, Spec Ops: The Line is a cover-based shooter in the mould of Gears Of War, although comparing its gameplay to Epic's testosterone-juiced fragfest is doing the latter something of a disservice. Gears Of War may contain lunk-headed stories, but their cover-based mechanics are absolutely reliable.Sadly the same can't be said for Spec Ops: The Line. Hitting A slides Walker into cover, and moving the thumbstick changes his position while he hugs the wall, but the slightest movement away from cover and Walker stands bolt upright. In the middle of a firefight, this can be slightly problematic.Furthermore, certain pieces of cover have an annoying habit of jutting out into the player's firing line, while not obscuring their crosshairs. This leads to instance where the player will think that they've drawn a bead on an enemy, but when they pull the trigger, they empty half a clip of ammo into a piece of scenery inches away from Walker's face. If they have an RPG to hand in this situation, they're toast.Mapping the melee attack to the same button used for a wall-vaulting action was also a bad idea, due to the fact that Walker can only vault over certain pieces of cover, and only then at certain points. If the player is pinned down and needs to move to another piece of cover, unless they hit  the A button exactly the right point, they run the risk of Walker attacking it with the butt of his gun, while enemies pepper them with bullets. The first time this happens, it's admittedly rather funny. By the 15th or 16th instance, it's enough to prompt language that's unprintable here.All of these shonky mechanics wouldn't impact so badly on the overall experience if the game's AI wasn't so good. Not content to stand out in the open and provide the player with an easy target, these drones actually lay down suppressing fire while their mates move to flank the player, and when such action isn't possible, they hurl grenades to draw the player out of cover. Not only that, they'll reposition themselves based on where the player takes up a firing position, and if a grenade is tossed at them, they immediately rush out of its blast radius.The overall design of Spec Ops: The Line is challenging, too. Some set-pieces take place in environments where enemies have multiple pieces of cover, as well as raised platforms to outflank the players from, and the further into the game the player goes, the more likely they are to encounter bullet-sponge opponents. This wouldn't be so bad, except for the fact that bullets are very rare in Dubai, apparently, so all the shoot-outs in the game force the player to put a premium on headshots.One could argue that this is more realistic, but that argument falls to pieces when every single downed enemy – who kept the player pinned in cover with a never-ending stream of bullets – seems to have only a couple of slugs left when the player loots their fallen body. One could also argue that Spec Ops: The Line wasn't designed to be a cakewalk and I shouldn't whine about a game being challenging, but that's slight disingenuous. I agree, there's nothing wrong ramping up the difficulty to provide players with a challenge, but for a game to be challenging rather than unfair, the mechanics the player relies upon need to be rock-solid, and in Spec Ops: The Line, they just aren't.It may be the case that players will do better against human opponents in the game's multiplayer mode, but I can't confirm it at the time of this writing. I've battled to get online with the game's multiplayer and in the rare instances I've made it into the lobbies, there have been no other players there.So the question every prospective punter needs to ask themselves ahead of buying Spec Ops: The Line is this – is a cracking story set in an original and atmospheric environment enough to allow you ignore subpar gameplay that occasionally makes the whole experience incredibly frustrating?This is one of those instances where I wish the Guardian's scoring system allowed me to give a game a 7/10 rating, because that's really what Spec Ops: The Line deserves. However, since the only choice I have is between a 6 and an 8, I'm going to round the score down, because while there's some genuine heart and originality in Spec Ops: The Line, the experience of playing the game is just too hit and miss for me to recommend it unreservedly.The developers at Yager have proven they can tell a great story, write interesting characters and build a unique and disturbing world to house them all in. If they can marry these assets to an experience that's more fluid and fun to play in their next outing, they'll be flat-out dangerous.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Battlefield 3 left plenty of room for improvement – the slow, intrusive log on and derivativesingle player campaign, to name but two areas. However, what it did well, it did brilliantly, including great weapons, huge multiplayer maps and an unrivalled grasp of vehicular combat. Close Quarters, the latest DLC pack in EA's Premium plan, concentrates on two of those strengths and conveniently ignores the rest. In fact, it's a new interpretation of Battlefield, using the same weapons and combat roles, but played in a very different – some might say, less distinctive, way. As a result, it won't satisfy everyone.What you get are four new maps, 10 new weapons and assignments and two new game modes, as well as assorted dog tags for fans of collectable rewards. Let's start with the modes; both of them heavily influenced by Modern Warfare. Gun Master sounds like the most fun, allowing you to progress through levels according to how many enemies you can kill with the weapon you have. This means your online ranking can swing wildly as other players exploit their (temporarily) better weapons. This reaches a head in the final level 17, where front runners find themselves trying to achieve the final kill armed only with a knife. If you can live with this level of uncertainty, then it's a refreshing alternative that would be perfect for lone gunners if only they didn't have to worry about teammates. More familiar is the second new mode, Conquest Domination, an obvious take on Counterstrike's Domination mode, where two teams try to capture three flags, taking more enemy spawns the quicker you do it. With these flags interspersed between open spaces and choke-points, you'll need fast moves, tight formations and careful planning to hold them all.As far as weapons are concerned, you can expect exactly what the title suggests; two new additions for each of the four classes and two that can be used in any class, but mainly designed for close combat. These include the meaty new shotguns such as the SPAS-12 and assault weapons such as the AUG A3 – all adding to B3's established leadership in the FPS arms race. Of course, modes need maps and CQ's new offerings almost make up for in quality what they lack in quantity or variety. Ranging from Battlefield's smallest-ever map (Ziba Tower) to the massively mundane Operation 925, there's a clear difference in look between the oriental style of Donya Fortress and the office-based Scrapmetal, but the emphasis is always on claustrophobic internal locations.  925 seems to be the current favourite, largely because of its two connecting bridges that force you to approach it methodically, floor by floor.However, not all the maps do justice to B3's carefully designed look and feel – Ziba Tower may look challenging but its miniscule size and vertical nature feels too cramped for effective teamwork. However, all new maps now feature HD Destruction, areas of destructible scenery where roofs and pillars will cave in or glass shatter, none of which has an effect on gameplay but all adding to B3's typically robust sense of realism.Close Quarters has a nice balance of new geography, modes and tactics but not enough to really excite. There's also no denying the new maps and modes owe more than the usual debt to Call of Duty, something Battlefield managed to resist through bigger maps and better mobility right up to its latest incarnation. Fans who chose one of these paths for gameplay reasons may now resent being shuffled down the other against their will. However, such is the nature of DLC that Dice can always say something else will be along in a minute and sure enough, the next one – Arrmoured Kill – promises to play to B3's strengths of sprawling battles and plenty of vehicular action.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Illegal downloaders will start receiving warning letters from internet service providers from 1 March 2014, under a draft code for the government's anti-digital piracy regime drawn up by media regulator Ofcom.Under the draft code,published on Tuesday by the regulator, the UK's biggest ISPs – BT, Everything Everywhere, O2, Sky, TalkTalk Group and Virgin Media – will be required to send letters to customers warning them when there is an allegation from a film, TV or music company that there has been illegal downloading from their computer.Web users who get three warning letters in a year will face having anonymous information of their downloading and filesharing history provided to copyright owners, which could then be used to gain a court order to reveal the customer's identity and take legal action against piracy.Internet users will be able to appeal against a report on their alleged infringement, at a cost of £20, which will be refunded if they are successful.Ofcom said that given the logistics involved in establishing an appeals body and other elements necessary to police the draft code, which implements anti-piracy provisions in the Digital Economy Act 2010, UK internet users will not start receiving letters until 1 March 2014.Ofcom's draft code – which, after a consultation period is expected, to pass through parliament at the end of the year – also gives a breakdown of the costs involved to set up and run the new system. As much as 75% of the costs will be met by rights holders.The consultation on the online infringement of copyright code closes on 26 July. A separate consultation on the allocation of costs for policing the code runs until 18 September.The anti-piracy legislation has been the focal point of a two-year battle between rights holders – many of who wanted much tougher action such as slowing or cutting off the internet connections of repeat offenders – and ISPs, which have argued that they should not have to foot the bill for enforcing the crackdown on piracy.In March 2012, BT and TalkTalklost a final legal challengeto force a judicial review of the Digital Economy Act, when their opposition was thrown out by the court of appeal.While copyright owners can already seek court orders against digital pirates, the new code is designed to enable them to take legal action against the most persistent alleged infringers.Ofcom and the government maintain that the new code has been carefully balanced to help the UK creative industries defend their intellectual property, while protecting the rights of consumers.The music industry in particular has seen revenues dive over the past decade , which it blames on internet piracy."It is essential that government creates the right conditions for businesses to grow," said creative industries minister Ed Vaizey. "We must ensure our creative industries can protect their investment. They have the right to charge people to access their content if they wish, whether in the physical world or on the internet."We are putting in place a system to educate people about copyright to ensure they know what legitimate content is and where to find it. The Digital Economy Act is an important part of protecting our creative industries against unlawful activity."However, Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group, argued that the draft code was flawed and potentially left libraries, hotels and bars that offer the internet to customers over Wi-Fi open to accusations of piracy."Digital revenues are going up, the music and film industry are moving in the right direction, yet this cumbersome policy is still lumbering forward," said Killock."The appeals are a joke. Some people will almost certainly end up in court having done nothing wrong."The DEA also outlined certain other measures that could be considered to reduce piracy levels, including the slowing of internet connections, blocking online access or temporarily suspending accounts. These could be put back on the table by the government if the new code proves to be ineffective after its first full year of operation.An annex to the report shows that if 70,000 copyright infringement reports are sent by rights holders to the biggest ISPs each month – BT, Virgin, TalkTalk and BSkyB — the total cost to rights holders will be £14.4m, with each letter costing £17.The forecast is for it to become more cost effective for the rights holders to foot the bill for significantly more copyright infringement reports to go out to ISPs each month – 175,000 will cost them £15.2m, however the cost-per-letter drops to £7.20.There is a slightly cheaper table of costs that has been set up for O2 and Everything Everywhere as they are significantly smaller ISPs.Ofcom also said that between 2010 and 2015 it expected to have run up bills of £10.5m in relation to setting up and running the DEA's anti-piracy regime, including drafting the code, establishing an independent appeals body, measurement and enforcement. Rights holders would foot the bill for the regime."These measures are designed to foster investment and innovation in the UK's creative industries, while ensuring internet users are treated fairly and given help to access lawful content," said Claudio Pollack, Ofcom's consumer group director."Ofcom will oversee a fair appeals process, and also ensure that rights holders' investigations under the code are rigorous and transparent."
A selection of seven new and notable apps for you today:Spider-Man AR Book HDSpider-Man and augmented reality, together at last! Is that what Spidey fans have been waiting for? No matter. Disney's latest iPad app for its Marvel subsidiary promises a host of AR features, from a virtual Spider-Man mask to "augmented reality spiders". A sentence I thankfully don't have to type too often.iPadClick A TaxiThere are a number of taxi-hailing apps jostling for attention in London, but what about the rest of the UK? Click A Taxi says it's nationwide, thanks to deals with local taxi firms around the UK (and also Ireland). It helps book a nearby taxi and provides updates on how long it'll be. Its UK and Irish launch follows previous rollouts in Denmark, Sweden and Norway.Android / iPhoneLG CloudEvery handset maker wants their own cross-device cloud service nowadays, and LG is no different. Its LG Cloud app for Android ties into its wider service sharing photos, videos and music across smartphones, tablets, TVs and computers.AndroidBurgerQuestThis certainly wins the award for most uses of the word "burger" in an App Store listing. "BurgerQuest is the app you need. Created by burger fans for burger fans…" That means a social location app for fans of meat'n'baps, with the option to rate restaurants and find tasty nearby burger joints.iPhoneSpotify for BlackBerryActually, this has been out for a few months from Spotify's own site, but it's only just been officially released on RIM's BlackBerry App World store. It provides BB owners with access to Spotify's premium music streaming service, albeit without some of the newer features seen in the iPhone version.BlackBerryBNDWGNBNDWGN is a spin-off from messaging service HeyWire, and describes itself as "the first content messenger app that combines the power of group messaging with everything you love about Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, and Instagram". Social streams that can be quickly pinged to friends, in other words.AndroidPGA TourNokia has bagged a year-long exclusive on the official PGA Tour Windows Phone app. It promises in-tournament scorecards and stats, as well as live video streaming from certain events, and video highlights from others.Windows Phone
Camilla Luddington has been named as the actor who plays Lara Croft in the upcoming Tomb Raider video game.The 29-year-old English-born actor joins Angelina Jolie, Minnie Driver and Keeley Hawes, who have all portrayed the British adventurer in various forms in the past.Luddington's most recent work includes playing another well-known British figure – the Duchess of Cambridge, Kate Middleton – in the made-for-TV film William &amp; Kate.She has also starred with David Duchovny in the Showtime series Californication, and is scheduled to appear in the upcoming fifth season of HBO's True Blood.Besides doing the voiceover work for the new game, Luddington is also doing all the motion-capture for the character – making her the first performer to lend both vocal talents and body shape to Lara Croft.Luddington was chosen after an international search by the game's developer, Crystal Dynamics, which is positioning the new game as a reboot of the franchise.The new Tomb Raider game serves as an origin story for 21-year-old Croft, in which she is shipwrecked on a remote tropical island and has to fight for survival against the elements and a group of murderous aggressors.Crystal Dynamics said Luddington had convinced them that she could deliver both the emotional depth and youthful tone they sought for the character."This has been one of the most important jobs for us to get right," said Darrell Gallagher, studio head of Crystal Dynamics. "This Tomb Raider game is very different to any other and we are demanding far more from the voice acting than ever before."The new game, which is due for release in March 2013, is a good deal grittier and darker in tone than previous entries in the Tomb Raider franchise.Recent demos of the game at the E3 2012 games convention in Los Angelessparked controversywhen it was revealed that one of Lara Croft's would-be assailants tries to sexually assault her before she kills him.
It's been a few years now since Valve usurped iD's crown as the developer's developer, marked by few but always landmark releases. Valve arguably went one further by not restricting itself to epics, with Portals 1 and 2 being the most obvious example of simple mechanics stretched to fascinating new levels. Quantum Conundrum is a similar concept, basically a series of sandbox-puzzles wrapped up in weird but consistent physics.Now QC isn't a Valve game, but the lead designer was also the co-creator of Portal, and the two share many similarities – starting with a strict non-violence pact. Yes, you can die but it's little more than a painless transition between checkpoints. In fact, with a hero who is a child let loose in a scientist's house, everything moves at a gentle pace as you discover the limits of your powers through a series of physics-based puzzles. Only this time, instead of a reality-warping gun, you have a reality-warping glove.Based on the Unreal engine, you might expect QC to look good and it sort of does. Pastel colours and soft textures abound, together with a slightly surreal geometry that the developers never make the most of. Though movement is smooth and the 3D locations large, they are curiously bland and uninspiring – apart from the actual puzzles themselves.These start basic – simply place the block on the pressure pad – easy! Pretty soon however, you need to start manipulating dimensional space which can be done in four ways. Once pressure pads require heavier objects or lasers make an appearance, you'll need to access Fluffy Dimension, a soft-focus bouncy mode that allows you to leap higher and lift previously unliftable objects.As you progress, other dimensions are revealed – making objects more solid, so they can block lasers for instance, reverse gravity or trigger slow motion. As in older puzzlers such as Lemmings, it's immediately clear what must be done in each level, but less certain how to do it.Given this solution has to be precisely what the developer had in mind, it's a case of practice makes perfect rather than any greater test of ingenuity or intellect. For a game that relies on warping reality, it's also a shame that so many puzzles hinge on platform staples such as jumping at the precise moment.And although the child-like pace, puzzles and storytelling should appeal to a younger audience, the largely silent gameplay probably won't hold them for long. This is compounded by the sole narrator (actor John de Lancie, most recognisable as Star Trek's Q) whose interruptions either explain too much about the level mechanics or end up sounding irritatingly humourless. QC clearly aspires to Stephen Fry's work on Little Big Planet, but simply lacked the budget to pull it off.Quantum Conundrum feels like the PC's answer to a smartphone app – a simple idea, well executed but never quite reaching the level of a "real" game. You'll play it for a few hours, enjoying the experience and then suddenly think: "Well, that's enough of that," and never go back. It is what it is; a small slice of casual gaming at a slightly inflated price.• Game reviewed on PC
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft buys Yammer for $1.2bn &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukIn case you missed it. Previous round of funding valued it at $600m.Microsoft: we won't build own Windows Phones &gt;&gt; InformationweekA Microsoft executive said the company has no plans to manufacture its own company-branded smartphones, denying reports to the contrary that emerged after Redmond last week roiled the PC hardware industry by unveiling its own tablet computer.Asked in an interview if Microsoft planned to apply that strategy to the smartphone market, Greg Sullivan, senior marketing manager for Windows Phone, said, "No, we do not."Another mad story bites the dust.November 2000: Microsoft demonstrates Tablet PC technology for enterprise computing applications &gt;&gt; MicrosoftNovember 2000:A long-cherished goal for technology visionaries and computer designers, the Tablet PC will represent the next major evolution in PC design and functionality. While retaining the full power to run all existing Windows-based software applications, the Tablet PC expands enterprise computing to address previously unmet needs such as the ability to take notes at meetings, annotate existing electronic documents and presentations, and read on screen easily. By allowing users to input into their PC using only an electronic pen and a few buttons, rather than with a keyboard and a mouse, the Tablet PC will provide new opportunities and technology directions for the PC hardware and software communities.Almost - what's the word? - post-PC. (For comparison,here's the Surface releasefrom 19 June.)Facebook changed everyone's email to @Facebook.com; here's how to fix it &gt;&gt; LifehackerFacebook just removed everyone's email address from their profile and replaced it with an @facebook.com email address without asking you. Here's how to easily fix the problem.VTech Sweatshop in China: AT&amp;T, Motorola, Wal-Mart and others endorse the China model &gt;&gt; Institute for Global Labour and Human RightsThis report is about the lives of VTech employees in China, who toil under cruel, inhumane and illegal sweatshop conditions, stripped of any democratic or union rights, and with no way out of the jail of repression they are in.This report on VTech is also a story about the race to the bottom and the hollowing out of U.S. manufacturing jobs, as massive sweatshop operations like VTech in China become the largest suppliers of cordless phones in the world.  VTech is also the leading manufacturer of corded and cordless phones in North America, controlling over 50 percent of sales. Founded in 1976, VTech now has over $1.785 billion in revenues and operates in 75 countries across the world.Note of caution: we haven't heard of this institute before. The Motorola involved is the one now owned by Google.RIM: Morgan Stanley says sell, BB10 won't offset long decline &gt;&gt; Barrons.comThe immediate danger is that RIM will miss the consensus for this quarter, the fiscal Q2 that ends in August, as it gets hit with a "triple whammy," writes [Morgan Stanley analyst Ehud] Gelblum, suffering with an aging device portfolio, seeing a "pause" in buying ahead of the introduction of new models based on its forthcoming "BB10" software, and contending with an overall weakening smartphone market.Gelblum models the company adding 2.8m new subscribers this quarter, and selling 5.8m devices. That's actually up from his prior estimates, and his revenue goes higher as well, to $2.19bn, with a net loss [per share] of 26 cents. But that's still below the consensus for $2.92bn in revenue and a 2-cent loss.Those revenue and phone shipment numbers would be RIM's smallest since the same period in 2008. (RIM reports its results on Thursday evening UK time.)PayPal bans BitTorrent-friendly VPN provider &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakIn response to new internet surveillance initiatives there is a growing interest in privacy enhancing services such as VPNs and proxies.TorGuard is one of the many companies catering to this demand. As the name suggests, TorGuard has several plans specifically targeted at BitTorrent users who prefer to hide their IP-addresses from the rest of the world.Being a BitTorrent-friendly VPN appeals to a wide audience. However, the company has also learned that it has a downside. Without prior warning or detailed explanation, PayPal decided to ban TorGuard for promoting their services to BitTorrent users.They were charging for a VPN to connect people to torrents?Skype for Android has been downloaded over 70 million times &gt;&gt; The Next WebIntroduced back in October 2010, Skype says its Android application, which received video calling support about a year ago, has been downloaded over 70m times from the Google Play store to date.The Microsoft-owned company says the video calling app now runs on close to 1,400 Android devices, including handsets from HTC, Samsung, Sony Ericsson, Motorola, LG and others.1,394 unique devices, to be precise. (Though nine devies - six from Samsung and three from HTC - make up 25% of the most-downloaded-to devices.) Who even knew there were that many unique Android devices? It's not clear whether those download figures include updates and upgraded phones; a more useful figure would be the number of active Skype accounts in the past month. That's not forthcoming.Wired and The New Yorker pull back on Flipboard &gt;&gt; Advertising AgeSome magazines are developing Flipboard fatigue.Wired and The New Yorker are suspending efforts to sell ads on the platform and replacing their robust Flipboard feeds next month with spartan versions that summon their own websites if readers want whole articles."Wired is pulling back," said Howard Mittman, VP and publisher at the magazine. "Our intention is to adapt our model to allow Flipboard users to know what content at Wired is out there. It will have a headline and a sentence leading to a URL. If digital consumers want to interact with Wired, they can do so at Wired.com and not through an intermediary.""We're doing the same thing," said Lisa Hughes, VP-publisher at The New Yorker, which like Wired is part of Conde Nast.Photo.zip - "stolen nude photos" and "police investigations": malware attack spammed out &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityComputer users are being warned to be wary of email messages which suggest they contain nude photographs of girlfriends, or claim that they have been reported to the police, as the attached file (Photo.zip) really contains a Trojan horse.Security Alert: CI4 SMS Bot &gt;&gt; The Official Lookout blogCI4 is seeded through a spam email campaign. If a smartphone user activates the download and follows through with installation, CI4 is installed without a launcher icon, making it difficult for users to recognize that their system is affected. Instead of relying on a user to open the app, CI4 is activated by system events broadcast when the device is powered on or woken up. Once installed and active, CI4 sends identifying device information to its command and control server that includes IMEI and phone number, along with identifying information about the malware itself that includes "bot id" and a list of "modules." At this time, CI4 only appears to respond to a remote command to send arbitrary SMS content to a server-supplied number.Proof of concept? Android-only, of course.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
And the week continues. Did you manage to fit any gaming in last night?
Microsoft has bought the four-year-old business social network Yammer for $1.2bn (£770m) as the software giant steps up its battle with Google for the future of technology in the workplace.The purchase of Yammer, dubbed "Facebook for the workplace", is the latest instalment in Microsoft's bid to protect its dominant Office products from a challenge by Google. The service claims to have more than 5 million corporate users at groups including Ford, Shell, Deloitte and Ebay.It comes little more than a year after Microsoft paid $8.5bn for the video-calling firm Skype in the biggest acquisition in the company's 37-year history.Started in 2008 by PayPal founder David Sacks, the San Francisco-based Yammer has raised about $142m in funding since its inception. It is backed by PayPal co-founder Peter Thiel, who also invested in Facebook.Sacks said: "When we started Yammer four years ago, we set out to do something big. We had a vision for how social networking could change the way we work. Joining Microsoft will accelerate that vision and give us access to the technologies, expertise and resources we'll need to scale and innovate."Yammer – a messaging tool for colleagues which allows companies to create a private social network for employees – is one of the web startups aiming to shake up the workplace, alongside document-sharing site Dropbox and the project-management tool Basecamp.Microsoft has increasingly moved to adapt its Office products – including Microsoft Word, Excel and Powerpoint, whichgenerate about 50% of its profits– to an age where people work, share and communicate online.Last year,the software firm released Office 365, the first big shift of its word processing products into the cloud. Documents are available over the internet and on a number of devices.Google is attempting its own challenge to Microsoft's workplace crown with itsGoogle Apps suite, which includes a web-based alternative to each Microsoft Office product.Some analysts were lukewarm at the prospect of the deal. Rob Koplowitz, an analyst at Forrester, said: "It's a Sliding Doors premise. Done right this can take one path that will be good for Microsoft, Yammer customers and the industry. Done wrong, it will follow the path of Groove and good technology will go to die."Yammer has raised about $142m in venture capital funding to date, including the latest round in February led by DFJ Growth. The company claims to have 4 million corporate users across the globe, of which a fifth pay for the service.
Facebook has introduced its latest social media innovation – changing the email addresses posted by users on their profiles, en masse and without warning.In the change, which took effect on Monday, Facebook abruptly replaced the details users had elected to associate with their account with addresses using a "@facebook.com" convention.Emails sent to the Facebook address end up in the site's messaging system, rather than users' email accounts.Facebook allocated users an email address based on their profile URL, if they had elected to choose one. Users without a customized URL were instead  issued with an email based on their profile name, with the addition of a few numbers.The new contact details were automatically displayed on users' timelines, while the old email addresses were hidden. Users have to go through a number of stages to restore the previous details. Facebook has made no announcement to users about the changes, nor explained how to reverse them.In an email to Reuters journalist Matthew Keys, Facebook said:As we announced back in April, we've been updating addresses on Facebook to make them consistent across our site.In addition to everyone receiving an address, we're also rolling out a new setting that gives people the choice to decide which addresses they want to show on their timelines.Ever since the launch of timeline, people have had the ability to control what posts they want to show or hide on their own timelines, and today we're extending that to other information they post, starting with the Facebook address.We shall gloss over the question of whether a "choice" really exists if a user is not aware of it.In another user-friendly feature, most emails to the Facebook.com address are automatically filtered into the no-man's-land "other" section of Facebook messages, most likely never to be seen again.(Slate brought the hidden world of "other" messages into focusin December last year,but it is unlikely that each of Facebook's 900m users has read that article.)How to display your real email addressGo to your Facebook profile, and click on the "About" button, which is somewhere under your profile picture. Where you see "contact info", click on "edit". Next to your real email address, click on the little box that says "hidden from timeline". Change it to 'Shown on timeline'. Now click on the box next to the impostor Facebook email address. Change it to "hidden from timeline". Click save. Exit Facebook.
The weather-beaten cabin stands at the end of a road through fields, past high metal gates and a barking guard dog. Inside, Melanie Bell sits in front of a constantly updating computer screen – the nerve centre from which she controls her family's fleet of 17 articulated vehicles.Ensuring safe passage for these huge tow trucks through East Yorkshire's narrow village streets, with their ancient brick cottages, is a nerve-racking business. Bell tracks her fleet's position on Google maps, flicking to the photographic street view. The images update so quickly that she is able to guide drivers in real time through tricky turnings and into suitable parking spaces.It's a way of working that would not have been possible before the local telephone company Kcom, formerly known as Kingston Communications, decided to lay fibre-optic cables that could reach every property in Bell's village. Woodmansey has gone from a broadband blackspot, with connection speeds under the 2 megabits-a-second minimum needed for services like iPlayer, to a lightning 100mbps."It is helping our business a great deal," says Bell, who can now log into the office systems from home, a huge benefit when drivers are on call 24/7. "We used to have problems when we had thunder and lightning, where it would drop the connection. Since we've had fibre-optic we've not had a problem full stop."In January, Kcom surprised no one more than its own customers by announcing a majorinvestment in top-flight fibre-to-the-home connections. Some 15,000 homes will receive cable this year, and the results of this trial shared with investors in November. After that, the technology will be rolled out to more of the 250,000 homes in Hull, Beverley and East Yorkshire served by Kcom's network, at a speed dictated by demand.Scarred by the decline of the fishing industry, Hull has twice the national average number of unemployment benefit claimants but it is also taking the first steps in a "digital spring" that has the potential to revolutionise the local economy. Until now, the city has been a broadband backwater. An historical anomaly that left it with a council-owned telecoms company – Hull held a stake in Kcom until 2007 – it is the only UK city not covered by BT's telephone network.Internet service providers that drove broadband take-up, such as TalkTalk and Sky, have never offered the service in Hull, arguing it was uneconomical to put their equipment in Kcom telephone exchanges. The result was a monopoly, in which only 50% of Hull homes had broadband a year ago, embarrassingly below the 68% national average then. But things are changing. Kcom has just eliminated every blackspot in its network, while in the rest of the UK 14% of broadband connections remain below the 2mbps minimum, with many more simply out of reach of a connection.In some ways the plans are more ambitious than BT's, albeit with less ground to cover. The larger rival's national fibre rollout has already reached more than 10m homes but it will stop at street cabinets. The old copper wires, prone to dropping the service in wet weather and sometimes in intense heat, will continue to run the final metres to the doorstep. Kcom, by contrast, is mostly using fibre all the way.BT is promising a maximum speed of 80mbps over the copper/fibre hybrid service, and says this could improve with time. But fibre is already capable of many times that. In Woodmansey, one resident whose home is acting as a test centre for Kcom's top speeds has recorded 973mbps.What Hull will get is also well ahead of the national targets of 90% of the population on 24mbps by 2017. BT argues its fibre-to-cabinet speeds are "more than people need". Running cables to 26 million homes would simply be a waste of money, because people do not yet have the technology to use up all that bandwidth.However, Kcom's modelling suggests that by 2018, the average household will be bursting through the 50mbps mark. "The current copper networks will not be able to cope," says Kevin Walsh, Kcom board director and broadband head. "Copper came about for carrying voice, not data. We are right at the limit of copper."As computers in every shape and size from tablets to phones and televisions multiply in homes, the biggest users of bandwidth will be large families. Walsh calls teenagers "the new killer app", noting how his three-year-old grandchild can already navigate an iPad. "Orla is screen literate before she is paper literate."The one thing I can be sure of is the pace of change is going to be phenomenal."Demand is already outstripping Walsh's expectations. The company ran out of routers at one point. Already, in hard-to-reach blackspots such as Woodmansey take-up has been 90%. In better-served areas, 20% of those customers already taking broadband have signed up, even at the high-end price of £48 a month including calls for the fastest package.Just as important as speed is reliability. Wet weather often interferes with copper signals in rural areas. For Bell Truck Services, this is crucial. When the AA has more jobs than it can cope with, a message arrives on a second computer screen. When the connection went down in the past, Bell would have to ask the AA to telephone their alerts. "We did lose jobs, because nobody wants to have to ring up," she says.For another Woodmansey resident, Bill Chryssovergis and his wife Susan, fibre arrived just in time to allow them to stay in the village. He is a project manager for an electronic clothing label company, which downscaled its operations in Hull. The remaining employees decided to work from home. "We needed to have really fast internet connectivity," says Susan.They have also used their superfast upload speeds to back up all their music and family photos to Apple's iCloud servers, a safety precaution taken after their previous collection was lost when the home computer conked out. With the iPlayer and 4oD serving up instant, crisp images, viewing habits have changed. "Now we don't tend to watch television, we just watch series."While Bell Truck Services could probably get by on less than a superfast connection, this is not so for Beverley-based web developer John Polling, who pays for a 100mbps service. "I could cope with a slower speed but I wouldn't want to," he says. "It's to the point where I wonder 'could I actually move house?' If I did it would have to be to a fibre house. I'm trapped in Hull, but in a good way."Polling's home connection is now six times faster than his office service. And he thinks that by the time his children are teenagers, the family will need Kcom's fastest speed of 350mbps.On the first night fibre was installed, he tested it by downloading a massive file that simulates a Microsoft PC on to his Mac. It's the kind of tool web designers need to update every two months, and which on his previous broadband service used to take all night.With fibre it took 45 minutes, and he was able to watch the iPlayer at the same time. The connection has changed his daily habits: CD and DVD collections have been packed away. With his television set plugged into an Xbox games console, which via an internet connection can serve up movies from Netflix or Channel 4's internet player 4oD, he now watches very little live TV. All his music, films and photos are now stored in "the cloud" rather than on his computer's hard drive.The digital radio set has fallen out of use. He now streams music from the Spotify website, paying for the premium service that lets him download songs onto his iPhone – one album takes a minute – so that he can play them in the car. Were it not for the Sky Atlantic channel, which holds the rights to US blockbuster TV series such as Mad Men, Polling says he would have cancelled his satellite subscription by now.For work, he no longer has a landline. All calls are via Skype, which he uses for video conferencing. "When I speak to people on Skype they say it's like having you in the room, the image quality is so good." Video conferencing is essential because Polling's design agency, The League of Extraordinary Developers, is staffed by freelancers who all work in different locations.Recruiting digital engineers has never been easy for Hull firms, competing with bigger and more glamorous communities in Leeds and Manchester. Polling thinks fibre will change that. Although he uses far more bandwidth than the average Kcom customer, he is part of a growing minority. "The developer community is one part of the economy that isn't slowing down. Everyone I know has never been this busy."Kcom's fibre project is a pioneering one. If it succeeds, it may boost not only the local economy but inspire a more ambitious broadband plan for the UK.
NatWest has admitted that it could not say exactly how much money should be in individual accounts as the crisis caused by a failed software update last week spiralled out of control for days.The bank was quick to deny claims by the Unite union that the "offshoring" of IT jobs to locations in India had led to the the problems which appeared on Tuesday night and which paralysed its systems through to Friday, and which have not yet been fixed.However a number of programmers and experts who have worked on or with NatWest systems told the Guardian that they could not imagine the problem happening in the period before the redundancies of experienced staff since 2010."[NatWest owner] Royal Bank of Scotland has 40 years' experience running these systems and banks as a rule don't drop the ball like this," one said. "Somebody somewhere made a decision that has led to this."The Guardian's investigations suggest that NatWest's problems began on Tuesday night when it updated a key piece of software – CA-7, which controls the batch processing systems that deal with retail banking transactions – ahead of the regular nightly run.RBS/NatWest has not said what went wrong, though one programmer who has worked on RBS/NatWest's systems told the Guardian: "CA-7 is a very common and reliable product used to automate large sequences of batch mainframe work [which are usually referred to as 'jobs']. It will start jobs, wait for them to run, then start other jobs dependent on the first ones completing, and so on. RBS processes accounts overnight via thousands of jobs."The jobs take transactions from various places, such as ATM withdrawals, bank-to-bank salary payments, and so on, and finish by updating the master copy of the account – in a system known as Caustic – with the definitive balance."It seems whoever made the update to CA-7 managed to delete or corrupt the files which hold the schedule for the overnight jobs, so they did not run, or ran incorrectly," the programmer told the Guardian. "They have backed out from this change, but now are trying to play catch-up, and have been doing so for a few days."The batch processing system, which reconciles the movement of money in and out of more than 10m NatWest and Ulster Bank accounts, did not run correctly for three nights – meaning that millions of transactions were not processed until it did begin running correctly on Friday. Even when it had been fixed, the batches of transactions have had to be re-run in order, beginning with Tuesday, so that nobody's account goes wrongly into overdraft.A NatWest spokesperson, asked whether it knew how much money people had at any time, said: "All the money is safe in the bank. It's being applied to people's accounts. We can show people statements on screens if they come into branches." The bank is offering special opening hours, extending to 6pm, this week. NatWest also ran extra batches to catch up with the transaction backlog over the weekend.NatWest, like many other banks, uses the CA-7 software and attendant files to fit its own custom needs. The problem only surfaced once the batch run was underway in the early hours of Wednesday. RBSappears to have advertised for specialists in CA-7 in February in India– to which a number of its IT jobs were moved after 2010. "Looking for candidates having 4-7 years of experience in Batch Administration using CA7 tool," the advert read. "Urgent Requirement by RBS."TheUnite union has criticised RBS managementfor cutting jobs in the UK and shifting a number of them offshore. Since 2010, hundreds of IT jobs have been cut from RBS's Edinburgh headquarters and shifted abroad. RBS/NatWest has denied that it made any difference.But some observers strongly disagree. "This was not inevitable – you can always avoid problems like this if you test sufficiently," said David Silverstone, delivery and solutions manager for NMQA, which provides automated testing software to a number of banks, though not RBS/NatWest. "But unless you keep an army of people who know exactly how the system works, there may be problems maintaining it."One programmer who worked on the RBS/NatWest systems during the takeover in 2001-02 said that the latest problems suggested a paucity of staff on the spot with experience of what to do. "The people in India will have done their darndest to do a good job, but without the knowledge of the overall system that you get from years of experience on the ground, it's easier to see how you get a big operational failure."Banks have for decades used huge mainframe systems to process payments such as cheques and to update customers' accounts; the transactions for each day are collected and are then run in a single gigantic batch overnight, so that accounts have been credited and debited with the correct amounts by the morning. That is why internet banking transactions are not processed if you carry them out after certain times: the banks' systems simply don't add them into the queue for that night's batch.Sources familiar with NatWest's systems, and who have also spoken to staff there, explained that the problems with the update surfaced during the batch run. NatWest confirmed on Monday that the problem first surfaced on Tuesday, and that "we confirmed the fix on Friday".The problems with the upgrade were spotted during the overnight run ahead of Wednesday morning. "We have guardian systems which spot when things go wrong," a NatWest spokesperson said.But by Friday, when the fix was implemented, three sets of batch runs had failed. If a batch fails badly – as here – then all of the transactions, including the payments in and out of accounts, are "rolled back" to the starting point, as if it had never run. The set of transactions from Wednesday was then added to the pending list on Wednesday, and attempted to run in the early hours of Thursday; that too failed. By the time the fix had been done, there were three days' worth of unimplemented transactions queued up.Richard Price, a Norwich-based systems developer who has worked on banking systems that linked into NatWest's, explains: "Banking systems are like a huge game of Jenga [the tower game played with interlaced blocks of wood]. Two unrelated transactions might not look related now, but 500,000 transactions from now they might have a huge relation. So everything needs to be processed in order." Thus Tuesday's batch must run before Wednesday's or Thursday's to avoid, for example, penalising someone who has a large sum of money leave their account on Thursday that might put them in debt but which would be covered by money arriving on Wednesday.Price said that any software update would first have been subjected to quality assurance and user acceptance testing before being implemented.CA-7 is familiar to many in the banking industry: it was originally released in 1980 by Uccel – which was then taken over by Computer Associates, which provides key software for scores of banks. Computer Associates told the Guardian: "RBS is a valued CA Technologies customer, we are offering all assistance possible to help them resolve their technical issues which are highly unique to their environment. We do not comment on customer confidential issues." However it declined to say whether CA-7 lay at the heart of the problems.
Our email inboxes here at Gamesblog are deluged daily with press releases and PR stunts to promote games. And, being the hard-nosed, cynical journalists that we are, those emails usually end up in the bin in about 10 seconds flat.But sometimes, just sometimes, along comes a PR stunt that's just too cute to bin. Or ignore.This is one of those times.A PR agency sent us the image above of the Lego mini-figures lining up outside the GAME store on Oxford Street in London to buy themselves copies of Lego Batman 2 at midnight last Thursday, and for once we really could not resist. As you can see.But it does raise some questions.Why did Batman,Superman, Wonder Woman, Flash, Green Lantern and the rest have to line up to buy a game that they star in? Surely the distributor, Warner Bros Interactive, could have easily slung each of them a free copy?Who was protecting the world from villainy while the heroes were all standing in line to buy a video game?And finally, how did they manage to elude the street sweepers?Of course, it should come as no surprise that Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroeshas gone straight to No 1 on the game chart. And that Guardian reviewer Nick Cowen calls it "easily the best Lego game we've seen in years".Developer Traveller's Tales has, for many years, been making these brilliant, fun, playable – and yes, cute – Lego games beloved by kids and adults alike.OK, that's more than enough cuteness (and PR puffery) for one day. We'll be back to our normal, cynical selves tomorrow. Promise.
LulzSec hacker Ryan Cleary has admitted hacking into the websites of the CIA and the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency.Cleary, 20, confessed to launching a string of attacks on major institutions in Britain and the US with fellow hacker Jake Davis, 19.The two targeted sites including the NHS, News International, Sony, Nintendo, Arizona state police, film studio 20th Century Fox and other sites in a series of so-called distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks, where websites are flooded with traffic to make them crash.Cleary, of Wickford, Essex,  and Davis, of Lerwick, Shetland, plotted to carry out the attacks with other unknown members of the internet groups Anonymous, Internet Feds and LulzSec.Other websites targeted by the pair were Westboro Baptist church, Bethesda, Eve Online, HBGary, HBGary Federal, PBS Inc and Infragard.Cleary also confessed to four separate charges, including hacking into US air force agency computers, based at the Pentagon.Both men appeared in the dock at Southwark crown court on Monday to enter guilty pleas to a series of charges brought against them. But both Cleary and Davis denied allegations they posted "unlawfully obtained confidential computer data" to public sites including LulzSec, Pirate Bay, and PasteBin, in order to encourage offences contrary to the Serious Crime Act.Alleged co-hackers Ryan Ackroyd, 25, of Mexborough, Doncaster, and a 17-year-old A-level student from south London, deny their involvement in the DDoS attacks and will stand trial on 8 April next year.The name LulzSec is a combination of "lulz" or "lols", meaning "laugh out loud" and security.
Louise Mensch's Menshn social network opened in the UK on Sunday – and quickly ran into arguments about how secure it was, and questions about whether its use of cookies is compliant with European law.Created by Mensch and the UK internet entrepreneur Luke Bozier, the social network was intended to address Mensch's complaint about Twitter – principally, that there's no control of what topics are discussed.British users joining on Sunday were instructed to pick from a selection of five topics: Euro 2012, the US election, UK politics, "tech" and "women".Early indications were that the network seems to have attracted around a thousand British users. But  the discussion quickly turned to "tech" – and specifically the apparent lack of security in the site. One Twitter user,James Coglan, was quick to investigate it – and reckoned that it was seriously lacking in security.Coglan and another Twitter user,Syd Lawrence, said that they had found ways to enable phishing of user accounts in early versions – with Coglan claiming that it was possible to grab users' passwords via login pages.Bozier denied it, insisting on his Twitter feed that the site has "rock-solid security" andencouraged people to "keep menshning, folks". On Sunday evening hesaidthat there had been "more than 5,000 menshns" – the equivalent of tweets – and more than 50,000 unique visitors, adding "Thanks Britain".Mensch and Bozierlaunched the social network less than a week ago, aiming to win Twitter addicts "who find Twitter frustrating". The Tory MP said she thought that it could in time have "fairly large commercial applications".Bozier told the Guardian at the launch that "Twitter is just too random. We want to encourage people to have conversations rather than broadcast their thoughts." At the time they suggested that the site would not be open to British users until later in the summer.But at a minute past midnight on Sunday it was opened up to UK users. Mensch's high visibility, as well as her role on the Commons Media select committee into phone hacking, meant that some of the first UK users were less interested in using the site to talk, than to see how robust it was.Some users who tried it discovered that the PHP used to set the site up had obvious ways in which it could be exploited, though not harmfully, as inthis example(which on Sunday evening displayed the message "Don't watch this watch Scrapper Duncan's Blog instead – it's much more interesting"; it has now been fixed).Lawrence insisted that claims on Sunday by Mensch and Bozier that the "password stuff was guff" and that reportrs about security issues were "unfounded" were, at the time they were made, incorrect because, he said, passwords were being sent unencrypted over the net – which goes against standard web security design.Other users raised questions about the site's use of cookies, as there was no obvious warning - as is required under European law – about the implementation of cookies for users of the site. Bozier had no response.In an email to the Guardian, Bozier indicated his complete confidence in the security of the site, saying that he challenged anyone who thought that they could grab his password to use his email and attempt to log in as him.But the Guardian understands that Bozier did work with at least one of his Twitter critics to close down potential security holes that could have exposed users to hacking attempts, and that he is working on implementing greater security for logins and connections to the fledgling site.Bozier later told the Guardian: "A number of supporters from the web development community yesterday [Sunday] highlighted issues relating to the security of menshn. It was suggested that menshn users could have their passwords stolen, were unable to delete their accounts, or that malicious users could close their accounts completely."We have taken all feedback into account, including from the technology community, and have checked and double-checked security on menshn." The site now uses secure http connections, and data sent to the system is checked or malicious code so that XSS – cross-site scripting – attacks, usually using Javascript, are blocked.Users can also now permanently close their account, and delete "menshns" from the site as well as other data, he said: "Menshn is a clean and safe online environment where people can talk about the topics that interest them, free of spam, trolls and unsafe code."
We're going to see a lot of "Spotify for x" startups over the next year or so: x being any content or entertainment that can be offered on an all-you-can-eat basis for a monthly subscription.So, just asLekioskis seen as a Spotify for magazines, British startupBardowlis pitching itself as a "Spotify for audiobooks", aiming to disrupt the business of Audible, which has built its business around selling audiobook downloads.Bardowl launched its iPhone app earlier in June, with two key differences. First, it streams audiobooks to the device rather than downloads them, although the app uses local cacheing to store up to three hours of audio on the iPhone to last "a long tube journey or a short flight" for offline use.Second, it charges £9.99 a month for access to its entire catalogue, rather than charging by the book. That catalogue being a collection of business books at launch, with fiction to follow shortly."There are no limits to the amount of hours or the amount of books that the user can listen to each month. It's access not ownership," says chief executive Chris Book, who co-founded Bardowl with Neil Chapman and Rob Shreeve.Social features are also built into Bardowl with a feature that makes it easier for people to share what they're listening to with friends."Users can extract 30 seconds of narrated audio from a book and share it as a link within messages sent to Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn," says Book."We think this is an excellent way to increase awareness of the availability of audiobooks alongside their printed and digital counterparts and a way to enable our publisher partners to market titles and enter into social conversations with their end customers."Can Bardowl succeed in giving Audible a run for its money – and more importantly bringing audiobooks to an even wider audience? Much will depend on those publisher partners, for the appeal of an all-you-can-eat service rests on how much there is for hungry users to choose from.At launch, Bardowl has Penguin, Macmillan, AudioGo, Wiley and audio-focused publishers Summersdale and Creative Content on board, which is a start, not least from the point of view of proving whether the model can work.Signing up the other major publishers and popular independents will be important, though, as from a customer perspective will going beyond iPhone to other smartphones and tablets too.Meanwhile, there's that competition with Audible, since it's simplistic to describe that service as the a la carte iTunes to Bardowl's subscription Spotify.Amazon-owned Audible has itsown subscription plansranging from £3.99 a month for one audiobook a month through to an annual subscription of £109.99 for 24 audiobooks a year.Bardowl's job is to convince listeners that streams and offline cacheing are an appealing alternative to downloads from its larger rival.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 23 June 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (43)PS3 (25)Wii (15)12 (1)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (32)Wii (5)PSP (4)393 (2)Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future Soldier(15+)Xbox 360 (68)PS3 (32)54 (3)Max Payne 3(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (43)PC (5)65 (5)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (34)PC (11)356 (4)Lollipop Chainsaw(18+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (39)27 (9)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (58)3DS (42)308 (–)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (34)PC (22)309 (8)Sniper Elite V2(15+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (43)PC (6)810 (13)Fifa Street(3+)PS3 (53)Xbox 360 (47)1511 (10)Dirt Showdown(7+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (40)PC (0)512 (20)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (41)PC (6)2313 (6)Diablo III(15+)PC (100)414 (7)Game Of Thrones(15+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (39)PC (3)315 (15)Tiger Woods PGA Tour 13(3+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (46)1116 (–)Civilization V: Gods And Kings (PG)PC (100)117 (18)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (39)PC (6)5018 (17)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure (7+)Wii (48)Xbox 360 (32)PS3 (16)3DS (4)2419 (12)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (34)3020 (16)Dragon's Dogma(12+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (43)5UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A selection of 15 new and notable apps for you today:WimbledonWith England out of Euro 2012, can Andy Murray do any better at Wimbledon? As the annual tennis tournament gets underway, there's an official app for Android and iPhone offering live scores, results, videos and live radio commentary from the big matches.Android / iPhoneSong PopA confession: I missed this come out a few weeks ago, but it's currently enjoying (early) Draw Something-style success, thanks to an endorsement from Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg. The game – available on Facebook as well as Android and iOS – sees you guessing song clips and sending challenges to friends.Android / iPhone / iPadRadiolabAcclaimed US radio show Radiolab focuses on "science and philosophy, first-person storytelling and radio theatre". Now it's got an app, offering its archive of podcasts, and the ability to mix audio effects, texts and photos in response to requests from its presenters, before uploading to SoundCloud.Android / iPhoneDisney FilmPulseCount this as an experiment for now, especially as it only works in one Hollywood cinema. But it's interesting to see what Disney is up to: an app to check-in when watching a Disney film at the cinema. "Unlock surprises and enjoy interactive games and bonus content before the movie, then take advantage of special offers after the credits roll." The link above is for Android, but here's the iPhone version.Android / iPhoneRough Guides Trip LensTravel publisher Rough Guides has a new app that wants to help people "document and share your adventures", with an emphasis on sharing photos and text with family and friends back home. It also ties into Facebook and Twitter, and compiles photos into a separate blog. Rough Guides worked with HipGeo on the app.iPhoneSports Car ChallengeGerman publisher Fishlabs has a good track record with driving games on iOS, so Android gamers should check its new title Sports Car Challenge. It sees you racing cars from the likes of Audi, Bentley, Bugatti and Porsche.AndroidEdinburgh Festival FringeDeveloper Kotikan has launched the official apps for this year's Edinburgh Festival Fringe, offering listings, ticket-booking and a My Festival planner, as well as the obligatory Facebook and Twitter sharing features.Android / iPhoneProject 83113iOS hit game Project 83113 has been ported to Android, as a pink, gun-toting cat named Belle blasts her way through a series of action-platformer levels, with weapon upgrades to help along the way.AndroidBug Princess 2 Black LabelNothing to do with lager, unaccountably. Instead, this is an "alternate version" of Japanese shoot 'em up specialist Cave's Bug Princess 2 game – already available on iOS. The commercial model feels a little hawkish though: the initial download is £9.99, and then there are extra fees to play the game's Boss Rush mode.iPhone / iPadP&amp;G Virtual QuestBrand giant Procter &amp; Gamble has a new app tying in with its Olympic Games sponsorship: "a Mobile Augmented reality application that allows you to show the world just how much you love and appreciate your Mom by writing her a Thank You, Mom message". But really, flowers would probably be better.iPhoneOlly the Little White VanChildren's TV show Olly the Little White Van has been turned into an iOS app, offering two games starring Olly, driver Stan and other characters from the CiTV series.iPhone / iPadStoryChimes The Happy ElfHe's not just a smooth-voiced jazz crooner, y'know. Harry Connick Jr wrote this story about the happiest elf at the North Pole, and now its book-app version has landed on Android courtesy of the StoryChimes platform.AndroidLego Monster Fighters RaceLego's latest free iOS game is aimed at 9-11 year-olds, based on its Monster Fighters brand. That means werewolves, bats and spiders trying to stop you racing to catch a mad scientist. Obviously.iPhone / iPadBus ScoutThere are lots of apps tracking buses in London, but Bus Scout offers departure boards and route plans across England, Scotland and Wales, promising data from more than 370,000 bus stops, plus underground, trams and even ferries.AndroidInappropriate Llama Disaster!More for the title, frankly. Although the pitch – "Choose the most inappropriate moment. Press a button. Bring on a llama" for situations including a funeral, bomb disposal task and "intimate bedroom moment" – may raise chuckles too.iPhone / iPad
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamLCD TV shipments decline for first time ever &gt;&gt; CNNGot an LCD TV? Apparently, so does the rest of the world.The LCD flavor of flat-screen TVs are by far the most popular, making up 84% of the market, yet demand for them is waning. Shipments of LCD units declined for the first time ever, dropping 3% to 43m units in the first quarter, according to an NPD DisplaySearch report released [last] Wednesday.Plasma screen sales fell 8%, though, the biggest fall since 2Q 09.Apple wants to protect your identity ... by cloning you online &gt;&gt; The AtlanticOne of the properties Apple won in a February acquisition of patents from Novell, the technology allows the company to fight would-be Little Brothers by cloning users' digital identities. The system - in more traditional Patent-ese, a "non-transitory computer-readable implemented method to process on a device" - works in three ways. First, it creates a fake identity (and, actually, many fake identities) for the user. Second, it takes elements of users' real identities -- interests and the like, based on browser history and cookies -- and merges those with elements that don't reflect the identity of the user, creating a close-but-not-quote shadow identity. Third, it creates actual network activity based on those false interest areas, spreading them across the network.Can imagine companies that wouldn't like that.PharmaLeaks: Rogue Pharmacy Economics 101 -- Krebs on SecurityResearchers at the University of California, San Diego, the International Computer Science Institute and George Mason University examined caches of data tracking the day-to-day finances of GlavMed, SpamIt, and Rx-Promotion, shadowy affiliate programs that over a four-year period processed more than $170m worth of orders from customers seeking cheaper, more accessible and more discreetly available drugs. The result is perhaps the most detailed analysis yet of the business case for the malicious software and spam epidemics that persist to this day.RIM considers splitting business in two, reports paper &gt;&gt; ReutersBlackBerry maker Research in Motion is considering splitting its business in two, separating its struggling handset manufacturing division from its messaging network, The Sunday Times reported.What's the Sunday Times's hit rate on stories like these?How Microsoft Threat Management gateway classifies donate.fsf.org &gt;&gt; gnuAfter reading about RMS [Richard Stallman] having his laptop stolen, I clicked the link to donate.fsf.org. I'm at work at the moment, and our IT department uses Microsoft Threat Management Gateway to prevent access to certain types of sites. If you're not familiar with this software, it's essentially a proxy that assigns websites to categories and can be configured to block any set of categories. This is the response when connecting to donate.fsf.org: Network Access Message: Access Denied.Why? "The page you are trying to browse to is categorized as "Gambling"". Weird.Whatever happened to Google's Android@Home? &gt;&gt; TechCrunchThere is at least a tiny shred of evidence then that there are at least some parts of the Android@Home project that haven't fallen victim to Google's "spring cleaning" program just yet. Sadly, though, I/O launches have a tendency to just quietly disappear (remember PowerMeter from 2009?), so I don't think we'll see any Android-enabled lightbulbs at Home Depot anytime soon. Hopefully Google will give us an update about the state of the project during I/O later this week (the conference is scheduled to run from Wednesday to Friday).Fingers crossed. (Stuart Dredge will be covering Google I/O here. It's a busy week, as the Windows 8 launch happens on Wednesday 27th as well.)Unfixable computers are leading humanity down a perilous path &gt;&gt; Wired.comKyle Wiens:I've been writing about Apple and the value of repair for the better part of the last decade. Repair is our mission at iFixit -- and it always has been. Even so, I didn't expect the scale of the public response whenI argued last weekthat consumers should choose the hackable, fixable non-Retina MacBook Pro over its sleeker-and-shinier-but-locked-down sibling.The debate has been contentious.Garrett Murray arguesthat repairability is ludditism, old-fashioned inertia dragging down forward progress. He believes that more compact devices will necessarily be less upgradeable and hackable.When a mobile phone goes wrong, does anyone think they can open it up and fix it? How about a tablet? A laptop? A desktop? Where's the line?Apple Stores' army, long on loyalty but short on pay &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comLast year, during his best three-month stretch, Jordan Golson sold about $750,000 worth of computers and gadgets at the Apple Store in Salem, N.H. It was a performance that might have called for a bottle of Champagne -- if that were a luxury Mr. Golson could have afforded."I was earning $11.25 an hour," he said. "Part of me was thinking, 'This is great. I'm an Apple fan, the store is doing really well.' But when you look at the amount of money the company is making and then you look at your paycheck, it's kind of tough."Apple doesn't pay its people on commission. What if it did? (A colossal feature in the New York Times.)Lower pricing and simplified limits with the Google Maps API &gt;&gt; Google Geo Developers BlogWe're beginning to monitor Maps API usage starting today, and, based on current usage, fees will only apply to the top 0.35% of sites regularly exceeding the published limits of 25,000 map loads every day for 90 consecutive days. We aren't automating the application of these limits, so if your site consistently uses more than the free maps allowance we'll contact you to discuss your options. Please rest assured that your map will not stop working due to a sudden surge in popularity.Anything to do with all the defections?Forbidden Fruits &gt;&gt; CocoaneticsStrong arguments about why if you're looking to file patents on software (and rational companies in the US do) you'd want to keep any demonstrations under non-disclosure agreements.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Samsung says it expects worldwide shipments to carriers of its new Galaxy S3, launched at the end of May as a top-end rival to Apple's iPhone, to top 10m in July, making it the South Korean group's fastest selling smartphone.Samsung's mobile business president, Shin Jong-kyun, said on Monday that the Galaxy S3 would reach the milestone two months after its launch, and be on sale from nearly 300 mobile carriers around the world by the end of July.The figures reflect shipments of the devices to carriers, not customers; unlike Apple, which is able to record activations of each iPhone by an end-user, Samsung does not disclose sales figures to consumers.Shin also predicted earnings from its handset division would be higher in the current second quarter than in January-March, countering market concerns that tight supplies of the new Galaxy model and the weak global economy would pressure earnings at Asia's most valuable technology firm.Shares in Samsung dropped more than 4% on Monday to a four-and-a-half month low, after more brokers cut their quarterly profit outlook, citing concerns over the electronics giant's chip and telecoms businesses. The benchmark KOSPI stock index was down 1.6%."The overall market condition was challenging due to eurozone issues and tight supply of components ... but [our] second-quarter results will be better than the first quarter," Shin said.Profit from Samsung's mobile division nearly trebled in January-March to $3.6bn (£2.3bn), accounting for 73% of group operating profit.Samsung kicked off global sales of its Galaxy S3 on 29 May, but shipments have been affected by the tight supply of parts such as the handset casing for the pebble-blue model. The S3 comes in blue or white models."Supply remains very tight due to strong demand and component shortages, but we expect overall supply conditions to improve from next week," Shin said.Samsung said in late April that new Galaxy smartphones would substantially contribute to second-quarter results. Samsung overtook Nokia as the world's biggest mobile-phone maker in 2011 and competes with Apple for the top smartphone maker position.It aims to double its smartphone sales this year to nearly 200m phones.Analysts have downgraded estimates for Samsung's second-quarter smartphone shipments in recent weeks, predicting that sales of the latest Galaxy model have triggered a steeper than expected drop-off in sales of earlier products.They also cited tight supply of the S3 model and growing competition from low-end manufacturers such as Huawei and ZTE.JPMorgan cut its forecast for Samsung's second-quarter smartphone shipments by a tenth to 50m units.Samsung sold 44.5m smartphones in the first quarter, from January to March – equal to nearly 21,000 every hour – giving it 30.6% market share of the entire smartphone market, and more than 50% share of the Android handset market, according to researchers.Apple sold 35.1m iPhones, taking 24.1% market share.Samsung introduced its first Galaxy in 2010, three years after the iPhone's debut, to counter Apple's roaring success in smartphones and take advantage of stumbles at bigger rivals Nokia and BlackBerry maker Research in Motion.The mobile phone division is one of the most profitable within the Samsung Electronics company, where thechief executive was recently shifted to take over as head of corporate strategy, amid a legal battle between the 70-year-old Lee Kun-Hee, the former head, and other members of his family who claim in lawsuits that he inherited around $1bn of Samsung assets and hid them in nominee accounts.
It's okay, everyone, it's Monday again! How did you spend your wet summer weekend, then? I did a bit of mining in Minecraft: Xbox Edition - found a rich source of red stone. Very happy with that. How were you?
Google is making its long-expected assault on the UK television market with the launch in July of its first product – made by Sony – to let Britons surf the internet, play games and watch videos on TV.The move comes amid predictions that Apple too will move into the "smart TV" market, to compete not only with Google, but with Samsung, Sony and LG. All have been aiming to catch a nascent market that analysts say will become very important because it is one of the few bastions of entertainment not yet revolutionised by the internet.Google has a partnership with Sony to launch the internet TV set-top boxes, priced £200-£300, in UK stores from 16 July. The gadgets are based on Google's Android software for smartphones and will let viewers switch between popular online applications such as Twitter and the BBC's iPlayer while watching live TV.Google's TV offering has struggled in the US, where it launched in October 2010. Logitech, a partner, lost millions after launching a Google TV set-top box in the US at Christmas 2010. During one quarter, more boxes were returned by customers than sold and the company later pulled out.Google has since spent heavily on the product, as the living room shapes up to be the latest battleground for internet companies. Nearly a million net-connected TVs were sold in the UK in 2010, the latest year for which figures are available, out of a total of 10m TV sales. But it is not clear how many were then actually connected to the net.Google-owned YouTube features heavily on the new service and, rather than the homemade clips of antics involving cats and dogs, boasts a library of films, premium music videos and live broadcasts of concerts from around the world.Unlike Apple's current internet TV set-top box – which sells at £100, half the price of the Sony set-top boxes – Google TV brings the entire online world on to the big screen, including emails, news websites and Wikipedia.The Google TV products, including the £200 NSZ-GS7 internet player and the £300 NSZ-GP9 Blu-ray player (available from October), come with an internet-connected remote control which has a full Qwerty keypad on the reverse.Google's advantage over rivals is that its software already operates across mobile phones, tablet computers and internet browsers. But some analysts questioned the £200 baseline price."It's a very difficulty challenge to explain to a consumer what they're buying when it's in a stand-alone set-top box, and at £200 this is an expensive product," said Geoff Blaber, director of devices and platforms at CCS Insight."I think the fact it's taken so long for Google to move out beyond the US market is indicative of the challenges they have had with Google TV to date."Suveer Kothari, Google's head of global TV distribution, said this launch was "the beginning of a long journey" for the company's TV ambitions in Europe."We think there's going to be huge benefits from bringing the internet to TV. Google TV attempts to address the problem that there's not really a great experience to access the internet on your TV screen, which is a similar problem we saw in the smartphone market five years ago."
Science, as Winston Churchill might have said, is the worst system for obtaining reliable knowledge – except for all the others. What makes it special is the mantra that's drummed into every young researcher: "take nobody's word for it". The basic idea is that any experimental result reported in a peer-reviewed journal should be capable of being independently replicated by another researcher – in another laboratory, perhaps located on the other side of the world.In practice, I guess, relatively few experiments are independently replicated in this way; most practising scientists work on the assumption that&nbsp;if a piece of research has got through the peer-review process then it's probably OK. The exceptions will be experimental findings that appear to&nbsp;contradict the conventional wisdom&nbsp;in a discipline, in which case doubters will want to see for themselves whether they can replicate the results.For this process to work, scientists have to provide enough information in their publications to enable replication to be possible. Even in the old days, this turned out to be more difficult than expected. In the 1970s, for example, the sociologist Harry Collins stumbled on an intriguing fact – that physicists in different labs were finding it impossible to get a key piece of experimental kit –a TEA laser– to work even though scientists in other labs who had got one working had published very detailed descriptions of the device.Collins concludedthat a key factor was the "tacit knowledge" that the successful experimenters possessed but were unable to communicate through the usual, formal channels.Spool forward a few decades and many scientific disciplines have been transformed in one significant way: they have become data-intensive. The growth in computing power, networking and sensor technology now means that even routine scientific research requires practitioners to make sense of a torrent of data. Take, for example, what goes on in particle physics. Experiments in Cern's Large Hadron Collider regularly produce 23 petabytes per second of data. Just to get that in context, apetabyteis a million gigabytes, which is the equivalent of 13.3 years of HDTV content. In molecular biology, a single DNA-sequencing machine can spew out 9,000 gigabytes of data annually, which a librarian friend of mine equates to 20 Libraries of Congress in a year.In an increasing number of fields, research involves analysing these torrents of data, looking for patterns or unique events that may be significant. This kind of analysis lies way beyond the capacity of humans, so it has to be done by software, much of which has to be written by the researchers themselves. But when scientists in these fields come to publish their results, both the data and the programs on which they are based are generally hidden from view, which means that a fundamental principle of scientific research – that findings should be independently replicable – is being breached. If you can't access the data and check the analytical software for bugs, how can you be sure that a particular result is valid?This problem has perturbed scientists for a while. In February 2011,&nbsp;for example, the prestigious journalSciencedevoted aspecial issueto the problem. And this week, the Royal Society published a landmark report on "Science As an Open Enterprise", in which it explores the need to grapple with the deluge of data created by modern technologies in order to "preserve the principle of openness and to exploit data in ways that have the potential to create a second open science revolution".The Royal Society identifies six areas where major changes are urgently needed in the practice and funding of science. Scientists need to be more open among themselves and with the public and media. Greater recognition needs to be given to the value of data gathering, analysis and communication. Common standards for sharing information are required to&nbsp;make it widely usable. Publishing data in a reusable form to support findings must be mandatory. More experts in managing and supporting the use of digital data are required. New software tools are urgently needed to analyse the growing amount of data being gathered.All of which are spot-on. But there is&nbsp;one area that the Royal Society seems&nbsp;to have overlooked. It's not enough any more just to publish – or make available – the data. The homemade software used by researchers also needs to be published. All software&nbsp;– even that written by professional programmers – has bugs. Most scientists are not professional hackers, and their code may therefore be flaky. As one prominent software expert, Darrel Ince, puts it: "If you're going to do good science, release the computer code too." Yep.
First there was "open" – open source, open tech, open journalism. And now? Prepare yourself for "radical openness".This, according to Bruno Giussani, the European director of TED, the annual ideafests in California and Edinburgh, and its online offshootTED Talks, is one step beyond mere ordinary openness. And it must be true. Or at least, it has been true for TED. "We realised that it was what we were doing. Radical openness is the organising principle of everything that we do at TED."Five years ago, the company, a non-profit foundation owned by Chris Anderson, an English publishing entrepreneur, was a single, very successful but highly exclusive ideas summit, held once a year in California. A summit that no one had heard of. Now, it is one of the most successful media organisations in the world – all as a result, says Giussani, of this principle of "radical openness"."We started by giving away our content. But for the last three years, we've been giving away our brand, our methods and our formats."No other company or organisation in the world, he claims, has gone as far in opening itself up to the world, and TED is preparing to take this idea to another level."Radical openness" is the theme of this week'sTEDGlobal conference in Edinburgh. Over four days, 76 speakers will explore the idea in all its forms.The phrase came out of a session of "collective brainstorming" at TED HQ in New York, and it is based on what Giussani sees as a growing polarity. "It's clear to everybody that not only are we living in a globalised world but also a complexifying world. It's one in which traditional boundaries are breaking down, one after the other."And there are different answers to this. One is that you close. You have protectionism, and borders and tariffs and national preference."And the other is that you open and facilitate additional changes. So we started looking at whether the world is more open or not. And whether it should be more open."According to Giussani, who has curated the Edinburgh programme, the concept is an amalgam of not just the new forms of openness made possible by digital technology – "crowdsourcing, opensourcing, collaboration, social etc" –  but also about radical thinking. "It's people thinking differently at existing problems, and pushing at boundaries in radical new ways."The problem, he says, is that the debate is never about "How open can I be?"; it's always "How much can I open without jeopardising my individual position?" This is why the open data movement in the UK, and other countries, has seen so few results. And why, for all the revolutionary talk, self-interest has largely trumped a visionary-style approach.Sometimes, however, it is as simple as changing your terms of reference. The Chinese internet is an example of this. "When we think of it, we think of censorship and lack of freedom and the thousands of people who work for the Chinese government who are policing it. And that is true, but one of our speakers, Michael Anti, is a Chinese blogger who looks at it differently," Giussani says."There are 500 million people blogging and microblogging in China today. It's the first national public sphere ever in the history of China. It's never existed before. And it's a gigantic change. What the rest of the world sees as closed is in fact a forum for incredible debate and discussions."And then there's what "open" may come to mean. Another of the speakers, Marc Goodman, is an expert on "future crime", that is, "crimes which not only have not yet been committed, they haven't even yet been invented". The burgeoning field of synthetic biology, and open-source bio-hacking, for example, brings with it the possibility of truly terrifying new technologies that could be used against humanity.For TED, "radical openness" has come about by degrees. It began when TED started posting its speakers' talks online. At the time, the worry was that people would not continue to pay to come to the conferences, when they could get the content for nothing. In fact, it simply increased demand: even though they have put the price of the conference up (a ticket for TEDGlobal costs £3,800), it now sells out in record&nbsp;time.The next stage went further still. And is what Giussani means by "giving away the brand" withTEDx, which allows anyone to apply for a licence and hold their own TED conference."We found that, giving stuff away, we received even more in return. We have a huge committed community. A lot of brand recognition. And the capacity to touch communities where we had no contact before," he adds."We've gone from two conferences to 4,500 TEDxs. The more you open your processes up, the more you co-opt other people, if it's done with the right framework in place, the more you receive in return."Since then TED has pioneered anopen translation project, which has translated TED talks into 88 languages, and, three months ago, it launched TED&nbsp;Ed, which is aiming to revolutionise the world's classrooms.Giussani is the model of TED's globalised transnational ethos: he is Swiss Italian, fluent in four languages, and spends half his life on aeroplanes, hunting down the cutting-edge thinkers on four continents. (This year's TEDGlobal features its first Bulgarian speaker, a political theorist called Ivan Krastev, whose ideas on mistrust in democratic systems, Giussani thinks, put him at the forefront of political thinking anywhere but "because he's Bulgarian nobody has ever heard of&nbsp;him".)But what about the limits of openness? Two years ago, TED provided the first mainstream platform for Wikileaks founder Julian Assange and introduced him instantly to a huge worldwide audience (his TED talkhas been watched nearly 1.5m times). And this year's conference features a talk by the world's expert on Anonymous, the online hacking collective."We invited a different Julian Assange," says Giussani. "We invited him in 2010, two months before he started releasing the cables which changed the game."I think at that point the way he saw himself changed dramatically, and he started doing really stupid things. Releasing documents without editing names, for example. I'm not sure we would invite him back, knowing what he's done, today."
Blood, sex and violence – the timing forLollipop Chainsaw's release couldn't be worse, following a controversial E3, where excessive use of  those elements was firmly in the spotlight. As such, the game's attempts at laughably over-the-top exploitation and blunt titillation feel awkward at best – or at worst, just flatly unfunny.You play as pumped-up cheerleader Juliet Starling, bizarrely qualified to hold off a horde of the undead thanks to coming from a family of zombie hunters. Armed with your boyfriend's sentient, decapitated head and the chainsaw of the title (lollipops are worked in as health top-ups) gameplay is a series of hack-and-slash stages set in and around San Romero high school. Chainsaw and cheerleading attacks can be blended together to take out enemies, dispatching them in showers of rainbows and sparkles. While combos are simple to remember, sluggish controls mean it's often luck rather than skill that pulls them off successfully. Level design is rote and linear, though occasional mini-games – such as basketball with zombie heads – offer a little saving grace.Gamers who have played Japanese lead designer Suda51's earlier efforts, particularlyNo More Heroes, will probably feel more at home withLollipop Chainsaw's anarchic sensibilities and its endless stream of pop-culture references. It's largely a love letter to, or commentary on, American excess as seen from an outsider's perspective. While there's some merit in that, the finished product as a whole is just like its star: loud and colourful but lacking any depth.
Movie tie-ins are usually rightly dreaded – cheap cash-ins designed purely to fleece fans of a few extra quid. However, there's been a recent trend towards innovative, and enjoyable, mobile games to accompany big cinema releases, of whichTemple Run: Brave(iOS, App Store, 69p, Disney) is the latest.Based on the new film from Pixar, creators ofToy Story,  it's a fairytale with red-haired heroine Merida at its centre. Though the monkeys that chase you in the originalTemple Runhave been swapped for a giant, angry bear, the gameplay is largely unchanged. Merida still runs forward at a constant speed, forcing you to jump, duck and dodge obstacles. The addition here is Merida's trusty bow and arrow, which presents some target shooting along with the more familiar addictive action.DaWindci(iOS, App Store, £2.49, Reality Twist), in contrast, offers more relaxing entertainment as you guide a hot air balloon through forests and over mountaintops. It looks beautiful and the puzzles are impressively engaging,  while it's no easy feat to blow the dirigible through the tricky, narrow landscape  and over the finishing line.
