Jak &amp; DaxterPlayStation 2	£39.99  Naughty Dog/Sony	*****The pre-release hype compared the new PlayStation 2 game Jak &amp; Daxter to such classics as Zelda and Mario. For once, the marketing execs may have nearly got it right.  This is a gorgeous and highly enjoyable platform adventure created by the team behind the Crash Bandicoot games.As Jak, your aim is to jump, spin and collect goodies in a freeform environment that at times resembles a Disney movie. One of your main tasks is to turn Daxter, your sidekick who has unfortunately been turned into a wisecracking rodent, back to his former self. The comparisons with Zelda are a little off - Jak &amp; Daxter has only a small number of elementary puzzles - but the seamless world, which allows you to go anywhere you can see, is reminiscent of Zelda's Hyrule Field.The Mario comparisons are more apt, with objects to find and precision jumping required. Thankfully the designers allow you to keep items you find in a particular area, encouraging players to explore leisurely and not get stuck in one section. This makes the difficulty level just right, with even the tougher challenges satisfyingly achievable. And it is not all jumping and running. Hover- bikes and giant birds provide transport and the numerous in-game characters, all very well vocalised, set varied challenges ranging from sheep herding to pest control.Perhaps most impressive are the visuals. From sunlit beach to volcanic crater, Jak &amp; Daxter sets the graphical standard for the second generation of PS2 games.    By pilfering the finer elements of the all-time greats and placing them in a peerless graphical environment, Jak &amp; Daxter is  one of the games of the year. (GH)Battle RealmsPC  	£34.99  Ubi Soft 	*****If any genre has been flogged to death this year it is Realtime Strategy (RTS) with more than two dozen titles all adding little bits to the formula without necessarily taking it forward. Could anything turn up at this late stage to renew flagging interest?Well yes. Battle Realms is very good indeed, but when you realise that Ed del Castillo is in the credits this comes as no surprise. Everything about it seems fresh and risky, just like the original Command &amp; Conquer he worked on more than six years ago. This is a game you actually care about playing, where guarding your precious Samurai becomes almost as obsessive as, we can only imagine, it would have been in the distant Japanese era the game explores.In fairness, it seems to owe a heavy debt to Shogun, with its authentic music and over the top animations, but the main reason it works so well is the addictive blend of role playing game and real time strategy. Your big, clunky warriors are a delight to watch and a thrill to lead into battle - with superb fighting animation as swords are brandished and spells hurled. Even the  resource management is good - your peasants are able to water paddy fields with the same buckets you can use to douse a burning building. Similar imagination is exercised on the buildings themselves, each one with a dramatically different function but all working together to retrain your soldiers in different warrior skills. When a battle begins you will invariably find yourself frantically clicking to train another Geisha girl and heal your battered heroes. Lovely stuff.And so we at last have an RTS worthy of its name. In the heat of battle, time never felt this real - but planning a strategy avoids panic measures. On the down side, your units have a habit of charging to certain death unless you click on them individually. But if you like this genre, Battle Realms is a strong contender for game of the year. (MA)Planet of the ApesPC  	£19.99  Ubi Soft/Visiware 	*Released to cash in on the Tim Burton remake, this is actually based on the 1968 original. It would be a forgivable deception if the game had some merit.   Games are supposed to be fun. But after a couple of hours playing Planet of the Apes, you're still asking: "What's fun about this?"Perhaps it's the story? You wake up in a cell as a prisoner on a planet ruled by primates. And... you escape. So not that.Maybe it's the fast, challenging gameplay? No. The combat involves either running away or frantically stabbing at the attack button until you, or they, are dead.   The puzzle  solving? Well, it consists solely of finding keys or items and the place in which to slot them.The graphics? No. The backgrounds are dull and blocky, and you could make better character models with some crayons and a napkin.   The sound? The voice acting has all the emotion of a speech synthesiser, and the music isn't good enough for a department store.The gameplay is linear, the level design is unimaginative , and the interface that doesn't even conform to minimum standards (sidestepping and changing the camera angle are impossible). To top it all, you can only save at the end of each level.Lets hope a Planet of the Apes CD-Rom isn't among the artifacts from our civilisation discovered by the future rulers of the earth. We did know how to have a good time, honest. (AB)
Suppose that every PC, personal digital assistant, mobile phone, interactive television and other information appliance came with a red button on it marked "pay the guy". No signatures, no PINs, no thumbprints, no comeback: if you press the button, you get what you want and the guy at the other end gets the money.Want to download the new Madonna track to your MP3 player? Browse over to her web site and press the red button. Want to see the goals from Spurs' defeat of Bolton? Choose it from the TV menu and press the red button. Want to search the New York Times online archive? Go to the search page and press the red button.Say, for sake of argument, that the red button triggered a similar size of payment as a text message. This particular example is chosen because of consumers' apparent willingness to pay for text messaging services. In the second quarter of this year, European consumers sent more than 
47 billion text messages, generating more than $4bn for the mobile operators. 
So the red button would cause 10p, or 0.2 euro, or 25 cents or whatever, to be transferred from the consumer's pre-paid account or added to their bill. At the end of the month, recipients of these payments would get a single bank transfer from some kind of central clearing and settlement house for all the payments they had received.This apparently simple addition to the keyboard, keypad and remote control would have interesting ramifications.Online content providers would seem to get an obvious boost, yet many observers remain negative about the prospects for paid content. Publishers, for example, have already tried and given up on both subscription-based and per-access payment models and therefore view the current push for paid online music with scepticism (to say the least).But would this scepticism be justified in the presence of the red button? I can see why people (eg me) can't be bothered to pay for a subscription for a site that may turn out to be of only occasional interest (and will require yet another username and password that will be instantly forgotten). I can also see why people (eg me again) can't be bothered to type in a credit card number, billing address, mother's maiden name and inside leg measurement to pay someone 20p to read their web page.In other words, the current web and Wap worlds exhibit a paradoxical behaviour: in cases where you can pay for something because you have a credit card (subscription), you can't be bothered to, and in cases where you do want to (spontaneous and per-access) there's no way to pay.This is not exactly original thinking: the observation dates back to the earliest days of the internet, yet the first wave of micropayment technologies, aimed at solving this problem, just didn't work. There are various theories why. Some were ahead of their time, others required consumers to download and understand software, and other caused service providers and merchants too much grief.
Some analysts cite a more fundamental flaw, rooted in human nature. C Shirky in an article for the O'Reilly Network recently noted that a transaction can't be worth so much as to require a decision but worth so little that the decision is automatic. In other words, if payments fall below a certain threshold, transaction costs (in the economic sense) go up because you have to expend time and effort on making a decision.On the other hand, I make micropayment buying decisions all day long: I'm at Waterloo, I pop into the newsagent and buy a pack of chewing gum. At no point did I have to establish an account with the newsagent, or their bank, and I didn't have to give them a password or type in a PIN. On the way to the train, 
I noticed the headline on the Evening Standard and decided to buy a copy: I didn't have to show my passport to the newspaper guy, nor did I have to fill out a form to buy the Evening Standard every night for the next month. In both cases I used my physical world "red button": I gave them some cash.How far away is the online red button? Well, developments in the mobile sector might point the way. Vodafone, which already provides reverse-charged SMS (text messaging) as a proto-micropayment mechanism, is going to start billing for third-party service providers, and the other mobile operators will be sure to follow with their own micropayment and microbilling solutions. The evidence from the marketplace is very positive. In Norway, the operators agreed a cross-operator charging mechanism for both pre-paid and open account customers (based on eight SMS text messaging tariff classes) 
and then opened it up to service providers.This 
proved a huge success, with a wide variety of providers 
(who have to pay something in region of £10,000 to set 
up on the system) offering 
a range of text message services.What's more, as in Japan, micropayment and microbilling solutions built around the handset (largely because of the tamper-resistant smart card, the SIM, that sits inside every GSM handset) will quickly extend beyond purely wireless content and services. The red button attached to your PC, PDA and interactive TV may actually turn out to be your mobile phone: perhaps instead of being red it will be Orange.Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
There's good news and bad news in the IT jobs market at the moment. The good news is new companies are being created in the mobile data field and the unemployed in the telecoms sector are finding new jobs. The bad news is vacancies in the IT marketplace are down 50% on last year.It is difficult to know whether we are coming to the end of a bad patch or whether it is only the beginning. "It's much like the 90s," says Paul Smith, managing director of Harvey Nash Technology Practice. "Technology is not a single market and not all parts slow down at the same time. After a corporate buying slowdown and staff losses, businesses take on IT people because they need to improve  efficiency." He says that there are still 300,000 vacancies in Europe for IT positions.So might it be the beginning of an upturn, or a false dawn? Unfortunately there are so many variables, it seems up to the individual to take pot-luck."The areas where there are opportunities are IT specialist skills and consultancy skills," says Smith. He reports that software development skills like Linux, HTML and web design skills are still very much in demand as are managers with commercial knowledge who  know how to take a company through poor market conditions.And poor market conditions have been most pronounced this year. The Amalgamated Engineering Electrical Union (AEEU) reports that 500,000 jobs have gone in the IT and telecoms sector. "We're hearing of about 600 job losses every day, and those are the ones we know about," says spokesman Simon Baugh. Among the high profile names shedding jobs have been Motorola, Marconi and Nortel. These companies anticipate growth next year, stimulated by new wireless technologies such as Bluetooth.But for the time being it is redundancies that are hitting the headlines.  And it is the way a company manages large-scale redundancies among its workforce that defines its long-term reputation as an employer. The minister of enterprise and lifelong learning, Wendy Alexander, set up an organisation to help the unemployed at Motorola's Bathgate site in Scotland called the Motorola taskforce in conjunction with Scottish Enterprise Edinburgh and Lothian. It has been aiding and tracking those made redundant at the site since May.The idea behind the taskforce was to provide support and advice with the view to finding people jobs, information on retraining opportunities or help with starting their own business. It reports that of more than 2,500 people made redundant, 1,311 have found new jobs, while a further 200 are looking to set up their own business.The taskforce arranged job fairs which allowed local employers in the area including the oil and gas sector and financial services to come and find the staff they needed. "Eighty per cent of the companies attending the job fairs were looking for basic IT skills," says Charlene O'Connor, leader of the taskforce. "We're getting some great successes."Of those people who are retraining, the vast majority are working on the European Computer Driving Licence, which is a programme providing training on Microsoft Word, the use of email and the internet. "Overall we have l,600 individual training interventions, and a big proportion of those are IT-linked," says O'Connor. The taskforce will continue until the redundancies end.New companies starting off in the telecoms sector encourage the view that the worst of the recession is coming to an end. But they are not having a signficant impact on the jobs market yet.Startups such as Terenci  are seconding staff from their joint-venture partners. Terenci is a Dusseldorf-based integrated mobile services company comprising Vodafone, Cap Gemini and Ernst &amp; Young. It has just taken on   25 staff, most of whom it seconded from Cap Gemini, including consultants, project managers and HR specialists. The company intends to integrate mobile services with internet and IT solutions to address the growing needs of European businesses and to make mobile technology an integral part of their operational processes.All the projects they are working on at the moment involve mobile data solutions and some customer-resource management applications. But the market is quiet in the UK at the moment. "We probably have more business in continental Europe than in the UK." says solutions team-leader John Mansell. "It's a 70-30 split."Mobile data was given a huge boost recently by Price Waterhouse Coopers, which said that it is piloting the technology with its clients. "What is now coming is the maturity of software and devices," partner Christopher Pearson said. "These devices will quickly replace laptop computers for most professional users." So mobile data's future looks assured.It is a shame the same cannot be said of the application services provider ASP sector, which was supposed to the be the saviour of the telecoms companies.  "There aren't a lot of ASPs recruiting right now, everyone is watching overhead very closely," says Phil Wainewright of ASP News. The only people likely to be appointed in this climate are people with specific skills or very good contacts.So the picture is patchy. Job creation in some sectors, continued redundancy in others. But the intervention of the public sector in Scotland at least, has provided a pointer to the way redundancies could be managed.
Well notedThe column inches of Ask Jack's "Backchat" seems to be growing at an exponential rate. By my calculations it'll only be two months until readers' corrections occupy more space than Jack's answers. Wouldn't it be better if Jack accepted defeat and adopted more of a "Notes and Queries" approach to things?  And thank you for clarifying: "Windows XP is the first computer operating system to combine ease of use with industrial-strength stability, and to work with a wide range of products." Good job Apple didn't get there first, eh?  Next you'll be telling us that IBM invented the personal computer. Oh, wait a minute...Graham Hibbertgraham@eyefood.co.ukNot a direct hitI think Neil McIntosh is getting carried away by the supposed efficacy of Google's advertising scheme. I run a small website called www.eflworksheets.com which offers online English language materials under subscription. I get about 200 to 300 visitors per week from all over the world and directly targeted advertising might increase this. I took out an account with Google using key words like ESL and EFL. For 48 hours I was the only English language teaching website advertising with them, and I got 300 visitors in that time.However, it cost me $150, as ESL had a relatively high search rate of 9,000. However, the click-through rate was only 2% on average from all the key words and I got no new subscriptions in that time. It was an interesting if expensive test of the service, and not one which I will repeat in a hurry. The main problem for small businesses is precisely the fact that your expenditure rises sharply with the higher click-through rate, though it does not necessarily lead to higher sales. Compare this with a targeted advert in the English teaching section of the Guardian Weekly costing £50. I, for one, remain to be convinced.Marc Loewenthalmarcolo@supanet.com1900 in 1970?Further to earlier letters, in the late 1960s I programmed an ICL 1901a with 8K words of memory - half of that of John Percy's "beast". Using the overlaying technique he outlines (on disk in this case) we ran systems for payroll, housing advances, rates, rents and various ledgers using Cobol (compact version).  By the way, I am sure that it was not an ICL 1900 at Exeter University in the 1970s as Dr Vines stated but an ICL System 4-50 with 256K memory, the same as I was using at Bath. Cardiff also had the same machine while Bristol University had a larger 4-70.John Rathbonejohnlewrath@yahoo.comOnline 24/7David Cawley simply needs to sign up to Blueyonder broadband and use the net as it was intended to be used: as a 24/7 high-speed service with download speeds so fast you wonder whether you clicked on Download properly. Being permanently connected to the net also allows you to use it much more effectively. For £25 per month plus £9.50 for separate telephone line and digital TV (Telewest), you wonder why people even think of using BT. Sorry, do I sound like I'm gloating? Get on board! (I have no connection with either Blueyonder or Telewest other than as a satisfied customer.)Colin Hallc.r.hall@blueyonder.co.uk
DIY portalOne of the aims of Microsoft's .Net is to let users combine feeds from different web sites. Microsoft and other companies have been trying to do that kind of thing for half a decade, usually by allowing users to customise their own portal page. Fyuze is trying to take that to the next level, by providing you with much more control over the layout and the kinds of feeds available.It is an impressive attempt, but needs a lot of effort to set up, and the number of feeds is limited. The main drawbacks are that there are too few sources (though Guardian Unlimited is one), and it seems you can only have two pages, News and Search. However, if you are willing to spend half a day configuring the thing, Fyuze provides what is probably the best self-assembly portal on the web.   If not, then there is still good old Hotsheet. This lets you add your own categories and links, though without providing enough room for them.http://fyuze.com/zerowww.hotsheet.comShoshingWhat are shoshkeles? A new form of web-based advertising you will soon come to hate. However, for the novelty effect, head for the United Virtualities site and click Shoshkele for some examples.www.unitedvirtualities.comCluster thisThere is now a British metasearch engine, Turbo10, which provides clustering of results. It is not as good a search engine as Ixquick, and the clustering is not as good as Teoma. A combination of those plus Albert's ability to answer queries would really give Google a run for its money.http://turbo10www.teoma.comwww.albert.comThe greatestAli, the movie, hasn't opened but the Sony Pictures web site is offering production information and a trailer. Ali is played by The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air himself, Willard Christopher Smith Jr, best known for Men in Black, Wild Wild West and Independence Day.www.spe.sony.com/movies/aliWasp restThe Web Standards Project, WaSP, is taking a break, but its goodbye letter is well worth reading. Jeffrey Zeldman, the project's founder, was also interviewed by ZD Net. Of course, you may already have been to both sites, if you are reading Online's weblog....www.webstandards.orgwww.zdnet.com/zdnn/stories/news/0,4586,2832845,00.htmlwww.onlineblog.comBeastlyThe Discovery Channel has launched a Walking with Beasts site, which provides an opportunity to compare the approaches adopted by the leading TV science channels in the US and the UK.www.bbc.co.uk/beastshttp://dsc.discovery.com/convergence/beasts/beasts.htmlSex caseNew York photographer Barbara Nitke and the National Coalition for Sexual Freedom (NCSF) have filed a lawsuit to challenge the remaining provisions of America's unconstitutional Communications Decency Act. The act deprives online material that is "patently offensive under local community standards" of its protection under the First Amendment unless its author can prove its "redeeming social value".www.BarbaraNitke.comwww.ncsfreedom.org/cda.htmCliciwch ymaYou don't have to live in Wales to use Cymru1, a new free internet service provider: it uses a national rate 0845 phone number. However, it is one of the few to offer the option of a Welsh-language home page, as well as a choice of colour schemes.www.cymru1.netSegwayIf you want to buy a Segway, or just learn more about this novel transporter, you can register and leave your email address in the Shop section of the device's website. And if you have not seen it in action, there are clips in the most common formats.www.segway.comLickey EndSodom is popular, but not as popular as Twatt, or Nob End. All these and more are featured in the Amusing UK place names section of the Jump-around site. Clicking a link takes you to an online Ordnance Survey map atStreetmap.co.uk, and that is all there is to it.www.jump-around.com/tools/place-namesNew &amp; noted&#183;The Tolkien Archives:www.nytimes.com/tolkien&#183;Redesigned with pet present ideas:www.rspca.org.uk&#183;Recording video... on vinyl?www.vinylvideo.com&#183;Fixed odds on the stockmarket:www.betonmarkets.co.uk&#183;Signs of the times:www.pjchmiel.com/photo/signs.html&#183;Briefly, inside Alison's PantsCam:www.pantscam.com
The early years of the web are peppered with so many milestones it is difficult to know which ones to celebrate. Perhaps that is why the 10th anniversary of the first web site launch passed by so quietly in December 2000. The site,http://info.cern.ch, at the European Particle Physics Laboratory (Cern) in Geneva became a central point for information about the web in its earliest days.Those original pages, along with the physical machine that ran the server, are long gone and  even the page that replaced the site has been moved to a new location with a lengthier URL;http://cern.ch/WebOffice-Old/www0/Welcome.html.After Cern, the world's second web server was established at another physics laboratory, the Stanford Linear Accelerator (SLAC). Like the info.cern.ch site, the original has been updated into oblivion, but a project to resurrect it is under way, described athttp://cern.ch/WebOffice-Old/www0/Welcome.html.There is something of the web's essence in this story. Constantly evolving and ephemeral in nature, its pages are caught up in a cycle of development, deployment and destruction. It is only more recently that we have begun to realise that bits of it might be worth preserving.The Internet Archivewas founded in 1996 with this in mind, documenting the transition from the web's golden age of amateur supremacy into the commercial beast it has become.Physically located in San Francisco, the archive contains more than 100 terabytes of information, including web sites, Usenet postings and FTP archives. Though free, you need to be pursuing formal research to gain access. Some specific collections are easier to gain entry to through partners of the Internet Archive, including theSmithsonian's indexof US election sites from 1996. Compared with sites from the2000 election campaign, the most obvious advances are in web design rather than policy matters. The most recent addition archives the web ofSeptember 11.From the beginning, the way the web looked was governed as much by the tools we used to browse it as by the people who built it. For many early adopters, their first web access was using Lynx, a text-based browser that originally ran on Unix platforms. It is still available for its original platform as well as in Windows and Mac versions fromwww.trill-home.com/lynx.html.When the first graphical browsers appeared, the textual origins of the web were reflected in simple page designs, neutral grey backgrounds and a frugal use of images - driven in part by the lack of formatting options available in early versions of HTML.The emulator pages atwww.dejavu.orgare the easiest way to see how the web was, with working facsimiles of Mosaic (the first graphical browser), a beta version of the first Netscape Navigator and the universally derided Internet Explorer 2.0. These browsers didn't support exact positioning, frames, coloured tables, font tags, style sheets or any of the elements today's designers take for granted.If you are particularly miffed at the tyranny of modern web design, stage your own personal protest and install an antique browser on your system. The Browser Archive athttp://browsers.evolt.orgmaintains a collection of vintage browsers, including several incarnations of Mosaic, Navigator and Internet Explorer. You will find the original web browser - web inventor Tim Berners-Lee's WorldWideWeb for NeXT.Despite the web's high turnover of sites, there are many pages that once built are abandoned: these are the very ones that seem to turn up just when you are scouring the net for the latest information on a topic.When deliberately looking for ancient web pages, the advanced functions atwww.hotbot.comcome in handy, allowing you to set date parameters within which to conduct your search.Googleis another good stop in your search for the old stuff, as it saves the content of defunct pages in a special cache that can be accessed from your search results.The real gems are buried deep within the web's classic sites - so often steeped in the messy libertarian ideals of the early internet. In other words, places where nothing ever gets sorted or thrown away.  Try theElectronic Frontier Foundationfor documents about the early days of the web and net that are contemporary to the time, or trawl through user home pages atThe Well.Of most interest historically are book-length documents such as Brendan Kehoe'sZen and the Art of the Internetof 1992   and Adam Gaffin's '93 vintageBig Dummy's Guide to the Internet. Though both contain much useful information, the Lynx "screenshots" and step-by-step instructions on how to navigate a web page come from an era that seems much longer than a decade ago.
Go awayWhat laptop and peripherals do I need to access email and the internet abroad? I plan to buy a Dell but they tell me I need a high-end model, which takes   PCMCIA cards. I am with AOL so can use their International service.Penelope BurtonJack Schofield replies:You do not need a high-end notebook PC or any peripherals to use the net from overseas, except for a modem. I currently use an obsolete IBM ThinkPad 240X which does not have a built-in floppy or CD-Rom. You do not need a PCMCIA card slot if the notebook has a built-in modem, but it is important to have one for Ethernet network and wireless cards. You should, however, get a US-style modem lead with a UK adapter, not a cable with a UK plug. Many places now have US sockets and it is usually easy to obtain US adapters. If you cannot plug into a wall socket, you may be able to plug into a data port on a phone. (Beware: sometimes these degrade the signal.) For temporary access, AOL's service has proven to be the best choice in almost all the places I have visited, though there is a surcharge for overseas use. International access numbers are available on the web athttp://intlaccess.web.aol.com/Access.htmFor other equipment and information, checkTeleadapt's website.Only deleteI have received an email but when I click on it to read it I get an error message saying the program will be closed down - and it is. How can I delete the offending email?Donald Lovelldon.lovell@btinternet.comJS:I have already suggested turning off the Preview Pane in Outlook Express (go to View|Layout and untick) so perhaps I can assume you have tried that. Another trick is to search for something unique in the Subject line of the offending message, using Edit|Find|Message. When it appears highlighted in the search box, simply press the delete key.ClipboardIs there a quick way to empty the contents of the clipboard in Microsoft Office?Caroline DevlinCaroline.Devlin@prudential.co.ukJS:The clipboard does not appear unless you do something else between normal copy and paste actions, such as typing. This behaviour is not obvious and confuses most people. However, simply highlight any piece of text and press Ctrl-C twice in succession. This abnormal behaviour will cause the clipboard to appear, and you can click on the cross icon to clear it.  Reg cleaning  I have bought three second hand computers. I would like to clean up the registries to make them   "as new" as possible. In particular, I want to purge anything from the previous owner's history, URLs etc.Jer DeveneyDeveney95@btinternet.comJS:The easiest way, perhaps the only way, to get a PC back to "as new" condition is to reformat the hard drive  and reinstall Windows from scratch. (Take a back-up first in case something goes wrong or Windows lacks drivers for some hardware.) There are also several programs that will "clean up" Windows such as Evidence Eliminator, but   I have not tried any myself. See the section onDisk Cleaners at DaveCentralfor a wide range of options. The same site also has a range ofRegistry hacking toolsincludingRegVac, which looks promising.Snooping?Is there something sinister going on with Windows XP? Zone Alarm has identified a program which is both trying to access and act as a server to the internet! It is a Generic Host Process for Win32 Services called svchost.exe. Attempts to shut down or deny access for this program block your own access to the internet. Is   this Microsoft's attempt to snoop into home machines?Jonathan Oppenheimjon@oppy.fsnet.co.ukJS:No, there is nothing wrong with svchost and it has been part of Windows 2000 for years. It is actually a service for running (hosting) a variety of programs. You can read about it in two articles. Go tomicrosoft.support.comand search for Q250320 and Q263201.  Mac to AOL   A freelance designer colleague and I often have to exchange formatted   text and images. Despite   the fact that we both work on Macs - which should make our systems compatible - sending or receiving attachments via her AOL account is a nightmare.Don Kellerdonkeller@waitrose.comJS:AOL started as a proprietary online service and it still has not converted to internet standard email. There is no single answer (unless a reader knows better). However, there is a good discussion of the problems of sending Mac attachments atwww.macresolutions.com/report1.html, and this includes coverage of AOL. Your friend could also try Etresoft's Decoder (go towww.etresoft.comand click Downloads).BackchatJohn Scutt wanted to scan in his grandfather's negatives and I recommended two scanners. Tim Hughes of Cyclographic Publications says: "If they really are the   old postcard size (140 x 80mm) they will be too long for the Epson 1240 scanner - which I think is in any case no longer available - or its replacement. These only go up to 5 x 4in (102 x 127mm). The newer Epson Perfection 2450 Photo has a longer scan (up to about 225mm), and 2400dpi resolution into   the bargain."
The Web's best search engine is going into the catalogue shopping business, sort of. You can try the beta version of Google Cataloghere.
The head of the United Nations children's fund is calling for greater censorship of the internet to combat the explosion of child pornography sites on the world wide web.Carol Bellamy, the executive director of Unicef, said concerns about freedom of expression should take second place to the urgent need to protect minors from child porn sites that are a breeding ground for international paedophile rings."There is no need for a philosophical discussion when it comes to child pornography," she said. "We need some capacity to have control of what is available on the internet."During workshops yesterday, delegates at the Second World Congress Against the Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children, in Yokohama, Japan, called for the establishment of a new international organisation to pursue child pornographers across the borderless internet."Child exploitation can only be dealt with at the international level," said Jan Butter of World Vision, a human rights group. "Governments have to work together."The congress follows up on the historic Stockholm conference of 1996, which raised global awareness of the industries of sex tourism, child trafficking and pornography for paedophiles.These problems have since been addressed by new laws in several countries, but delegates said the spectacular growth of the internet in the interim had outpaced police and legal powers."The internet has internationalised and expanded the trade in child pornography in a way that was simply unimaginable as little as six years ago," said John Carr of ECPAT, one of the sponsors of the congress. ECPAT, whose name stands for End Child Prostitution, Child Pornography and Trafficking of Children for Sexual Purposes", is a Bangkok-based international network of groups.While child pornography explodes, Mr Carr said, Interpol is hard pressed to find more than 20 or so countries in the world with the personnel and the technical capacity to participate in "the sort of coordinated hi-tech action that these crimes demand".Fast-moving and anonymous, the internet has attracted paedophile rings that quickly identify big markets and safe havens where regulations are loose, he said.The shift has become apparent since the 1996 congress, when Japan was identified as the world's biggest producer of child pornography. Tokyo is still a hub of the trade, but since Japan enacted legislation on child pornography in 1999, it has been overtaken by Russia, Cyprus, Taiwan and the United States.According to a recent study by Interpol, the US is now the main source of websites offering sexual images of minors, defined as anyone under the age of 18 years old. American producers are said to have filmed a million children, generating an industry reported to be worth $2bn to $3bn a year.The authorities have scored a few victories, including Operation Cathedral, the largest international police action ever mounted. It snared 180 suspected pornographers and paedophiles in 49 countries.ECPAT said internet-related industries should do more to help police prevent criminal abuse of the new technologies. It called on software developers to develop a means of locating and removing sites with child pornography, and said website hosts should take action to prevent abuse of the anonymity offered by the internet.Offenders are making use of advanced encryption methods to prevent police tracing the source of their operations.Child pornography was described not just as a threat in itself, but as a tool for paedophiles to make contact with one another, to find victims and to persuade children that sex with adults is nothing out of the ordinary."Child sex tourism is a well known phenomenon, and now we are starting to see a new class of child sex offender: one who makes contact with a child over the internet and is then willing to travel perhaps huge distances, crossing states, continents and countries, for the purposes of meeting and sexually abusing a child," Mr Carr wrote in a briefing paper.Internet-compatible cellular phones has made it even harder for parents and the authorities to protect children. "In countries like Japan, kids are being solicited with sado-masochistic messages on their mobile phones," said June Kane, the communication adviser for the congress.The world wide web was not the only aspect of globalisation highlighted as a threat to children by the four-day congress, sponsored by Unicef, the Japanese government and a coalition of children's rights groups.More than 3,000 delegates from 138 countries were also told of the lucrative cross-border trade in minors for forced marriages, prostitution and organ harvesting.Estimating that a million minors were joining the sex trade every year, Ms Bellamy called on nations to adopt a policy of zero tolerance of child pornography and prostitution. Commercial sexual exploitation and abuse of children was "a form of terrorism", she said.
An interestingsurveyfrom researchers at UCLA, due to be published on Thursday, suggests American surfers increase their web usage at the expense of TV viewing, rather than contact with family and friends.
Guess who owns five of Britain's tenmost populardomains?Hint.
It's a bit like Christmas when you were a kid. The Mac community is getting all excited about what Steve Jobs might have in his sack when he turns up at MacExpo in San Francisco in early January. It's pretty much agreed there's a new flat-panel iMac in there - but can we expectmore? Fuelling the speculation is the fact he's brought his keynote Expo speech forward by a day, and extended it to two and a half hours. Full coverage inOnlineand here, natch.
Oh no, it'sthattime of year again....
Palm says in apress releasethat it is has chosen Texas Instruments as its supplier of the ARM chips it will use in its next generation of handheld organisers. (Associated Presshas picked up the story.) The alternatives were Motorola and Intel. The ARM chip is also now the standard for handhelds based on Microsoft'sPocketPC 2002operating software, thanks to the success of the Compaq iPaq. However, it seems the new Palms will not appear until the end of next year.
Web portal Excite UK is shutting its operation and shedding its remaining 48 jobs after a last-ditch funding effort fell short .The portal, a joint venture between BT and bankrupt American broadband provider Excite@Home, had been looking for a strategic partner for the past few months as its business suffered from the online advertising slump."The decision to cease trading is both unavoidable and deeply regrettable," said Excite UK managing director Rebecca Miskin. "Our priority now is to our users and our employees and to ensure that the closure is managed in an orderly fashion."The company said any money left over from the shutdown will be split between BTopenworld, which owns 42% of the venture, and Excite@Home, which is trying to conserve cash in advance of its planned shutdown in the United States at the end of February.Last week Excite@Home announced it would reduce its US staff by 400, or 30%. It filed for bankruptcy protection in September having closed divisions in France, Germany and Spain during summer.At its height the 3-year-old US operation captured 40% of the market for high-speed internet access and had 30m users through its network of web sites.Creditors have spurned a $307m bid by 79% shareholder AT&amp;T for its assets claiming they are worth far more.
Bloombergis reporting that investors in NTL, the UK's largest cable co, are suggesting it should seek Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection while it renegotiates around £4.1bn of its debt.
Nintendo of America says it has shipped more than amillionGamecube consoles, following a similar announcement from its neighbour, Microsoft (below). Both are, of course, based in Redmond, near Seattle. Indeed, in the days when the 8-bitNintendo Entertainment Systemdominated the world, some Microsoft execs used to describe their company as "the second biggest software house in Seattle".
Was the death of Dr Koop, the health website, the most prolonged in dot.com history? Asthe Registernotes today, it took almost two years. But today it finally breathed its last.
Only 8 days to go until Christmas, and - for your Sunday Surfer - all the Christmas shopping still to do. So can the net help you get it all done, and let you catch up on all of thatChristmas muzakyou are missing too?Tick-tock: how long have I got?Don't leave it too late on the net. What used to be called Royal Mail have alast datefor first class mail on the 21st, so you will usually need to have your order leaving the store by then. But check special messages about Christmas ordering - for example atAmazon.co.ukandBOL.If you really blow it, and wait too late then the Web can help you do better than you would by rummaging around at a petrol station late on Christmas Eve.Voucher Expresswill deliver real vouchers for real shops, but if you make the most of electronic delivery, you really could leave it until Santa is already doing his rounds. You can get vouchers fromFirebox,Amazon.co.ukand most self-respecting online stores - although those who don't have a shiny new computer under the tree may not be logging on on the day itself.Where to startGuardian Unlimited Shopping will also help you avoid the ignominy of getting vouchers for everyone you know (again) - with theirChristmas specialand can even tell you how much to spend on your loved ones? Try thisfun quiz.In deciding where to shop, it comes down to trust. So check out whether your favourite real-world shops let you buy online -shopping-sites.comhave a well-organised list of the major online stores. Working out which online-only stores to use can be a bit trickier - but Guardian Unlimited's ownShoppingsite has a decent 'Sites Guide' for each area of shopping. TheUK ShopFinderhas some potential too - although it hasn't yet found the critical mass of people rating shops to as useful as eBay's excellent buyer and sellerfeedback ratings.Bargain huntersYou can find bargains online, if you know how to look for them. You need to be a bit smarter than going back toAmazonbecause they have been cheap before. Want the Harry Potter boxset? Looking it up onDealTimeandShopSmartfinds a pretty cheap price (&pound;18.50). Unfortunately, since these comparison sites generally don't cover the same stores, it is often worth using more than one.If your loved ones have graduated to DVD videos, thenPlay.comoffer excellent prices and fast delivery.DVD.co.ukcan be hard to beat on price as well. Neither of these sell VHS videos - for that you will need to look to the likes ofBOL,Amazon.co.ukandWHSmiths.You could also try the collaborative buying efforts likeLet's Buy It. They have pulled out of the financial trouble they faced at this time last year, and have expanded their range somewhat. While your choice is still quite limited, if they are offering what you want then you can save a fair amount by clubbing together with a dozen or so other users for a better price.Rare findsOften finding something cheaper isn't the goal - but simply finding it at all. Auction sites likeeBay, andQXLhave a broad range of strange products, simply because they have enough members that there are enough kooks out there to be offering just about anything.   Although this surfer will happily pass up QXL's offer toScratch Santa's Sacks. You can use the net to hunt down obscure titles which your local store is unlikely to have -BlackStarare pretty good at tracking down elusive videos andJustBooks. will chase down out of print books for you. They will only arrive in the New Year now, but if you've already been hunting for weeks, that might not matter to you.If you want something for the gadgeteer in the family - thenFireboxmay have the answer. Run by the people who invented the perfect way toplay chess as a drinking game, Firebox offers various toys for grown-ups - includingretrothings likeadult space hoppers.Know your rightsThe net is strongest when it comes to finding advice. This can be as simple as just checking what your rights are with theOffice of Fair Trading, but more than that you should find out what real people, as well as experts, think of what you might buy.So what did you end up with?The surfer is will now be proudly wrapping upHarry Potter bookswhich my parents have thus far missed out on.The vouchers my sister asked for - but fromVoucher Express, to avoid the scrum in HMV.TheCranium boardgamefrom Firebox for my brainy brother in the hope I'll stand a chance in a game that also involves playing with plasticine.Geekwear for my brother-in-law - quite possibly thisFBI-style jacketfrom geek-weeklyNTKnowUnderwear for my wife, bought - alas - in the real world but researched on French manufacturerIzka'svery slick site (needs Javascript).Happy hunting. Comments and suggestions are very welcome by email toashok@future-i.com.
Two key parts of Microsoft's .Net, the C# (C-sharp) language and CLI (Common Language Infrastructure) are nowstandards, having been ratified byECMA. This puts Microsoft ahead ofSun Microsystems, which pulled out of standardising its proprietary Java technology, though it does have aJava Community Process. ("Java isn't platform independent; it is a platform. Like Windows, it is a proprietary commercial platform" saysBjarne Stroustrup, creator of the C++ programming language.) C# was developed byAnders Hejlsberg, who also developed Turbo Pascal and Delphi.
They will be among the most sought-after presents this Christmas, but Britain's bestselling video games have become so violent and sexually graphic that they are unsuitable for children, according to new research.A children's rights group says games such as  Tomb Raider ,  Final Fantasy and  Crazy Taxi should be certified with stricter adult ratings. Its study reveals most feature scantily clad women or violent foreigners, which reinforce stereotypes.Published by Children Now, the year-long study, called 'Fair Play? Violence, Gender and Race in Video Games', examined the 70 bestselling games in Britain and the US - available on Game Boy Advance, Dreamcast, Nintendo 64 and Sony's PlayStation2.The report discovered that 79 per cent of games targeted at children aged six and up contained some violence. In all, 48 per cent of video games contained serious acts of violence. The research reveals that in none of the games were players punished for killing.'Our report finds that children as young as six are at risk from a desensitisation to violence,' said Lois Salisbury, president of Children Now, based in Oakland, California. 'With the greater sophistication of the newer consoles there is a great realness to the games themselves. The violence is much more brutal and com bined with the better quality of effects, the games have a richness we've never seen before. I think parents would be surprised by the levels of violence.'Salisbury's organisation has raised concerns with games manufacturers. 'The games that we looked at seemed fairly consistent in terms of their violent content. And we found a short supply of positive images - either male or female. You have to wonder: how much of this kind of violence should kids be seeing?'Video games and their effects on users have always been controversial. A recent study found that when video game use among eight- and nine-year-olds was reduced to under seven hours a week for 20 weeks, their verbal aggression decreased by half and their physical aggression decreased by 40 per cent.And amid recent concerns over the stan  dards set by the entertainment industry, September's scheduled release of  Grand Theft Auto 3 , widely considered one of the most violent games ever, was delayed in the aftermath of the terror attacks on New York.In Britain, where video games are subject to a ratings system, psychologists warn of increased levels of graphic violence and the effects on younger gamers. 'There is a greater degree of involvement because of the greater capacity of the newer consoles,' said Dr Sandy Wolfson of the University of Northumbria.Wolfson admitted that research on behavioural patterns of children was inconclusive. 'But there is available evidence that suggests that the newer breeds of increasingly sophisticated games encourage solitary behaviour among children and even tendencies towards rebellion.'Studio head and programmer Don Whiteford, of Liverpool-based Rage Software, said game manufacturers provided a diverse range of products. 'You get all kinds of simulation games these days, like  Sim City where people can design their own cities and even run them. Those are simply old-fashioned dolls house games for girls that have been taken to the next level.'But violence in games is not the only concern for children's rights groups. Children Now's research showed females accounted for only 17 per cent of all    characters and were twice as likely to wear revealing clothing. Wolfson said: 'You need only look at Lara Croft. While it can be argued that she was a model of empowerment for many girls, it was undoubtedly men who fell for her obvious charms.'
Bob Raikes, managing director ofMeko, says more than a million flat panel monitors were sold in Europe in the last quarter, a 41% increase. The UK market grew by 70% between the second and third quarters. "However, supply has now become tight and the rapid price falls of the last year will stop very soon. In fact, it's possible that prices will actually rise in the New Year as there's no significant capacity increase planned until Q2, when LG.Philips LCD will have a new plant coming on stream." Meko publishes a newsletter called Display Monitor.
It's pretty scary when a major cable company goesbelly up, as Excite@Home's customers are finding in the US at the moment.
A great illustration ofpercussive maintenance.(With thanks toNTK.)
The Web Standards Projectis taking a break, or "indefinite hiatus", according to aninterviewwith founder Jeffrey Zeldman on ZD Net. This is a pity when, as he says, there is still a lot of work to be done trying to get companies such as Macromedia (Dreamweaver) and Adobe (GoLive) to make their products standards-compliant. It wouldn't stop idiot Web designers producing stupid, unusable sites, of course (or intelligent Web designers from producing the stupidly unusable sites their clients apparently demand), but it would help.
Chaos theory - internet style: A 24-year-old Russian computing student attends a hacking conference in Las Vegas to speak about software security. Before he takes to the lectern, the FBI step in, slap on the cuffs and accuse him of publishing a piece of software that contravenes US law. They whisk him away, throw him in jail, refuse bail and threaten him with a five-year stretch and a $500,000 fine.The hacking communities were stunned and their reaction was swift. Within days, a number of vigils began appearing outside US embassies around the world.Then, the company who reported him to the FBI, frightened of backlash, changed its mind and admitted that, actually, they'd rather not have him banged up in the State Penitentiary thank you very much. "Too late", say the Feds.The Dmitry Sklyarov affair reveals the increasingly widespread power that big business holds over the US courts. Sklyarov was detained after Adobe, one of the world's biggest software companies, complained that he had helped write a program which contravened copyright protection on one of its products.The software in question is Adobe's eBook reader, which allows users to buy electronic copies of books and read them on their computers. To protect the copyright of e-book publishers, the software does not allow for the books to be copied or sent to other computers. Sklyarov is accused of helping design a computer program that disabled the eBook reader.It didn't seem to matter to Adobe or the FBI, that Sklyarov was a foreign national who has not breached any law in his own country, Russia. However, both Adobe and the FBI argued that you could by it on the internet for $99 and was therefore in breach of US law.In the latest twist, Sklyarov has agreed to co-operate with the United States in its ongoing prosecution of his former employer, the Moscow-based software company, Elcomsoft. It's a sad turn of events, but for Sklyarov, it seems to be the only way of staying out of the jail in which he spent the last five months.Elcomsoft says that all it is guilty of is spotting a gap in the market and argues that people who buy protected e-books could reasonably want to make back-up copies or transfer them to the hard disc of a new computer.  Adobe's protection system makes that impossible.The main issue though, is not the cracked bit of software that few people are ever likely to use, but something called the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) - a piece of legislation aimed at protecting intellectual copyright. Under the act, it is a criminal offence to create a technology that undermines copyright protection mechanisms on products as diverse as Microsoft Windows or a Madonna DVD.To its critics - and there are a lot of them - the DMCA is a particularly draconian act. Not only does it severely affect an individuals right to alter their own software, it also outlaws scientific research into copy-protection technology.Many people believe it would have been better for Adobe to heed Sklyarov's warning. After all, he appeared at the conference to argue that copyright protection on software was too weak.Cyber-libertarians have little reason to cheer at his release. Just around the corner is The Security Systems Standards and Certification Act (SSSCA), the so-called 'son of DMCA' that, if passed, will  make it a civil offence to create or sell any kind of computer equipment that "does not include and utilise certified security technologies" approved by the federal government.It also creates a new felony,  punishable by five years in prison and fines of up to $500,000, for anyone who distributes copyrighted material with "security measures" disabled or merely has a network-attached computer that disables copy protection.And if you think these acts are not enforceable, just ask Dmitri Skylarov.
A Russian computer programmer who has been held in the US for five month on charges of violating electronic copyright will now be allowed to return home in exchange for testifying against his employer.Dmitry Sklyarov, 27, had been accused of violating electronic book copyrights in the first criminal prosecution under a controversial US law, the 1998 Digital Millennium Copyright Act. He could have faced up to five years in prison."Until I'm in Russia, it is too early to say that I'm happy," Mr Sklyarov said in a statement. "But this agreement looks like the first significant change in my situation for the last five months, my first real chance to get home."Mr Sklyarov and his employer, ElcomSoft of Moscow, were accused of releasing a program that lets readers disable restrictions on Adobe Systems electronic book software. Adobe's eBook Reader gives publishers a format for selling books online and is designed to prevent the transfer of materials between users and devices without publishers' consent.Mr Sklyarov found flaws in the software's encryption scheme and created ways for users to make backup copies of e-books or transfer them to other devices, such as handheld computers.After the software became available for download in the US, for around $99 (£68), Adobe complained to the FBI, which arrested Mr Sklyarov in July as he was preparing to fly back to Russia from a computer security convention.Under the deal announced yesterday, Mr Sklyarov will be required to give a deposition and testify for either side if requested by prosecutors or defence attorneys. If he refrains from violating copyright laws until the case against his employer is settled, the charges will be dropped.ElcomSoft's chief executive, Alex Katalov, said he was pleased the company would bear sole responsibility.Critics of the case have contended that the Digital Millennium Copyright Act stifles legitimate computer research and gives book publishers, record companies and movie studios too tight a grip on online content - at the expense of the fair use and first-sale premises traditionally found in US copyright law.Adobe eventually dropped its support of the case after internet policy groups threatened to organise a boycott of the company's products.
More from our friends at Headline Alert on the Kay Hammond story (below). The lovely MD who is selling herself (in marriage) on eBay featured in Woman magazine last year: "He Dumped Me Because I Earn More Than Him". To read that, go to theTambaWeb site, findWoman Magazineand click View.
Microsoft released theOffice XP Service Pack 1yesterday, but you shouldnotdownload and install it. Regrettably, Microsoft did not release SP1 for testing by external users, which means it is completely untested in the real world (ie anywhere outside the Redmond campus). It may work perfectly, of course, but why would you want to risk it? Let the geeks, corporate testers and computer journalists have a go first. Office 2000 users who installed SR-1 instead of waiting for SR-1a learned that the hard way....
In the US, Ziff and Computer Shopper magazine have picked their100 best products of 2001. There's also aBottom Five.
Patch up your browsers!Various security holes in Internet Explorer 5.5 and 6 have been filled, including three serious new ones. All users of these browsers are advised to download the patch, pronto. Oh - and if you use Office XP, you'd better have a look atthis, too. I daresay we should be grateful that Microsoft is now spotting vast security holesbeforesome hacker does, although in any other business this would still be regarded as one hell of a way to run a railroad.
Would you like to marry Kay Hammond, the managing director of Tamba Internet? She has put her hand (with. presumably, the rest of her attached) on eBay, reportsAnanova. With a £250,000 reserve.(Thanks to Headline Alert for the link to this story.)USA Today has reviewedChris Locke'snew book,Gonzo Marketing.
Egg defied the sceptics yesterday by turning in its first ever profit and pledging to stay in the black from now.The stemming of losses in November, though, was not enough to propel shares in the quirky on-line bank back up through the 260p at which they were sold to investors last year. The shares closed 6p lower at 148p.Paul Gratton, chief executive, said he felt the share price would improve as "people's perception of risk changed".Although Egg is best known for its banking business, just 600,000 of its 1.9m customers have one of its savings accounts and it was pushed towards profitability by its newer credit card business.Mr Gratton said the credit card operation had turned in a profit since the start of October. But he stressed the whole of the UK operation had been running at a profit in November. Egg did not reveal the extent of the profit which will be published in February.Among those to be surprised by the claims of profitability were those at Schroder Salomon Smith Barney who think the shares could overshoot their 175p target.
It is the ultimate notebook computer for the commuting executive: the Pink Hello Kitty Laptop. (This is assuming the executive lives in Hong Kong or Japan, of course.) If you can't afford the Fujitsu version, you can build your own as detailedhere.
Got your network and tariff sorted? Now all that remains is the fun part: choosing your mobile. However you need to ask yourself what kind of buyer are you? We've named what we think are the best phones for six types of buyers. There are no prices listed as they are dependent on which network and which payment system you choose. Enjoy yourself.Best for business: Ericsson T68Serious business-users demand a phone that connects easily to a laptop, works all over the world, and has instant Wap access. The Ericsson T68 more than fits the bill. It has a Bluetooth connection for hooking up to a computer, triple band facilities so it will work in the USA as well as Europe and Asia, and GPRS, the fastest and cheapest way of accessing Wap sites. Even though it has a large screen it isn't too bulky either.Also worth considering:Motorola T280. Latest GPRS-equipped business phone from Motorola. Boasts large screen.  Panasonic GD95. Easy to use and has a very large screen.Most stylish: Samsung A300The fashionistas are split as to which is the chicest mobile around. Some stick with their Nokia 8210s as if they were clasping the last bottle of Bolly. Others have had their head turned by the new V66 from Motorola with its flip-open lid and retro Batman-style logo on the facia. But the mobile that is catwalk champ this season is Samsung's A300. Small enough to be pocketable (or more likely handbaggable), the phone teams up a neat selection of features with the oh-so de rigueur flip-open lid. And unlike most other flip-tops you can even see who's calling you thanks to a mini, and rather fetching, blue screen. With a price more Principles than Prada it's an Absolutely Fabulous buy, too.Also worth considering:Nokia 8210. Classic tiny mobile. Bit short on features.  Nokia 8310. Even smaller than the 8210 and boasts GPRS and Wap facilities and an FM radio.  Motorola V66. Desirable, tiny phone.Best for internet: Nokia 9210 CommunicatorTypical isn't it! If you want the very best portable gadget for checking your email you have to be nice to your boss, because the GPRS Blackberry device (as approved by Bill Gates, Al Gore and others) that bleeps each time you have a new message is only available corporately. As for general punters, plenty of other new connected devices (Pogo, O2 XDA, Handspring Treo) are due next year. Until then the number-one choice is the Nokia 9210 Communicator which combines an easy-to-use operating system and Qwerty keyboard with excellent email and full HTML internet facilities. The colour screen is rather fetching, too. Shame there's no GPRS version.Also worth considering:Trium Mondo. Rather neat phone/PDA device that has the advantage of GPRS.  Siemens SX45. Powerful handheld PC with phone connection. No GPRS yet.Coolest for kids: Nokia 5510Hey kids. It might soon be time to ditch the Nokia 3310 and 3330 and leave those lurid snap-on covers behind. The coolest phone on the block is now the Nokia 5510. Text maniacs swear by it for its fully featured keyboard, while its Wap facilities mean the kids can send emails as well as SMSs. However, its coolest feature is an MP3 player with 64Mb of memory, enough for more than an hour's worth of kicking tunes. And if your Limp Bizkit tracks start to sound soggy there's always an FM radio and a host of games to keep you busy.Also worth considering:Nokia 3330. Ringtone and snap-on cover-friendly, and has Wap too.  Nokia 3310. The classic customisable mobile.  Siemens SL45. Cute phone with Wap and a built-in MP3 player.Best for casual user: Siemens C45Want a no-frills phone yet don't want to pay a great deal for it? Look no further than the Siemens C45. It's a cute little model that's simple to use, has pretty good battery life and comes with a good range of ringtones. There's also Wap if you fancy getting connected too. Some networks give the phone away free when you sign up.Also worth considering:Nokia 3310. Ultra-simple to use phone. Compatible with all kinds of covers and ringtones too.  Motorola T191. Great new miniature phone. Good battery life, stylish silver finish and Wap.  Sendo S200. Neat and easy to use, available via Virgin.Best second phone:Motorola V60  Come the future, with its promise of net-connected handheld devices complete with Qwerty keyboards, MP3 players and mini-cameras, we'll all have two phones. After all, who wants to lug all that technology around during the weekend. If you want a second phone to be seen out and about with now, try the new Motorola V60. It's a small flip-open phone with a screen on the facia which lets you see who is calling without having to open the phone - great for avoiding unwanted intrusions into your free time from your boss. Its GPRS and Wap facilities could also prove a lifesaver for those who need to keep up with the latest football scores while being dragged down the high street.Also worth considering:Motorola V66. The most pocketable phone on sale.  Nokia 8210. Not only is it small, it's also very cheap.  Sony Z5. No-nonsense tiny phone from Sony.
1 BroadbandAn always-on PC with an always-on internet connection puts almost all the information you need only a Google-search or two away, and that means broadband - probably ADSL or cable, but two-way satellite is almost here. Broadband would be a lot more attractive if UK services were reasonably priced, but if you can afford it, you cannot beat it.www.broadband-help.com/cm_reviews.asp&#163;400 pa plus installation2 Wireless networksOne thing better than broadband to a wall-socket is broadband that reaches every room in the house, and the garden. That is what Wi-Fi standard 802.11b wireless provides. Several desktop PCs can share the internet connection without wiring, and you can use a notebook PC with a plug-in wireless card anywhere within range. BT Openworld now supplies Wi-Fi as an optional business service, but you can roll your own. Prices start at about &#163;250 for a wireless access point or hub, then each computer needs a wireless Ethernet network card.&#163;400 or more3 More memoryComputer memory has never been cheaper, and as PC sales pick up, it will soon become more expensive. You may once have thought that 16 megabytes was a lot, but 128MB is now a sensible minimum and you may be able to get 256MB for around &#163;30. Prices vary according to the type of memory module your computer uses, butCrucial's websiteshould help you find what you need at an attractive price.4 Windows XPWindows XP is the first computer operating system to combine ease of use with industrial-strength stability, and to work with a wide range of products from thousands of hardware and software manufacturers. But it is not as compatible as Windows 98/Me and may not work with your printer/ scanner/automatic plant waterer, so check for hardware compatibility and drivers first, and install    alongside your current system - preferably on a different drive - rather than overwriting it.From &#163;80(upgrade price)5 Plantronics DSP-400Most notebook PCs have limited sound facilities and even worse loudspeakers. Plantronics' DSP-400, above, solves both problems by including its own sound card in a pod, along with stereo headphones so you can enjoy CDs, MP3 files and even DVDs on the move without annoying other travellers. The USB headset also includes a microphone for net-to-phone calls and speech recognition, and the whole thing folds up and fits in a pouch. It works with Windows 98SE/2000 and Mac OS 9.0.4 or higher.&#163;756 Microsoft Wireless Intellimouse ExplorerThis mouse is very precise, amazingly responsive, and you never need to clean its ball - it has not got one. The main drawbacks are that it is for right-handers only, it requires a USB port, and it costs about 30 times as much as the one you got free with your PC.&#163;707 Momo ForceIf you play driving games then you need Logitech's Momo Force, a solidly constructed force-feedback steering wheel from the team behind the wheel in Schumacher's Ferrari. It is finished in hand-stitched leather and, yes, pedals are included.&#163;1598 Uno MasA lot of gadgets link to a PC - palmtops, MP3 players, cameras, etc - but most use different storage media and/or come with horribly slow cable connectors. Peak's Uno Mas is an external card reader that reads CompactFlash, IBM Microdrive,    SmartMedia, SD (San Disk), MMC and Sony Memory Stick modules without adapters and without needing any drivers for Windows Me/2000/XP.www.peak-uk.com&#163;709 Covox CardScanTired of building a replica of the Great Wall of China out of business cards? Covox's small dedicated scanners will read them in with impressive accuracy (they are not perfect), put them in a database, and transfer them to your Windows information management software. The    model 600 is smaller and adds colour.&#163;200 (500), &#163;270 (600)10 WinTV Nova-THauppauge made its name with WinTV cards that put a television tuner on a PC expansion card. The Nova-T for Windows 98/Me/2000 is the same sort of thing but receives the 13 free digital channels without you having to subscribe to a package. It will also record TV programmes or films to your hard drive.   &#163;149 (internal) &#163;199 (external USB)
Magic Lantern really is an FBI project, according to aReutersreport. From earlier rumours and discussions onSlashdot, it looks like one of the spooks' sillier ideas: using a virus to hack criminals' computers. Denis Zenkin from Kaspersky Lab expects virus writers to use the FBI code or create viruses that exploit any loopholes that anti-virus companies might leave to allow Magic Lantern to work. Kaspersky's database already includesMalantern, a simple but rather amusing take on the idea from Agentlinux.
Would you be worried if you worked for a company whose sales had fallen from $18.6 million to $10.5 million to $5.0 million to only $1 million (projected) over the past four financial quarters? That's how the massively-overhypedTransmeta, designer of innovative low-power Crusoe processor chips, is doing. Its best known employee is Linus Torvalds, who started the development of the kernel used in the Unix-clone usually called Linux. But I'm sure he would have no trouble getting another job.....
David Gelernter has contributed a penetratingreviewof Lawrence Lessig's new book, The Future of Ideas, and a Steve Lohr book with a title too long to repeat.The New York Times reguires (free) registration.
Return to Castle WolfensteinPC	&#163;34.99 id/Activision 	****You cannot beat a trip down memory lane, especially when it involves blasting Nazis and exploring gloomy crypts. Castle Wolfenstein is back, nine years after the original caused a revolution in gaming. As the first proper 3D title, Wolfenstein transported gamers into a blocky, yet believable adventure. It was the granddaddy of Doom, Quake and the whole first person shooter (FPS) genre. While this version lacks the original's impact, Return to Castle Wolfenstein is a state-of-the-art FPS and a polished return to past glory.As an imprisoned Allied spy, your aim is to break out and thwart the Nazis' plan to harness deadly supernatural powers. B-movie tosh, but RTCW makes it work. This is partly down to the compelling atmosphere. The graphics are   impressive, depicting realistic gothic architecture adorned with Nazi paraphernalia. But most impressive is the sound. Whether it is the German guards moaning about the weather while drunkenly slurring in the bar, or the 40s music, the audio sets the scene perfectly.RTCW comes with a strong multiplayer element, complete with D-Day-style beach landings. But the gripping single-player mode will take up most of your time. The AI works well, with Nazi guards doing their best to trap you: macabre twists later on see the undead joining the fight.With an atmosphere and challenge better than any FPS this year, RTCW is a worthy remake.  (GH)Sea MonkeysPC 	&#163;24.99 Creature Labs/ Just Play 	***This has to be one of the weirdest licences of the year. Based on a 40-year-old example of misrepresentative advertising, Sea Monkeys makes perfect sense for Creature Labs, who have made more out of less for the best part of a decade now.The original Sea Monkeys were 49-cent packets of shrimps that hatched in water when they reached your door via the mail. That is not how the cartoon adverts depicted them: instead we had Disney-  esque kingdoms, populated with large families of laughing nymphs, advertised in American comics and unavailable to poor Brits. In virtual form, however, the concept works better than you might think.True to the myth, you hatch your monkeys into a giant virtual aquarium, acquiring points through natural events (static oysters that occasion  ally produce a pearl) or later through the activities of your monkeys. You can spend points on a variety of underwater flora, fish and various devices to help your monkeys grow. As a cyberpet (especially for the young) this is hugely entertaining, typified by bright colours and bulbous animations and an improve ment over the developer's previous efforts (the long running Creatures series).Be warned, however: this is no Black and White. Your Monkeys never do that much, and their AI is limited to occasional gurgles when you stroke them. There is also no time-shrinking function, meaning little happens for the best part of an hour, as they slowly grow.However, Sea Monkeys is that rarest of CD Roms, considerably more enjoyable than the real thing. The real monkeys could arrive dead in the box (especially if ordering from the UK) or spend up to two years doing so little it was hard to tell the difference when they did die. This, at least, is good, clean, colourful fun - if you don't get out much and don't own any real videogames.  (MA)Evil TwinPC 	&#163;24.99 In Utero/Ubi Soft 	**"Aarrghh!" "Drat!" These are likely to be among the milder exclamations from anyone playing Evil Twin, a frustrating 3D platform game.There is nothing wrong with the set-up. As Cyprien, a tweenaged orphan, you are plunged into the realm of   Undabed, where you must rescue four pals, your teddy and defeat the dreaded Master. This entails the usual activities: baddie-bashing, puzzle-solving and pixel-finding.You are also able to transform into Supercyp, your heroic alter ego, who can fly limited distances and pack a rather bigger punch.But the execution lets Evil Twin down. Top is the combination of objective viewpoint with semi-autonomous camera: if you press right, Cyprien moves right relative to you. If the camera moves in the meantime, the direction he moves in will come as a   complete surprise. Not what you need when one false step lands you in boiling lava.Then there are the aesthetic considerations. Much work went into the design: the textures are detailed, the characters intricate, and the backgrounds never repetitive. But it is ugly. The zones are relentlessly grim, and the baddies aren't so much frightening as off-putting. Some of the "problems" are a matter of taste. But the lack of mouse control, the inability to skip story sequences, and the unnatural dialogue are boo-boos in anyone's book. (AB)
Wanna be a writer? Seems a lot of us do. A survey carried out to mark the launch ofWH Smith's Raw Talent competitiondiscovered we are a nation of would-be authors.Almost 50% of respondents said they would like to write a book, with thrillers and biographies leading the choice of genres. When you finally get around to taking the first steps to creating something, you will find plenty of support, information and practical help on the net - as well as outlets for your work.There is nothing to stop you setting up your own site and posting your work there, but you can increase your readership by submitting it to one of the thousands of e-zines dedicated to publishing original work online. They are often in the weirdest of niche areas that commercial publishers would not touch, and you are highly unlikely to get paid. But think of the glory.Since 1993, John Labovitz has been maintaining his list of 4,000-plus e-zines atwww.meer.net/~johnl/e-zine-list, and is asking for someone to take over its time-consuming maintenance. Or, you can go further, and publish your own e-book.Famously, Stephen King abandoned his e-publishing venture halfway, but there are authors who say they are making decent money from self-publishing this way. The e-author Angela Adair-Hoy tells you how she and others do it atwww.writersweekly.com. If you are keener on the dead-tree route to published fame, screen-loads of advice is available atwww.publishers.org, where some good people at the Publishers Association pass on information about copyright in the UK, ISBN numbers and getting an agent.More support for writers - aimed especially at women - comes from the magazine Mslexia, itself a paper publication, but with a workwoman-like website containing a selection of useful articles and a subscription form. One of the biggest UK sites for creative writing was started by Gary Crucefix, who describes himself as an "amateur writer".His siteFiction Houseis growing all the time, and has an impressive selection of links.  The page on different webrings for writers will put you in touch with even more resources.Crucefix says he "strives to offer content and opportunity which is educational and informative to writers of all genre's". That    apostrophe is, I am sorry to say, Crucefix's own. Call me picky. You may want to learn more about the whole craft of writing including, probably, where to put apostrophes, by following a course; you can, naturally, do it online. Nottingham Trent University's online writing school,Trace, invites you to try out online learning with its live web-based open days, where you can chat to tutors and students, join a writing workshop and find out if you want to take it further.Getting published is only one way of getting a buzz from writing. The other way is to win a competition. There are dozens, here and overseas, and although prizes are on the titchy side (&#163;50 or &#163;100 are common) and you may even have to pay to enter (&#163;3 seems fairly standard), it could be the one way you are likely to see any cash from short story writing or poetry.Find out about competitions atNew Writing North, one of the easier writers' sites to navigate."There's nothing wrong with fulfilling your desire to see your work in print by paying a vanity press to publish it - as long as you know exactly what you're getting for your money. Sadly, some vanity or 'cosmetic' presses can seem to promise more than they can deliver," says their expert contributor, Johnathon Clifford. Kick-start the creative juices each morning by subscribing to the A-Word-A-Day email list.It is free, fun and takes about 10 seconds a day to read the word, its etymology and quotations using it. How about zugzwang, a word from chess, which means "a position where one is forced to make an undesirable move".Details fromwww.wordsmith.org/awad.  Read about words atwww.worldwidewords.org, and check your spelling at the OneLook dictionary site,www.onelook.com.Frustrated poets can find rhymes atwww.rhymezone.com- into the search box with your word, and click; but there was not one for "orange". For real life writing support from real people, join a writers' circle: find your nearest one atwww.author.co.uk/circles. And for no-holds-barred advice for screen-writers, seewww.craftyscreenwriting.com. Tip of the week? "Write what you love - never write from hunger," says the writer Alex Epstein. "If you are writing from hunger, your script will tend to suck."
There are few better times to buy a mobile phone than at Christmas. The phone networks and stores always make it a season to be jolly by offering all kinds of deals and promotions. Some entice buyers with extra talk minutes or free text messages. Others are a little less subtle and encourage punters to part with their cash in exchange for free games, watches or entry to big money competitions. Here's the best of what's on offer.One2One's Football KitIn a bid to persuade footy fans to go mobile One2One has unveiled what it bills as "The Offer of the Season". A penny under £100 secures its limited edition Football Kit, which features not only a Siemens C45 mobile, but a host of other football-related goodies. Top billing goes to the ultra-addictive PC game Championship Manager that's bundled with the package. Once the footy fan has shown Messrs Wenger, Ferguson and co how it is done they can take advantage of a booklet offering over £250 worth of special vouchers and enter a text message-based football game. The Siemens C45 is a small, but stylish model that has good battery life and includes Wap facilities - ideal for football fans who want to keep up with the latest scores.Non-football-lovers might want to buy a One2One phone in the hope they might find it pays for itself. Each week some lucky punter will win £25,000, while 100 runners-up will grab £100 each. More details fromone2one.co.ukVodafone's Wap attackNo gifts or gimmicks from Vodafone this Christmas. However, the network does have some introductory promotions for new customers. Provided they buy a Vodafone-connected phone before the end of December, punters can while away January making free Wap calls, downloading free ringtones and listening to their free voicemail. The package also includes 50 free text messages, free text alerts and free footy phone calls. The deal is only available on certain phones and certain Vodafone packages. For more details check outvodafone.co.uk.A free watch from OrangeIf you want to ensure that a mobile isn't the only gadget you receive this Christmas, consider buying a mobile from Orange. As an enticement to customers, the network is offering a free Casio G-Shock or Baby-G watch to anyone who buys a phone and signs up to one of its pay-monthly service plans. Seeorange.co.ukWin a Mondo with BT CellnetCynics might say that BT Cellnet is being a little Scrooge-like this Christmas given its rather limited selection of offers. However there's good news for anyone considering buying a pay-as-you-go Wap phone from the network as you will receive 30 days of free Wap calls. Cellnet customers who haven't yet registered with the network via the website are advised to do so, as three of the network's customers will soon be taking delivery of the GPRS version of the Pocket PC/mobile phone combi, the Trium Mondo. Register atbtcellnet.netFree rucksack from VirginFancy a new rucksack? First you have to buy £20 of airtime from Virgin. This entitles you to a £20 discount on any Virgin phone that costs over £100. Choose your model and then claim your rucksack. If the phone you choose can download ringtones, you also get a free ringtones voucher.   Visitwww.virgin.com/mobileCarphone Warehouse's on-line savingsIf you know which phone you want there's an added incentive to buy it online from Carphone Warehouse. The store is offering £5 off the price of any mobile over £20 if you purchase it online via carphonewarehouse .com. The store will also give you up to £50 for your old phone and has a selection of deals linked to specific phones and networks.Freebie-fest from The LinkIf your Christmas list includes a Samsung mobile phone on a pay-monthly tariff, it's worth popping along to The Link. The store is giving away a free Samsung camera if you pay £9.99 for the Samsung R200 phone and sign up to BT Cellnet. Splash out more on the Samsung A400 at £99.99 and a bottle of Calvin Klein's unisex fragrance CK1 is yours. There are also freebies for those who plump for pay-as-you-go phones from BT Cellnet. Buy a Nokia 3310 at £129.99 and you take home £50 worth of accessories. Alternatively if you fancy Motorola's super-sleek V50 at £169.95 you will also leave the store with a Sekonda watch. More atthelink.com
It seems astonishingly naive now, but when SMS text messaging was launched five years ago, neither phone manufacturers nor networks expected it to be much of a cash cow. They reckoned without the millions of text message-mad youngsters who have turned two-finger typing into an artform and spawned a completely new language.For many youngsters the mobile is the first accessory they throw into their bag; school playgrounds are buzzing with talk of the latest ringtones and coolest snap-on covers. And with innovations such as multimedia messaging and enhanced gaming set to take off next year, the love affair between teenagers and their mobiles is unlikely to cool.Pay-as-you-goThe catalyst for the growth in popularity of mobiles among youngsters was the development of the pay-as-you-go phones. Before their arrival anxious parents were more cautious about issuing phones to their offspring knowing that they could quite easily rack up large bills. The pay-as-you go system, which at least gave the adults some kind of credit control, caused sales of mobiles to soar. This in turn inspired a massive growth in the popularity of text messaging, with youngsters eager to chat to each other using a system that was not only fun, but inexpensive.Customising mobilesIn the late 90s makers realised that users wanted to stamp their individuality on phones and the concept of the snap-on cover was born. Although other makers such as Siemens offer a range of covers, it is Nokia which has developed the market in Europe and in doing so established itself as leader in the kids/youth phones. For budget-priced models like the Nokia 3310, 3330, and even the more upmarket 8210, a bewildering array of designs are available, from Stars and Stripes and Union Jacks to lurid psychedelic pinks and greens. Most covers cost between £5 and £20. Never one to miss a marketing opportunity, football clubs have also cashed in on the craze offering covers emblazoned in team colours. And now phone users can show how much they care about someone by designing a cover that features their image. For £19.99 Carphone Warehouse is offering to turn a photo of your loved one into a snap-on cover for a Nokia phone in three to five working days.Cool ringtonesRight up until the end of the last decade most mobile phones had a rather limited selection of ringtones. The compatibility of new phones with downloadable tones, partly inspired by the success of the I-Mode system in Japan which proved hugely popular with youngsters, changed all that. Kids, of all ages could now download ringtones of all kinds, from classic movie hits such as The Great Escape to versions of the latest chart toppers. Ringtones have become so popular that even the weekly music magazine the NME publishes a ringtones chart. While Nokia was first to develop this market, most contemporary mobiles are now compatible with downloadable ringtones. It's not just downloadable ringtones that have proved a hit with the teen market. Downloadable logos, which range from football teams to images of cartoons, have enabled youngsters to further customise their phones.Games on the mobilePossibly the key growth area for phones next year will be games. Most models have a basic selection of rather primitive mid-80s arcade-style games stored in their memory. Nokia has increased phone-user options by offering games that can be downloaded to mobiles via the Club Nokia website (club.nokia.co.uk). Over the next 12 months those games are set to get more sophisticated, with Siemens and Motorola in addition to Nokia developing more advanced, downloadable games. The growth of Wap phones significantly increases options with users able to play sports quizzes, games such as Top Trumps and versions of hit TV quizzes such as Who Wants to be Millionaire.Text messaging phonesPhone makers have also sought to cash in on the text messaging craze by producing models which feature a mini-keyboard enabling even faster composition of messages. Sure to be the most wanted phone for youngsters this Christmas is Nokia's new 5510. This unusually shaped model a screen between two halves of a keyboard and is ideal for text-mad youngsters. Nokia has also integrated into the phone an MP3 player with storage for over an hour of tunes and FM radio. It may provide a blueprint for how kids' phones will develop in the next few years. Phones will be a great deal more than just communication tools. They will feature games, music and maybe even photo and video facilities in one device. Next year, manufacturers will offer an enhanced form of text messaging called multimedia messaging, which enables the user to send image (taken by an integrated digital camera) and sound files as well as text. They won't be phones then, they'll be personal entertainment consoles.
Web-based email providers such as Yahoo and Hotmail have many uses beyond the obvious. Among them is remote access to your messages from an email account, such as Outlook Express, enabling you to read emails bemoaning the latest British cold snap from the comfort of an internet cafe beside a tropical beach. Another less obvious advantage is to prevent spam cluttering your computer's inbox.Step by step1)Having set up aHotmailorYahooemail account, click on the Options link near the top of the main page. This leads to long list of options. On the new page, choose the link that with Hotmail says POP Mail Retrieval Settings, and with Yahoo Check Other (POP) Mail.2)Hotmail now invites you to enter the details of your POP3 email account into a series of boxes. Yahoo does the same after forcing you to negotiate an additional hurdle of clicking a button labelled Add Mail Server. The details required are the same but each provider uses different terms for the same information.For POP Server Name (Hotmail) or Mail Account Server (Yahoo) enter your POP3 name for incoming mail. This can be found by opening Outlook Express and clicking though Tools| Accounts|Properties|Server, looking for the entry in the Incoming Mail (POP3) box. For Freeserve accounts, it is pop.freeserve.net. Most ISPs use something similar.3)Complete the Pop User Name (Hotmail) or Mail Account User Name (Yahoo) boxes by inserting your POP3 account name. This again can be checked by clicking through Tools|Accounts| Properties|Server and looking for the account name listed under Incoming Mail Server.4)The next box asks for POP User Password or Mail Account Password. Here, enter your usual email password (do not make up a new one). The remaining boxes are already filled with   default settings for Port Number and (with Hotmail) Server Time Out, which can be left as they are.5)When you check your email at home, your desktop email client removes the messages from the remote server (your ISP) and deposits them in your inbox. If you still want to be able to access messages in this way after downloading them, ignore the next box, labelled Leave Mail on POP Server, which is already ticked.However, if your POP3 account also carries its share of spam, you can prevent it reaching your desktop by unticking this option. Any valuable messages among the unsolicited dross that reaches your web-based account that you would prefer to have in your desktop inbox can be forwarded to your POP3 email address.6)Keeping the tick in the subsequent box for Download New Messages Only (Hotmail) or Retrieve New Messages Only (Yahoo) prevents the same messages being repeatedly downloaded into your web-based account.7)Finally, select your favourite from the choice of symbols that will indicate the presence of downloaded POP3 mail in your web-based inbox.8)Having ensured that the information entered is correct, click on OK. To check that the set-up is working, send a test message to your POP3 account. After allowing time for it to arrive, click Pop Mail (in the right-hand column on Hotmail pages) or Check Other Mail (alongside the Go To Inbox option with Yahoo). Your POP3 message should appear in the inbox.* By repeating the above steps, more POP3 email accounts can be accessed from web-based providers, up to four with Hotmail and three with Yahoo.* If some of your POP3 email addresses are aliases, you need only enter the details of the original address to download from each alias account.* Remote downloading of your work emails from a company network is possible using the same procedure but check with your system administrator as a network firewall may block access.
Flipping outIs there such a thing as a global field of human consciousness? For more than three years, 37 computers around the world have been involved in a seemingly trivial pursuit: constantly "flipping" virtual coins.Naturally, you would expect there to be a near 50-50 split of results each day. And, most of the time, that is what happened, until September 11, 2001. That day the numbers, from every one of the machines, appeared to lose much of their randomness, and move significantly in one direction.Now researchers at the Global Consciousness Project are analysing the results from that terrible day - although they still shy away from drawing conclusions.Home page:http://noosphere.princeton.edu/Sept 11 results:http://noosphere.princeton.edu/dean/wtc0921.htmlLive radioInternet radio offers us a huge choice - much more than you are likely to find on your   FM radio, especially if you live outside London.And now, even if you still have not found what you are looking for, you now have a chance to put things right. For less than &#163;20 a month, you can set up your own radio station, broadcasting live from your living room or desktop.Live365, whose software works with PCs and Macs, allows you to start with a simple playlist of your own MP3s, and graduate to full-scale shows with your talk interspersed by music. People are already using it to inflict their taste in music on netizens around the world, or bring them shows on their local football club. After the weblog craze, could the personal radio show be next?www.live365.comKazoo itEven with personal radio stations, there are likely to be few serving this kind of musical fetish: kazoo music, including memorable cover   versions of Michael Jackson's Billy Jean, and Nirvana's Smells Like Teen Spirit. Stick it on the speakers at work, and thrill colleagues during the Christmas party.http://oozak.caseyporn.com/main.phpBlurred visionThe aid agency World Vision has launched a new website - My Planet - aimed at encouraging young people to become involved in world issues such as HIV in Africa and the use of child soliders in conflicts. It is certainly an eye-pleaser, but thin content and rather tortuous navigation suggests it has got a bit to go before the site matches its ambitions.www.mypla.netFeel itTolerance.org is an elegant site devoted to promoting the cause of human rights among   people from all walks of life. What makes it interesting is its interactive approach.Rather than simply assume it is preaching to the converted, the site encourages users to dig through their complacency and explore hidden biases. Its interactive tests are certainly quite demanding - and the results can be startling. Don't necessarily expect a feelgood factor after visiting.www.tolerance.orgVirtual gadgetA Getty museum exhibition of early gadgets, Devices of Wonder, is exploring the forerunners of commonplace modern technology such as the cinema and the computer. You can take a look at some of the exhibits thanks to the tie-in website, although we suggest you opt for the lower bandwidth version. The animated version, as is so often the case, trades clarity for whizz-bang effects.www.getty.edu/art/exhibitions/devices/choice.htmlNew &amp; noted&#183;Drive round a living Advent calendar in Hull:www.hullsangel.com&#183;Improve your footie skills for &#163;50 a year:www.soccertutor.com&#183;Exclusive, expensive, clothes:www.oki-ni.comSix of the bestReference sitesFind where you are goingwww.multimap.comFind out what time it iswww.timeanddate.comFind that wordwww.dictionary.comOnline encyclopaediawww.britannica.comUK statisticswww.statistics.gov.ukHow much information each?www.sims.berkeley.edu/research/projects/how-much-info
On the shores of Loch Lomond, a tranquil quarter of one of Scotland's most beautiful national parks is about to be disturbed. Early next year, bright red letters spelling out declarations of love will be cut into the sides of its trees. But the letters represent no random act of vandalism, rather a work of art rendered in brilliant LED and employing technology we usually associate with the mobile phone.The 4 LUV walk, by Fiddian Warman and Siobhan Hapaska, uses SMS technology to update the age-old tradition of carving lovers' initials on to trees. It is the first in a series of electronic artworks being installed around the loch and the latest piece of art that uses the mobile phone.On the face of it, it might seem difficult to see the mobile as an instrument of the artist, or indeed as a canvas for art itself. But today, artists are taking to the mobile phone almost as keenly as they once took to a bottle of absinthe.  Earlier this month, the Photographers' Gallery in London presented RE:MOTE, an exhibition built around the mobile phone. It featured work by the Austrian photographer Erwin Wurm, who employed SMS for a piece called Morning Walk. It involved sending five SMS instructions each day for five days, each at 8.30am, to a group of volunteers. The instructions were to perform "one minute sculptures" (holding a pose, usually in the street, for a minute), photograph them, and send them back to Wurm. People participated as far away as Russia, France and Austria. Over 300 took part, some in their mid-50s."Surprisingly, we didn't get many very young people taking part," says Camilla Jackson of the Photographers' Gallery. "Maybe they were too cool to put a bag on their head in the middle of the street."No market for this stuff? In July, online gallery Britart.com commissioned artists George Barber and Tracey Newman, whose work went live on Vodafone's website, and thousands of users paid 36p a time to download the work of six other emerging artists.The latest range of phones offer more and more scope for artists. Ericsson's new T86, for example, comes with an impressive colour screen, while other models slowly morph into pocket computers.Art for the mobile is not new, either. Artists such as Lucy Kimble and Thomson &amp; Craighead were working with the medium way before the growth of SMS. While in Huddersfield, the largest SMS interface in the world sits proudly above the town's new Media Centre, displaying 15m-long text messages. It is both a digital update of Speakers' Corner and a public art gallery.Artists have often played an integral role in the research and development of mobile phones. Fiona Raby and Anthony Dunne, founding members of the Computer Relate Design Research studio (CRD) at the Royal College of Art, have worked with electronics companies to produce some of the most aesthetically pleasing and poetic pieces of art for the mobile phone.Among their prototypes, the pair helped design a larger, colour screen with a "flip-open" top for Phillips. They then built a program that allowed users to create a pixelated garden that would sit on the mobile phone. Users were asked to plant digital seeds, written in text form, and cultivate a garden that would sit in their pocket."You then subjected your garden to a climatic landscape which is determined by your location and movements in the city, " says Fiona Raby. The phone responded to the different cellular structures that criss-cross our cities - some of the pixellated seeds responded to certain cells in the city and would flourish. But if users took a trip across town, entering other cells, strange weeds grow on the phone's screen.The CRD was set up in 1994 to explore the relationship between industrial design, architecture and electronic media. None of its brilliant ideas have ever made it to the mass market, but they do offer insights to what we might do with our phones in the future.
Picture the scene: It's late at night during the festive season and the local restaurants are packed to the gunnels. Once this would have been a signal to declare the evening a bust and begin wending your weary way home. Today, thanks to the humble mobile handset, you are only a few button-clicks away from locating the only spare seat in town.Restaurant IT company Quadranet has launched a new service, Livebookings .co.uk, which offers users real-time access to the reservations ledgers of the hottest boites. Unlike existing online booking operations that provide only a static, preselected allocation of tables, the system supplies surfers with an up-to-the-minute assessment of what's available where."Consumers are unhappy with the allocation system provided by services such as lastminute.com because the tables on offer are limited to times that the participating restaurants know they will be empty anyway," says Quadranet MD Ken Stratford. "With live bookings, it's about finding a space whenever you want it."
In addition to a traditional website, users can access the system via a high-end GPRS mobile phone or PDA on which a small piece of software is stored.Using this as an interface in which they can store details of favourite eateries and reduce the reservation process to a mere three clicks, the surfer connects to the Livebookings servers to check availability. If the first choice is full then the system recommends others in the same area that do have room. At the restaurant end, the ma¿tre d' connects a PC containing the restaurant's booking system to the central server, thus ensuring details are kept as current as possible.
Quadranet claims to have in excess of 700 registered users, from as far away as New York. The system has no commercial allegiances and is intended to become the eating business's neutral bookings infrastructure, much like the Sabre system for airline tickets used by the online travel industry.The Conran and Fish chains have been among the first to take the system, with more establishments signing up daily. Once it has proven the restaurant facility as a useful working model, Quadranet's intends to expand the concept to golf courses, clubs and other parts of the leisure industry."Livebookings offers an opportunity to take the restaurant industry's involvement with the web a great step forward," says Karen Hanton of Toptable .co.uk, an online eating portal that recently adopted the system. "It will always be limited by the number of establishments prepared to make the necessary investment, but does provide them with an exciting and immediate marketing channel."Quadranet claims the system is currently being used to take as many as 5% of the total bookings in some participating restaurants, believing it to rise to 20% by 2005. Further leaps in the technology are expected. The company has already developed location-specific services capable of identifying a user's precise location and presenting them with a list of nearby establishments that have seats ready and waiting, expected to come online early next year."For years, they have said that if you wanted to get the best table in town at short notice you had to be either a national celebrity or on first-name terms with the head waiter," says Stratford. "Soon, all you'll need to know is which button to press."
Once, advertisers told us that buying a certain brand of cheap cigar could help us think that little bit bigger. Today,     the net is telling advertisers we will buy their stuff if only they start thinking that little bit smaller.The problems     with web advertising have been well documented. Despite the best efforts of the new media industry, banner ads - the     main vehicle of web advertisers - have remained a blunderbuss. Banners are not good at reaching an interested     audience, and even if they do, most people have become so adept at "tuning out", they couldn't tell you who was     advertising on a page they had just read.There have been attempts to break through the surfer's disinterest:     pop-ups, pop-unders and the rest. But relying on irritation to get the message across is not a great idea, advertisers     have found. Enter the web's best search engine, Google.Google was - and still is - devoid of banner ads. Yet the     company is boasting a web advertising success story by thinking that little bit smaller. Google has rethought the     business of net advertising. The solution has been to focus on getting results for advertisers - in the same way it has     focused on getting results for its users.The upshot is the tiny, two inch by one text advertisements alongside its     very accurate search results. Better still, anyone can buy the ads. Self-service advertising on one of the net's most     popular sites is taking off. Why? We need to look back at the problem. Advertisers have treated the web as if it was a     mass medium from day one, quite like TV.The first banner ads appeared on the net magazine, HotWired, in October     1994, yet a web user today would recognise their look. But the online world in which they work has been transformed.     Then, there were around 3,000 websites in the world. Today, the Hobbes internet timelinewww.zakon.org/robert/internet/timelinereckons there are around 30 million. There are sites serving niches within niches,     meaning web users are a thinly spread bunch.We are all far too busy - and too rushed, since most of us still pay by     the minute - to click on a banner that is only vaguely related to our interests. Google's answer has been to pick what     advertisements are shown to you based on the keywords you have entered.There is nothing new in this kind of ad     selection: search sites have done it for years. What is different is that this is the site's only criterion for showing     the ad. If a rich advertisers wants more eyeballs, they pick a more popular keyword. But they cannot buy a better     placement - only user relevance determines when and where (in relation to other advertisers) the ad appears.It     means that every ad that appears on Google should be perfectly targeted. Let's say I am a London florist. I only want     my text ad to appear when a user types the search phrase "London florist", and Google helpfully provides an estimate     of how many times my ad will be shown if I pick this phrase. It tells me that around 1,600 searches a week are carried     out using this trigger: my ad would be shown 1,600 times a week, costing $24.00. Normally, I would expect only around     2% of surfers to click on a normal banner ad.But, with users already searching for a "London florist", I would hope for     much more on Google. That is the theory, at least. Anecdotal evidence from Adword users suggests many are meeting     with more success than "traditional" ads, with clickthrough rates of up to 45% reported for some (very tightly     targeted) campaigns. Rates are much lower - around 4% - for more general ads, with success appearing to be in     inverse proportion to the popularity of the keywords.Moreover, the news aggregation site, reported a success rate     of 10.21% (details athttp://www.contentbiz.com/sample.cfm?contentID=1408). The self-service ad isn't just good     news for advertisers. The websites that sell them are reporting healthy revenues from this new form of ad.Philip     Caplan, the man behindFuckedcompany.com- the site that has documented the demise of so many ad-supported sites     - says his system of self-service ads is making more than enough to cover the modest costs of his popular site. He     now plans to sell his httpads self-service system to other niche websites.Meanwhile Pyra, the company behindBlogger.com, is working on its own system called PyRads, which is being trialled on the Blogger.com front page. We     should not expect every weblog in the world to suddenly turn a profit. But, by thinking small, these tiny ads might     offer an alternative to a big, old problem for advertisers - and a big old irritation for users: the banner ad.
In the face of an economic slowdown, the heat is being turned up on e-commerce directors to ensure they hold on to precious customers.  In this grim online climate, suppliers of the latest customer relationship management software are hoping they can lift the gloom by offering anything from talking virtual sales assistants to speedier email reply systems.Chris Ezekiel, the managing director of Kiwilogic, which specialises in the creation of virtual web assistants, believes cyber staff can slash the costs of traditional call centres and stop web shoppers logging off in frustration because they cannot get the information they need. The likes of Olympus and Cadbury-Schweppes have signed up virtual assistants and Ezekiel belives the ability of avatars to work 24/7 and communicate with thousands of customers at once, either through text messages or by talking, makes them indispensable during tough times."Companies go on about how call centre reps give answers in different ways. Virtual assistants always give the same information. They are never sick. They don't take holidays!"CRM vendors are scathing about the standards of customer service on the web, partly, of course, to drum up demand. Sean Kearns, vice-president of Talisma, which works with Virgin and Bupa, believes online standards should always match offline ones. Talisma provides live online chat services so you can exchange text messages with a sales rep. The company also provides email management systems so specific emails are routed to the correct departments.But don't people simply prefer human contact? Kearns agrees to a point but feels that basic services such as fast email replies can make a big difference to the fortunes of an e-tailer. "When you send an email and don't get a response, people get turned off." Amazon has more than 4m customers on its UK database.Being able to access information on an individual's buying habits and being able to monitor responses to emails is a big advantage. The company centralises marketing communications to ensure customers are not bombarded with irrelevant messages.  Amazon UK's managing director, Robin Terrell, says a lot of work has gone into cre  ating a site that is easy to navigate but his long-term aim is to make the web store more personal."The more we can tailor the shopping experience to individual customers the better." Amazon aims to present customers with a home page, carrying their own name, with content that reflects their interests.  The content of Amazon's new personal stores will be weighted to reflect previous purchases. It is this versatility that gives the web an advantage over traditional shops.If you enjoy buying crime novels for example, it would be impossible for your local bookshop to stack their window with PD James books as soon as they saw you approaching. In a recent report, PricewaterhouseCoopers Consulting argued that the challenge of CRM is to ensure that customers get the same standards of experience on the web, on the phone, or interacting through the television."It's about making sure you take an integrated approach to how you interact with customers," explains Chris Colley, a consultant for PwC    Consulting's CRM division. E-commerce sites must, he says, always have a single view of a customer. If a user gets stuck on a page and rings the call centre, then, he argues, the reps should already know what is going on."Customers are getting more demanding in what they are expecting from who they do business with. Brand loyalty is getting less relevant now customers have so much choice. The name of the game in CRM is using information you have about a customer to make that experience as good as possible."There is no question that CRM solutions, despite their promises to eventually turn your customers into evangelists for your e-business, can be a nightmare to implement. Axiom, a customer service fulfillment company, has the unenviable task of working with BT Openworld to speed up the delivery of its much lampooned ADSL services and is looking to automate the process."It sounds quite mammoth. But this is something BT Openworld is committed to. Customers don't realise how big a deal it is,"   says Paul Johns, Axiom's vice president of marketing. Inevitably in the current climate, CRM companies are going to talk up their offerings. But there are some innovations. The CRM firm Adeptra is launching a two-way alerting service. You can register on a site for a reminder to buy a service or product at a specific time. The alerts can be sent to you via email, fax, SMS or by voice to your phone and they come with instructions on how to carry out the transaction."Consumers are overloaded with offers and inappropriate inquiries. We aim to deliver specific alerts tailored to your requests. It's so relevant that you would not think of it as advertising," says Adeptra's founder, Eric Van der Kleij, who sees the service as a way of bringing repeat business to e-commerce sites. There are and will be CRM solutions that flop spectacularly. But one of the positive aspects of a recession could be that e-commerce sites start to make the experience of their customers more of a priority. This could put them in a much stronger position when the cold online trading conditions eventually start to thaw.Web sites:www.kiwilogic.comwww.talisma.comwww.adeptra.comwww.axiom-eu.com
What is the hpDJ?It monitors the responses of clubbers and uses that to select what music it plays (seewww.hpl.hp.com/news/2001/jan-mar/hpDJdemo.html). It can also use feedback from the crowd to compose new music by assembling samples and loops on a virtual multitrack recorder, and then plays the new "record". The intention is for clubbers to be jointly composing the music they are dancing to, with no DJ and music producers involved.What kind of computers/systems do you use to develop such products?We useHewlett-Packard Kayak XU800 workstationsrunning Windows 2000. The first hpDJ was developed inMatLab, a mathematical programming environment that needs a lot of memory. The most recent version is in Java, and that will run on a mid-rangeHP OmniBook laptop. We also use anHP Jornada palm-topto demo the MP3 sound files created by our system.Where did the idea come from?I am a (very) amateur DJ, plus I have a long background of working in artificial intelligence (AI) research, so I realised AI techniques could be used to create a computer system that can do a lot of what a human DJ does. Earlier this year, DJ Judge Jules said: "It's all about spontaneity... which can't be supplied by anything other than the human real deal." With the new version of hpDJ, the real deal no longer has to be human.Why did you develop the hpDJ?Researchers at HP Labs have a lot of freedom to pursue whatever interests them and hpDJ fits in nicely with HP's interests in digital entertainment.Won't the hpDJ take away the "shared experience" of clubbing?It will make clubbing even more of a shared experience: the crowd will be communally (yet indirectly) creating the music they hear next, on the basis of their responses to the music playing now.When will you test it?Probably not until next summer. All we would need is a willing bunch of clubbers: DJs are no longer required.Favourite websites?Juno Recordsfor a huge range of dance vinyl and great service;Yamaha A5000; and my DJ decks and mixer. I have a Yamaha QY70 "walkstation" - a digital music multi-voice synthesiser and sequencer with audio effects and a 16-track mixer all in a battery-powered box the size of a videocassette -fantastic for writing music on long flights.What next?Maybe we will release a web-demo of the music-production side of hpDJ. I am pretty sure it will be fun.
