When you invented Midi, did you realise what a standard it would become?It's pretty amazing - there are few standards that have lasted 20 years and are still basically on version 1.0. It's great that it's still being used everywhere... it's one of the few 100% supported standards. I kind of started the whole thing, then most of the work was done by Roland and Sequential, with two or three companies involved when we first developed it in 1981-82.Did advances in Pentium processors help make the software-synth "revolution" achievable?Yeah. We basically went through three generations of software-synth. The first one we did 10 years ago, under contract to    Intel. That was on a 486 and was very basic. When the Pentiums emerged, we licensed the second-generation soft-synths toCreative Labsand they sold millions. It still wasn't a professional instrument, just a slightly better General Midi-type synthesizer. When the Pentiums got to 200Mhz and faster, we were working onRealitybecause there was enough horse-power to get a reasonable number of voices going at the same time.Is Warez stifling smaller software development companies?I've heard some people claim that only one in every five pieces of music software is actually paid for. It may be as high as one in 10! The average person doesn't see the value of something they can't hold in their hands. It's the same with people stealing music. Kids now download to an MP3 quite happily as they   don't feel the need to hold something when they buy it... everything's becoming virtual, which makes it easier for people to rationalise taking it free.Any opinion on file-sharing?It's a no-win situation for everybody. They're starting to get the right idea with things such asiTunes. You should be able to buy a song for $1 or less, then once you've bought it you should be able to use it how you want. Forget copyright protection, as people will always find a way around it. If you try to fight it and stick to the old models,you'll make the problem much worse than it needs to be.How about ring tones outselling CD singles?That's a perfect example. From the beginning they had a cheap, easy way for people to purchase ring tones, which are going to get more complex as they get General Midi in them.   Because they're so cheap, people have no reason to copy them. Companies make money and everybody's happy.Bookmarks?To me, the web is strictly a tool. I never use it just for entertainment so I don't have favourite sites. I've been working with computers so long the last thing I want to do with my free time is spend it on a computer! When PCs and Apple 2es came out, it was a long time until I had one at home. I just use Google as a jumping-off point for everything. If I'm travelling, I might hit &lt;A HREF="http://www.expedia.com"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;ExpediaorTravelocity.Visit:www.davesmithinstruments.com&#183;Dave Smith's new hardware synth Evolver is out now
Spam blockerMicrosoft plans to add SmartScreen spam-blocking technology in all its mail products, and says "early versions" have already been introduced in Outlook 2003, MSN 8 and Hotmail. It will be released as the Intelligent Message Filter for Exchange Server 2003. As well as whitelists and blacklists, SmartScreen uses heuristics based on "a neural network-like algorithm" trained on a statistically sound sample of email.www.microsoft.com/exchange/imfAMD in the SunSun Microsystems says it plans to produce Sun Fire enterprise servers based on AMD's 64-bit Opteron processor, starting next year. The 2- and 4-processor servers will be offered with either Solaris, Sun's version of Unix, or the Unix-clone, Linux, but not Windows Server. Until recently, Sun concentrated on selling systems based on its own Sparc chips, but moved into the low end of the Intel market after buying Cobalt, which sold cheap Linux servers. However, the company's revenues have fallen for the past 10 quarters as buyers have moved from high-priced Unix/Risc servers to cheaper Linux/Intel and Windows/Intel systems.Free callsTalkPro has launched the R-100 internet phone, which looks much like a conventional handset. It's different because it plugs into an Ethernet hub and allows users to make VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) calls via the net without using a computer. Each TalkPro phone has its own 7-digit number and users can make free calls to other TalkPro phones anywhere in the world - a good reason to buy them in pairs. Users can also connect to conventional phones at what TalkPro says are "reasonable rates". The R-100 costs $169 (&#163;100) in the US, and supplements the $109 U-100 computer phone launched last year.www.aicosystems.com/productsSmall is bigPretec Electronics from Taiwan has produced what it describes as the world's first three-in-one pen. The DP-353 iPen includes a ballpoint for writing on paper, a stylus for use with a handheld computer or smart phone, and a VGA camera that can take up to 100 pictures on the 8MB internal memory. Files can be transferred to a PC via a USB port. Pretec also showed a tiny SmartCam 1.3 mega pixel camera that fits the SDIO slot now fitted to most modern PDAs (personal digital assistants) running Palm OS or the PocketPC version of   Windows CE. The company has also developed a CompactFlash card that holds 6GB of data, but says this is currently "for evaluation only".www.pretec.comKey moverIf you don't like the position of a key on the Cubeboard keyboard, you can pluck it out and swap it with a different key, to suit your needs. Each key has its own identity tag so it retains its function - an X is always an X, for example, no matter where you put it. The keyboard has PS2 and USB connectors and can work with PCs or Macs. Howard Hui, from Cubeboard Ltd, says the keyboard is "in the process of manufacturing" for sale in Hong Kong and the US. Also, the basic idea could be incorporated into a wide array of products.www.personalkeyboard.comUSB watchIf you need to carry up to 256MB of data around, why not wear it on your wrist? Hong Kong's Xonix Electronic Watch Company and Urtrend Technology have developed watches where the USB cord and plug are tucked into the wrist strap. (Urtrend, which trades in the US as Lenten USA, says it could take the data storage up to a gigabyte "but no one has asked for that yet". Urtrend's smarter-looking Power Watch uses the same idea but doesn't have the built-in cable. Instead, it has a miniport, so users also need to carry a miniport to USB adaptor. Urtrend has also built an MP3 player into a watch.www.xonixwatch.comMobile keyboardYou can get good portable keyboards for Palm and similar handhelds, but different devices often require different keyboards, even if they are from the same manufacturer. Chain Tay Technology from Taiwan is solving that problem with a universal keyboard that works with many PDAs and several incompatible mobile phones. Instead of using the devices expansion or communications socket, the SK6688 wireless keyboard communicates via infra-red. The main problem with the keyboard is that when you unfold it, you get two half-keyboards, with an annoying gap between the TGB keys and YHN.www.chaintay.com
British organisations are failing to get real productivity gains from the &#163;50bn they spend every year on information and communications technologies (ICT), according to a report from iSociety, a special research project set up by the Work Foundation thinktank.Implemented correctly, ICT can deliver a potential five to seven-fold return on investment, says Max Nathan, iSociety researcher and co-author of Getting by, Not Getting On: Technology in UK Workplaces, published today.Unfortunately, British workplaces often get stuck in "low-tech equilibrium". Nathan points to a series of causes. Technology companies oversell their products to technically illiterate managers, who then deploy the kit in inappropriate ways. Employees get no real training. And the IT support staff that could help are often disconnected (physically and culturally) from management and workers. "The result is not that everything grinds to a halt, but that things bump along the bottom and don't work as well as they could."ISociety's 12-month effort began with a survey of existing research, which showed that, despite mass   take-up of technology (three-quarters of the workforce use a PC or another form of ICT), the work people do, or get done, hasn't changed much. "Recent research suggests that, while ICT investment did have an impact over the 90s, the positive effects are now tailing off," says Nathan. To find out why, iSociety researchers visited eight organisations, from small businesses to multinationals, to see how employees used ICT.Their findings undermine much conventional wisdom about technology and its effects, such as the claim that computer networks in general, and email in particular, undermine hierarchies, enabling information to flow more easily around organisations. The report shows that barriers within firms are expressed in new ways via new technologies - via email style, for example. Nathan says they discovered top-level management asserting status by sending terse emails littered with spelling mistakes, sending the message they were too busy for or above this new technology stuff, thus undermining the systems they invested in.In the past, the technology industry made big claims for the productivity gains its products would bring. "But technology is not transforma tional on its own," says Nathan. "The rhetoric of solutions you hear from the technology industry is particularly corrosive. It implies that you can just stick this stuff on the desk and things will start changing."Technology firms are learning from their mistakes, he says, citing the positive response to the report's findings from Microsoft which, along with PriceWaterhouseCooper, sponsors iSociety. "The industry sees that it needs to push the message that   technology is not transformational on its own, that if it is to work properly, it requires complementary investments in people and processes, too."Involving employees who will use the technology in the process is crucial, says Nathan, who points to the problems experienced by companies deploying knowledge management (KM) systems. Often, he says, they fail to look at how employees work. Many have laboured hard to   gather knowledge they don't want to share on one general system. The best workplace KM system recognised this. Set up by a public sector organisation, it let employees keep certain bits of information to themselves. However, the key products of the agency - position papers and the like - had standard public locations on the network and there were rules around their use.In contrast, many firms set up big KM systems that try to pool all an organisation's knowledge on one network. These systems are often ignored by employees, who instead manage data via other tools (for example email in-boxes). "You get the worst of both worlds," says Nathan. "You've spent money on a KM system no one uses and you're paying for extra storage because people are filing everything in their in-boxes."Email shows that employees still need guidance. Organisations have assumed that because email is easy to pick up, they can just let employees get on with it. The result is internal email overload as workers spam each other with pointless work-related mail. Firms that develop guidelines avoid this problem, says Nathan. "Where email was working well, people had a strong sense about what appropriate use was."The report suggests various ways out of low-tech equilibrium. Nathan says there should be compulsory IT literacy tests for "the lost generation of managers" - the bosses who know less about technology than employees. Organisations should offer more ICT training for employees.Overall, Britain's firms may need help to break out of the condition. In the end, the government should get involved, Nathan says, venturing that it should consider technology driving licences for all employees. "One IT director said we wouldn't send people into a factory without training on the machines but we seem perfectly happy to send people into workplaces using ICT with no training. Then we get frustrated when we don't get as much out of the stuff as we thought. If you put it like that, it's a no-brainer."Links  Getting by, not getting onwww.theworkfoundation.com/research/isociety
Here are threepicks from the show floorat Comdex, and with luck there should be a few more in this week's Online. I particularly liked the Zalman TechTNN 500A, which Glenn Garrett may offer fromhttp://www.quietpc.com/.
Users of the internet payment service PayPal were today warned about a new virus that tries to trick them into revealing their bank details and other personal information.The virus takes the form of an email appearing to be from PayPal, warning customers that their account is about to expire. The message asks for a series of details, including the user's credit card number, pin and expiry date, full name, date of birth and social security number.MessageLabs, which provides email security systems, said it had intercepted more than 53,000 copies of the virus since it first became aware of it on Monday afternoon.It said the virus, which has been dubbed the Mimail email worm, originated in France, but has been detected in 77 countries. Around three-quarters of the emails were sent from the United States and 8% from the UK.It is the 10th variation of the virus, all of which have pretended to be from PayPal, eBay's online payments system, which allows shoppers to make payments or receive money securely over the internet.The worm arrives as an attachment to an email called either InfoUpdate.exe or www.paypal.com.pif. It spreads by emailing copies of itself to email addresses from the infected computer.The sender of the email appears as Do-Not-Replypaypal.com and the subject is either "important" followed by blank spaces and random characters or "problems with your PayPal account".MessageLabs warned consumers not to open the email if they received it and always to be suspicious of emails asking for personal details.It said it was part of a new and sinister trend emerging among virus writers to create viruses as a means of committing fraud.Mark Sunner, of MessageLabs, said: "In the case of Mimail.J, the virus is nothing more than a vehicle for the delivery of an email designed to defraud unsuspecting users."This suggests that the mindset of the virus author is changing, whereas once disruption was motivation enough, we are now seeing a new breed of cybercriminal intent on using viruses as a means of lining their own pockets."He said these viruses adopted a "hit and run"-style approach, duping a crop of unsuspecting users before a new variant was released.
It is big, very black, and the sexiest thing I have ever seen on four  casters. And it has one feature that may actually sell a few: it is  completely silent. "It" is the Totally No Noise TNN 500A personal computer  from Zalman Tech in Seoul, South Korea, and it is silent because it has no  fans. It's all done with pipes and heatsinks (see the pictureshere)  and I want one. Desperately.Another product that prompted a more affordable attack of technolust was  the Digitalway MPIOHS100, which looks a lot like one of those  keychain-style USB pocket drives, only fatter. In fact, it works the same  way: you just plug this pocketable $200 (about £120) gadget into your personal computer  and it provides a quick and handy way of moving files about. The  difference is that the Digitalway - the name of the Korean company that  makes it - holds not a meagre 256 megabytes of files, but 1.6 gigabytes.  Of course, you cannot get so much storage for so little money with Flash  memory chips: Digitalway's little secret is that it has a tiny US-made  hard disk inside.My third pick from Comdex 2003 is the sort of thing James Bond's M would  have liked, although, in use, it makes you feel much more like one of the Men  In Black. Pretec, a little Taiwanese company, describes it as "the world's  first 3-in-1 pen-shaped digital camera". The DP-353 iPen looks like a pen,  and you can write with it. You can also switch from a ball point to a  stylus and use it on the screen of your Palm or PocketPC. But hold it up  and you can take VGA (640 x 480 pixel) pictures with it, storing up to 100  snaps in the 8 megabytes of built-in memory.The show floor at this year's Comdex sported dozens of similarly novel  gadgets, including at least three USB watches with integral storage, lots  of little cameras, internet phones, MP3 players, portable keyboards, and a  printer designed for mobile phones. In the absence of Japanese giants such  as Sharp and Sony, most were shown by small companies from Korea,  Taiwan and Hong Kong, which seem to be hotbeds of innovation at the  moment.Finding these nifty little gadgets has been one of the joys of Comdex for  at least 20 years. However, the organisers at MediaLive International tell  us it is not what the show is about. "This is year one of the new Comdex,"  says Robert Priest-Heck, president and chief executive. "We've made the  changes needed to meet the needs of companies today."The problem is that Comdex has been in rapid decline. Only three years  ago, more than 200,000 visitors flocked to Sin City to see the latest and  greatest offerings in the IT world. This year, the show is expected to be  about a quarter of that size. There is nothing like as much to see, and not  as many people coming to see it.However, Priest-Heck argues that IT is now a $916bn market, and 90%  of IT spending comes from the business-to-business sector. "The industry  needs an annual gathering," he says. "Comdex is that gathering."The sort of thing he has in mind is the announcement that Sun  Microsystems' boss, Scott McNealy, made during his Comdex keynote on  Monday: that next year, Sun would start to sell enterprise servers based  on 64-bit AMD Opteron chips. And the announcement that Siebel Systems'  boss, Tom Siebel, made on the same stage on Tuesday: that he was going to  spend millions of dollars promoting a customer relationship marketing  system, CRM OnDemand.But you did not have to travel to Las Vegas to hear about those, and being  on the spot was not a big deal. Am I really going to tell my grandchildren  (if I get any) that I was there when Scott made the big AMD  chip announcement? I think not.Being able to run your fingers over the heatpipes and cooling fins of a  TNN 500A is probably not going to thrill the descendents either, of  course, but it had a dimension you cannot possibly get just from reading  about it.
There's a list of the top 10 internet fads onKuro5hinat the moment, creating quite a discussion. It made a fun read, and then I thought... this isn't quite right, is it? Sure, it's funny to see some of the old technologies remembered for a laugh, but a few of them weren't a fad at all.Take the number one fad, PointCast, the ill-fated "push" technology that was all the thing in 1997. This was a system that regularly sent headline and stock info to your desktop, without you actually going on to the web to ask for it. How we all laughed at the foolishness of it at the time. It was just soooo not dot.com. "The internet," we all said haughtily, "isnotTV. We want togo lookfor information, not passively sit there as it comes to us."Well, I've got one word for you: RSS. In tandem with apps like NetNewsWire, it bears more than a passing resemblance to PointCast. "Push" (whisper it) isn't just still alive, it's thriving, so healthy it's cool.Another old favourite is in there too: Wap, at number three. which is surprising since I'd say that it's experiencing a quiet and very profitable rehabilitation in Europe these days with services like Vodafone Live! (although nobody, but nobody, calls it Wap anymore).At least Wap fares one better than "anything sold online", which seems a little glib until you realise they're not really taking a general swipe at the large number of (profitable) online stores around today, just those selling petfood. And even that's flawed: sure, getting tens of millions to launch a business selling petfood online was lunacy, but it doesn't mean that selling petfood online is necessarily a terrible idea. There's probably a pensioner down in Cornwall (it's always Cornwall, don't ask me why) selling her own brand of catfood online, at a healthy profit, right now.Seems to me this isn't a celebration of faddy ideas which somehow blagged their way to venture capital millions, but a memorial to (mostly) good ideas sunk by the irrational optimism that surrounded them when they first appeared. And irrational dissing of ideas is just as dumb as irrational boosting of them...
Three students in Sydney have been convicted of swapping music files over the internet, in the first case of its kind in the world.The students, Charles Kok Hau Ng, 20, Peter Tran, 19, and Tommy Le, 21, pleaded guilty to 68 copyright infringement charges.Ng and Tran were both given 18-month suspended sentences, while Ng and Le were also given 200 hours of community service.The trio set up the MP3/ WMA Land website which had an archive of 390 CDs and 1,800 tracks to download.Prosecutors said that 7 million people had visited the site, but were only able to turn up evidence of 58 music files distributed through it.Ng's lawyer, Chris Levingston, said the trio had made no financial gain and that the music industry had made no loss, although Australian police said the site could have cost the industry &#163;24m."This is a crime which is extremely common, relatively hard to detect, and with substantial penalties for people who engage in this activity. Mr Ng was a scavenger, he was not a person who set out to break the back of the music industry," Mr Levingston said.This is the first time individuals have been convicted of a criminal offence for internet music piracy, although there have been civil cases.The arrests in April followed a joint police and Music Industry Piracy Investigations (Mipi) inquiry.Mipi's Michael Speck attacked the sentence outside Sydney's Downing Centre local court. "In the rest of the developed world you're likely to get a sentence of between 24 and 36 months. Here you get a slap on the wrist."Australia has some of the toughest laws on file-swapping in the developed world. A court decision earlier this year granted record companies access to university computer networks to search for illegally copied music files.
It is a chilling cyber-scenario as set out by Singapore government minister Ho Peng Ke. Instead of a backpack of explosives, he has warned - justifying new laws against "computer misuse" - a terrorist could create just as much devastation by sending "a carefully engineered packet of data" into the computer systems which control essential services, such as the power stations.The supposed menace of "cyber-terrorism" has become the subject of alarming predictions of this kind since September 11, most of them originating in the new sense of vulnerability felt in the US. The subject conjures an image of Dr No come back to life with supreme keyboard skills. In the words last year of US homeland security director Tom Ridge: "Terrorists can sit at one computer connected to one network and can create worldwide havoc."Not surprisingly, the first place where this anxiety has been translated into heavy-handed law is Singapore. The government there now has the discretion to take "pre-emptive action against computer terrorism", on the say-so of the security agencies, without ever being called to account. On Monday, some MPs feebly protested their fears that the new Computer Misuse Act might be... misused. Then they passed it on the vague assurance of Mr Ho that they should not "worry about abuse".As more utilities become dependent upon computer programmes, the opportunities for cyber-mischief have multiplied, but the threat is now being wildly exaggerated. One hypothetical scenario envisages a cyber-terrorist targeting children through the production computer of a cereal manufacturer, which is instructed to increase the iron content to a dangerous level. In reality it would taste too bitter to eat.It is prudent to ensure that vital systems are, in the jargon, "air-gapped" against external intervention. But one of the best safeguards is still the human eye: no critical service such as air traffic control should be allowed to function without human monitoring. Unchecked error, not terror, is the most likely threat.
"Seiko Epson is to show off the µFR – a micro flying robot – at the International Robot Exhibition in Tokyo later this week," saysThe Inquirer.
"World No 1 chess player Garry Kasparov's latest attempt to conquer a computer program ended in a tie on Tuesday when he drew the fourth and final game of his match against X3D Fritz, which had voice-recognition and virtual reality features," reportsReuters.
"Microsoft plans to introduce a song-downloading service next year that will compete with similar offerings from Apple Computer Inc., Roxio Inc.'s Napster and others. News of the service was first reported Monday by The Wall Street Journal," reportsAP. "A company spokeswoman confirmed that Microsoft's MSN Web site will offer such a service, but declined to provide further details."
Interesting news from Apple this afternoon - they've just unveiled anew iMacwith a 20-inch display that offers twice the screen area of my 15-inch version, and a new dual processor1.8GHz G5 tower. In the UK, the iMac will be priced at £1,749 including VAT, with the G5 machine at £1,899, which doesn't seem bad. In addition, the existing 1.6 GHz model - only launched in the summer - falls to £1,399, including tax.The most interesting bit is the iMac announcement - what does this do to the rumours that said there was a completely new form-factor iMac due out soon? I'd suggest it sets them back a bit - and leaves the traditional big announcement slot in early January tantalisingly empty. Let the rumour mill begin...
Internet pioneers are gathering this week to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the Arpanet, the first step towards the creation of the world wide web.Celebrations are focusing on University College London, where the first fully fledged link was made between UCL and the Kjeller Norway university in 1973. The Arpanet was the precursor to the internet, and was designed by Dr Robert E Kahn and Dr Vinton G Cerf, who today receive honorary fellowships from UCL.The earliest link - albeit crude - was made in 1969 by Professor Peter Kirstein of UCL who contacted the US in 1969 by connecting to the very first version of Arpanet. He went on to provide the UK's principal internet link between the UK and the US throughout the 1980s.Professor Kirstein said: "During the late 60s and early 70s, research departments in universities were making huge technological strides forward that contributed greatly to the birth of the internet. UCL in particular had a prominent role and made the first UK connection to the Arpanet, making the enterprise international for the first time."&#91;Bob Kahn and Vint Cerf's&#93; joint development of TCP/IP &#91;internet protocol&#93; has led to a communication network that links people regardless of geographical location.   That has made a lasting impact on our education, quality of life and economy. This ceremony and the events that will take place throughout the week mark the discovery of the internet, and signal the start of a new era of internet developments."Dr Cerf said: "UCL has had a central role in the evolution of the internet and it has been a privilege to maintain a collegial relationship with the UCL team as it explores new territory in the endless internet space."The inauguration ceremony of the honorary fellows is due to take place at 5pm today.
BT yesterday pledged to bring fast, always-on internet access to the whole of the UK by 2005 and called on the government and industry to work together to make Broadband Britain a reality.BT chief executive Ben Verwaayen said the government had a role to play in "stimulating demand, motivating people and making sure local partnerships are working".BT received the backing of Tony Blair, who welcomed the plan in his speech yesterday to the CBI annual conference.But while BT has pledged to deliver 100% coverage, 600 of its 5,000 exchanges are outside the plan be cause enabling them to provide broadband is uneconomic. These exchanges serve about 100,000 people, mainly in remote areas such as Papa Stour and Mallaig Soay in Scotland.BT hopes that regional development agencies and local groups will help fund broadband in these areas.Peter Radley, director of the wired region programme for the South East England Development Agency, explained that communities not covered by BT's plans could use a range of technologies such as wireless access and satellite to get broadband. Some areas may qualify for EU grants."There are things that can be done," he said.
Online's former columnist Bill Gates is back on Newsweek's cover, according to thispress release: The Next Frontiers: Bill's Next Big Thing.Steven "Insanely Great" Levydid the Newsweek piece, and has also provided MSNBC with aninterview with Gates.You can alsoAsk Billa question.There's a transcript of Gates's Comdex keynotehere, along with the video.There's also a white paper onStuff I've Seenin pdf format.
What to Do When Your Mom Discovers Your Blog ByBlogger Support
"Wal-Mart Stores is looking to its core customer base with its new online music service, offering a library of largely country music songs for less than the 99-cent per download industry standard," reportsAP.According to the report: It really represents the mass market stepping up to digital music services and saying, 'We're almost ready to adapt this on a big scale,'" said Jacob Kaldenbaugh, an analyst with Harvest Equity Research in San Francisco. "This is downloading music going mainstream."
A betting man would probably have backed the Fritz chess program to beat the world's best human player, Garry Kasparov. However, the big K has just levelled the scores in their match by playing moves the program didn't understand.New Scientisthas a good report. The final game is tomorrow.
The government today launched a website to help headteachers and local authorities plan their budgets, as education experts said the funding system needed to be simplified.Launching the site,www.teachernet.gov.uk/schoolfinance, schools standards minister David Miliband said it should help headteachers plan their budgets by calculating how the minimum per pupil increase will affect their school. They will also be able to compare their income and expenditure with schools in similar circumstances.Last month the government announced plans to recruit city accountants to help headteachers manage school budgets as well as a minimum funding increase of 4% for each pupil for next year. The most cash-strapped schools are to be given funding boosts to avoid a repeat of this year's crisis - but the education secretary, Charles Clarke, also demanded that education authorities and heads take responsibility for restoring financial stability.The new website was launched today with a pledge to provide further support to headteachers. The site has been developed in partnership with the independent schools inspectorate, Ofsted, and the Audit Commission. It contains income and expenditure information on over 22,000 schools to help schools understand how they compare.All data contained in the website is anonymous so individual schools cannot be identified. However it does give schools the option to be contacted and engage in dialogue with other schools if they so wish.Mr Miliband said: "This benchmarking website is good news. It will give headteachers the opportunity to make the most informed decisions on school budgets and to plan confidently for the future."I recognise that the last few months have been difficult for schools. I want to praise schools and local education authorities across the country who have worked hard to address these difficulties."He added: "This is not just about money. New guidance being designed by KPMG and the National College for School Leadership will help headteachers plan and manage budgets effectively."But a group of education experts, who today published research on the funding crisis through thinktank Politeia, said what is needed is a simpler system.With four parts to school budget coming from three different sources, it is no wonder the system can break down, said the lead author, Adrian Bulter, assistant director of education at Wandsworth council."A system is needed which is simple and stable, and places more emphasis on success in distributing funding. &#91;This&#93; could be achieved by a single grant in place of the current four and linking funding closely to success rather than factors such as low attendance and poor attainment."Schools should be funded by one basic grant, which could be distributed through a simple national formula using set factors. With a clear simple formula, schools would know exactly where they stood," he said.Up to 2,000 teachers lost their jobs and some schools set a limit on teaching hours after the funding crisis hit schools earlier this year. It was blamed on changes in the funding mechanism, falling rolls and increasing teacher costs.
Dave Sifryon the growing pains of blog watch serviceTechnorati: "One year ago, when I started Technorati on a single server in my basement, we were adding between 2,000-3,000 new weblogs each day, not counting the people who were updating sites we were already tracking. In March of this year, when we switched over to a 5 server cluster, we were keeping up with about 4,000-5,000 new weblogs each day. Right now, we're adding 8,000-9,000 new weblogs every day, not counting the 1.2 Million weblogs we already are tracking. That means that on average, a brand new weblog is created every 11 seconds. We're also seeing about 100,000 weblogs update every day as well, which means that on average, a weblog is updated every 0.86 seconds."
Jack's in Sin City to cover the Comdex show - hisfirst report, on Bill Gates' keynote speech, is now up on Guardian Unlimited.
Hard to imagine two of the world's business leaders, one of them the world's richest man, donning sunglasses and dressing up as Morpheus and Neo to act out a spoof of The Matrix, complete with mid air leaps. That's what the Microsoft chairman, Bill Gates, did for a video he showed at the Aladdin theatre in Las Vegas on Sunday night, when giving his 20th consecutive keynote to open the Comdex computer trade show. At least it was better than the time they did a Harry Potter skit . . .Mr Gates was a hot ticket, albeit for one night only, in a town that has warmed to Elvis, Sinatra, Liberace and currently Celine Dion. But this year, he played to a smaller audience. He filled the 7,000-seater Aladdin and there were long queues for the 1,600-seat video "overspill", but for the past few years, he has played the mighty MGM Grand Arena, which seats more than 16,000.The move to a smaller venue reflected fears about the Comdex trade show rather than a lack of interest in Mr Gates's prognostications. Comdex used to attract well over 200,000 people to Sin City. Following three flat years in the PC market, the show organiser's brief spell in Chapter 11 bankruptcy, the effects of September 11 and the general recession, only 50,000 are expected this year.But if the crowd had been told what Mr Gates was going to show, quite a few might have given it a miss. Sure, there were Spot (smart personal object technology) wristwatches that are updated with messages via FM radio signals, but Mr Gates unveiled that idea last year. The Tablet PC - a portable notebook PC or slate that lets users write on the screen - also appeared, but Mr Gates has featured that in his past three Comdex keynotes.So what was new? Well, Mr Gates said Microsoft would add SmartScreen spam-blocking to all its mail software, including Hotmail. Anything that cuts down spam is good, of course, but it is not exactly a new idea.Mr Gates also showed some server software that would help companies to install patches to block viruses. Again, that is something companies will welcome, though they would probably prefer Microsoft to ship software with fewer security holes in the first place.And the piece de resistance was a search utility called Stuff I've Seen, which was demonstrated by one of Microsoft's senior researchers, Susan Dumais. This watches what you are doing and intelligently pops up Google-style references to other things you have seen, whether in files on your hard drive, in your email or on the web. It looked wonderful. However, if it ever appears, it will most likely be in Longhorn, the next version of Windows. That is unlikely to arrive until 2006.Over the past few years, Mr Gates has been able to show off a stream of new products at Comdex, including four new versions of Windows (such as the Tablet PC and Media Centre editions), two new versions of Microsoft Office, clever OneNote software, the whole .Net infrastructure, and dozens of gizmos such as Windows Companions (internet appliances), Windows Automotive (for cars), wireless screens, the Xbox games console, Pocket PC handhelds, mobile phones, smart wristwatches and more.Unfortunately, this year will probably be remembered as the year of The Matrix spoof - when the humorous aside became the main event.
A morning of surfing through the rapidly expanding political weblog scene takes me toHarry's Place, where there's been some good stuff on the diminishing quality of debate on some US political weblogs. It's a thought that had been forming since readingJeff Jarvisdenounce American dissenters as "cultural traitors" a few days back, and Harry's does a nice job of articulating what's happened, and bringing together some supporting linkage.A highlight is a quote fromDr Frank: "The blogosphere rewards hyperbole. Strongly worded, over the top denunciations get far more attention (links, trackbacks, little digital pats on the head from celebribloggers, commenters saying "you go girl" or the like) than temperate criticism. If you're a blogger in search of more traffic, you know what you have to do. Even when you're not really angling for attention, this dynamic is always in play in the blogospheric ecology: your over-the-top, hyperbolic posts will get linked a lot, while your measured, reasoned, temperate ones probably won't."That shrill, extremist voices are more likely to bring in the punters than moderate, reasoned ones is not a new notion for "old" media. But that, and the hard-nosed drive for pageviews which has always been "a-list" blogging's biggest dirty secret, will still likely disappoint the more idealistic bloggers who hoped their brave new world would nurture a different kind of debate.
There are a few strange things aboutthis interviewwith Sean Maloney, Intel's top wireless bod, on Cnet News.com (viaSimon Waldman). Maybe it's Maloney's assertion that wireless is the "next big thing" - seems to me this was the case exactly 12 months ago, when it was still the preserve of us chalk sign-making geeks, and now itisthe big thing. Maybe it's Maloney's apparently unironic use of the word "road warrior" to describe himself. But the worst bit is his description of a new Minority Report-style shopping experience in some (unnamed) US stores..."What Hyundai has done in its stores is to give all the store assistants PDAs (personal digital assistants). So when you come in the door, the guy says, "Good morning. What's your phone number?" and you give your number, he says, "Oh. Hi, John. You bought so-and-so here last week."Now, I don't know about you, but I tend to do all I can to avoid shop "assistants" when unhappy circumstance finds me shopping for anything other than gadgets (when tech shopping, sometimes it's fun to chat to someone just to see how long it takes for them to try and sell theextended warranty. I was recently offered one on a £25 tape recorder). But in what way would the scenario outlined above be useful to the shopper?Maloney goes on to explain (my italics): "The PDA willautomatically suggest what you want to buy today. So, by giving all the assistants PDAs, all the assistants become personal shoppers. You don't have to check out, because he'sgot your credit card detail there, so he just ticks off that you've got it, and you walk out the door. The experience for you is smoother, and the store has the opportunity to get you to buy more stuff."Like the charity "canvassers" who now assail you on every other London street corner, thus deterring you from donating to the charity they represent, this PDA-enabled hard selling would put me off even entering the store. In this high-tech future, I'm going to be a hermit shopping at home from the Littlewoods catalogue.
"The next release of the Microsoft® Windows® operating system, code-named "Longhorn," is an essential milestone for many reasons. It is the first operating system built with managed code and the first to host a new storage subsystem (code-named "WinFS") that revolutionizes the concept of a file system. It is also the first operating system to support a natural search technology (Natural UI) that automatically resolves many of the ambiguities inherent in query text. In addition, Longhorn is the first operating system designed from the ground up with security and trustworthy computing at the core. These and other features suggest that Longhorn will change the way applications are built—not something that happens every day," says Dino Esposito on the Microsoft Developer Network,MSDN.Groove's Ray Ozzie, a Longhorn design partner, also talks about it in an interview witheWeek. However, things don't look good for a Mac version of Groove. "I just don't have customer demand right now to fund a native port," says Ozzie. "I would love to do it. I would really love to do it. I just don't know how to fund it."
MM02, the former mobile arm of BT, is this week expected to record its first profit, fuelling speculation it could become a bid target for a larger European competitor such as KPN of Holland, Telef&#243;nica of Spain or Telecom Italia.The turnaround at the company will impress shareholders, who only six months ago were told it had lost more than &#163;10bn in 2002 after writing down the value of its third-generation mobile licences. Now analysts forecast that it should be in the black at the halfway stage in 2003, the first time the operation has made a profit after exceptional charges since its inception as Cellnet within BT in 1985.For years, Cellnet was jointly owned with Securicor, but BT bought out its stake in 1999. MM02 was demerged from BT in 2001.Analysts at Commerzbank and Deutsche Bank estimate that MM02 could record   interim profits of between &#163;60m and &#163;80m, but house broker Merrill Lynch has pencilled in about &#163;30m. Cazenove is estimating a loss of &#163;2m. The average figure from leading forecasters is that the company will make &#163;20m.MM02, chaired by former British Gas boss David Varley, and with Peter Erskine as chief executive, is said to have lifted its performance by attracting tens of thousands of extra customers, cutting debt to under &#163;500m, curbing capital expenditure and keeping a lid on costs.The company is also expected to tell investors that its German operation could make a profit by the end of 2004. There has been speculation that MM02 could merge its German arm with KPN, but Erskine may retain the business to make MM02 a more appealing proposition for a bidder seeking to operate both in Britain and on the Continent.&#183;Vodafone, which reports this week, is expected to reveal that it plans a share buyback of &#163;1bn to &#163;2bn.
It has been described as the internet's first blood sport and is fast becoming one of the web's favourite pastimes. Fed up with having their inboxes clogged with emails from Nigerian fraudsters promising untold riches, the victims are finally hitting back.Scam-baiting - replying to the emails and stringing the con artists along with a view to humiliating them as much as possible - is becoming increasingly popular with more than 150 websites chronicling the often hilarious results.Known as 419 fraud, after the section of the Nigerian penal code that it contravenes, the scam generates millions of pounds each year. According to the National Criminal Intelligence Service, the average loss in the UK stands at around &#163;35,000.Mike, a 41-year-old computer engineer from Manchester, runs the scam-baiting site 419eater.com, which started two months ago. 'Almost always the scammer will think you are a real victim and try their best to extract money. It started because I used to get a few emails, and although I knew it was a scam I never knew how it worked. I did some research, found out about scam baiting and decided to have a go. It's now almost a full-time hobby for me.'Like most baiters, Mike replies in the names of made-up characters. His sites specialise in collecting pictures of the scammers in order to make it more difficult to find new victims. Using the pretext that in order to believe they are real people they need to take a photograph holding up signs with the name of Mike's character, he has succeeded in getting one fraudster to pose with a piece of paper stating: MI Semem Stains. Other sites feature similar pictures with signs   reading 'Iama Dildo', 'Mr Bukakke' and 'Ben Dover'.Taking a leaf out of the 419 gangs' book, most of the scam baiters keep their true identities secret. There have been at least 25 murders linked to the 419 gangs. Last February a retired Czech doctor who had lost more than &#163;400,000 stormed into the Nigerian Embassy in Prague and shot dead the leading consul.A scam-baiting site run by 'Alexander Kerensky' focuses its efforts on 419 gangs based in Amsterdam. Adopting the persona 'Lillith Cova', an attractive but desperately lonely 27-year-old advertising executive from London, Kerensky exchanged emails with a man by the name of James for more than a month. During this time he received authentic-looking documents, including a power of attorney, entitling him to a 20 per cent share of $18 million.'The site started because I managed to lure James in front of an Amsterdam webcam and I wanted people to know what these scammers look like. I don't have anything against Nigerians. These people are, quite simply, outright criminals.'The oldest anti-scammer site is Scamorama, which aims to educate the public about the latest trends as well as waste as much of the fraudsters' time as possible. The original emails often claim the author has suffered a personal tragedy, usually the loss of a parent. A typical Scamorama reply claimed the recipient has also lost a parent in shocking circumstances, having witnessed their own father being shot. The email was signed 'Alfredo Corleone'.The ultimate aim of many anti-scammers is to turn the tables completely and get the 419 gangs to send them money. One of those who has succeeded is an Australian who baits under the name of J Cosmo Newbury and specialises in creating characters and situations that border on the surreal. After months of correspondence, one of his characters even received a marriage proposal.'I have a long history of writing loopy letters, so this was just an extension of that,' says Newbury. 'I think I was as surprised as anyone when the Nigerians fell for my stories, but I guess they are as gullible and as greedy as their victims. I know my efforts won't stop the scammers, but I have had emails from people who were tempted to reply but searched the internet and found my site and they thanked me for "saving" them.'Newbury has now published some of his favourite exchanges in the form of a book, Dancing with Thieves. It includes letters where he poses as a terrorist by the name of Princess Tikka Masala, a Chinese restaurateur called Hu Flung Dung and a retired mariner by the name of John Silver.
Top of many shopping lists this Christmas is likely to be a smartphone - a mobile device that makes voice calls yet secretly aspires to personal digital assistant (PDA) status by offering e-mail, web browsing, personal information systems and music/video playback.Deciding which one to buy is as much about choosing the operating system you feel most comfortable with as it is with the form factor of the handset itself.Windows PC owners will find the interfaces and applications of the Microsoft phones reassuringly familiar. However some critics are adamant the rival Symbian 7 system is the easiest to use and most suited to the smartphone form factor. There is also one phone, the Handspring Treo 600, that uses the Palm operating system.Here's our verdict on the six highest profile handsets. All prices are as part of a pay monthly contract package.Motorola MPx200Billing - The first tiny clamshell smartphone  Operating system - Windows Mobile 2003  Availability - Exclusively from Orange (www.orange.co.uk). Expected price is around £200.What's good - Incredible number of features in a tiny clamshell phone. Uses a Windows-based operating system to deliver POP3 e-mail, web access (pages are just about readable on the small screen) MP3/Windows Media music/video playback and truncated versions of Microsoft Outlook/Word etc. It sports a stylish design and its integrated antenna makes for an even more compact size.What's bad - No Bluetooth for connecting to headsets or PDAs. Motorola hasn't included a camera, though this is likely to be featured on future versions. Due to its size it is slightly tricky to input data.A miracle of miniaturisation, this makes rivals handsets from Nokia and Orange look positively bulky. Can't compete with the usability of the larger PDA style handsets though.Handspring Treo 600Billing - All the benefits of Palm's operating system in a pocketable mobile.  Operating system - Palm 5.2.1  Availability - Exclusively from Orange (www.orange.co.uk). Retails for £120.What's good - Palm operating system is simple to use and there are thousands of cool applications that can be added to the handset. Features a proper keyboard that is faster for inputting data than rival systems. POP3 e-mail system is ultra simple to use, while its web browser is one of the best available.What's bad - Screen isn't as high resolution as its rivals. Not the best camera ever fitted to a smartphone. Protruding aerial spoils the look a little, though it does ensure voice calls are excellent quality.It works well, is a decent size and should be a no brainer for anyone who has loves the Palm operating system as they can transfer information and applications from their old device on to the new one. Budget price makes it even more attractive.Sony Ericsson P900Billing - An eagerly awaited revamp of one of the original smartphones - the Sony Ericsson P800.  Operating system - Symbian 7  Availability - Orange (£300), Vodafone (not yet available). (www.orange.co.uk / www.vodafone.co.uk)What's good - Hugely specified with excellent web browsing and e-mail, an integrated still and video camera, MP3 music player, personal information manager system, triple band facilities and Bluetooth. Its 65k colour screen is rivalled only by the XDA II in terms of size and resolution. Comes with excellent software package including secure access to corporate networks.What's bad - Not the coolest looking handset around - the P800 was more stylish. The pull-open flap is highly annoying. Poor quality music player. Also pricier than most of its rivals.Sony Ericsson hasn't quite cracked the phone/PDA hybrid, but it is getting close. The next version expected in summer 2004 and possibly including Wi-Fi could be the one to wait for.O2 XDA IIBilling - The revamp of 02's Microsoft powered XDA, now with added camera and Bluetooth.  Operating system - Windows Mobile 2003  Availability - Exclusive to O2 (www.O2.co.uk). Retails for around £350.What's good - It feels more like a PDA and has more power and speed (400 MHz Intel PXA 263 processor) than rival smartphones. Screen is outstanding, better than its rivals. Comprehensive selection of facilities including; audio and video playback (MP3/Windows Media), integrated still and video camera, Microsoft applications like Word and Excel as well as POP3 e-mail and web browsing.What's bad - Web browser isn't as good as some of its rivals. Ironically, voice calls are lower quality too. No stereo earphone output for music listening. Fairly pricey.For PDA style features on a phone the XDA leads the pack. If you like the Windows Mobile operating system and can accommodate its size it is well worth owning.Nokia 6600Billing - Nokia's small, but feature-packed smartphone.  Operating system - Symbian 7  Availability - Orange (www.orange.co.uk), Vodafone (www.vodafone.co.uk). Expected to retail for between £150-200What's good - Huge selection of features in a very small and thin, though slightly wide handset. Excellent connectivity including Bluetooth and infrared and compatibility with virtual private networks. Good quality camera.What's bad - Rather dull corporate design. Fiddly controls.A good all-rounder that is easy to use, has many excellent features and is competitively priced. The clamshell Motorola MPx 200 is arguably a much sexier phone though.Orange SPV E200Billing - The third incarnation of the Microsoft Windows powered SPV smartphone. Now with built-in camera and Bluetooth  Operating system - Windows Mobile 2003  Availability - Exclusive to Orange (www.orange.co.uk). No price yet.What's good - Like previous SPVs the E200 is fairly stylish in a corporate kind of way. The addition of a camera and Bluetooth puts it at the same level features-wise as the Sony Ericsson P900 and Nokia 6600. E-mail is simple to set up and use while the web browser just about squeezes pages onto the small screen. The video camera is excellent and unlike most other phones you can record mini movies of several minutes long using the camcorderWhat's bad - Some of the functions are a little too slow to operate. Candy bar type design not to everyone's taste.No longer outclassed by its Symbian rivals (Sony Ericsson P900 and Nokia 6600), the SPV has come of age.Due soon:Siemens SX1- Another feature packed smartphone in a small candy bar style form factor. Due very soon.Sendo X- British smartphone running the Symbian 7 OS. Boasts several innovative features. Again due very shortly.
Games and movies have shared a rocky relationship over the past 20 years, ever since the first movie-licensed game - E.T. The Extra Terrestrial was released on the Atari 2600.Subsequent videogame tie-ins have gone from being seen as cheap and low-quality cash-ins, frowned upon by hardcore gamers, to forming an important part of a movie's release package. Lord of the Rings, The Matrix and the Harry Potter films have all been accompanied by high-profile games.But while the commercial potential of movie-licence games is being taken much more seriously, which in-turn has resulted in a sharp increase in the quality surrounding such titles, the games industry is also looking to the film industry for creativity, better production values and talent.Over the past five years a few actors have made brief forays into the world of videogames. Some have lent their vocal talent to games, like David Warner in Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn and Tim Curry in Toonstruck. And during the vogue for Full Motion Video (FMVs) during the mid to late 90s they provided their actual imagery, in particular Mark Hamill and John Rhys Davis, who starred in several of the Wing Commander space combat games.Film actors might have been willing to work on the game versions of their films (if only to protect their own imagery). But, as Scot Bayless, Executive Producer for EA's upcoming Bond game Everything or Nothing, explains: "The A-list talent can often be willing to do the work, but they are ignorant about games. They have no idea what games are about and they don't care."The answer to this, in Scot's opinion, is time - and trying to make use of the talents of young Hollywood in particular. "As young actors grow up with our medium as a part of the life they lead they are going to be more and more comfortable with working in our space."But the risk the games industry is running as it seeks to emulate its more successful media sister, is that it will lose its individually as a unique entertainment form in its own right, and consequently become a derivative marketing tool.Chris Deering, President of Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, believes that although there is a lot that games can learn from movies, such as story-telling and conveying emotion through body language and expression, the movie industry is not going to drive the future of interactive entertainment."Our industry is much more complex and capable of dealing with flexibility and creativity if we only let it out and think broadly enough beyond simply those games that have sold up to now."While the quality of movie-licence games has improved greatly, helping to encourage established talent to climb onboard, the games industry needs to concentrate not on providing the best tie-ins possible, but on creating its own, individual intellectual properties.Original IPs are the life-blood of the games industry: not only are they the best selling games, but through films like Tomb Raider and Resident Evil they have shown that they are appealing to the wider media as well. The character and storyline of Take 2's Max Payne games have also been sold to a film studio recently, in a multi-million dollar deal.Good movie tie-ins may help the film industry to take games more seriously and widen the channels for a more effective sharing of knowledge and talent, but above all the games industry must seek to retain its individuality and unique creativity.These, after all, are what give gaming the potential to become the most powerful entertainment medium on the planet.CHARTS - FULL PRICE SOFTWAREOfficial UK Leisure Software Charts (c) ELSPA compiled by Chart-Track1/ FIFA 2004 (PS2, Xbox, PC, PL) Electronic Arts - £34.992/ WWE Smackdown! Here comes the pain (PS2) THQ - £37.993/ True Crime: Streets of LA (PS2, XBox) Activision - £37.994/ The Simpsons: Hit &amp; Run (PS2, Xbox, GC) VU Games - £37.995/ SSX 3 (PS2, Xbox, GC) Electronic Arts - £37.996/ Finding Nemo (PS2, GBA, PC, Xbox) THQ - £34.997/ Pro Evolution Soccer 3 (PS2) Konami - £37.998/ The Sims: Makin' Magic (PC) Electronic Arts - £19.999/ Call of Duty (PC) Activision - £29.9910/ Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2004 (PS2, Xbox, PC, GC) Electronic Arts - £37.99
Early next year, Kuma Reality Games plans to launch a service that will allow players to re-enact contemporary news events. Kuma's first product - centred on the war in Iraq - will brief players with information derived from real-world news reporting, and then allow them to play out missions based on actual troop deployments. On its website, Kuma claims the new game "presents our soldiers' acts of patriotism and bravery as never before possible". Then the kicker: "In a world being torn apart by international conflict, one thing is on everyone's mind as they finish watching the nightly news: 'Man, this would make a great game.'"Last year, a federal judge ruled that games did not enjoy first amendment protection &#91;guaranteeing freedom of expression&#93; because they did not express ideas. This summer, a higher court overruled that decision. The political importance of games has been demonstrated again and again as groups struggle over how - and whether - the Iraq war should be represented through games.No sooner did the Bush administration identify Osama bin Laden as the likely culprit than a wave of amateur games popped up across the internet, giving players the chance to maim and manhandle the terrorist leader. The Palestinian Liberation Organisation created international controversy when it released a web-based game, Under Ash, which it argued showed their perspective on the Middle East conflict. The night the bombs fell on Baghdad, Sony trademarked "shock and awe" with the idea of using it as the title for a (since abandoned) Iraq   war game. The most recent controversy centres on a CIA proposal to develop a game that would allow operatives to "think outside the box" by adopting the role of a member of a terrorist cell.War critics argue that modern warfare distances participants from human loss. The military command, on the other hand, has embraced computer games as the ideal means of preparing the next generation of soldiers to deal with the hi-tech interfaces of modern fighting equipment.The anti-war movement has found computer games to be an effective agitprop tool. Games may be to the Iraq war what underground comics were to Vietnam - a way to popularise countercultural messages by tapping into the popular culture. A game called September 12 challenges players to respond to a terrorist attack. You can target any of the buildings in an Arab village and blast them away with your warheads, but when you do, Muslim women weep over their dead children and more terrorists grab guns to defend their homes. Videogame designer and theorist Gonzala Frasca built a game you can't win; indeed, that is the message that it quickly communicates.Or consider Velvet-Strike, a hack developed by experimental artist Anne-Marie Schleiner, which involves spray-painting virtual anti-war graffiti on the computer-generated walls, ceiling, and floors of a networked counter-terrorism-themed game called Counter-Strike. The goal of Velvet-Strike is to protest the ways that war is trivialised in such spaces.Given the divisiveness of current sentiments toward the war and the newness of games as a rhetorical medium, it is hardly surprising that these games offend some and disappoint others. Can you really make a kickass game about what has been a less than kickass war?&#183;From MIT Technology Review, November 7 (subs $58,www.technologyreview.com).Distributed by Tribune Media Services International
Superstore Tesco is proving that "every little helps" when it comes to car breakdown services. It has just launched a scheme undercutting similar plans by 10% or more.And its new roadside rescue cover throws a spanner in the works of other plans which price individual risks.The Tesco scheme offers instant cover without asking for the car's age, annual mileage or details of the driver(s). It is sold off the supermarket shelf along with baked beans and bread.Although provided by Green Flag, part of Direct Line, it is cheaper. Tesco's entry level costs &#163;33 a year - it is &#163;36.75 at Green Flag and for the identical Direct Line deal. Tesco also offers higher cover levels at &#163;59 and &#163;79.Direct Line claims asking the age of the car and driver, and the vehicle owner's postcode gives "individually tailored premiums - so you don't end up paying extra for less responsible motorists."Tesco disagrees. It has a one price fits all policy. Drivers can even buy cover from a store after a breakdown. But Direct Line offers a 10% no callout discount after one year.
Thanks to Jack for posting the correct link to the Ballmer/iPod spoof below. I had no idea that would eventually show up on the blog, 14 hours after my initial attempt: Blogger was giving me nothing but error messages last night. Between that, and someone spamming the comments (sorry if you accidentially called up a porn site at work, folks) the weblog innards were clearly troubled yesterday. Roll on Movable Type...
Working link to the site,here.
"Personal computer maker Dell Inc reported a 21 percent increase in third-quarter earnings on Thursday, citing significant growth in key European and Asian markets. Dell said that it earned $677 million, or 26 cents a share, in the three months ended Oct. 31 compared to $561 million, 21 cents a share, in the same quarter last year," reportsAP. "Revenue was $10.62 billion, 16 percent higher than the $9.14 billion reported in the same quarter last year and up more than 40 percent from two years ago."
"MINNEAPOLIS, MN—In a turn of events the 30-year-old characterized as 'horrifying,' Kevin Widmar announced Tuesday that his mother Lillian has discovered his weblog," reportsThe Onion.
Worldwide interest in tracing ancestors is becoming so popular that no website releasing new census information can possibly cope with the demand from millions of people without crashing, the National Audit Office concludes today.The auditors say that only an unlimited budget would have prevented the collapse of the National Archives (formerly Public Record Office) website within five days of its launch of the 1901 census two years ago. There were nearly 150m hits on the site - equivalent to more than two for every person living in the UK. The census has 175m entries.Initial access to the site is free of charge - viewing detailed documents costs between 50p and 75p a time.Demand for the historic census site - which had the capacity to handle 1.2m hits a day - was 24 times higher than expected. Not only was the site inundated with inquiries from the UK's estimated 250,000 amateur historians, it was flooded by people from the US, South Africa and New Zealand tracing ancestors from 100 years ago.Similar problems are being reported in the US; after its launch, a records centre in Utah crashed after receiving four times the number of expected hits searching its 640m entries.After being taken off the internet for 10 months, the National Archives site is now comfortably handling 8,000-10,000 inquiries a day, and its equivalent site in Scotland is handling a similar number.The findings mean the National Archives will have to rethink its strategy if it decides to put the 1911 census on line in eight years' time. The auditors say a "disaster recovery programme" will be essential to prevent a repeat of the collapse.The report also reveals that QinetiQ - the part-privatised defence research agency responsible for putting all the handwritten records into digital form - subcontracted the work to the Prison Service.But after finding that many prisoners took too long to do the work and needed IT training, the service subcontracted the work to India and Sri Lanka. Nearly 80% of the entries were put into the system by overseas workers. The decision cost the Prison Service &#163;1.8m in lost business.
"A combination of a plastic material and a thin film of silicon has been demonstrated by researchers at Princeton University and Hewlett-Packard Co. (HP) as an inexpensive method of storing digital information. Researchers at the Princeton, New Jersey school and Palo Alto, California-based company, were able to develop a write-once memory cell that can hold gigabytes of information and be produced very inexpensively from a commonly used plastic substance and a small amount of silicon, they said. "The plastic polymer is known as PEDOT, a shortened version of the chemical name for the substance. PEDOT conducts electricity at low voltages, but is a semiconductor at higher voltages, said Craig Perlov, a scientist with HP Labs, in an interview with the IDG News Service." The story continueshere
"A forthcoming copyright bill backed by key U.S. senators would place file swappers in prison for up to three years if they have a copy of even one prerelease movie in their shared folders. In addition to the prison term, the Artists' Rights and Theft Prevention Act would punish making such movies available on a public "computer network" as a federal felony with a fine of up to $250,000. It would not require that any copyright infringement actually take place," reportsCNet.
Mobile newsSony targets iPodSony has confirmed that it will launch a hard disk-based music player to challenge the Apple iPod in 2004. At an event in New York last week, the company cited the network audio market as a key one for next year and promised a range of models including players that use its Memory Stick storage cards. Sony also gave delegates a first glimpse of its forthcoming handheld gaming platform the PSP. Scheduled for launch in Autumn 2004, the PSP is likely to come in a range of guises and may include video playback and mobile phone functionality.www.sony.co.ukCNN on callCNN has announced a new rolling news service for Nokia Series 60 handsets. The Nokia 6600, the company's new high-end business phone, will come loaded with CNNlive, a Java-based service that will be embedded in the phone's memory card.  The new subscription-based service, built by German company Mediabricks, will feature the top 10 stories from CNN.com's international edition, along with colour images and a scrolling news ticker. The service will be updated every two minutes.  Owners of other Nokia Series 60 handsets (like the 3660 and 7650) will be able to download and subscribe to the service via Nokia's website. The service, which will cost &#163;3 per month, comes with a 14-day trial.www.nokia.com/shopCamcorder phoneSamsung has unveiled the latest in its line of camcorder phones, the SCH-V410. Available only in South Korea, the feature-packed phone, which sports a clamshell design, is capable of storing up to two hours' worth of video clips. The device also features a 262,000 colour screen (far superior to the European standard of 65,000 colours), plays MP3 music files and includes an application that can change channels or adjust the volume on TVs, hi-fis or digital decoders.  It is expected that a version of the handset will be available throughout the world in 2004.www.samsungelectronics.co.ukTake heartThe first MP3 player to feature an integrated heart rate monitor has gone on sale in the UK at &#163;200. The Dual Sports packs 256MB of internal storage (enough for four hours of MP3 music) into a small-ish device designed to be strapped to an arm. Accompanying the player is a monitor which, when attached to the chest, records a person's heartbeat. Information such as average heart beat and how many calories have been burnt during exercise can be viewed in chart form on a PC via the player's software. Other features include WMA (Windows Media Audio)   music compatibility and an FM radio tuner.www.mp3-plus.netGoing wire freeManufacturers intend to cut the cord on personal audio players in 2004 by introducing models with Bluetooth wireless headsets. Users will be able to listen to music even if their player is in their pocket or several feet away in a bag. Apple iPod owners could be first to benefit as iPod vendor, XtremeMac, is promising to deliver a Bluetooth add-on   early next year that uses technology and circuit boards developed by a company called Infinite Range. Other manufacturers are expected to offer similar Bluetooth accessories, and while Philips will integrate Bluetooth into its next range of hard disk-based personal audio players, which will be launched in late summer 2004.French company Naf Naf Electronique is also promising a Bluetooth CD player for early 2004.www.xtrememac.comwww.Philips.co.ukHardwareTwin screensUS company DoubleSight has launched an innovative PC monitor that consists of a pair of 15in panels integrated together. By connecting separate video out ports from PCs or Macs to the DS1500's inputs, users can   see a pair of applications simultaneously on the separate screens, ending the need for a second monitor or having to switch between windows. The screens have a resolution of 2048x768, boast 16m colours and have a response time of 25ms. The DS1500 is available in the US, retailing for $800 (&#163;480). The company hopes to launch the product in the UK in 2004.www.doublesight.comConnectivityExeter leadsCongratulations to the inhabitants of Exeter, for the city has been named by Intel as the capital of Britain's Wi-Fi revolution. Apparently Exeter has more public access Wi-Fi hot spots per person than anywhere else in the UK. Bangor in Wales finished second with Newcastle taking third place.London may have ended well down the list in 33rd place because of its large population, yet residents of the nation's capital will be cheered to discover they have access to more Wi-Fi hot spots than any other city in the world, with the exception of New York.Intel has also compiled a global Wi-Fi top 10 using the same hot spot per population criteria. New York topped the table with Taipei in second place, and, surprisingly, Vienna in third. London, again, didn't fare quite so well under this measure, finishing fifth.www.intel.com/go/hotspotsDon't call usBT has been told to stop ringing people. Specifically, telecoms regulator Oftel last week told the UK's dominant telco to stop calling customers who are   moving their "carrier pre-selection" of phone calls to other companies, so BT can plead with them to change their minds. But it can still write to those spurning its services, to prevent scams where users are switched to another company without their knowledge or permission.Unusually, BT is also having to open consultation to explain why it has just enabled an exchange for broadband, in a reverse of the normal procedure.Power company Scottish and Southern says it intends to raise the issue of BT's ADSL-enabling of Stonehaven in Aberdeenshire: the firm is piloting broadband over power lines in the area.  BT says the exchange had simply met its trigger level, and was enabled.Stat of the week: Sales continue to soarThe dot.com boom might have come and gone, but these figures from Jupiter show online holiday season sales in the US have climbed steadily over the past three years. They are expected to total $16.8bn this year.
Although the principle of peer to peer (P2P) has been around since the days of Gopher and FTP, it really took off in the late 90s. The arrival of MP3 - a file compression standard that allowed near CD-quality music to be squeezed to around 1MB per minute - made music compact enough to transfer over the internet.The first killer application was Napster, which allowed people to search for and swap MP3 files over the net. It attracted music lovers, pirates and, eventually, lawyers, furious that copyright material could be swapped openly. When Napster finally buckled under legal pressure last year, it was replaced by a flood of pretenders.There are at least a dozen P2P clients, mainly linked to one of two    standards -Gnutellawhich includes Limewire, Bearshare and Morpheus, and FastTrak, with the market leader,KaZaA. It claims more than 250m users worldwide.By downloading and installing a P2P client, your hard drive becomes part of a global, file-sharing community, with all the legal and technical consequences it entails. So an important first step is to designate which types of file you wish to share, which areas of your system you want open to others, and how much bandwidth you wish to allocate for uploads and downloads. Then you're ready to go.The main reason P2P has been so popular is not that it's criminal, but that it's criminally easy to use. Simply enter the title of the track or the artist's name and the screen fills with   other file sharers who appear to have what you seek. You can see the sound quality of the track (128kbps is close enough to CD) and the bandwidth available for download (ADSL is enabling ever-faster transfer speeds and fewer lost connections). Many P2P clients also include a basic media player, allowing you to preview the file as it downloads - increasingly important as the record industry floods P2P networks with fake files.Three important things have changed since the days of Napster. First, user information is no longer stored on a central server, making KaZaA  et al less vulnerable to litigation. Second, P2P is now as much about swapping video or complete software applications as it is about music - providing a new headache for copyright owners. Finally, P2P    has become a magnet for hackers and malcontents, with fake files, Trojan horses and pop-ups slowly infecting all the networks. KaZaA is even stuffed with its own spyware cookies, although some can be avoided by downloading the ad-freeKazaa Liteinstead.This increasing lack of trust between file sharers is one reason subscription-based services are gathering momentum. Last week, Apple'siTunesnotched up its one millionth download andNapsteris in the process of re-launching in a similar guise, with fully licensed tracks costing as little as 99 cents each. After years of losing a bitter struggle against online piracy, perhaps sensible pricing was the answer all along.
Attempts to rate online retailers according to the customer experience they offer usually put Amazon at the top. But in a new survey of 51 leading European online retailers by Forrester Research, Jeff Bezos is beaten to the top slot by Argos. This may seem surprising to some. Argos doesn't come   across as a cutting-edge retailer, so much so you can't help wondering whether Forrester skewed ratings to get a jaded media interested."There's no cynical motive there and it's not about being cutting edge. I have heard that at the store level, the Argos customer experience is wanting," says Hellen Omwando, author of the Forrester report, The    Best of Europe's Online Retail. "But for us it's about how they manage to move customers from the web, across catalogues to their stores, that's key. Compared to other multi-channel retailers, they are ahead." Argos has recognised that we're now in the clicks and mortar age, in which the net is just one channel among many that retailers can use to reach con sumers, says Omwando. The company uses all channels - the net, catalogues and stores - to build a productive relationship with consumers, one that gives customers more control and leads to a better shopping experience.Visitors can buy online for home delivery or check stock availability prior to a store visit, or buy online then collect in store, or reserve something online then pay in store (if they're worried about security). They can return products to a store or arrange to have it picked up. Throughout the process, security and privacy information is always made clear. Thanks to things like in-store returns of online purchases and easy availability of customer advice by telephone, "there's very little risk for a customer shopping with Argos online," says Indira Thambia, head of e-commerce at Argos.Customer service by telephone is a problem for Amazon, says Omwando. "They've got self-service tools, but finding customer service telephone numbers on their site is hard." Email can be too slow if you have a serious problem, she says. "The main reason Amazon does this is because telephone support costs a lot. If you're a business, you need to take care of the bottom line, but don't do it at the expense of customer experience."As sites expand, customer experience can suffer, says Omwando. Hence Tesco's relatively poor showing (only number 15, despite being the top online grocer in Europe). Tesco has diversified into other product ranges haphazardly, says Omwando. You can't use one shopping cart across the different shops on their site, in contrast to the Dutch online grocer Albert.nl. "Everyone says that Tesco is the best because it's making money. But on their site, the user experience is very broken."Other poor performers include the German eBay, marked down into the forties because of the confusing way it's added conventional fixed price retail to its core auctions. "I expected Expedia to be in the top five," Omwando continues. "But they're only at number 11." Expedia was a   trend-setter in travel but has perhaps become a little complacent, she suggests. The site has failed to add useful new services - for example letting users send tickets they buy to multiple delivery addresses. As a result, other travel sites (including some that use Expedia's design) now outpace it - like the French train service SNCF, which, says Omwando, "offers more customer choice than Expedia".The Forrester view is that customer experience will become much more important as competition increases. Pricing is a factor, Omwando says, but retailers may not always want to compete on price, so to stay ahead they can innovate in the area of customer experience. Overall, Omwando expects the key online retailers to do well at Christmas. "We expect to see 25% of all online retail sales in the UK being done over November and December." Shoppers are still keen to avoid crowds and they know they can find some things easier online than offline, she says.Argos.co.uk's Indira Thambia agrees. Argos has a new site this Christmas, specifically designed to make seasonal shopping easier, she explains. In response to consumer feedback, the site has more flexible search functions. Customers can also get text alerts, when products they want (the must-have toy, for example) come back in stock. And customers now don't have to say in advance whether they want to reserve a product for in-store collection or get it delivered. They can shop, fill their basket then decide. A simple thing, but, says Thambia, "it makes the shopping experience easier. The idea is to build things to enable customers to stay with us."Thambia says that around 5% of Argos's business is online retail - transactions done on the site for home delivery. A far greater number do research online or make reservations using the Click and Collect service. "But in the end, it doesn't matter to us. We are truly a multi-channel retailer. We don't care where the transactions are started and where they're finished - so long as they are finished in the Argos environment."
There's no escape. In my inbox, on websites, in newspapers and every other media channel, I can't escape the spam menace.Not spam email, of course, because my spam filter gets rid of that, but articles about spam. It's even cropping up on TV and radio news. We're told the internet is drowning in spam and that AOL alone is blocking billions of spam emails every day. The debate about spam is starting to take on all of the attributes of a moral panic.Now, I'm not saying that spam isn't a problem, because clearly it is. A particularly worrying aspect of the problem is that there are people out there responding to spam.The so-called "Florida spam king", Eddy Marin, claims to send   out 50m unsolicited commercial emails every day. He makes a profit if only five people respond. (Who are these five people? I'd love to get in touch with them, as I've got an idea for a major Thames river crossing to sell). If no one responded, Eddy would surely get bored and do something else.Personally, I have two main problems with spam. First of all, even for someone as broadminded as me, some of the X-rated spam is beyond the pale and I certainly don't want to have to look at it, let alone worry about it ending up in my kids inboxes.The second problem is that I often read my email on my phone, which has an IMAP client. I can't stand having to scroll through endless spam message headers and delete them (which is time-consuming and inconvenient).It's all very well to call for government action, but it's an uphill struggle against the laws of economics. To paraphrase Tom Paine, you might as well call for government action to regulate sunshine. Perhaps a better alternative is to educate and encourage people to be aware of their own capabilities.You have the power. Get a spam filter. Some mail packages already have them built-in. On my Apple mail package, it takes about 10 seconds to turn the filter on and it takes the filter only a couple of days to learn what's junk and what isn't. Everything that looks like spam goes into a junk mailbox and is deleted after a week.Once a week I quickly scan through the junk in case the system has incorrectly put a non-spam email in there. This does occasionally happen, but it's not a   significant issue: the human brain is fantastically goodat scrolling through long lists of messages and spotting the odd non-spam item.This morning when I looked in my main inbox there was one spam message there (about Viagra). On just one of the mailing lists that I subscribe to there were 11 messages about spam and what to do about it. In other words, I'm now getting more than 10 times as many messages about the spam menace as spam messages.
Much cheaper telephone calls, cool added services and numbers that can follow you around, no matter where you are in the world. Technology called voice over IP (VoIP) can give us all of this, and after seven years in development, it's about to hit the mainstream.The idea is simple: why don't we put our telephone calls on to the internet? Treat them like any other piece of data: digitise the voice, chop it into little packets, send each one over the internet, and let the receiving party put them together again in the right order. No worrying how the packets get to where they are going, nor whether each one arrives, and no bothering about owning or renting the wire between you and the other person. Just like email, or the web, the internet's infrastructure could take care of it all.When the phone system was built, it was based on an idea called circuit switching. A call actually made an electrical circuit between two handsets. A switchboard was precisely that - a board of switches - and an exchange was a massive room ofmechanical widgets that physically moved to patch a call through.Everything happened physically. This is why long distance calls have always cost more: there are more switches to go through, and more mechanical parts to move. The further apart the two phones, the more wear, tear and effort needed.Then came packet switching. By digitising the voice and breaking it into little chunks, phone companies could use electronics rather than mechanics to get the voice there. This still required dedicated wiring, but a lot less, and it was much cheaper than doing it with brass and springs.Now that the internet is fast enough, and better technology is available to digitise calls, companies have gone a step further: instead of using dedicated wires, they use VoIP.Now comes a system called Enum. Previously, any VoIP setup had to know exactly where to send calls. It worked well for a formal arrangement - BT using it to talk to a specific telecoms operator in Brazil, say - but was no good for making a call between two VoIP companies that didn't know each other. The data could go over a single dedicated data link (and you can do this over the internet in a clever way), but letting it loose on the internet, like web traffic or email, was out of the question.Today, however, the VoIP world has agreed on two major standards: SIP (Session Initiation Protocol) and Enum (e164 Number Mapping). SIP is the way the internet phones talk to each other to make a call, much like the standard (called HTTP) used in looking at websites.Enum is the way a VoIP phone knows where to send the call in the first place. By using Enum, once a telephone network turns over to VoIP and Enum-aided addressing, the way it connects a phone call becomes exactly the same way your browser connects to a web server. It ceases to matter where the call is going, and there need not be any formal connection between the two parties, as the general workings of the internet will ensure it gets there.Given that, and an agreement on the format the voice data arrives in, the two VoIP companies need not have heard of each other. The phone looks up the number in the domain name registry, finds the IP address, and off it goes over the internet.The ramifications are huge. First, it radically changes the way the telephone business works. In the medium term, operators who only offer old-style telephony will be able to use the system once the call gets into the "backbone". You'll still have a dedicated phone line to the exchange in the old-fashioned way, but the operator can make great savings as it moves the call routing to the net.But in the long term, as the technology gets cheaper and moves closer to the end user, the massive overhead of the old technology will become a burden. New operators will be able to offer all the same services on the proviso that the end user supplies the bandwidth - by placing cheap servers on to the internet - with geography becoming irrelevant.This is now happening.The obvious place to start is within organisations that already have a computer network - any office-based company. The investment needed to put calls over the corporate   network instead of the telephone company pays off against savings made in not paying a phone company: in 12 to 18 months, according to industry studies.After that, VoIP can save large organisations a great deal of money. The RSPCA recently switched to VoIP and expects to save &#163;2m over the next three to five years. On a bigger scale, Johnny Barnes, a vice-president of IBM, last week told a conference that his company plans to migrate at least 80% of its more than 300,000 employees to VoIP-based phones by 2008.Voice over IP is not just for large corporate customers. There are a few companies offering VoIP directly to the American consumer. The most well known, Vonage, is typical in its offering: you get a small adapter that plugs into your DSL socket, and which takes an ordinary telephone handset. For a subscription, currently $34.99 a month (on top of their DSL line), customers can get   unlimited calls within the US and Canada, and low international rates.Sixty thousand people have signed up, and Vonage says it aims to launch in the UK towards Easter. Until then, it won't ship internationally, but says that if you can arrange a delivery address in the US, it has no problem with the system being used here.In fact, this highlights one of the curious effects of putting telephone calls over the internet: it doesn't matter where you are in the world. Vonage will give you a local phone number from the city of your choice. Although this doesn't make any difference to the cost of the call, it does mean that, for example, you could buy a number apparently within your parents' city. When they call you, it is charged as a local call, even if you are on the other side of the world.Indeed, treating voice calls as just another form of data has many other benefits. Voice mail, archiving and encryption are all easy to do. Conference calls, annoyingly   clunky to set up, could be a matter of dragging and dropping icons on your computer's desktop. VoIP companies see these added services as the way to make cash: phone calls getting inevitably cheaper, and charging customers $5 a month to record calls or to send voice mail messages to email inboxes is tempting for both sides.While Vonage and competitors aim to appear as close to a normal telephone as possible, some VoIP companies are doing the opposite, and embracing the computer as the obvious place for voice communication. You don't need special gear, just a downloaded application and your PC's built-in microphone and speakers.The most impressive recent entrant to that market, in terms of uptake at least, has been Skype. Rhyming with "hype", it is fittingly being pushed as "P2P telephony that just works". Aided by its developers' reputations as the people behind the massively successful music sharing application KaZaA, Skype is claiming more than 2m downloads since its launch at the end of August.But for all their bluster, Skype is nothing new for the end user. It is really an instant messaging network, offering nothing more than Yahoo Messenger's Voice Chat facility has done for two years. That it doesn't need the expensive infrastructure Yahoo or AOL require, for example, is of no interest to the end user, as instant messaging has always been free.Skype says it aims to make money by selling the same premium services that other VoIP networks are planning - voice mail and so on - but is still a little vague on the most important aspect of a telephony network -   whether you can call an ordinary telephone or call in from one. Skype doesn't use SIP or Enum, relying instead on its own secret technology. As yet, the two do not work together."We think networks should interoperate," says Janus Friis, Skype's vice-president of strategy, "and we think there should be interoperability, but we haven't had the time".Useful, then, for voice chat between people who have arranged to have the application on their respective Windows machines, but not so good for ordering pizza or calling an ambulance.If you want to remain tied to your computer, as Skype requires, you can go one better, and have video-over IP. Windows' users have been able to do this for a long time with the NetMeeting application, and Windows XP already has SIP built in. Apple's latest version of OS X, Panther, comes with a video-enabled version of its messaging client, iChat. Tiscali, an ISP, is offering video conferencing software written in Flash, called VMail, to customers. None of these video systems interoperate, but they are a lot of fun.Alas, the sudden maturation of the VoIP market has not escaped the attention of government. In the US, the Federal Communications Commission is to consider whether to regulate US-based VoIP companies, forcing them to pay the same taxes that traditional telephone networks pay: to provide the 911 emergency call number, among other things.If this happens, US-based VoIP companies will have to raise prices, or move offshore. Either way, the days of telephone calls paid by the minute will soon be over.
Jostling for space among the vaporetti water buses and motor launches, the gondoliers of Venice face a new obstacle - canal-bottom cable congestion.The Milan broadband provider e.Biscom will today announce a business plan in which &euro;60m (&#163;42m) has been set aside over three years to run fibre-optic cables through one of Europe's most beautiful and environmentally sensitive cities. Local authorities have welcomed the initiative as a step towards removing unsightly aerials from the roofs of a city famed for its skylines.Emanuele Angelidis, chief executive of e.Biscom, said market research had shown that, because of the difficulties of getting around their city, Venetians had a keener interest than most in the possibilities offered by cyberspace."They have a limitation in terms of movement, so they can use the internet to get at services instead of moving themselves," he said.The company had fixed a target for Venice of 20% to 25% market penetration within "no more than five years", Mr Angelidis added. Nuovo Mercato-listed e.Biscom is a child of the late 1990s technology bubble. With the aid of &euro;1.6bn, raised at an initial offering in March 2000, only weeks before the global collapse in tech share prices, e.Biscom set about turning Milan into the world's most densely fibre-optic cabled city. It now has a market share there of more than 20%.E.Biscom has also cabled sections of six other Italian cities and, although it is still losing money, has shown impressive recent growth. Preliminary results for the first nine months of 2003 recorded turnover up 70% on the back of a customer base that had almost doubled to 290,000 homes and businesses.Earlier this year, the firm was given an unexpected boost when EU regulators - fearing a Murdoch monopoly of satellite television in Italy - ordered Sky Italia to share its football rights with e.Biscom's service, which is marketed as Fastweb. The company has since managed to make its selection of Serie A and B matches available over DSL as well as fibre-optic links.Having sold its German broadband unit, HanseNet, to Telecom Italia this year, e.Biscom is now focusing on expanding its operations in Italy. Venice and its twin city of Mestre on the mainland are among four centres where cabling is due to start next year.Mr Angelidis said that in Venice his contractors could take advantage of about 150 kilometres of existing ducts, many of which were laid in the 1990s for a cable TV project which was later abandoned.How much more e.Biscom would need to dig would depend largely on the demand for the firm's fibre-optic connections, he said. Venice, he added, would be his company's biggest challenge since tackling Genoa with its steep, narrow alleyways.Cables are sometimes run along the edges of canals, but when they have to be laid along the bottom, the canal is drained, usually by erecting large metal barriers at either end and then pumping it out.
Go girl!With a cheeky nod to Nintendo's iconic handheld console, GameGirlAdvance (GGA) is a sassy games blog for girls that has established a reputation as one of the most intelligent spaces on gaming since its launch in September last year.GGA treats games as if they were part of serious culture without ever being overtly academic or po-faced about it. The site, edited by Jane Pinckard, self-confessed devotee of computer games and Charlotte Bronte's Jane Eyre, has just added a quarterly "zine", a kind of literary journal dedicated to computer games. The first issue features articles on subjects such as how to break into the games industry and brilliant essays such as why Matthew Barney's surreal, six-hour Cremaster cycle is actually based on a game of Donkey Kong.www.gamegirladvance.comwww.gamegirladvance.com/zinewww.umamitsunami.comWho's the cat?He might never have been a real doctor, but Theodor Seuss Geisel, aka Dr Seuss, cured innumerable ailments with his tonic of laughter. More than 30 years after his death, a Hollywood movie of the Cat in the Hat, starring Mike Myers' and directed by Bo Welch (of Primary Colours and Men in Black II fame) is released in the US next week and in the UK next year. There's an official site with the usual mix of trailers and cast information (with lots more clever things promised), but real fans of Dr Seuss should head down to Seussville, a lovely,   content rich site, full of colourful animations and sharp witticisms.www.catinthehat.com&lt;A HREF="http://www.seussville.com"<"TARGET=_NEW>www.seussville.comPayfinder generalDoes your boss pay you the going rate? Payfinder.com is a confidential web-based service that allows you to compare your salary with other workers in your chosen field. The service is free, anonymous, and once you have registered, it breaks down the information by region, age group and job title. What's more, it also includes records for all FTSE-100 executives, including bonuses and share options. Time, perhaps, to find out how much you are really worth.www.payfinder.comRising stockSeyed Razavi, an Iranian-born graduate of Manchester's Umist, thinks that the blogosphere is so much like a giant stock market that he has set up a virtual index so that bloggers can become traders in the "attention economy". BlogShares is a fantasy stock market for weblogs where players get to invest a fictional $500 to buy stocks in any of 40,000 featured blogs. Information is refreshed every hour and there are over 5,000 traders already active.&lt;A HREF="http://www.blogshares.com"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.blogshares.comLove lettersJoan Bakewell recently wrote in G2 that today's younger generation will find it harder to remember their halcyon days because they are losing the art of letter writing. Maybe so, but today's tender hearts are finding new ways of remembering that fit in with their faster lives. Treasuremytext is a new site that allows you to store SMS from your mobile phone on the web. You must register, but the service is free, save for the price of the text message. You can even set up groups so you can shared your treasured texts with your friends or loved ones.www.treasuremytext.comArt blogIt as only a matter of time, but blogging has made it into the art world. A new online exhibition, curated by Pierre Coinde and Gary O'Dwyer of the Centre of Attention art gallery in east London, celebrates the art of blogging with a site that lies halfway between an exhibition and an online diary. So far the contributors range from Meredith Etherington-Smith, editor-in-chief of the Art Review, to Amir Ali Ghasemi, who studies at the Art &amp; Architecture at the Azad University in Tehran. But the nicest thing about it is that anyone can submit to the site.www.thecentreofattention.org/blog.htmlNew &amp; notedVintage techwww.vintage-technology.infoMore questions than answerswww.matrix-explained.comThe US primaries true colourswww.fundrace.orgThe boy Fitz Hammondwww.tbfh.com
The best IT advice you will get this year is: don't buy on the hype, buy on the reality. The tricky bit is knowing which things are ripe for adoption, and which are being hyped beyond reason. This isn't a technology issue: it's about timing. Move too soon and you pay a high price and buy a lot of aggravation. Move too late and you suffer one or more years at a competitive disadvantage to rivals who are doing things faster and cheaper.Gartner researchers looked at the adoption of a range of technologies at the company's European ITxpo, held earlier this month in Cannes. Sad to say, I wasn't there, but the analysis wasn't limited to the sunny south of France.Steve Prentice, Gartner's chief of research, provides a one-paragraph summary: "We are encouraging busi nesses to evaluate migrating their telecom services to IP VPN &#91;virtual private networks&#93;, refresh their desktops, and outsource IT services offshore right now. IT managers should also be evaluating and preparing to adopt web services, PC virtualisation and wireless services in the next three years. However, there is a lot of hype surrounding "on demand" computing, 3G, 64-bit computing, grids and artificial intelligence, which we believe enterprises should hold off until at least 2008," he says.Gartner analysts think you should be adopting flat panel displays for desktop PCs, and sounded a warning about Wi-Fi wireless networks, to the effect that if you don't deploy them, your users will. But based on Gartner's independent research, GNU/Linux isn't ready for general desktop use.Brian Gammage, from Gartner's   client platforms team, says: "Linux on the desktop has been one of this year's most topical subjects, but the discussion is over-hyped. Most of the attention has centered on a few state-sector contracts where local authorities were looking to avoid paying Microsoft's licensing fees. The real volume of contracts signed has been low. Moreover, we believe some Linux decisions were poorly made and will have higher costs later on. Linux does have a place on the desktop, especially for structured task workers operating in closed domains. How much market share Linux takes depends on whether Microsoft lowers prices."Prentice mentioned a number of technologies where Gartner reckons companies should "ignore the excessive hype". To those you can add the latest Internet Protocol IPv6 ("strictly for network operators") and RFID &#91;radio frequency identification&#93; chips   outside of retail applications.On over-hyped "grid computing," Gartner's Andy Butler says: "Vendors are motivated to sell products and services related to grids in order to participate in the high levels of funding available. This 'feeding frenzy' has caught the attention and imagination of the wider commercial markets, hoping to garner growth if grid catches on for more general needs outside of big science and defence projects. But it is currently difficult to find agreement on what constitutes grid, particularly when evaluating the marketing uses of vendors and the more long-range, visionary pronouncements of advocates."IT vendors love to sell visionary products where you don't quite know what they are, you aren't sure what they do, and you have no idea what they will cost. You don't have to buy them. Yet.
Snap timeI need a digital camera suitable for copying documents, such as pages from books that cannot be scanned. What sort of specification should I be looking for?Paul BreezeJack Schofield replies:Digital cameras can be used for all sorts of close-range subjects if you can get them into a position where they are quite brightly but evenly lit, and the camera focuses close enough. Look for a three megapixel or better model with a good quality lens (poor ones distort the image) and a "macro" close-focusing mode. If you need to photograph a lot of pages, it is best to mount the camera on a mini-tripod or copy stand and take pictures using the self-timer or a cable release, to avoid camera shake. In that case, the camera should have a tripod bush and cable-release socket, and preferably manual exposure adjustment.If the subject is not fairly well lit then you will need to light it, and on- camera flash probably is not going to work very well: it will produce the wrong kind of "hot spot". If possible, use a copy stand with arms for lights, or an off-camera flash (or two) with a large white card reflector or bounce-board. In that case, add a flash socket and manual flash control to the spec. Some of my fellow members of the Sharp-L (Society for the History of Authorship, Reading &amp; Publishing) mailing list also like cameras with rotating bodies, such as the Nikon Coolpix 4500: you can have the lens pointing down while the screen remains vertical. Mike Kelly from New York University uses his Kodak   camera's time-lapse setting to take pictures every two minutes: "That's plenty of time for me to turn to the next page and leaves both hands free for handling the book." For help with lighting, see if your library can find a copy of Edward S Bomback's Manual of Photographic Lighting.Print itIs there any software that will enable me to print more than one photo on an A4 sheet of paper?Reg JenkinsJS:This feature is built into Windows XP, and the Photo Printing Wizard will automatically rotate and crop pictures to fit a chosen layout. Graphics programs such as Paint Shop Pro can also do it, as will some of the software provided with cameras. However, you may get better results using a picture printing utility, which may do lots of other things, too. Examples for Windows include ACD FotoSlate 3.0, PrintStation, Qimage, PixPrint, Easy JPEG Printer (freeware), and PixPhotoLab - see links above. Finally, in Microsoft Word, you could use Insert Table to create a grid, then double click each cell and select Insert|Picture|From File.Out GoogledAs much as I love Google, it is becoming more and more a place for advertisers to get their product or service to the head of the queue. Is there any way to eliminate particular websites so that the search is not just a means of advertising for the company that paid the most bucks?David DollmanJS:Google does not offer paid placements so the searches are real, it is just that too many companies have found ways to distort the results. You can usually block a site by putting it in the search box with a minus sign in front of its name, eg -kelkoo. Queries are limited to 10 words so you cannot block all of them. I have found that using -cheap -bargain removes a lot of   Google-spammers, but I may be missing some cheap bargains as a result.Shred itThe home page on my browser has been hijacked, to Lucky-Search. I tried removing it with HiJackThis but it always comes back.Francis MiddletonJS:You need to runCWShredder.Backchat&#183;Kathryn Hampson asked for advice on how to store photos from a CompactFlash card while on a long trip, and I suggested the Archos Jukebox Multimedia 20 with CompactFlash adaptor. Frances Allen had the same need, foundVosonic's X'S-Driveon the web, and would like to know if anyone has tried it. It supports Compact Flash, SmartMedia and Secure Digital (SD) cards, MultiMediaCards, and Memory Sticks.&#183;Martin Pratt wanted a way of getting RSS syndicated news feeds via Microsoft Outlook. I suggested NewsGator, and would now addIntraVnews, which is new, and free for personal use. Peter Lunnon says: "A free alternative product that may be of interest isPopHeadlines, which pulls in the RSS feeds and then delivers them to the mail client of your choice. It requires Windows 2000/XP to run, but it can accept connections from other machines, so you can also use it to pick up feeds on non-Windows PCs."Roger Miller and Ian Winship suggested theBloglineswebsite. Ian adds: "The enquirer might also want to be aware of the existing engineering feeds atEEVL.
Government plans to create a National Health Service dripping with choice for patients, depend heavily on the world wide web. John Hutton, health minister responsible for IT, last week launched the service's latest, and potentially most empowering, internet offering,www.nhs.uk.The site is an online directory of the NHS: apart from telling you how to find your nearest GP or pharmacy, it carries hospital quality ratings and waiting times. If the government gets its way, the site will also publish the risk of dying under individual consultants' care.Nhs.uk joins the health information services NHS Direct Online and the National Electronic Library of Health, aimed at patients and professionals respectively, to create a formidable NHS presence on the web. The site's 90,000 records cover every GP, pharmacy and hospital trust in England. Wales and Scotland have their own sites,www.wales.nhs.ukandwww.show.scot.nhs.uk, respectively.Hutton revealed his ambitions for nhs.uk by saying it would help people choose where to go when their GP refers them for an operation. "As choice at referral comes in, patients will see the development of a facility on the nhs.uk website that will enable them to look at comparative data for the range of providers that their primary care trust has commissioned the relevant service from."The site, which has been quietly attracting 450,000 unique users a month (3.5m page views) with no publicity, provides a huge amount of practical information, usually beginning with a search from the patient's postcode. "It's about what patients want to know," says Judy Aldred, who   runs the nhs.uk project at the health service's in-house IT body, the NHS Information Authority. "The aim is to de-stress your journey through the NHS."The site runs on a content management system designed in-house, on five servers for resilience. It costs about &#163;1.3m a year to run. Each NHS organisation is responsible for keeping its own information up to date by appointing a web editor with local access to an editor's view of the site, supported by the information authority's team in Birmingham. Local involvement is the key to the project's success, says Aldred. "The information is owned locally. It's a collaboration between every single NHS organisation."As such, it will work only if every NHS organisation is willing to keep its entry up to date. Aldred says the trick is to appoint as web editor someone who already spends a lot of time repeatedly giving out basic information, so that the website will save them time.To ensure accuracy, the information authority's help desk monitors entries and makes spot checks. "Every month we phone up 50 organisations at random, talk to a member of staff and confirm that the information on the site is correct." And if it's not? "There's an escalation process. We talk to whoever in the organisation is responsible and then go further up the chain."At last week's launch, Hutton made a point of thanking NHS staff for feeding information "at a time when we have asked you to do so much else". He braced them to be ready to provide more. This is almost certain to include detailed mortality statistics, despite the fear of many doctors that this is unfair to specialist units   taking on very difficult procedures.The hope is that patients will be able to inform themselves of such issues via the NHS's other patient-oriented website,NHS Direct Online. This is an online health encyclopedia with headlines such as "seasonal snuffles". It receives about half a million unique visitors a month. (Staff in NHS Direct call centres use nhs.uk to direct callers to the nearest NHS facility.)However, real hypochondriacs may prefer to turn to the NHS's third national site, theNational Electronic Library of Health. Although designed for professionals, the NHS has conceded that a large proportion of its users are now patients. The home page announces that "patients, carers and the public are welcome to use this site".One NELH service that deserves a wide readership is its feature "hitting the headlines". This investigates medical stories in the mass media and pronounces on their accuracy. The current top item ticks off the Daily Express for inflating the importance of early research into a "drain cleaner for the heart".The nhs.uk team's priority is to get more users. Aldred says she wants usage "to go up exponentially". A promotional campaign includes posters in GP surgeries and links from high-traffic websites such as the BBC. Although the information on nhs.uk is freely available to all, Aldred worries that other public service sites, such as those run by local authorities, are still wasting resources by compiling their own local NHS directories.And she points out that nhs.uk, which last month won an IT industry award, has already broken with NHS tradition. "We were on time, and on budget."
I'm sitting on the grass at Biggin Hill, my Mk 1 Spitfire silent but for the odd boorish joke crackling across the radio. It's the skipper keeping up morale. All 12 of us in 610 squadron know that Biggin was the most heavily bombed airfield of the second world war; no surprise then that we're itching to leave the ground.Welcome to the virtual reality of WW2Online, a massive multiplayer   online game (MMOG) with a three-year heritage and a fanatical subscription-paying following. I've enrolled as an Allied pilot in Day of Eagles, a two-day event designed to give hundreds of desktop propeller-heads a chance to re-fight The Battle of Britain. It's part of a strategy from the Texas-based Cornered Rat Software to keep its ever-expanding chunk of the MMOG market loyal and distracted.The scale of what CRS and its partner Playnet are offering is difficult to visualise given the "car park" dimensions of FPS (first person shooter) multiplayer titles like Counter Strike. WW2Online's playing area is the largest single-world online environment of any MMOG, measuring 921.6km by 998.4km and taking in most of 1940s northern France, Belgium and the south of England. All key towns, roads, airfields, forests and mountains of the period are modelled along with most of the weapons available to Axis and Allied forces.My weapons of choice, eight Browning 7.7mm wing-mounted machine guns, have been idle for 20 minutes or so; just enough time to double check the detailed mission objectives in my inbox and map myself an escape route, should I run into the Luftwaffe. Finally, the commanding officer, Cubes123, yells "scramble" and 12 deskbound Douglas Baders lurch into the air, in something like a formation.There are over 200 massive multiplayer titles trying to garner a foothold in the mass market that their single-player contemporaries enjoy. Until recently, lack of bandwidth has kept titles like Everquest and Ultima Online on a tight leash. While many have been impressed by Everquest's performance (subscriptions topped 450,000 in mid 2003). Sony points out that its release of Everquest: Online Adventures for broadband-enabled PlayStation2s, opens the door to mainstream acceptance of persistent world games. Also from the Sony stable, Star Wars Galaxies, released in the UK last Friday, brings thoroughbred brand loyalty to the battle and talk of ports to 2.5G and 3G mobile phone platforms.Meanwhile, back over the channel things are hotting up. We've mislaid two of our posse: one failed to bring up his gear during takeoff and impaled himself on a pine tree, the other got lost in cloud. But the men of 610 are ploughing on. Rich23, a 33-year-old art teacher from Sweden, Bueford, 39, a sheet-metal worker from Seattle. All life is here, chattering zealously over the freeware-powered Teamspeak 2 voice server and horizontally scrolling text channels. Then commander Cubes relays the good news from fighter command, we're turning back to Whitstable in Kent where a Royal   Navy convoy is getting a hiding.Naval operations and in particular the inclusion of large cargo vessels for the transportation of men and machinery are WW2Online's latest attraction. In order for a subscription-based entity to remain fresh, the project is subject to vigorous upgrades."We're marathon runners rather than sprinters." Says Playnet Inc executive producer Al "Rafter" Corey. "Imagine running a marathon with thousands of pit bulls chasing you but no sign of a finish line. That's the life of a development, production, support team for an MMOG."By pit bulls, Rafter is referring to the voracious consumers of this uniquely historical online experience. I can feel history bearing down, as me and wingman Rich23 circle a line of Allied destroyers and gun boats; history and what looks like three of the afore  mentioned dogs of war dressed in Messerschmitt's clothing.Re-enactments like this are hosted on a separate server cluster to the standard 24/7 persistent gaming world, ensuring that life goes on inside the A13 tanks, Opel trucks and machine-gun nests of everlasting 1940. Theoretically the servers offer a ceiling of about 10,000 simultaneous players. Lucky for me then that only two 109's are on my tail, announcing their arrival with a few rounds through my right wing. Moments later, I'm belly up on a beach south of Eastchurch.I may have lost my battle, but did we win the war? Well, when all the skirmishes from two days of sea and air action were tallied, the in-game gazette The World @ War led with the crushing headline, Major Axis victory. Computers can be so pedantic.&lt;A HREF="http://www.wwiionline.com"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.wwiionline.com
