US law professorLawrence LessigofCreative Commonsfame gave a talk on copyright at the23rd Chaos Communication Congressin Berlin. There are photos of the event onFlickrand the talk is onGoogle Video(57 minutes plus questions).
Web developer Ryan Tomayko had one of his posts"dugg" on Digg, which caused him to notice the knuckle-dragging stupidity of the typical Digg user. Nothing surprising about that, of course: it's just another illustration ofJohn Gabriel's Greater Internet Fuckwad Theory, which is well known from Usenet, Slashdot, blog comments and so on.Most people shrug and get on with life, but Tomayko came up with a humorous response. Follow the link from Digg and his site responds with a message that reads:403 Go Away!The server understood the request, but is refusing to fulfill it because you're coming from digg.com and the proprieter of this system is frankly terrified by you people. Authorization will not help and the request SHOULD NOT be repeated.
Kotaku has a great little story aboutthe rapid decline of the Sony PlayStation 3in the US market. To recap: it seems that many of the early sales were to scalpers who thought that, based on the Xbox 360 experience, they'd make a big profit reselling machines on eBay. That turned out not to be the case -- or rather, not for long.Michael Fahey has a graph of eBay prices for the PS3, and he also contacted some of the leading suppliers to ask about PS3s being returned for refunds. He concludes:The moral of this story? There's no such creature as a sure thing. The majority of eBay prospectors walked away from this experience with that lesson burned into the back of their brains. My suggestion for the future? If you want to gamble, go to Vegas. If you want to invest, try mutual funds. Leave the video game system buying to the gamers. We'll all be happier for it.
Danny Sullivan has a little interview atSearch Engine Land. Wales says:It's just the development starting. We're not producing a Google killing search engine in three months. I only wish I were that good of a programmer.We'll have some servers open, some development, maybe a pre-pre-alpha demo site up. We'd really anticipate it would be a year or two until we're able to launch a viable search engine.
Guitar Hero IIXbox 360Be a bedroom Tenacious-D by rocking out with this slice of small plastic guitar-wielding guitar heaven.Spring 2007Super Mario GalaxyWiiNew Super Mario Bros episodes are justly heralded with levels of zeal more usually reserved for the second coming.Mar 30SpectrobesNintendo DSA colourful set of new cartoon heroes from Disney, this time led by a game. Early reports suggest good things.Mar 13Wario Ware: Smooth MovesWiiPlaying very silly games for extremely short periods of time while jumping around with your Wii-mote - it's almost exercise.Jan 12Eye Toy: Bob The Builder - Project Build ItPS2Repair-based camera antics with TV's favourite non-rogue trader should be ideal fodder for the young and bored.Feb 2
Sonic The HedgehogXbox 360Sega, &pound;50Where did it all go wrong? From early-1990s hero, via late-1990s also-ran to 21st-century nonentity, Sonic's shamble from grace to the muddy bottom of the abyss of mediocrity should be an object lesson to other publishers tempted to "do a Tomb Raider" and put out rubbish software featuring well-known characters in the hope that everyone will just buy it anyway. Sonic The Hedgehog is a dreadful game that divides its time between a wilfully bland, glitchy hub world, whose denizens reward your attempts at conversation with some of the most staggering banal dialogue ever seen in a game, and fast-moving but vacuous action levels. Starting with Sonic, and soon moving onto his various lesser-known pals, from Tails to new-boy Silver, this lifeless hodgepodge of a title is one of which Sega should be deeply, deeply ashamed.The Legend Of Zelda: Twilight PrincessWii, GameCubeNintendo, &pound;40In the Legend Of Zelda games, you play a young boy charged with the task of saving the world from dark forces, rescuing damsels in distress along the way. It's testament to Nintendo's skill that this formula at no time feels tired, and Twilight Princess is the best so far. This is adventuring at its most finely honed, as hero Link recovers ever-increasing portions of the world from the encroaching forces of Twilight, turning into a wolf to penetrate dark areas and calling on old equine friend Epona to traverse vast expanses. With the GameCube version the precise mirror image of the Wii's, the main difference is in its control mechanics, which make pleasing if not groundbreaking use of the Wii-mote. This has "killer application" written all over it.Yoshi's Island DSNintendo DSNintendo, &pound;30The hand-drawn graphics, Yoshi's straining noise as he does his special brand of double-jump, and the ability to swallow enemies before squeezing them out as eggs to be aimed and fired at enemies may not be quite as familiar as Mario's time-honoured antics, but they're not far off. New to this outing, Yoshi carries a variety of Nintendo character babies on his back, each conferring a different set of abilities, beginning with Baby Mario and moving on to Baby Wario, Bowser and Princess Peach among others. It's been developed by Artoon rather than in-house by Nintendo and, although every aspect of the game is present, you can't escape a nagging sense of recycled ideas and a lack of real invention. Not that it's easy to do something original in a genre as ancient as platform gaming, but it is possible, as evidenced by this summer's joyous New Super Mario Bros.
TheLA Timeshas a bunch of general predictions from various noteworthy figures -- Steve Ballmer, Ned Sherman, Rafat Ali, Kevin Werbach, Chris Anderson, Hank Barry, and John Brockman. Only Microsoft boss Steve Ballmer turns it into something of a hidden product plug (Unified Communications,Windows CardSpace).2006 was the Year of YouTube, Web 2.0, and dual core processors. What do you think will stand out in 2007? (Not necessarily from the LAT list!)
The Apple stock options story gets, if anything, less clear following the publication of the company's internal probe into how Steve Jobs received a number of apparently backdated stock options. In a10-K filing to the US Securities and Exchange Commission, Apple says it is taking a $21 million hit on its earnings for the fiscal years 2004, 2005 and 2006 (respectively $4m, $7m and $10m) plus an $84m "non-cash charge" (that would be a charge against stocks, then, as Apple has zero debt) as a result. (You can find the documents on Apple's site too, underinvestor relations.)What's intriguing is that there was clearly wrongdoing. Here's the extract:CEO Grants — During the relevant period, the Company made two grants to CEO Steve Jobs. The first grant, dated January 12, 2000, was for 10 million option shares. The second grant, dated October 19, 2001, was for 7.5 million option shares. Both grants were cancelled in March 2003 prior to being exercised, when Mr. Jobs received 5 million shares of restricted stock.So, Jobs didn't exercise (cash in) the options.With respect to the grant dated January 12, 2000, the Board on December 2, 1999, authorized a special "CEO Compensation Committee" to grant Mr. Jobs up to 15 million shares. The evidence indicates that the CEO Compensation Committee finalized the terms of the grant on January 12, 2000, although the Committee's action was memorialized in a UWC transmitted on January 18, 2000. Because the measurement date is the originally assigned grant date, the Company has not recognized any stock-based compensation expense from this grant. If the Company had determined that the measurement date was the date when the UWC was executed or received, then additional stock-based compensation would have been recognized.Here's an interesting question: who was on the CEO Compensation Committee in January 2000? The report doesn't say. Apple's website doesn't say. A search for "ceo compensation committee 2000" on Apple's site throws an error. It tells you who is now - Bill Campbell, Millard Drexler and Al Gore - but we're not sure they were on the board then.*The grant dated October 19, 2001 was originally approved at a Board meeting on August 29, 2001, with an exercise price of $17.83. The terms of the grant, however, were not finalized until December 18, 2001. The grant was dated October 19, 2001, with an exercise price of $18.30.The approval for the grant was improperly recorded as occurring at a special Board meeting on October 19, 2001. Such a special Board meeting did not occur.There was no evidence, however, that any current member of management was aware of this irregularity. The Company has recognized $20 million in stock-based compensation expense for this grant, reflecting the difference between the exercise price of $18.30 and the share price on December 18, 2001 of $21.01.Our emphasis added on the board meeting that didn't occur. Now, the question is: whose name is there signing the grant? Were they just confused about whether the gathering was a special board meeting, or a CEO compensation committee meeting? The implication of the phrasing there is that a former member, or members, of management knew of the irregularity. Since 2000, a number of people have retired from Apple's board, including Fred Anderson, the longrunning chief financial officer. We wonder if he was on the CEOCC, and whether he's been interviewed by the people who compiled the report? Apparently they interviewed more than 40 "current and former directors, officers, employees and advisors".The board says that everything is hunky dory, because the options were cancelled in 2003, and that Steve Jobs didn't exercise them (ie cash them in). But it also says that he knew the date favoured him:Apple said in the filing that while Jobs and other managers recommended or were aware of certain inaccurate grant dates, they did not financially benefit from the grantsas the Washington Post puts it.David Sobotta, formerly head of federal sales for Apple, says that he's not surprised. InApple's above the law attitude, he says thatIt seems that Apple is trying to put the spin on this story that it is all about departed executives. Well it's a good time of the year to believe in fairy tales, but the climate of being above the law is well ingrained in Apple executives.... [later in] one of my last acts, which might have contributed to my exit. A senior system engineer reported to me a conversation that he had with a vice president (still at Apple). The vice president told him that Apple was going to hold back some billings in order that their next weaker quarter would look better. Being a director of a publicly held corporation, I reported this to HR and requested an investigation. Less than a month later I was no longer working for Apple.Anyone that thinks that Apple's problem with executives believing that they are above the law has disappeared with departed executives will likely believe almost anything that comes out of the Apple spin machine.We'll await with interest to see whether Steve Jobs offers any mea culpa over the fact - as suggested by the committee - that he knew he was getting favourably backdated options. After all, it doesn't make it right that he didn't exercise them; nor that lots of other companies (at latest count, around 200) were doing it too.*Bobbie adds:Things become incredibly confused looking back on Apple's board and its compensation committee in the early 00s. On the compensation committee in fiscal year 1999 wereEdgar WoolardandGareth Chang, though it is not clear whether that is the same as the special committee to resolve the CEO's pay. And between April 2000 until August 2001 it appears that the company did not have a comp committee at all, with responsibilities taken by the board itself.
We hear a lot about how China is the up and coming internet superpower - just last week I wrote about howUS companies are finding it increasingly hard there- but sometimes figures do the talking.That was the case today, when it emerged thatinternet penetration has increased by 30% this year alone:The total number of people using the internet in China has risen to 132 million, according to state news agency Xinhua. The number of people accessing the web on high-speed broadband connections also rose rapidly to 52 million.Such figures indicate 30% growth in the number of web users in just 12 months in the nation of more than 1.3 billion people.I've just done some back of the envelope calculations based on those growth rates, and if that pace continues it will be sobering for the western internet community.Now, I have to admit these figures arehighlyunscientific (I'd never make an economist) but on this kind of performance, China will overtake the US to become the world's biggest force on the internet by the end of 2008 - and will pass the half a billion internet users sometime in 2012.Blimey.
Last week'sFriday Afternoon Question("what was your favourite piece of technology of 2006?") provoked a flurry of responses.My personal favourites included Roarrr, who made Xbox Live for the 360 sound like the second coming (it isverygood) and Bounder, who made a clever play for the prize by choosing something that was compatible.But the eventual winner, who will shortly be the proud owner of aSlingboxcourtesy of Sling Media, is...Chris McEvoy. Chris's favourite was a Philips digital photo frame. Why?It's the first gadget I have ever bought for my mum. I just loaded up a 1GB SD card with hundreds of photos, turned off all the silly transition options on the frame, plugged it in and put it in her kitechen. She says that it's the best present anyone have ever bought her.I have since bought another two to give to other members of my family. It's a piece of technology that has added to someone's enjoyment of their family. And that's what makes it the best gadget of the year.What could be better for the festive season than bringing families together, eh? An email is winging its way to you, Chris, so that we can send the prize your way.No Friday Afternoon Question this week, I'm afraid. Go and enjoy the New Year instead!
AllofMP3, the controversial Russian website which sells music tracks for mere fractions of the Western sticker price, responded this week to the fact that it faces an American lawsuit (as reported previously here on Techblog).The service, which has been the source of huge wrangles already, calls the case 'imprudent' inan entry on its blog:AllofMP3 understands that several US record label companies filed a lawsuit against Mediaservices in New York. This suit is unjustified as AllofMP3.com does not operate in New York. Certainly the labels are free to file any suit they wish, despite knowing full well that AllofMP3.com operates legally in Russia.We've discussed AllofMP3severaltimes inthe past- but even if record labels and musicians feel justified in trying to shut the site down, it still remains murky as to where legal action could possibly go.
On a blustery Sunday afternoon under the arches near the Thames hundreds of people are waiting for the doors to open on what many believe is becoming one of the most exciting scenes in UK music. These are children - most between 14 and 16 but some younger - who are here for the latest "all age" club night.Over the past year scores of these events - which are about one thing, good, independent live music - have sprung up, particularly in London.Blaise Bellville, founder of All Age Concerts, which operates in London and is launching events around the country, says the all age scene is becoming increasingly important. "Next year we are planning a national tour and the word is spreading through networking sites. The majority of the most dedicated and passionate music fans are under 18."Last weekend more than 800 descended on a central London club to hear one of the most talked about bands - the Klaxons. "It was packed out," said Mr Belville. "There was another concert for over-18s later and the atmosphere was not a patch on the afternoon one. We have children from all backgrounds who just want to dance and see these bands."He said the driving force was social networking sites such as MySpace and Bebo where young people could swap music and discuss bands, and where bands could stream their music, promote their gigs and talk to their fans. "The kids have been discussing these bands online and these events give them the chance to listen to them live. People in the music business are starting to take notice."MySpace agrees. It has teamed up with All Age Concerts and is planning events next year. Some of the most exciting young bands, from the Good Shoes' indie pop to the Klaxons' "nu rave" and Hadouken's electro rock, are involved.Phill Kalli, who manages Vincent Vincent and the Villains, said the band had played several under-18 nights- including a sell-out to 800 children at the bar at Brentford Football Club. "It was the first time we realised just how into our music young kids are. We turned up and saw the bar, which was a bit grotty with one guy trying to sort the sound out. We went for fish and chips and when we came back the place was jumping. We even had an eight-year-old dancing like mad at the side of the stage. It was one of the best gigs we have ever played."The atmosphere at these things is amazing, the kids just want to enjoy themselves and dance. They are more knowledgeable than many of those supposedly in the know - they were singing along to songs we hadn't even released because they had heard them on the internet."Dan Rice, guitarist with Hadouken, said: ""Like a lot of bands we don't get much publicity in the mainstream media or press but because of MySpace these kids know about us and our music."
Shoe Money has an interesting post abouthow his server got hacked via an old file in an unused subdirectory. Naturally he wondered:How in the hell did this person find this file? Well after going through the logs greping for the ip range that hacked my box I found that the person found my site from Google! Specifically using Google code search. Now while this was interesting it still did not explain how the page was even indexed.... ohh wait I use Google Sitemaps and I had it on to index everything (the default setting)This is not to blame Google, of course. He says: "I had old exploitable code on my server and I told sitemaps to index it so... my fault."But it got him thinking about other ways to exploit Google code search....hrmm I wonder how easy it is to find host,user,pass for mysql databases.... Lets try:lang:php mysql_connect\(("|')[a-zA-Z0-9_.]+("|'),("|')[a-zA-Z0-9]+("|') -localhost -127.0.0.1 -192.168100 results found.This query might be a little puzzling for those that are not Google ninjas like me so.. I will explain. Basically we are checking for anything that ends in .php extension. Then we search the file for mysql_connect. If it contains Mysql we look for the pattern of a connection string. lastly we use the minus sign to get rid of all localhost databases (cause we cant access them).OK, so I've written about simple ways to improve your Google searches, includingthis piecethree years ago, but Shoe Money is operating in a different dimension.....
America's PC World magazine has produced a list ofThe 20 Most Innovative Products of the Year, and its top pick is Microsost Office 2007.Nobody's ever happy with these lists, including the people who compile them: there are always too many compromises, even if you accept the idea that you can compare Google SketchUp with a Nintendo Wii. Still, it does provide a quick run-down on some of the more innovative efforts of the year, including the Dell XPS M2010 transportable (starting price $2999) and the RIM BlackBerry Pearl 8100.Oh, and there is a"print version".Can you spot any obvious omissions, apart from Windows Vista and Zune, and any of the Sony Vaio range?
Those of you who buy the paper will have noticed there's no Technology section today. It's because we're digesting our Christmas lunches. But we'll be back next week with all your favourite things, including an insider's look ahead to what could be in Steve Jobs's keynote speech at Macworld coming up the week after.
The stock option scandal which has caused turmoil at Apple is drawing closer to chief executive Steve Jobs, it appears.According to reports which emerged yesterday, it seems that five years ago Jobs received a bundle of 7.5m stock options without the proper approval of the Apple board.Richard Watersat the FT says this morning:Records that purported to show a full board meeting had taken place to approve Mr Jobs' remuneration, as required by Apple's procedures, were later falsified. These are now among the pieces of evidence being weighed by the Securities and Exchange Commission as it decides whether to pursue a case against the company or any individuals over the affair, according to these people.Previously Jobs has said he did not receive any of the dodgy benefits. Famously, of course, he gets a salary of just $1 but there are perks given to him along the way from the company.If you haven't been following the stock option probe, then here's a primer: it basically involves executives at a company being given share options that have their price backdated to a point in time . So I might have been given the option on a million shares which are worth $1 eachtodaybut were worth 50 cents a month ago. Profit bonanza! Of course, in order to do this, documents and accounts must be falsified. It's a practice that has engulfed more than 160 US companies, many of them in and around Silicon Valley.Earlier this year Apple'sotherSteve, Steve Wozniak,told methat Apple needed to make up for the damage that they'd caused in backdating. And Jobs has previouslyapologisedfor irregularities, but indicated that he had not been involved in any way.This brings things a little closer to home, although it couldhave beenbeeven worse news for him -after all,it seems that he did not exercise the options in question. [Edits for clarity - Charles Arthur]
Analyst company Screen Digest paints a fairly rosy picture of the future of broadband uptake in the UK in a new report outtoday. With Britain ahead of the rest of Europe, it expects 65% of us to have home broadband by 2010 - driven by heightened competition and the arrival of troubled 'free' services:The 'free' proposition has sharpened consumers' awareness of the best value-for-money packages in the market, in terms of price, broadband speed, communications services included, and quality of customer care. For some providers this has increased levels of 'churn' - the rate at which customers are switching to other providers. Screen Digest estimates that the churn rate of DSL broadband customers in the UK increased to between 2.5 and 3 per cent in 2006.[...]In 2007, consumers can expect to see further decreases in broadband prices, coupled with rising connection rates. More ISPs will begin to market 'multi-play' deals, like those from NTL:Telewest. Sky is expected to start pushing its broadband services more heavily and launch true video-on-demand television late in 2007, something the pay-TV operator cannot offer using its satellite network.Note that it's not all good news: connection rates are expected to increase as subscription prices fall, . But for consumers it probably falls in their favour - one just needs to look at the way mobile networks fall over themselves to steal you from a rival to realise where we might be headed.Not that it's plain sailing for mobile. The report suggests that Orange has suffered because it's own 'free' offer is too tightly linked with mobile tariffs, and that people may not be happy to associate their own, personal mobile bill with a household service like broadband (which won't please the Virgin/NTL/Telewest behemoth).Still - anything that suggests cheaper, better broadband sounds good to me.
Several search engines produce annual lists of the "top search terms" though these are not always reliable. As theSan Francisco Chroniclepoints out, "the lists are filtered of pornography and, in some cases, generic words and company names. Editing is intended to make the findings more interesting (ie, dominated by pop culture) and family friendly ("sex" is forbidden)."According to Yahoo, the top searches were for Britney Spears, "World Wrestling Entertainment, Colombian pop star Shakira, singer Jessica Simpson and Paris Hilton". The article provides Top 10 lists for Yahoo, Ask and Google.Still, for a more accurate, unfiltered snapshot of what interests Internet users, it's necessary to go to a third-party firm that tracks Web traffic. For example, Nielsen//NetRatings, which examined queries on all search engines for The Chronicle through November 2006, found that the leading terms were pretty dull: Google, eBay, MySpace, Yahoo and Mapquest.No pop divas appeared in the top 100 terms. And contrary to popular belief, adult terms were low on the list, with "porn" at No. 38 and "sex" at No. 45.It's not obvious why people shouldsearch Google for Google, though presumably many people do. However, it does provide handy links to various Google services -- Maps, News, Video, Groups etc. Google Docs &amp; Spreadsheets just scrapes in as the last item on page 3....
Google has started including "tips" above its main search results, and these are basically plugs for its own struggling products -- Blogger, Picasa, Calendar etc. OK, doesn't every company do this kind of thing? Yes, but "they didn't build their businesses on the promise of being unconventionally trustworthy," says Firefox'sBlake Ross.The tips are different--and bad for users--because the services they recommend are not the best in their class. If Google wants to make it faster and easier for users to manage events, create a blog or share photos, it could do what it does when you search GOOG: link to the best services. To prevent Google from being the gatekeeper, the company could identify the services algorithmically.But if that sounds familiar, perhaps that's because Google already works that way. After all, Google is predicated on the idea that the democratic structure of the Web will push the cream to the top. Search for "photo sharing" and you should already get the highest quality services. According to Google, Picasa is not one of them. These "tips," then, can only be a tacit admission of failure: either the company does not believe in its own search technology, or it does not believe its products are good enough to rise to the top organically. I'd guess the latter. And if I were on the Calendar, Blogger or Picasa teams, I wouldn't be celebrating the news that my employer has lost faith in me.Ross has mocked up an amusing fake Paperclip image that shows how Microsoft could take a similar approach with Microsoft Office -- and you can bet it wouldn't go down well if Microsoft tried it.Update: Google bloggerMatt Cutts has responded.
For more than 40 years the giant satellite dishes have loomed from the heathland of the Lizard peninsula like a space-age Stonehenge, a testimony to human ingenuity and the urge to communicate.More practically, for the people of this remote tip of Cornwall, the dishes - Arthur, Guinevere, Merlin and the rest - have provided a much-needed boost to the local economy and many hundreds of well-paid jobs. But to the anger of many local people and the despair of local politicians, the satellite side of Goonhilly, the largest earth station in the world, is facing almost certain closure.Within days BT is expected to confirm that another of its earth stations, Madley in Herefordshire, will swallow up the Cornish satellite operations. Almost all the dishes which soar up from Goonhilly Heath will be taken down and scrapped and at least 90 jobs lost. Just as Cornwall's traditional industries such as tin mining, fishing, agriculture and china clay production have vanished or declined, its most hi-tech and perhaps least known industry, global communications, will also suffer a hammer blow.Roger Willey, 57, who joined Goonhilly as an apprentice in the 60s and spent almost 30 years there, said: "It's a real kick in the teeth for the area and for the whole of Cornwall. Madley has no history - it's all here at Goonhilly. Given the economic situation in Cornwall, BT ought to be doing more to keep the jobs here." Andrew George, the Liberal Democrat MP and a local boy, added: "It's a massive regret. Goonhilly has been such a force for good in the area, providing really good jobs for local people, as well as having such a brilliant history."Goonhilly was chosen because of its unique spot, remote enough for little electromagnetic interference and enjoying clean lines of sight towards the Atlantic and Indian oceans. It also helped that the solid serpentine bedrock was strong enough to support the giant steel and concrete antennae.In the summer of 1962 Goonhilly 1 - better known as Arthur - received live television pictures from the US via the Telstar satellite. Since then another 60 dishes have been built among the orchids and burial mounds of Goonhilly Downs and events ranging from World Cups to the Olympic games, from Live Aid to the wedding of Prince Charles and Diana beamed around the world. At the same time, billions of international phone calls, bank transactions and ship distress calls have been handled.Villagers around Goonhilly remember the riggers who would clamber up the dishes after drinking 10 pints in the social club, and the apprentices who would be sent down to the railway station to pick up the weird vats of liquid helium used to cool the equipment which amplified the faint satellite signal. Mr Willey recalled how in the good old days broom handles would be used to hold down crucial buttons - and young men who still hoped to have children would leap out of the way of powerful electromagnetic beams, while older men would not bother.Local radio ham John Rule told how his club used to be given tonnes of redundant electrical equipment from Goonhilly and how, though he did not work there, he was invited into the control room to watch the first colour pictures from the US, years before they were widely available.Many more than could possibly have been there claim they witnessed the groundbreaking Telstar broadcast. Ken Impey, 77, who certainly was there, said: "You felt as if you were really at the centre of something." Mr Impey recalls the late Raymond Baxter, the former Tomorrow's World presenter who was at Goonhilly reporting on the broadcast, threatening to jump into his car, drive to London and "sort out" Richard Dimbleby when Dimbleby threatened to halt the broadcast because the first pictures were a little fuzzy.Local people have their favourite dishes. Anne Kelly, a Goonhilly tour guide, likes Guinevere best: "She looks like she is wearing an elegant dress." Many have a soft spot for Arthur, still beaming television pictures to ships in the Indian Ocean more than 40 years after the Telstar breakthrough, and are relieved that he at least will be spared the crushing machine - as he is listed.But the pure atmosphere and clean line of sight are no longer necessary and BT would rather have its main earth station closer to the centre of the UK. It says it is no longer "commercially viable" to have satellites at both sites. Fibre optic cables, which carry millions of phone calls in a strand as wide as a hair, have also taken much of the work from the dishes.Local councillor Carolyn Rule is working with Goonhilly, the regional development agency and others to try to find businesses to replace the satellite dishes. But they may be fighting a losing battle. The factors which made Goonhilly perfect as an earth station, such as its geographical position, may mean it is simply too remote for other businesses."We're going to fight to get other people on to the site, to turn it into a science or technology park," said Ms Rule."We realise it's not going to be easy but we've got to do our best for the local people and for the brilliant place that Goonhilly is."Goonhilly's brave new world in 1960s&#183;A Neolithic standing stone at the edge of Goonhilly earth station may have been used in attempts by the ancients to communicate with the gods.&#183;In 1901 Marconi built a giant mast at Poldhu, just down the road from Goonhilly, to send the first transatlantic radio message.&#183;Goonhilly 1, better known as Arthur, received the first live television pictures from the US via Telstar on July 11 1962.&#183;Constructed from steel and concrete, Arthur weighs 1,100 tonnes and the dish has a diameter of 26 metres (85ft). A large chain allows it to turn a full circle in three minutes.&#183;Some of Goonhilly's dishes point south-west, facing satellites above the Atlantic Ocean. Others point to satellites over the Indian Ocean.&#183;Once it was discovered that a daily period of interference was caused by a ferry crossing the sea in a direct line between Goonhilly and a satellite. On another occasion it was found that signals being received by Arthur were being disturbed by the opening of the tour bus doors.
The iPod has made its mark on popular culture, changing the face of the music industry and becoming one of the best-selling gadgets of all time. But Apple's music player could be stretching its influence into unexpected territory - architecture.A newly announced multimillion pound building project in Dubai will take inspiration for its design from that of the iconic iPod, according to reports.Officials have said that the "iPad" will be based on the design of Apple's MP3 player. The tower will be perched on top of a docking station, and will ape the iPod by sitting at an angle of six degrees. The 23-storey building, due to open in 2009, is expected to house more than 200 homes and offices, said its backers.The development is being designed by Hong Kong-based consultancy James Law Cybertecture, an award-winning architecture firm focused on futuristic projects and "intelligent" buildings. Previous projects have included an artificial intelligence laboratory and a "morphable" house in Denmark which is able to change its shape and layout.Dubai has one of the fastest-growing construction industries in the world. It is famed for its weird and wonderful architecture, including The World, a series of artificial islands mimicking a map of the globe.The iPad project is being developed by Omniyat Properties, a hi-tech development firm targeted at the upper end of Dubai's property market.Other current schemes include a &pound;77m self-contained office building called The Binary. The company's chief executive said disdain for its improbable design would be disregarded when the final designs were unveiled."We are aware that today people are taking us at face value on what we promise," said Mehdi Amjad. "But by 2008, when we hand over our first project, they will judge us on the quality of the product we deliver."
On Christmas Day, GCap Media launched a new national UK radio station calledThe Jazz. It's from the same source as Classic FM, but they couldn't call itJazz FMas someone else (Guardian Media Group) has already tried a station with that name, and dropped it.What's novel about The Jazz is that it's a music station that has been launched in glorious mono instead of dreadful old-fashioned stereo. It's broadcasting on the fabulous DAB Digital One multiplex at only 96kbps.To make room for the new station, both the Core and Capital Life music stations have been reduced to 80kbps mono. As Steve Green has pointed out at Digital Radio Tech,Mono is the new stereo.However, since most DAB radios seem to be mono or have stereo with very little speaker separation, this probably doesn't make any real difference to the target market. Indeed, why bother with stereo at all? We could have even more radio stations if everything was reduced to mono!Perhaps Classic FM's presenters will launch a hype campaign about how wonderful it is to hear music coming from a single source instead of spread over a 3D sound-stage of the sort you might hear in a concert hall or jazz club. This would be in keeping with their claims that DAB offers high quality sound.Reducing Classic FM from 160kbps stereo to 80kbps mono would free up DAB space for a country music station or another of those pointless jukebox space-fillers, or perhaps for the audio channel from QVC. I'm sure Ofcom would approve.Users who want to hear The Jazz in stereo can always forget about whatwagsare now calling Diaboloical Audio Broadcasting and listen to it on the net (Windows Media Audio) or NTL Digital 885, Telewest Broadband Digital 961, or SkyDigital 0113.We'll be watching with interest to see whether The Jazz does better than GCap'sChillstation, which has achieved a0.1% market share.
http://www.apple.com/pr/library/2005/mar/10blu-ray.htmlMacOSXRumors expects Apple to launcha new range of Cinema Display screens with HDMI(High-Definition Multimedia Interface) connectors.This is probably inevitable since HDMI differs from DVI (Digital Visual Interface) mainly in that includes HDCP (High-bandwidth Digital Content Protection). HDCP digital rights management is required to display copy-protected high definition movies from Blu-ray (and HD-DVD) drives, and weknowApple is planning to support Blu-ray -- well, it's on the board. (HDMI also includes sound whereas DVI is video only.)HDCP requires that every device with access to the reproduction chain supports HDCP.However, there's also a small groupled by Intel's Simon Ellisthat wants to use a newUnified Display Interface(UDI) instead of HDMI, "accommodating both DVI and HDMI requirements".UDI starts with a bandwidth of 16 gigabits per second, whereas single-link DVI is just under 4Gbps, so it could be a good replacement for VGA and DVI. It could also avoid the very high HDMI licensing costs.But the PC industry has already taken the HDMI route, so it would be surprising if Apple adopted UDI at this early stage, before the 1.0 spec has even been completed.
Merry Boxing Day, everyone. I hope Christmas Day was a joy - and even if it wasn't, this may lighten the load: apparently there's going to be a tower block in Dubai which is based on the look of the iPod.The plan, to be revealed early next year, is to have it sitting in a "dock" and leaning backwards. And while my first impression was that this was a joke, the architects -James Law- seem to be plugging it, too. FromGulf News:Real estate developer Omniyat Properties is planning to launch projects worth more than Dh3 billion in 2007, starting with a tower inspired by Apple's iPod MP3 player.The company will announce at least two residential projects and one commercial development and will open its account in February with the innovative iPad residential tower in Business Bay.[...]The tower will sit atop a docking station angled at six degrees to give the exact look.The "iPad", eh? Wonder what Steve Jobs is going to think of that one. Or was this an announcement from his forthcoming keynote speech atMacworldin January that slipped out early?
We receive far too many letters and blog pingbacks in a week to be able to put them in print, so we think that this is a good place to let peoples' views be heard at length. So here's the full text of the letters from which we selected this week. (And here, theprinted letters.)Remember, please supply a full name and post town if you want your letter to be considered for printing. We don't print email addresses.FINDING ONLINE MUSICYou've got it wrong about MySpace Music. It's not just because it's a social networking site, it's because it's easy to access. Every page is pretty much the same, albeit with a different skin and different content. You know where to find the music, the pictures, the tour dates, the blogs etc. I can go to the MySpace pages of my favourite bands and find out exactly what they're up to - quickly, easily and effectively. Compare that with the "official" sites that the bands have. Full of content, maybe, but overly complex and confusing. Memory-eating animations, bizarre menu systems, not to mention sometimes having to sign up before getting any information from the site. I, like many others, can't be bothered learning how to use an artist's official site. It's cumbersome and confusing. Give me MySpace, where it all follows the same pattern, but with enough personalisation to stop it being dull. Chris Stevens, Dallas, TexasHAS ITUNES PEAKED?Charles' account of that story benefits from a more mature approach than we've seen elsewhere, but there is one point that I feel is significant. He writes "After analysing thousands of credit and debit card transactions of 4,000 people (a statistically valid sample)…" I don't have access to Forrester's report itself (it's very expensive), but it's widely reported that the sample was derived from the credit card transactions of 7,000 consumers, of which only 181 were households that actually made a purchase from the iTunes store. So, instead of being a statistically valid sample, the maths start to look very shaky indeed when it comes to making predictions about iTunes. Such a tiny sample might still provide valid data if credit cards were the only way to buy iTunes tracks, but of course customers can also buy them with PayPal or via iTunes gift cards. You only have to stand in line at a supermarket check-out to see the display of iTunes gift cards. They wouldn't be in such a prominent place if they didn't sell and each of those cards allows the recipient to buy tens of tracks. To have drawn such a sensational conclusion from such a tiny sample and then to have ignored other significant ways of purchase is misleading in the extreme. When Apple have sold one and a half billion tracks, jumping to any sort of conclusion based on the credit card spending habits of just 181 customers is perverse and discredits the analysts and those who published misleading headlines based on a false reading of that report, which was prone to error in the first place. Alan Taylor, NewburyThe Forrester analysis misses one point-- people with iPods keep buying new iPods. I have five . . . however, each new purchase of an iPod increases the denominator of the "songs purchased per iPod" calculation-- a consumer who had previously purchased 500 songs for one iPod now buys another, and by the operation of simple math, his "songs per iPod" number has fallen to 250; a calculation of little use in figuring out whether the iTunes music store is doing well or not. A more useful number would be "songs purchased per customer". Alex Polsky (no post town given)&gt;&gt; When I bought my own iPod, I bought a few things from the iTunes Music Store (A Dave Chappelle standup concert video, and some Ricky Gervais paid podcasts), and the promptly went back to my old routines. I found the iTunes Music Store to be unconscionably disorganized and clunky as hell. I'd rather buy and burn CDs in a heartbeat that suffer the madness of the iTunes interface. However, I think both the study and Constantinos Michael's analysis probably fail at their aim to accurately map the patterns of the public at large. They do however raise some interesting questions for future ponderance.http://dicta.fakescience.com/2006/12/15/conflicting-views-on-the-growth-of-itunes-music-store/&gt;&gt; There are many parallels between where the advertising industry is now, and where the music industry was around a year ago. As such, there is much we (in the brand communication business) can learn from the experiences of record retailers, labels, artists and consumers about the impact of digital technologies on a creative industry.http://thoughtcrime.typepad.com/mattdyke/2006/12/learning_from_t.htmlTECHNOBILE - PASSWORDSMichael Pollitt need to pick up the method for coming up with reliable, non-spoofable passwords: Take a phrase or saying you're familiar with, and take the first letters of each word (or if you're really clever, say, the third letter), and use that as a password. This will not occur in a dictionary search, but you don't have top remember an arbitrary list of letters and numbers. Substitute "i" for "1" and "o" for "0" as you wish. An example (which I've not used, in case you want to hack my accounts - I use my two favourite poets). Lets take for an example, "Stairway to Heaven". So when you're typing in your password, recite in your head " There's a Lady who's sure all that glitters is gold", and type "talwsatgig" (first letters of each word). Easy and quick, and doesn't come up in commonly-used password lists - at least yet... Simple when you know how. Andy Holyer, LewesI have an easy solution to Michael Pollitt's password problem. Simply choose one good password and add the website's name to the end ( or beginning) of it. Every one will be different but you should never forget. Yes I know any repetition is a security weakness but it has to be better than writing it down. Gareth Watkins, TringI have a solution to the password problem. A Word document (encrypted, and do make sure it is encrypted and not just password protected!) that contains a table, 3 columns, 1. the name of the service, with, in appropriate cases a hyperlink to their website (use control K to create this). If it a phone account the info can just as readily be the phone number than the URL, though obviously not hyperlinked 2, the log in name, and 3, the password To access the site, open the document, entering its own password (you have to remember that one, and it has to be secure and not used for any other document), Use "find" to find the service name (they don't have to be alphabetical!), control click the hyperlink (opens your default browser &amp; always goes to the right site, not some phishing address), copy and paste the user name and the password respectively. If you are allowed to chose your own password, there is a further tweak possible; chose a standard, core perhaps a 4 letter word, but it could be a sequence of numbers. As an example, we'll use "core" itself. To create a new password, add a prefix (or a suffix, or both) - so your password for YouTube could be 999core; you don't need to put the word "core" in the document (because it is always the same, remember it), just enter the prefix 999. So if anyone did get the document, they would not see the password, just half of it, which would be useless without knowing your chosen core and structure. This is capable of development - if a password were 9core99, then in the document write 9+99; or 9/99 or 9.99; and you could use different prefixes or suffixes for different purposes (1 for banking, 2 for work related, 3 for hobbies, etc). passwords that need to be changed periodically can be incremented by one and the document amended accordingly. The Document can include images, screen dumps, scans of software labels - my windows key code was scanned rather than typed in as a hedge against typos; When you get a new password, simply add a new row to the table and save the new version of the document using the old file name. Give the document a boring, uninteresting name that will not attract attention - NOT "PASSWORDS.doc"! - perhaps using read only recommended to protect against accidental corruption; you can store it on a USB pen to make it portable, or on the hard drive, with a shortcut from the desktop so it is always available, and your password problems are eased, if not solved completely. Keep it backed up, of course, and minimise access to it - don't leave copies lying about on backup discs! The only problem I have with it is remembering to close Word when I have finished. Andy Pedley, GreenfordI very much enjoyed Michael's article on Thursday - but I am continually surprised by the many similar commentaries (for example:http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6199372.stm) that lament the proliferation of passwords, while simultaneously neglecting to mention the numerous high quality password management products that are available. Many of these product are open source and/or free to download and use. You may have already guessed that my company offers such a product (www.AccessManager.co.uk). Please consider letting your readers know that these tools exist and that they can significantly enhance the security and management of personal information. Richard CleaverIn last week's Technology Guardian Michael Pollitt describes the misery online passwords can inflict upon us. On that Thursday morning I came across what must be the worst conceived approach to online security. Let me recount the story: It is eight in the morning when still half asleep I decide to access my bank account online. I awake my iMac and select 'Citibank' from my Bookmarks. I skip some long page telling me something about how Citibank online has changed and I dutifully enter my username and password. On the next page I am told that I need to select five 'challenge questions' one of which I will be asked every time I log on to my account. As I have no time to waste selecting questions and coming up with answers I try to find a 'skip' button or anything that will let me check my account as this is ALL I want to do. But no, Citibank demands I select my challenge questions NOW otherwise I am not allowed to access my account. Frustrated but still determined to check my account I begin browsing the questions and become convinced that someone is playing a joke on me. In front of me are 10 questions haphazardly selected and badly written. My first reaction is that I accidentally accessed some spoof site or even worse a site impersonating my bank. I double-check the URL and it all looks fine. I continue reading the questions trying to select five as instructed. The first question reads 'What is the street you grew up on?' Well, hard to tell as I grew up in Australia and Greece at four different addresses, which one do I use? Another question reads: 'What is the first name of your first date?' Well it is getting a bit personal, I really do not want to be reminded of my first date… but then again first date since when? I will not bore you with the rest of the questions but as you can tell they are ambiguous and some can have more than one answer. Having failed to select a question the answer to which I will remember I wonder whether I can write MY own question as this is MY bank account. But no, Citibank developers do not trust MY judgement when it comes to MY online security. But what if I try to trick the system and provide the same answer to all five questions, making it easier to remember? You guessed it, the clever people at Citibank will not let me give the same answer to more than one question. The result? I chose five questions I do not remember and provided five answers I will not remember. But the good people at Citibank have provided a solution. I can call them to check my account… but I will need an e-Pin to do so, oh well…. Nikos Karaoulanis, LondonMAGNETIC FRIDGESIn your interesting article on this new technology you say that "unlike conventional fridges, which need very toxic chemicals, the only liquid needed for heat transfer is water, alcohol or, more likely, antifreeze". However, these days quality fridges and freezers use R600a (a mixture of butane and propane) as cooling liquid which is not a "very toxic chemical" and not more environmentally unfriendly than "antifreeze". To the "promises to cut energy consumption by 40%" I would like to respond that there are already A++ fridges/freezers/fridge freezers on the market that use at least 50% less than the more widely accepted 'most efficient' A models. Undercounter versions of these only use 80/125/135 kWh per year, which is less than most households use just for lighting their homes. Peter van Balen, Saint Lizier, FranceWould the magnetic field extend outwith the confines of the fridge, interfering with communication equipment nearby, such as mobile phones and wireless LANs? Would it be a risk to data integrity on PCs? John Syme, Clydebank [We don't know - Ed. Anyone who does have definitive knowledge is welcome toemail us.]I hope the magnetic fridge technology can be retrofitted. Recycle a whole load of working fridges, build some more to replace them? - we have to work out the energy economics here. Perhaps the key is "recycle" - maybe that's where the retrofit happens. The purchaser gets a new one, the old one is upgraded and re-sold. Stephen Lawrence, Cambridge Green Party. PS I'm wondering whether a high-efficiency tumble drier can be made using a vacuum pump. Pump the air out of the clothes container and the dampness in the clothes vaporizes and the water is itself pumped out. Just need to make sure the clothes will be OK under v. low pressure - and that the energy required is less than straight heating. Seems plausible.SOCIAL SOFTWARE (GAMESBLOG)"Social software"? What's new about that? About seven or eight years ago, I decided that my late wife's mother (a war bride, btw) would really appreciate email, so she might exchange email with my son, since we lived half a continent away (US). I decided on a used laptop, figuring that would be less intimidating than a desktop. I bought it, did some setting up, and shipped it to her. Her other daughter, who lives in the same town, got her online, and showed her how to use the browser to look at British papers. A while later, when I visited her, I set up bookmarks and such. Three years or so ago, she bought herself a desktop. Did I mention that she's 86 next week? She occasionally gets email from her grandson, and from me, and other friends, and she can feel connected to her home that she left so many years ago. She's not stuck around the house. That's email and a Web browser. What is "social software" other than eye candy? Isn't content what you want? And with that... on the 'Net, nobody knows your age, sex, or anything else that you don't tell them, and they learn about you from what you have to say: content. Mark Roth, Chicago, IL USA
"Jimmy Wales, the founder of Wikipedia, the online encyclopaedia, is set to launch an internet search engine with amazon.com that he hopes will become a rival to Google and Yahoo!," according toThe Times(of London).Amazon has invested in Wikia and the story says "it is understood that amazon has also collaborated with Mr Wales on the search engine project and is expected to lend its support to the venture in the future."It seems the Wikia search engine will rank sites based on user views. "It usually only takes a second to figure out if the page is good, so the key here is building a community of trust that can do that," says Wales.And it takes only slightly longer than that to organise enough third-world keyboard fodder to spam the results to hell.....Update: headline corrected
Turns out that the Nintendo Wii is more desirable than a PlayStation 3, in spite of the Wii's considerable lower specification and price. At GigaGamez, Jason McMaster has been looking throughoffers to trade on Craigslist:In my search of Austin, I only turned up 6 total people who wanted to trade their PS3 for a Wii, so I moved on to New York City, which boasted a pretty substantial 18 desired trades. Here's where it gets crazy: in San Francisco, there are 48 different PS3 for Wii trades going on at this moment. Now, keep in mind, most of these trades are requesting a Wii plus cash difference, but there is the occasional barter that will take a loss just to get their hands on the latest Nintendo console.It has already been pointed out that the PS3 has not been trading well on eBay, and has not been selling out as fast as the Xbox 360 when that was in short supply. Are the people with PS3s trading for something they can sell for more money, or "have been terribly disappointed in the software line-up"? As McMaster says: "No matter what it turns out to be, I would have never pictured this scenario."
Surfing in Switzerland or Kansas could become as popular a sport as it is in Hawaii or California as a result of a startling project being pioneered by a maverick oceanographer.Professor Kerry Black, based at Waikato University in New Zealand, has developed a series of techniques aimed at taking surfers from the beach to the confines of inland pools and reservoirs. Now his technology is being pioneered in Florida.The aim is to build artificial reefs and indoor surfing centres around the world in a few years, he says. 'Our innovation has the potential to turn surfing into a stadium sport where spectators can watch top surfers compete on an international circuit.'The prospect of 50,000 spectators eating hot dogs and cheering on their teams of surfers has outraged many of the sport's purists. Surfing is for outdoor activists, they insist. Nevertheless, Black is confident he will soon be able to pull off his dream and make surfing a spectator sport that will rival football as a global entertainment.At present, there are a handful of pools round the world which use standard machines to generate artificial, surfable waves, though these are fairly tame affairs. However, Black's technology, when used with wave machines, is designed to generate waves as powerful as those found at some of the best surfing beaches. The secret lies with the Versareef, a shape-shifting artificial reef fitted to the floor of swimming pools.Black, who is backed by millions of dollars of development cash, and his researchers spent five years surveying the best reefs in the Pacific to find out what seabed characteristics generate the best surf. 'Extensive monitoring of wave conditions, and how they are affected by subtle changes to the seabed by even very small reef features, has shown us that the shape of the floor has the greatest influence on the form of the breaking wave,' he says.The end result is the Versareef, a system of computer-controlled pneumatic jacks that lie beneath a tough rubber mat, which subtly alters its shape so that a rush of water, sent by a wave machine, is moulded into a powerful, curling surf wave.Recent tests in pools at the Ron Jon Surf Park in Orlando, Florida have, according to the journal Nature, had an initially disappointing outcome. It was discovered the prototype reefs could not withstand the pressure of the waves generated inside the pool. But Black insists these flaws have now been overcome and recently announced that the first successful surfing waves were produced this month.The project has generated immense interest in Florida, where thousands have already put down their names for membership of the Ron Jon Surf Park in anticipation of a successful outcome.
Anshe Chung, the avatar of a Chinese-born language teacher living in Germany, has a virtual land development business worth more than $1m in real money, allowing her to claim to be the first virtual-world millionaire. But last week she was forced to quit a public forum inside Second Life after coming under attack from virtual vandals, or 'griefers', who hurled dozens of giant penises at her hapless avatar.Griefers enjoy making mischief in virtual worlds by causing disruption for its own sake. Chung was being 'interviewed' inside Second Life in front of an audience when the griefers struck. She reconvened the meeting on one of her own 'properties' but this too came under attack, eventually crashing the server. Daniel Terdiman, a journalist whose Second Life avatar was interviewing Chung at the time of the incident, said: 'She's made a lot of money so to some people that makes her a target.'The power of people to subvert the screen is growing.
FFFBIfffbi.comAnimal agents fighting justice... and playing really daft gamesYahoo! kidskids.yahoo.comA great place to start your surfing from - games, videos and a kid-friendly search engineNorad Santa trackerNoradSantaSatNav for tracking Father Christmas's whereabouts on Christmas EveSwitch zooswitchzoo.comDownload the trial version of this animal mix-up game to create new species like Pig-guins or tigerbeesPete Paynepetepayne.comFrom alcohol to zits, the complete guide to life as told by the Teenage Health FreakBekonscotbekonscot.comThe famous model village has a great interactive site where you can build your own wee townBBC Jamjam.bbc.co.ukExplore, learn and create with the Beeb's brilliant homework helper
For all the past week's posts on one page, clickhere. highlights include:Shakespeare tickles your Sylvian FissureBBC deal with filesharing site: but what about Brits?Probably one of the best talks you'll ever see...Your pictures of the yearAre you getting an Origami UMPC for Christmas?
Finally, someone hasgone through Microsot's RSS-related applicationand had a go at figuring out what is being claimed. According to Niall Kennedy, not much -- but then, most patents add "not much" to existing methods, and that's particulalry true in software.It's worth a quick scan just to remove the notion that Microsoft "is attempting to patent RSS". It isn't. However, that will probably become the common currency in the echo-chamber of the web, where "the stupidity of crowds" meme generally operates.There are plenty of things wrong with the US patent system, and there are plenty of things wrong with software patents: some of us think they shouldn't be alowed, and we've given Richard Stallman plenty of spaceto argue that case in print. There are, goodness knows, plenty of things wrong with Microsoft. However, distorting the facts is not an honest way to attack either of them.
It's almost Christmas, and I'm in festive mood - so I thought it might be a good time to resurrect the Friday competition - a chance to get your hands on some funky prizes and tell us what you think.With the end of the year closing fast, there was only one real question.What was your favourite piece of tech in 2006?.Are you wild about your Wii? Does your new phone bring you out in palpitations? Is there a gizmo you're desperate for someone to give you this Christmas? Or, perhaps, you've fallen in love with a much-maligned piece of tech that the rest of us turn our sniffy noses up at.Whatever it is, leave your answer - telling us what you love as well as the reason why it's your pick of the year - in the comments. Best one scoops a piece of technology that's got me unfeasibly excited this year: theSlingbox(worth a whopping £180 on the high street).
A Wikipedia-style approach to peer review hasn't worked for Nature, which is abandoning the idea, according to an artile inThe Wall Street Journal.The idea was for the authors of papers to post them online for comment before publication. However;Of the 1,369 short-listed papers submitted during the trial, which ran for around four months, only the authors of 71 were willing to post their work online, Nature said. The papers that were put online only received 92 technical comments, according to the journal, which said that scientists seemed unwilling to comment candidly on others' papers, given that comments weren't anonymous.The journal concluded that "most of them are too busy, and lack sufficient career incentive, to venture onto a venue such as Nature's Web site and post public, critical assessments of their peers' work."
Peter Gutmann from the University of Auckland, New Zealand, has a credible and extremely scary account ofVista's content protection systemsand their overheads. (It might be even scarier if I understood more of it.) As a result, claims Guttman:Microsoft will totally control the premium-content distribution channel. Not only will they be able to lock out any competitors, but because they will then represent the only available distribution channel they'll be able to dictate terms back to the content providers whose needs they are nominally serving in the same way that Apple has already dictated terms back to the music industry: Play by Apple's rules, or we won't carry your content. The result will be a technologically enforced monopoly that makes their current de-facto Windows monopoly seem like a velvet glove in comparison.How true and how significant all this might be remains to be seen. After all, I've had no problems enjoying music while never being an iTunes Music Store customer, and like everyone else, I will be able to play HD-DVD and Blu-ray movies on standalone players and games consoles, should I so desire.The major question Gutmann leaves unanswered is how far all this goes beyond Vista, if at all. It's not very useful to the content owners (mainly the Hollywood studios) to have content protection on Vista if every other system is wide open. Since most (or all?) of us hate copy protection, offering far more content protecton than rivals would ultimately not help Microsoft. It would be commercial suicide.I could see Sony trying this because it owns a big chunk of the music and movie production industries, and because it already used insane content protection to cripple the MiniDisc audio format, leading to its untimely death. But Microsoft usually goes where the money is....
According toCNet, "Microsoft has filed for two patents covering technology used to organize and read syndicated Web feeds" (Here's the paperwork). Dave Winer, unsurprisingly,isn't happy.Jack adds: With luck, however, Dave will calm down a bit when he realises he has made two significant errors in saying: "Today I received a link to a patent granted to Microsoft, where they claim to have invented all this stuff." First, Microsoft makes no such claim; and second, it's a patent application, not the granting of a patent.In any case,one of Microsoft's patent applicationsseems to cover an area whereApple has already applied for a patent(for a News feed browser), though the method may be different. Is there a patent lawyer in the house?
It seems a pretty safe bet that almost no one is going to get an Origami-style ultra-mobile PC from Santa this year, though I'd rather like one myself. James Kendrick from thejkOnTheRunmobile computing site is one of the few users, and he's written an interesting article about the system atInformation Week.The core argument for all these devices is: "UMPCs provide utility in places where other computers cannot be used." This is true of notebook PCs, of course, and it's even true for desktops. (In the old days, it was really hard to get your mini or mainframe home, without several fork lift trucks.) So the question really boils down to how much extra utility you get, what it's worth, and how much you have to pay for it.This is where the argument for buying UMPCs and Tablet PCs tends to fall down. I can cost-justify an ultraportable notebook PC (I use a ThinkPad X31) and a mobile phone. That doesn't leave a big gap to fill. How much would I pay to fill it? Well, I'd definitely be in for £249, and maybe for £399, at a push. At anything more than that, count me out. £999 is just silly.Obviously different people will have different levels of utility and different price threshholds. A fashion designer or architect, for example, might find a UMPC terrific value at £2,000, whereas a manual worker might find it of no value at all. However, I don't think the UMPC will get any traction in the mass market until the actual price comes under Microsoft's original concept price, which was $499.Even then, I suspect it's not going to be huge seller, because a UMPC probably won't be most people's first or second or maybe even third choice of device. If someone already has a desktop, notebook and smartphone -- which I do -- then it's a fourth device, and I really don't think a lot of people are going to go that far....
Hey folks, we hope you all have a great holiday and we'll see you in 2007! Expect service to resume the first week in January.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Back in the summer, Blogger pushed out a limited beta of its new release. It's now out there for us all asThe New Blogger- but feedback so far seemslimited. Anybody got an opinion?
A couple of months ago I took a look at Motorola's latest skinny clamshell phone, the KRZR. And I wasn't impressed. It seems that the company is still struggling to find a successor to the hugely popular RAZR. The RIZR, a sliding phone, is a step in the right direction. There are big moves on from the KRZR, the first being that its keys are more prominent and easier to hit. There's no 3G compatibility, but Moto has included a music player, Bluetooth, a basic web browser and even sudoku. Areas where Moto hasn't been too generous are memory (just 20MB onboard, though you can add a micro SD card) and battery life, which at six hours talktime could be better for a non-3G phone. The 2 megapixel camera is also a little hit and miss, with many of our shots coming out dark and blurred. Overall this is a more solid phone than the flashy KRZR, but it is still no RAZR 2.0.
Optical joystick phoneIn Korea, Samsung has announced the SCH-V960, the first phone with an optical joystick. It "may revolutionise the way users interact with the menu and user interface of mobile handsets".samsung.comDigg redugDigg, a news site where users "digg" stories to promote them, has added a section for videos and is developing one for podcasts.digg.com/videosRadio consultationOfcom has published the responses to its initial consultation on the future of radio, with interesting contributions from the BBC and Channel 4.ofcom.org.ukMore portable viewersEpson has launched the P-3000 and P-5000 multimedia storage viewers with 40GB and 80GB hard drives respectively. The systems can play music and movies as well as storing RAW photo images.Sky no limitGoogle and Nasa have signed a partnership that will make more Nasa data available on the internet. This could include 3D maps of Mars, and, perhaps, virtual space travel.nasa.govGames creatorMicrosoft has pre-announced a games-writing competition, Dream Build Play, along with its free games programming system, XNA Game Studio Express.dreambuildplay.comVista readinessCrucial, which sells memory chips online, has introduced an online scanner that tells PC users if their machines are capable of running Windows Vistacrucial.com/ukThinkFree or buyUnconfirmed reports claim Google is trying to buy the ThinkFree online office suite that is compatible with the core programs in Microsoft Office.thinkfree.com
Hitting the right noteYou've missed the point about MySpace music (How to get music to our ears, December 14). It's because it's easy to access. I can go to the MySpace pages of bands and find out what they're up to - quickly, easily and effectively. Compare that with their "official" sites. Full of content, maybe, but overly complex and confusing. Give me MySpace, where it all follows the same pattern, but with enough personalisation to stop it being dull.Chris StevensDallas, US&middot;Charles Arthur writes (Has the iTunes music store passed its peak?, December 14) "After analysing thousands of credit and debit card transactions of 4,000 people (a statistically valid sample) ... " It's widely reported that the sample was derived from the credit card transactions of 7,000 consumers, of which only 181 were households that actually made a purchase from the iTunes store.To have drawn such a sensational conclusion from such a tiny sample and then to have ignored other significant ways of purchase is misleading.Alan TaylorNewbury&#183;When I bought my iPod, I bought a few things from the iTunes Music Store and then promptly went back to my old routines. I found the iTunes Music Store disorganised and clunky. I'd rather buy and rip CDs than suffer the madness of the iTunes interface.dicta.fakescience.comPassword hellI am continually surprised by the many commentaries that lament the proliferation of passwords (Technobile, December 14) while simultaneously neglecting to mention the numerous high-quality password management products available. Many of these product are open source and/or free to download and use.Richard Cleaveraccessmanager.co.uk&middot;It is eight in the morning and I decide to access my bank account online. I skip some long page telling me something about how Citibank online has changed and I dutifully enter my username and password. On the next page I am told that I need to select five questions, one of which I will be asked every time I log on. As I have no time to waste, I try to find a "skip" button or anything that will let me check my account. But no, Citibank demands I select my questions now otherwise I can't access my account.In front of me are 10 badly written questions. The first reads "What is the street you grew up on?" I grew up in Australia and Greece at four different addresses, so which one do I use? Another reads: "What is the first name of your first date?" It is getting a bit personal and I really do not want to be reminded of my first date ... but then again, first date since when? I then wonder whether I can write my own question as this is my account. But no, Citibank does not trust my judgment when it comes to my online security.The result? I chose five questions I do not remember and provided five answers I will not remember. I can call them to check my account ... but I will need an e-Pin to do so. Oh well ...Nikos KaraoulanisLondonNot so cool for dataWould the magnetic field extend out with the fridge, interfering with such as mobile phones and wireless LANs? (A cool new idea, December 14) Would it be a risk to data on PCs?John SymeClydebankJust eye candy"Social software"? (Gamesblog, December 14) What's new about that? About seven years ago, I decided that my late wife's mother, a war bride, would appreciate email. I bought her a laptop, did some setting up and shipped it to her. Her other daughter, who lives in the same town, got her online and showed her how to use the browser to look at British papers.She occasionally gets email from her grandson, from me and other friends, and she can feel connected to the home she left so many years ago. That's email and a web browser. What is "social software" other than eye candy?Mark RothChicago, US
When it emerged earlier this week that eBay was preparing to close down its Chinese operation, few observers were wholly surprised.After several years of underperforming results in the auction giant's business in the country, press reports suggest that the company is planning a three-way split of its Chinese enterprise. Instead of taking on its competitors head first, eBay is instead expected to pump $40m (&pound;20.3m) into a new venture with Tom Group, the internet portal run by Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka Shing.All parties have refused to comment on the reports, but experts say that the experience and influence of Li - ranked as the 10th richest person in the world - would bring some chance of success to eBay's desperate efforts to crack China. But if eBay has failed to break into the world's hottest market, it is far from being alone. Its withdrawal will, in fact, be just the latest low-water mark in the struggle by American internet companies to conquer the Chinese market.Amazon is among the casualties, after trying to enter China by buying Joyo.com - which promptly lost its title as the country's most-visited site to rival DangDang. Last year Yahoo!, one of the grand old men of the western web, ditched its own business in the country by selling out to rival Alibaba.com. And just this week it was also reported this week that MSN was going to link up with Baidu.com, China's homegrown search engine, in a tacit admission of defeat.So what is it that makes it so hard for Silicon Valley to translate its western success to Asia's biggest economy? Jack Ma, the charismatic founder of Alibaba.com, is one of the country's leading internet entrepreneurs and has already proved to be a very painful thorn in the side of his western rivals.He presaged this week's news last month when he said that eBay was "half dead" and that American companies trying to break into the Chinese market were doomed to failure. He blames such collapses on the lazy corporate cultures of the west, and the quick successes demanded by senior staff who are used to being big fish on the other side of the pond."A lot of people assume that because of money, technology and branding, it will be a success. But the market can't be bought," he said. "You have to build little by little to get into the market - it's about people, and you need patience."American companies operating in China, he said, are too focused on their troubles back home - either in the form of kowtowing to Silicon Valley executives or simply meeting the demands of shareholders. "Professional managers are making their bosses in the US happy, not the Chinese users," he said.But despite this advice, it is likely that businesses from the US and Europe will continue trying their luck in Beijing. It is clear what makes China such an attractive target: lots of people.With the internet populations of America and the EU levelling off, the sort of explosive growth experienced by large dotcoms is largely unrepeatable in the west. In China, meanwhile, growth is still huge - 123m are online there: second only to America, but still just 10% of the overall population. And with around 70% of internet users there aged under 30, they are a perfect target market.That growth is also supported by a voracious homegrown technology base. Zhongguancun, the northwestern corner of Beijing often referred to as "China's Silicon Valley", is pumping out proficient and ravenous young entrepreneurs keen to ride the crest of their own technical revolution.Ma's warning to rivals intent on believing that the cash cow could still be milked is far from subtle: "We did not beat eBay in the USA ... yet." That should be enough to send a shiver down the spines of more than a few boardroom Napoleons: worry about your own home turf, rather than trying to invade mine.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A few weeks ago the 3 network unveiled a mobile phone that enables users to make Skype VoIP calls for free. It could be a while until other networks follow 3's lead, which is why there is an opportunity for devices like the IPdrum IP Voicelink. It enables owners to make Skype calls from any mobile phone. Users plug a router-type box to their PC via USB, install the software and then by dialling into the box they can make Skype calls to other Skype users for free, or make Skype in or out calls for not much. Unlike the 3 offering there's no Skype interface on the phone, but it is still fairly simple to operate. The downside is that you have to pay both for the unit, a reasonable &pound;120, and for a second Sim card for the device. If the maths work out it could be a sound buy - especially for small businesses looking to reduce their telecoms bills.
Because if the computers in films were like the ones in real life, people would be endlessly turning them off and on again and standing around staring at the ceiling while they waited for a progress bar to inch across the screen. In short, it would be boring as hell. After all, the only time you call people to come and watch things happening on your computer is when you've found a video of someone playing the national anthem with their armpit, isn't it?But the filmmakers' dilemma is that computers have become essential plot devices: nobody would believe that you could have a giant corporation where the secret plans to overthrow the rule of law weren't kept in a password- protected folder marked MOST SECRET. (That's where we keep all our plans for world domination, even the out-of-date ones.) A film world without computers is almost unthinkable, since they're a sort of white-collar gun - able to exert immense power at vast distances through minimal effort by the protagonist. Yet the film reckoned (by geeks) the most realistic depiction of computer use, Antitrust, garners one review at imdb.com suggesting "No script, no plot, horrible acting ... Take your money and go home and avoid this dung heap at all costs."Now the usability expert Jakob Nielsen has done an analysis of the top 10 usability "errors" in films, (tinyurl.com/y7erul) and points out that they fall into a pretty small group: the hero can use (and crack) any computer which can talk to absolutely any other computer, though often only after negotiating a series of frustrating but usefully huge-fonted "ACCESS DENIED" notices; computers can talk and understand you, when required; time travellers from the past and future can use our computers (at which Nielsen fulminates "taken back in time to the Napoleonic wars and made captain of a British frigate, you'd have no clue how to sail the ship: you couldn't use a sextant and you wouldn't know the names of the different sails, so you couldn't order the sailors to rig the masts"). Nielsen adds that "it's highly unlikely that anyone from 2207 would have ever seen Windows Vista screens."(Note how he says unlikely. Does he think it'll take Microsoft 200 years to produce the next version of Windows? Even scarier, has some time traveller visited him and said, "Oh, Vista"?)As for talking computers, which so many people think would be a great idea, those are an "audience interface" rather than a user interface. And imagine the chaos of an office full of computers babbling: "Alert. You have new mail." Though in films, your email is never, ever spam; it was never explained how in You've Got Mail neither Tom Hanks nor Meg Ryan, ostensibly AOL users, didn't have to wade through messages offering to enhance their body parts to reach their billets doux.Nielsen is also dismissive of three-dimensional interfaces, made most impressive in the film Minority Report (from the short story by Philip K Dick, which didn't itself contain any computers at all). There, Tom Cruise waves his hands about to shove data around and find the about-to-be-baddie. In reality, says Nielsen, "it's very tiring to keep your arms in the air while using a computer"; in short, he says, "3D is for demos. 2D is for work."The most marvellous and jawdropping plot device, of course, remains that from Independence Day, when Jeff Goldblum uploads a virus from a Mac to the aliens' starship, crashing it (and the aliens to the ground). Probably - we hope - this represents the nadir of computer-driven plotting, bottoming out the path traced by Jurassic Park (in which the young girl exclaims "This is Unix, it's easy!"). Let's just turn that one off - and not turn it back on again.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
For the past month I have been broadcasting to my friends and colleagues that I'm a complete tosser. Well, what do you call people whose emails end: "Sent from my BlackBerry&reg; wireless device"? I know what I used to before I got mine: "Smug git who will shortly meet a deserved fate by being run over by a bus while playing with his tool."Then I upgraded my phone to a BlackBerry Pearl. For the first week, I could plead ignorance of what I was sending. Then a cartoonist friend put me right. Mercilessly. Ever since, I've been searching in vain for a way to turn the default message off.Now, the Pearl is a sensational piece of engineering. I find its abbreviated qwerty keyboard and trackball intuitive and easy to use. The support from O2 was excellent - a helpline operator guided me through the setup with a calm professionalism reminiscent of one of those chaps who talks down homicidal hostage-takers.A brilliant product; so why does Research in Motion feel the need for such naff marketing? Possibly in 2003 it was a way of piquing curiosity: "Your what &reg; device?" Today, nearly everyone knows what a BlackBerry is, and those who don't are unlikely to be impressed.Of course, email signatures are generally written in defiance of the impression they make. For years, the government has tried to persuade civil servants that email is a serious medium. And then it signs an intranet contract that requires every email from Her Majesty's Government to end with the words: "supplied exclusively by Cable &amp; Wireless in partnership with MessageLabs."And how much midnight oil is wasted, how many server farms uselessly employed, drawing up and disseminating those idiotic disclaimers on corporate emails? The rule of thumb is the less important the message, the longer and more absurd the sign off. My favourite, though by no means the worst, is from Ernst &amp; Young. Its 256-word signature conveys legal threat: "you must not use, disclose, distribute, copy, print or rely on this email", superfluous advice: "we would advise that you carry out your own virus checks" and corporate image-preening: "Ernst &amp; Young is proud to sponsor the Rodin exhibition ... This is the twelfth major arts exhibition we have been associated with."At least the BlackBerry's signoff is short and grammatically unobjectionable. It just drives me mad. There must be a way to change the default setting, but I can't find it on the menus or in the manual and I don't want to try the patience of my helpline saint.Can a Technology Guardian reader help me? Quickly? While I'm still on emailing terms with the world?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
As one of the most fascinating years in videogame history draws to a close, there is one story that stands out: the return of Nintendo. It's almost impossible to believe that earlier this year journalists were unsure how the public would react to the Wii, with its motion-sensing gimmick and dated technology (it's little more than a customised GameCube).In the space of a week, the map of the industry has changed. In North America, 600,000 Wiis were sold in the eight days following its release, 400,000 in a single day in Japan and 325,000 after two days in Europe. Crucially, the Wii won the PR war months before release, and did so through a single concept, rather than a list of impressive specifications. A controller that you waft around is something mainstream journalists could spin a story around. What they spectacularly couldn't do was communicate the attributes of the PS3 or Xbox 360. Hardly anyone outside the industry cares about the finer points of multiple-core processing or pixel-shader operations.The past couple of months have seen a flood of adoring coverage. Breakfast TV presenters have thrown themselves into live Wii Sports sessions, while highbrow pundits on the Late Review shamefacedly admitted the genius of the machine. As a console manufacturer, you know you're on unstoppable form when a man can accidentally punch his wife while playing with your console and the tabloids treat the story as a comic tribute to the product rather than conclusive proof that games are bringing about the collapse of civilisation.You can't buy goodwill like that - and God knows, Sony has tried. The company has been guilty of several viral marketing mishaps this year. Somebody somewhere should watch Charlie Brooker and Chris Morris' Nathan Barley series (trashbat.co.ck) then weep with recognition and shame.Elsewhere, the biggest disappointment of the year has been Microsoft's failure to capitalise on its monopoly. The Xbox 360 has had the next-gen market to itself and the Christmas shelves should be bulging with goodies from in-house developers. Instead, the company is relying heavily on one title, Gears of War, with Viva Pi&ntilde;ata its only grudging acknowledgement of the fact that not all gamers are American teenage boys obsessed with sci-fi, sport and fantasy violence.Sony will recover from its annus horribilis because it has an amazing machine and unparalleled brand recognition. But I'm not sure Microsoft has the breadth of vision to flourish away from home. I expect 2007 will be a two-horse race, and I doubt we'll see Bill Gates in either saddle.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Buy a copy of Microsoft Windows or Office, Adobe Photoshop or even a game in the UK, and you will usually end up paying much more than you would in the US. It could be as little as 20p more for a music download (though even after VAT that's a near-25% markup), up to an amazing &pound;181 extra for a copy of Adobe Photoshop CS2, if you are paying manufacturers' suggested retail prices.This isn't anything new for the computing and videogame industries, where prices have often been converted from dollars to pounds just by changing the currency symbol, not the amount. However, it attracts more attention whenever there is a slump in the exchange rate, and that's the case at the moment.With &pound;1 currently worth $1.96, it's dead simple to look at any US price and halve it to get a rough UK equivalent. Since most UK product prices were set when the dollar was at a much lower rate, this is bound to prompt another round of complaints about "Rip-Off Britain".Brian Gammage, of market analysis company Gartner Group, points out: "It's a much wider problem than just computer software and hardware, but we don't seem to get a fair run at the exchange rate when the dollar is down, as it is today."With software, it's easy to assume that the product is identical on both sides of the pond, so prices should also be the same - or at least equivalent, after allowing for the UK's 17.5% VAT. Clearly they are not. Amazon US, for example, sells Windows XP SP2 Home for $189.99, whereas Amazon UK wants &pound;175.99. The UK price including VAT should be &pound;113.90 at the current exchange rate, saving buyers &pound;62.Making the same comparison between Amazon's US and UK sites, an XP Home Upgrade costs $91.99 and &pound;79.97 instead of &pound;55.15, so it's &pound;24.82 more. Mac OS X Tiger costs $103.90 and &pound;87.99 instead of &pound;62.29, so you're paying &pound;25.70 more. With SuSE Linux 10.1, it's $47.99 and &pound;37.99 instead of &pound;28.77. The worst was Adobe Photoshop CS2 at $579.99 and &pound;495.99 instead of &pound;347.20. You'd pay &pound;148.29 more in the UK, at Amazon prices, and &pound;180.81 more at the recommended retail price.But products are not always the same. Microsoft Windows, for example, is localised for numerous European editions, and the different versions include links to different internet service providers and other services. Also, each European office has to pay the local prices required to run a business (rent, rates, salaries etc) plus the specific costs of software distribution, advertising, marketing and support - and support can be extremely expensive.Steve Dunn, the finance director at Microsoft UK, says: "The costs incurred in delivering European packaging and settings plus the cost of marketing in many languages ... will drive a price differential" when compared with "the scale and volume of the US market."Another factor is that multinationals say they don't want to "confuse" us by having prices yo-yo with volatile exchange rates. Adobe said: "If changes were to be made to reflect the currency fluctuation, the customer would be harmed when the GBP-dollar relationship swings the other way. In this environment, it is difficult for Adobe to continuously tune pricing. Therefore, Adobe policy has been to maintain the pricing in GBPs, so that at least the price the customer pays is not changing in relationship to GBP-based buying power."In other words you, dear reader, can forget about the exchange rate as far as software companies are concerned. Those with local operations sell their products at local prices, based mainly on what users were willing to pay for previous versions, not with equivalent prices in other markets. And, of course, there's probably not much incentive to pass on any exchange rate benefits to customers when the extra profits inflate the performance of the UK subsidiary when viewed from the US.Also, users should not be surprised that software prices tend to follow historical trends; there's not much else to base them on. The prices of games and popular applications tend to cluster around recognised price points that have only a casual relationship with either the cost of production or the eventual volume of sales.As Gammage says: "Any attempt to associate real value with what we buy in software is probably doomed to failure."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Slowly but relentlessly, the question of how government should encourage people to exploit the vast resources of digital information it holds is creeping above the political horizon. Last week, opposition MPs tabled questions to ministers about what action they plan to take following the Office of Fair Trading's criticisms of the way the public agencies behave in the market for data.Internationally, too, the issue is gaining momentum. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) last week agreed that public-sector information should be on the agenda of its next big ministerial conference on the information economy, in Korea in 2008. That may seem a long way off - but officials says that much work needs to be done to understand the issue.Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign proposes a simple solution: government bodies should make available all data owned or funded by taxpayers, subject to the demands of privacy and security, at the marginal cost of dissemination. In the internet age, this is usually zero. There is a stark contrast between the UK's approach, running parts of government as businesses selling data and the US, where federal data is available for free.Complex pictureHowever, an international studycarried out for the Office of Fair Tradingpaints a more complex picture. The study is a rare attempt to perform a consistent analysis of how three different countries' agencies work. They are the US, where federal data is almost all free; Sweden, which has a similar position to Britain's, and Australia, which falls between the two. For each country, the study examines the state mapping, meteorological and companies registration agency. These generate the most commercially exploited public-sector data. But the way they run their businesses varies greatly: Australia's meteorological agency makes a profit of US$6.15m (&pound;3.12m) a year, Sweden's mapping agency US$5.3m. Their US equivalents depend on government funding.Sweden, despite a freedom of information tradition going back to 1766, is no free data paradise. The study says that several agencies are "very active in commercial sales" and that this has caused problems when an agency competes with the private sector. In an echo of the UK position, it finds government policy unclear: there is no overarching approach to the regulation of fees and charges for the commercial use of government data.As in Britain, the Swedish government does not set a clear boundary between primary, "unrefined", information and "refined" value-added products. The study reports concerns that Sweden's meteorological agency may enjoy "various advantages" over commercial businesses as a result: the state agency supplies 95% of the market in value-added products. Sweden's mapping agency, too, has come under official scrutiny for failing to separate its accounts between unrefined and refined activities. Government inspectors have reported suspicions of cross-subsidisation - a similar charge made against the British equivalent, Ordnance Survey.In Australia and the US, by contrast, the study finds that governments prevent public agencies from competing directly with the private sector. There has not been a single complaint from a private operator in either country for the past five years.There is a price to pay, the international study suggests. In the US, it finds that, while the supply of free data from the US Geological Survey has stimulated private investment, the private sector has now overtaken the government agency, whose maps are now used only as a last resort. Part of the problem may be that an agency forced to provide data for free has no incentive to make its data relevant to the market. The study suggests that, in a free-data environment, regular surveys of users may be necessary to ensure that an agency's products are still needed.Key assumptionsOverall, however, the international study does not come out in favour of free data - though it warns of risks to competition when public agencies behave as businesses. The study's authors, London Economics, say that the "free data" argument depends on two key assumptions. First, that the government is better than the market at deciding what data consumers want and, second, that the extra taxes needed to support "free" data will not distort the economy. "Neither assumption is likely to be true in practice," they say.We disagree: the data that we want freed was almost all created to serve government policy, not the consumer. As for the second assumption, we argue that the government might actually save money when public bodies no longer have to market and protect their data, solemnly billing each other for its use. What we need is more evidence, and more discussion, domestically and internationally. That, at least, is beginning to happen.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
