CNet has published a memo,Kevin Johnson's letter on Microsoft's updated online strategy, sent on Sunday. It repeats the "four pillars" of the current strategy, which are:1. Consolidate ad platform and win in display 2. Innovate and disrupt in search 3. Deliver end-to-end user experiences across PC, phone, and web 4. Reinvent portal and social media experiencesWell, there's nothing wrong with being ambitious, but it's better to be realistic.....Johnson notes that "On Tuesday, Brian McAndrews is hosting advance08, our annual advertising conference here in Redmond." Then:On Wednesday, we will be announcing a major new initiative that our search teams have been driving. We are getting better and better with our core algorithmic search, and at the same time, we are investing to differentiate in vertical experiences and to disrupt the current model. You'll hear more about our plans Wednesday."Vertical experiences" are things like medical searches. Although Micrososft has zero chance of unseating Google in the short term, if ever, it might be able to get a toe-hold in niches.Otherwise, as theMercury Newsnotes: "Yahoo and Microsoft have resumed talks in the wake of a shareholder rebellion launched by billionaire investor Carl Icahn, but this time the discussions are focusing on a deal short of outright acquisition."Rather than being a takeover, discussions are thought to be about a search advertising deal.Microsoft says: "Microsoft is considering and has raised with Yahoo! an alternative that would involve a transaction with Yahoo! but not an acquisition of all of Yahoo!"
For those who've been away for the weekend: on Saturday wenoted(ta, Tim Anderson) a document posted by Microsoft aimed at enterprises about "Five Misunderstood Features in Windows Vista".It wasn't only us who'd noticed it; apart from Tim, there was alsomarco's tech world. They both went into it in some depth, with thoughtful criticism.And then Microsoft made the document disappear, sometime between Friday morning (when it was noticed) and Friday afternoon. (That's OK -we have a copy.) Why? What is something we said? Or that all the critics said? Or that it said? (Note:this Microsoft blogsays that link will "be up shortly". We'll be waiting withdiff...For criticism there was plenty. As Tim noted,What about performance? In my view, this is far and away the primary problem users have with Vista. It is not in any sense a misunderstanding, however Microsoft spins it. It is bewilderment: why does my new machine, which should be fast, spend so much time spinning its little bagel when I want to get on with my work?.Marco also had plenty of criticism, based on having used Vista for a year (though he retains XP on his home laptop):it is overall tone [of the document] that I noticed. I remembers a dozen years ago Bill Gates claiming Windows 95 was a perfect piece of software, any criticism coming to it was only because the users were unable to use it properly. At the time, this was somewhat of a mantra at Microsoft, blaming users. The same happened again a few years ago, with claims that Windows XP was secure, provided its users didn't make any dangerous operation... maybe including connecting to the Internet!He has plenty of other points, including that the article contains factual as well as grammatical errors:"Application compatibility is the biggest issue preventing IT Pros from adopting Windows Vista into their organization." OK, so they get it! But immediately after this they write "Part of this is perception based on fact" which is a self-contradicting statement. Is is a fact or a perception? Pick one!His criticisms are worth reading for themselves. It's OK, we'll wait.But now of course the document has disappeared. Is it being revised? Did they decide it was all a big mistake? Is it being sent only in paper form to enterprise clients (in which case what happens to those embedded PDF links? "I've tried pressing my finger on the paper, but nothing happens").And just as interesting, who wrote it?As Tim Anderson points out in the comments on the Marocantu post, the PDF's metadata says the author is "Darrell" - "perhaps Darrell Gorter" (he's the XXX).So we head out to track down this wonderful, mysterious attempt at spindoctoring. Perhaps a Google alert for "misunderstood features site:microsoft.com" would do it..
I've never got intoRTS (real time strategy)games. Incessant mouse clicking, tedious resource gathering, thumb twiddling as your virtual armies exchange fire - RTS has always struck me as too detached, too fiddly and ultimately unsatisfying. And that's on PC, the natural home for the genre. On console the story is far worse, with control issues - menu overkill and pad frustration are the norm - and generally lower TV resolutions just adding to the frustration. Some publishers - particularly EA, with Command &amp; Conquer 3 and Lord of the Rings Battlefield - have persevered and had limited success on the 360 but RTS on console has always been a pretty pointless exercise. Until now.Tom Clancy's Endwarcould finally change all this. Why? Voice control.Yes, instead of clicking and waiting you can now shout your commands down the headset and watch as your unit does your bidding. I had a play the other day and - surprisingly - it actually works. Moving units, ordering attacks, bolstering defences - all done by barking your command out loud. Traditionalists, and perhaps those with sensitive neighbours/partners - yes, it does feel odd when you first start shouting at the telly - can play with the pad but voice control is far more enjoyable.I played for an hour or so and only once did the controls fail to pick up my orders. I'd like to try again when I've got a cold, or a Geordie mate over, but for now the voice controls get the thumbs up.Endwar also looks decent. The camera viewpoint remains fixed on the unit you currently control, making you actually feel like one of the troops rather than a detached deity. But it's the voice control that is the real selling point here. Ubisoft are showing more Endwar next week and I'm looking forward to playing again. Could Real Time Strategy finally be getting interesting?
Orange is launching itself into the internet radio market in Britain as the mobile phone and residential broadband provider looks to get a larger slice of the home entertainment market.From today Orange will be selling its LiveRadio device, which connects to a home broadband line and allows consumers to listen to up to 4,000 internet radio stations. Recent figures from Rajar showed that about eight million people in Britain listen to internet radio stations at least once a week.So-called wi-fi radio sets have been available for some time but LiveRadio  gives listeners the chance to buy tracks that they like after hearing them on the radio as it connects with Orange music store. Tracks bought online are instantly downloaded to both a user's computer and their mobile phone. The radio can also play MP3 music files - although not tracks bought through iTunes - and podcasts."For us it's a lot more than a radio," said Fran&ccedil;ois Mahieu, Orange UK device director. "If it was just about being in the radio market you could argue that for an operator it might be a bit of a distraction, but we really see this as a gateway to other services that we offer."LiveRadio was launched last year in France and sold over 10,000 in the first few months.As Orange battles fierce competition in the mobile phone and residential broadband markets, it is considering offering the radio at a discount to customers willing to sign up to long-term contracts.Orange UK's new boss, Tom Alexander, is expected to reveal his plan for revitalising the Orange brand in Britain later this month with a major advertising push.
Last Monday, when an earthquake struck China's Sichuan province, word of it spread quickly from witnesses on the shaking ground via Twitter, the mobile-and-web microblogging service where users share brief, 140-character-long updates with friends. Prolific blogger and Twitterer Robert Scoble atscobleizer.cominsists he saw news of the quake on Twitter minutes before the US Geological Survey posted the tremor and an hour before other news sites reported it.Twitter is becoming the canary in the news coalmine. It stands to reason: if you've just gone through a major event, you are sure to want to update your friends about it. If enough people are chattering about an earthquake at the same time, that's an immediate indication of a major news story.Developers at the BBC and Reuters have picked up on the potential for this. They are working on applications to monitor Twitter, the Twitter search engine Summize, and other social-media services - Flickr, YouTube, Facebook - for news catchwords such as "earthquake" and "evacuation". They hope for two benefits: first, an early warning of news, and second, a way to find witness media - photos, videos and accounts from the event. This is clearly more efficient than waiting for reporters and photographers to get to the scene after the news is over - though, of course, they will still go and do what journalists do: report, verify facts, package, and take their own pictures (which they then own).These social services are also a source of witnesses for journalists to interview. After the Chinese quake, user "casperodj" reported his experience - "it did feel like the earth was going to split. literally everything was shaking" - and what followed - "CREEPY! While I'm typing, there's an aftershock hitting!" - and also told his readers when he'd finished speaking to the BBC.All this comes from a platform that does nothing more than enable anyone to tell anyone what they're up to. But this is fundamentally new. We online citizens are living in public, revealing small details of our lives with our updates and our content. It's in the smallness of this personal news that we can keep in touch with friends in ways we have not been able to since we lived in small towns. So perhaps this is not new at all but a return to the old ways: the electronic village, indeed.London blogger Leisa Reichelt atdisambiguity.comhas a name for this: "Ambient intimacy is about being able to keep in touch with people with a level of regularity and intimacy that you wouldn't usually have access to." We get to see what our friends had for lunch and with whom, hear about their trips, see their new haircuts. The mundanity of it is the message."Isn't this all just annoying noise?" Reichelt asks and answers: "There are a lot of us, though, who find great value in this ongoing noise. It helps us get to know people who would otherwise be just acquaintances."I have speculated that our new publicness and permanence online will change even friendship, as we no longer need to lose touch with old acquaintances. Just last week, I met and caught up with my high-school sweetheart after (gulp!) 33 years, and that was made possible only because she Googled me.Now it's also becoming clear that this publicness and immediacy is yielding both new relationships and new value: ways to find and report news for a start. Perhaps our chattering will also reveal our collective mood (for that, go to twistori.com and see all Twitter posts that include the words love, hate, think and wish). Companies are now monitoring Twitter, as the smart ones have been watching blogs, to see what is said about their brands.&#183;Jeff Jarvis is a journalism professor at the City University of New York and blogs atbuzzmachine.com
There's not roomin print for all your letters and blog pingbacks, but there is here. Twitter proved interesting; it's all there on the clickthrough...MORE TWITTERINGMight be of interest for a snippet:twitterfone.comSean O Sullivan, chief technology officer, Dial2DoI just wanted to say how pleased I was when I saw a link to the latest scores project on your Twitter article. I created that Twitter app for myself back in December (see thefirst post). When I started talking about it people wanted other teams and word spread until it appears here. I'm just really pleased that such a tiny application can have such an impact. Thanks again Robbie Clutton, Loughton&gt;&gt; A great time for those early adopters of Twitter, with our commitment to initially puzzled colleagues now being vindicated in the mass media one might thing. It's perhaps reminiscent of the excitement we felt in May 1997, perhaps the last time we felt the people were, at last, being empowered. But why do I feel that the dreaded Boris moment is lurking around the corner? But what can we expect in the backlash. I suspect journalist have already been asked to dig for a story on the negative side of Twitter. I think we can expect the CEO of a large company (other head of the CBI would be even better) to provide figures on the amount of productivity lost due to Twitter.ukwebfocus.wordpress.com&gt;&gt; I think there's a lot more to say about the service and its sociocultural significance, so I am making this the topic of my next episode of Heads Up!.blog.wieck.com&gt;&gt; I finally moved into 2007 today by signing up to Twitter. I figured if there was an "introduction to…" article about it in the paper then it was officially beyond the Early Adopter stage and I could fully embrace it with my comfy luddite tendencies. So far it's been fun, but I wonder if it'll last as long as my interest in Facebook, which I think ran to almost a month.blog.pigsaw.org&gt;&gt; What this service does provide, however, is an intelligent and welcoming wrapper for the technologies that many of us are familiar with, but have not yet educated ourselves on or bothered to fully exploit. Twitter is arguably set to do for mobile communications what Blogger did for blogging.guyberes.com&gt;&gt; It can be useful for news, as long as you follow the right people (not as easy as you might think). But it allowed me, for example, to know about an earthquake in Sao Paulo, Brazil, even before it was on the news.network.nature.com/blogsHMRC, OR NOTThe suggestion made by Keith Goode (Letters and Blogs: Thursday 8 May) – that, as a result of last year's HMRC data loss, anyone who receives child benefit should contact their bank to get new cards issued - is unfounded. The data on the lost discs contained bank account information, not debit or credit card details, so there are no fraud-prevention grounds to ask your bank for replacement cards. Furthermore, to date, no instances of fraud have been identified on the relevant bank accounts as a result of last year's data loss. Also, there is no evidence to suggest that the missing CDs ever found their way into criminal hands. There is no need for child benefit recipients to be concerned. Rather than asking for replacement cards, cardholders should continue to check their statements regularly and thoroughly and report any unusual transactions to their bank immediately. Sandra Quinn, director of communications, APACSWIKI-CROPPING&gt;&gt; [Seth Finkelstein] uses the "digital sharecropper" image to describe Wikipedia contributors. Actually, sharecroppers do make some money from their work, so Wikipedia contributors are more like slaves. But given the voluntary nature of their participation, "slaves" overstates the inferiority of their status relative to Wiki overlords Wales et al. Perhaps "brainwashed cult members" works best.bennett.com/blogFREE OUR POLICE DATA?&gt;&gt; There are naturally worries that police forces might not want to give up the information, but tough - this is not a private commercial data source, it is a record of crucial events in the lives of the individuals and communities whose security is the police's raison d'etre. We pay the Bill's bills, and if they don't do their job properly it is us who suffer, not them, so there can be no room for petty hogging of data.tpa.typepad.comFINGERPRINTINGOne of the problems with overly long or frequently changed passwords is that people tend to write them down and stick them on to their monitor or laptop casing. The same is true of fingerprints, though you may not realise it, as this blog post/image points out:identityblog.com/?p=981Tony Hirst, Open University, Milton KeynesWILL WRIGHT LISTEN?I was wondering if you could possibly help me. I am one of about 14 thousand players who are very upset and the callous imminent closure of an online game called EA Land originally The Sims Online created originally by the above subject Will Wright and I wondered if you may be able to contact him to forward this email to him. Our site is currently www.playercampaigns.com Most of us are angry and devasted and will do anything to keep this old game going. Apparently EA in their wisdom and being so short of money decided it was not lucrative enough for them so have decided to shelve it by August 1. I have already emailed microsoft for them to pass my email to Bill Gates in the hopes he may read it and help. I wondered if Will Wright was aware of this situation or might be able to help. The owner of the website will even buy the game from EA to keep it running but I do not think they are very communicative. So far we have a petition of over one thousand people wanting this game to continue. I appreciate your reply in advance and hope you can help Thank you. Stella Lee, BrentwoodCALCULATE THATWhy is it that newspapers find it so difficult to avoid even the most obvious errors in their articles on technical or arithmetical matters? For example in "How low-energy LEDs could soon be lighting our homes, Guardian IT 08-05-08" we see: " ... a single LED chip may be around one third of a square millimetre (0.3 mm by 0.3 mm ) ..." Bob Pearson, LincolnshireYELLING FOR HELPI have just been admonished by Yell.com for not reading their full terms and conditions for the use of their yell.com mobile program. Why should I complain that I was charged to use it by my network provider (I pay for 1GB/month and using my browser on Yell is covered by this charge but not using Yell's own software that it encourages you to download) when in small print at the end of over a page of A4 or terms and conditions that even define the word "yours" it says that some networks may charge? But when the screen is a two inch mobile phone just how small can small print be before it becomes an unreasonable size? John Loader, ElyFRING FRINGWorking through a backlog of podcasts, so I'm coming to this one a bit late, but I was interested to hear the brief conversation about Fring. I'm a Fring user myself, but despite the attractive potential of VOIP on mobile phones, there are very few occasions when it's actually useful. Whenever I've found a wifi network in cafes round here (I'm in south London) it's always through one of the big-name providers, who charge £6 or more for a monthly subscription. That's just ludicrous... I might as well run Fring on my standard data add-on. Until free or cheap public wifi becomes a reality (I've been waiting patiently for years and I'm gradually losing hope) the network providers will always have us over a barrel, whether they're selling us voice/data tariffs or third-party wifi. Adrian Clark, Sutton
Leo Laportehas shot to the top of the Twitterverse, at least according to the unofficialTwitterholic. This currently says he has 32,630 followers, which puts him ahead of Digg's Kevin Rose (32,524) and Barack Obama (31,431). Megatweeter Robert Scoble (24,091) is in fifth place.Laporte is best known from his radio, TV and Web shows such asThe Tech Guy Labs.Twitter started as an inconsequentialmicro-blogging servicethat was picked up by well-known bloggers such as Scoble, Jason Calacanis, Michael Arrington, and Guy Kawasaki. However, the Twitterholic top 100 now includes CNN Breaking News, CNET News.com and, in 99th place, The New York Times.Fast forward a couple of years and will the top of Twitterholic be dominated by mainstream media organizations such as The New York Times and USA Today, the BBC and all the US television stations, Reuters and AP, with up-to-the-minute news feeds?Or is Twitter news essentially a waste of time when you can already get all the news feeds you want via RSS?Should the Guardian be sending out a stream of news tweets, and if so, why?Guardian Technology is, of course, already on Twitter attwitter.com/guardiantech, so you could well have been alerted to this blog post via Twitter (and viaTwitterfeed).
Google'sCode Bloghas a very good explanation of what Google's Friend Connect does. Basically, it says:1. Google Friend Connect puts users in control over whether they're connected to their data on Facebook. 2. Google Friend Connect only reads a small amount of user data from Facebook, and does so using Facebook's public APIs. We read the Facebook numeric id, friendly name, and public photo URLs of the user and their friends. We read no other information. 3. The only user information that we pass from Facebook to third-party applications is the URL of the user's public photo. 4. Google Friend Connect does not permanently store any user data retrieved from Facebook.Google's video shows how the whole thing actually works:Finally, Dare Obasanjo aka Carnage4Life has a brief look at the threesimilar approachesadopted by Google, Facebook and MySpace.
BMW X5, &pound;40,550Miles per gallon:34.9Seats:7Good for:Rich tastesBad for:Cheap tricksEach month a gardener arrives to tend the small patch of land owned by the electricity board opposite my house. He's employed by Emery property services and his blue van boasts the longest and most floral tagline you'll ever read. Spelt out in yellow italic script it says: 'The bitterness of poor quality remains long after the sweetness of low price is forgotten.' Boiled down, that's 'you get what you pay for' - but where's the poetry in that?It's a boast more companies would do well to follow. Thin, plasticky, miserly, stingy, low-end, tawdry, trashy, tacky... Doesn't it depress you when, yet again, you fork out for some tin-pot junk... Still, you won't find any of these adjectives among the published reviews of BMW's products. They are expensive, yes, but every pound you spend up front will warm your heart years down the road.This week, I've been cruising around in the German marque's biggest beast - the X5. It's a multi-award winning 4x4 which first barged on to our streets in 1999. It was the first SUV to offer a genuinely sporty, car-like drive. Though why that was deemed a good thing I'm not sure. BMW were so pleased with themselves they even coined a new sub-category of car to fit the X5's unique capabilities - the Sports Activity Vehicle, or SAV. So the BMW X5 was in fact the world's first SAV. Clever, eh? But in the nine years the X5 has been prowling our highways I've never heard anyone say: 'Oh look, there's a pretty tidy SAV...'The remodelled X5 you see here is an improvement on the last -not that there was much wrong with it. This one boasts more power, lower emissions and better fuel consumption. It comes with three engine options: two petrol and one diesel. The 'better fuel consumption' of the two petrol engines, however, still loiters around the low 20s (23 and 26 mpg respectively). Hardly a figure to crow about. But the 3-litre diesel is up to 35mpg. All three variants come with an extraordinarily smooth all-new six-speed auto gearbox which shifts gears up to 50 per cent quicker than the old box, and the car is the first BMW ever to be fitted with third-row seating in the boot. It's all firsts over at BMW. Other firsts this new BMW has been blessed with include: the first SAV with 'Head-up Display'; an active suspension system; active steering; and run-flat tyres for added safety. Not bad, but then when you invent your own category, records do tend to tumble...But don't get snitty. The third row of seats is incredibly useful. The X5 also has active hydraulic anti-roll bars which stop the vehicle from leaning over when you corner, while its active steering means that when you yank on the steering wheel at low speeds the car automatically adds more lock. At high speeds it does the opposite. This makes parking easier and dampens down any jerks in your motorway manoeuvres.The X5 is the sort of 4x4 Ken had in his sights when he promised to raise the congestion charge to &pound;25. But the X5 is so surprisingly clean it would have escaped the higher charge despite its size. Now that Boris is in, X5 drivers may not have to worry about that &pound;25 - but they'll still be among the few 4x4 owners on the road with a clean conscience.martin.love@observer.co.uk
People have been experimenting with using brainwaves to control computers for a couple of decades, but now "a team of researchers from Taiwan has designed the new bio-signal monitoring system inside a baseball cap with the goal of making it convenient and easy to use in everyday life," reportsPhysorg.com.However, the processing isn't done in the cap: the EEG data is sent to a separate PC via Bluetooth or Wi-Fi.The researchers from National Chiao-Tung University, National Cheng-Kung University, and the University of California, San Diego, have developed one application: the cap can tell how drowsy you are. This could be useful while driving. Physorg says:For medical purposes, the researchers suggest that the technology could be used for home care for the elderly, medical monitoring, and exercise training. They also expect it to have applications in controlling household electronics devices, which has previously been investigated for physically disabled individuals.There's a discussion atSlashdot.
It's probably an age thing, but my heart sinks when I arrive home and find that the item I've bought comes with an installation disc. It means an hour faffing about, another icon on the desktop, something else to go wrong. One day it won't be possible to open a loaf of bread without first downloading the eating instructions.Both of this week's running systems, from Nike and Adidas, require such special preparation, so if, in your view, jogging is a solipsistic, unadulterated and spontaneous form of recreation and exercise, look away now.Trainers, in my wardrobe, are a form of casual footwear or a fashion item, and even though I played five-a-side football until quite recently, these days I keep fit by not eating crisps. So it felt odd slipping my feet into the Nike "air zoom structure" running shoes with the intention of going farther than the paper shop. TheNike+ SportBand system(&pound;40; 0800 056 1640,nikeplus.com) involves the triangulation of three components: a sensor, a band (worn around the wrist) and the mission-control computer program. The sensor is lozenge-shaped, about as big as a Werther's Original, and is inserted into the shoe prior to running. It has no moving parts, no battery and looks like a piece of foam packaging. Annoyingly, there is no pocket or housing for the sensor (if one exists, I never located it) and I ended up tucking it into my sock.The wristband houses a "Link" device, a sort of memory stick-cum-digital watch, which gives a read-out of your performance in terms of calories, distance, time and pace, based on information sent from the foot sensor. The Link detaches from the wristband and connects to the computer via a USB port (which also recharges the Link) and the computer uploads the record of your exertions into the Nike+ program. Once hooked up to the computer, you can choose various training routines, monitor just about every aspect of your jogging, and go online to compare or compete with other runners in the Nike community. It's like Facebook for people who can't sit still, and once set up it's simple enough to use, practical and informative, and fun.Meanwhile, the obscenely over-packagedAdidas miCoachbox (and several other boxes within it) contains a half-decent Samsung quad band phone, a "winged" foot sensor and a chest band, both of which require batteries, plus a phone charger, a USB cable, an earphone cable, another piece of wire I never quite figured out, many instruction manuals, plus, of course, a software disc (Samsung Adidas miCoach, around &pound;110, or from free on contract; 0870 726 7864,samsungmobile.com).A sort of jogger's selection box, the miCoach system operates along the same principles as the Nike+, but with a few essential differences. The sensor wings are designed to slip beneath the laces of a training shoe - a good idea, unless your shoes have Velcro fasteners. The chest band measures heart rate, and to work effectively needs to be moistened slightly to provide decent contact with the skin. A little bit of sweat does the trick, it says in the instructions. So no problems there, I'm thinking. The foot sensor and heart monitor then transmit information to the miCoach program on the mobile phone, which can also play music and offer motivational guidance en route. I'd hoped this might include phrases such as, "Come on, I could walk faster" or, "Put the Mars Bar down and pick up the pace, lazy arse" but it's more like a speaking clock. "Twenty-five minutes; 1.2 miles; 105 calories," she informs me at the top of the hill.But there's a bigger problem with the miCoach. Running down the road with the sensor lashed to my foot, the band digging into my ribs and the phone in the pouch of a tourniquet strapped around my biceps, I felt less like a jogger and more like a tagged offender in breach of his Asbo, or someone who'd escaped from police custody midway through a polygraph test. The loneliness of the long-distance runner? Fat chance.&middot;Stephen Fry will return in July.
Speed RacerNintendo WiiSpeed Racer for Wii is the game of the Wachowski brothers' film, itself a remake of the 1960s cartoon of the same name, about the pastel-hewn adventures of a racing driver called Speed. While the game takes its graphical direction from the film, there's no particular plot, just races, which model themselves on Nintendo's F-Zero GX, with enormous speed and gently curving tracks. Unfortunately, where F-Zero was a masterpiece of subtlety, this feels tacked together and cheap. The few courses are largely featureless and lack variety or character, with victories the result of hitting speed-up pads scattered around the track and half-hearted 'Car-Fu'. The banter between drivers matches the banality of the game design and even the multi-player mode is limited to two-player-only split screen. Mario Kart is about 100 times better.&middot; Nintendo, &pound;35Dragon Quest Swords: The Masked Queen & The Tower Of MirrorsNintendo WiiPart of the illustrious Dragon Quest franchise, The Masked Queen & The Tower Of Mirrors uses familiar art style and character design, but throws away pretty much everything else. The mild and slightly insipid product that's left is a sort of role-playing game-lite that gets you to slash away at formations of enemies using the Wii-remote as your sword and shield, while removing all the usual trappings such as customisable skills. You can still change your armour and equipment, while the usual adventure game drip-feed of rewards and challenges remains as compelling as it always is, however that compulsion is likely to be most keenly felt by the very young adventurers who take on the challenge. Older, more seasoned fans of the series will find it over-simplified and patronising, with the only uniting factor being central character Fleurette's ludicrously over ze top French accent supplying unintentional comedy for all.&middot; Square Enix, &#163;40Remote Control A-Team VanFireboxAnyone alive in the 80s that didn't suffer a pathological hatred of the action genre will have witnessed the television phenomenon that was the A-Team. And what better way to relive those glory days than with a miniature remote control A-Team van in your own living room? At 30cm long it looks the part, complete with Goodrich tyres, bull bars, tapered red stripe and actual headlights. Sadly that completes its list of positives. The negatives include: despite being made for indoor driving, a turning circle that would suggest stadium rather than living-room use, while its inability to turn right and only marginal ability to turn left leave you pondering the need for a second control stick at all. Forward and reverse work OK, although you'd be pressed to think of either as especially thrilling, with comparisons to walking pace proving flattering. And, of course, there's no Mr T or accompanying customising kit for the van. It's a handy way of soiling your memories of the show.&middot;firebox.com, &#163;30
Jerry Yang, Yahoo's chief executive implored his 14,000 staff to stick to their day jobs in spite of an audacious effort by the billionaire corporate raider Carl Icahn to unseat the internet firm's entire board of directors.Icahn, a 72-year-old New Yorker with a track record of shareholder activism, has fielded a 10-strong slate of dissident nominees in the hope of snatching control of the company and selling it to Microsoft.But Yahoo has accused the hedge fund activist of misunderstanding the outcome of the company's failed round of talks with Microsoft earlier this year.In an email to employees written in his signature lower-case type, Yang urged his staff to keep working: "i ask all of you to put aside the rumours and speculation and stay focused on the business at hand and what we do best."In a formal response to Icahn's actions, Yahoo's chairman, Roy Bostock, provided the company's first detailed version of the way negotiations with Microsoft ended, insisting that the Seattle-based software company had been responsible for the failure of the talks."We do not believe it is in the best interests of Yahoo stockholders to allow you and your hand-picked nominees to take control of Yahoo for the express purpose of trying to force a sale of Yahoo to a formerly interested buyer who has publicly stated that they have moved on," said Bostock in a letter to Icahn.When it initially approached Yahoo in February, Microsoft offered $44.6bn (£23bn), at $31 a share. Bostock said that on May 2, Microsoft indicated its willingness to raise this to $33 - but he added: "This oral 'offer' was never delivered in writing and did not include any details of a cash/stock mix."Bostock said Yahoo's board had authorised Yang to meet Microsoft executives, led by the chief executive, Steve Ballmer, in Seattle and to indicate that $37 a share would be acceptable. But he continued: "Microsoft elected, within hours, to walk away from the negotiating table and informed us that they were 'moving on', having never engaged further on price or any of the key non-price deal terms."Analysts believe there is a good chance that Microsoft would come back to the table if Yahoo wanted to sell.Sandeep Aggarwal, an analyst at Collins Stewart, said: "We believe this deal will likely happen. Microsoft really does not have a plan B without Yahoo."Icahn's board nominees are coming under increasing scrutiny. One of them, Adam Dell, is the younger brother of the Dell computer company founder, Michael Dell. Another, the former Nextel telecoms boss John Chapple, was previously on a tentative platform of Yahoo directors put together by Microsoft and his presence has been interpreted as a sign that Bill Gates' software company is still interested.A third nominee, Mark Cuban, the Dallas Mavericks basketball team owner, sold his own internet start-up to Yahoo for $5.7bn in 1998.A popular Silicon Valley blog, Valleywag, characterised Cuban's involvement as: "Mark Cuban to Jerry Yang: thanks for the $5.7bn - now let's get you fired."
My iTunes hasn't been the same since I got a new CD rewriter. When I load a disc, it has now stopped identifying album, track and artist.I suspect your problem isn't the disc burner, but the software. Gracenote - the online service that works out which CD you're listening to - recently suffered a glitch that left many people in the same position as you. If you're still having problems, try downloading an update from the Gracenote site, icanhaz.com/gracenote.Is there a wind-up radio with an input for MP3 players? Festival season is approaching, and doing away with a rucksack full of batteries would be a real bonus.Wind-up radios are increasingly popular, but I've struggled to find one that lets you plug in an MP3 player and use it as a speaker. Earlier this year, Freeplay previewed the &pound;50 NR-2XS model, which sports a line-in socket - nothing in the shops yet, though. How about some solar-powered speakers instead? Firebox used to stock a model that looked disturbingly like a Thermos flask. It's out of stock, but you can still find them on eBay for around &pound;99: search for 'solar speakers', and hope the sunshine holds out.
Cars don't come much more female than the Peugeot 207 coupe cabriolet. I don't say this in order to court sexual-political controversy, nor to lead tiresomely on to the churned-up battleground of contentious gender stereotyping ("It's pink and it looks like a clutch bag - of course women like it!"). I'm merely referring to the impressive, Peugeot-issued statistic that states that, of the customers for the 207's big-selling predecessor, the 206 CC, 88% were women.In any case, the one in the picture isn't pink. And it doesn't look like a clutch bag. Well, not much.But 88%: that's a lot of women. Clearly something about this small, sporty number with its push-button electronic roof (no need even to pull down a catch in the new version) taps successfully into a woman's inner Penelope Pitstop. Or maybe that's not a helpful reference point. In Wacky Races, the indelible 70s children's cartoon series, Penelope Pitstop's car, I seem to recall, had a mechanical device that assisted her in the application of lipstick. But that was a whole different era for sexual politics and the 207, you may care to know, offers no such thing, despite the demographics and even though the technology that can deliver an automatically retracting roof has surely brought a hands-free lippy-retoucher well within reach.What it does offer is a nicely built car, fashioned around an almost completely silent - or certainly music-free - 1.6 litre engine, the whole package falling in line with Peugeot's admirable mission to bring cabriolet luxury to a more cost-conscious audience. The 207's entry price does seem relatively cheap, though after they'd finished fitting folding door mirrors, a colour satnav screen, parking aids and various other non-compulsory gizmos to my GT trial model, it had risen to an awe-inducing &pound;21,415. Hell, you could buy a man's car for that.In a week of cheerful, topless motoring (the car, not me), I spotted a couple of things about the 207 that, if not out-and-out design faults, were at the very least design drawbacks. First, in cabriolet mode, the wind makes the seatbelt vibrate on your collarbone, which may be irritating in the long run. But, thinking positively, maybe it's therapeutic: a sort of cheap and cheerful version of the back-massaging devices offered in high-end executive saloons.Also, several of us piled into the 207 one clear morning (the two rear seats will just about fit small people, in an almost complete absence of agony, for a short while), pressed the cabriolet button - then sat, helpless, as two thick rivulets of gathered rainwater ran off the retreating roof and fell into our laps. Again, though, it seemed best to look on the bright side. You pay pounds and queue hours for that kind of thing at Chessington World of Adventures.Just occasionally, though, my thoughts turned to the other 12% of 206 CC owners - the poor, overwhelmed male minority in a so-called woman's car. Do they know? Do they care? I have to say, it wouldn't bother me. But if it did, there would, presumably, be measures you could take. Slap a Millwall sticker on the boot, say. Rev the engine very hard at lights. Maybe hang a damp sports towel off the aerial. There's fun to be had here, is all I'm saying, and it would be a shame if it was restricted unnecessarily to women.Price£15,195Top Speed129 mphAcceleration0-62 in 8.6 secondsAverage consumption39.2mpgCO2 emissions171g/kmEco rating5/10At the wheelNatasha KaplinskyBound forCheltenhamIn a wordWomanly
What do politicians do when they've had a substantial kicking from their electorate? Go on the radio and tell people that the problem is that the populace doesn't understand their policies, because if they did thenobviouslythey would all vote for them.And now we come to the high-tech equivalent. Certainly that's how it feels, with the launch ofFive Misunderstood Features in Windows Vista(PDF, strangely laid out in two-column format, in the confident expectation that you'll print it out. FAIL. Especially since it has embedded hyperlinks. Or:get it directly from us).It's very much aimed at enterprises, this one; but let's sample it anyway.First up is User Access Control, which is many peoples' bugbear, not just in enterprises. The problem really is that too many Windows programs have been written assuming that they'll have access all across the machine - whereas the Unix model (which UAC tries to impose) creates circles of trust, pushing ordinary users to the outside. Quoth Microsoft:One way to think about Standard User mode versus Local Administrator mode is to consider a home with or without locks. Certainly ingress and egress is easier without locks, but you wouldn't feel very safe.(Got to love people brave enough to use ingress and egress like that. The error dialogs read the same.) The problem being, of course, that Microsoft didn't implement the pre-existing Unix model in its earlier OSs; even in XP, it didn't do this quite enough. The upshot: you should like UAC more than you do. Unfortunately, it's in third parties' hands.Then there's Image Management (that is, disk images), which I've never heard or seen any complaints about; it's an enterprise issue. (If at all.) And The Display Driver Model. (Nope, not heard on that, apart from people not liking Aero.)Windows Search?A complaint often lodged at Windows Vista is that it seems to run a bit slower than Windows XP. We'll get to that in a minute, but Windows Vista is doing a lot more than any previous operating system.What's easily forgotten is that the first machines running Windows XP had a standard configuration of 128megabytesof RAM (about one-sixteenth of what you'll find now) and 30GB of disc space, with Pentium 4 processors running at up to 2GHz. Then again, indexing can be done efficiently - Apple seems to have got on top of it - but the best that Microsoft has here is the adviceBecause of the processor overhead required, it is unwise to have multiple desktop indexing technologies operating simultaneously.Well, sure, running Google Desktop too would be a pain. A bit like having two antivirus programs going at once - you could get adeadly embrace(or incremental mutual checking, which is slightly different).The payoff:On machines configured with the appropriate specifications for their operating system, the speed of most operations and tasks between Windows Vista and Windows XP is virtually on parity.Somehow this doesn't sound quite how it should. Machines are faster now - much faster. "Virtually on parity"? That sounds like "slower".Which is pretty remarkable when you consider one key thing Windows Vista is doing that Windows XP isn't: indexing for near instantaneous search results for desktop files, even embedded in email messages. The result is users can find information significantly faster (measured in minutes), increasing productivity far in excess of the loss in speed of operations (measured in milliseconds).Well, so it's doing more - but the machines are faster. They should be able to handle it, surely? It all feels like spin - the reassurance that things aren't that bad really. But then again, putting out papers telling people they've misunderstood stuff is a sign of weakness in itself, isn't it?
MondayGTA - adolescent script?Games as team-building exercises?Skate comes to WiiTuesdayFrustration=enjoyment?Win a Wii and BoomboxCan games do apocalypse?WednesdayNolan Bushnell: godfather of gamingIs Sony losing $260 on every PS3 it shipsNintendo prepares WiiWare for EuropeThursdaySilent Hill and other reviewsSims go to IkeaFridayReal-life aggression and those bloody gamesPlaying with art at PublicSeparated at birth: Gekko and BigDog
What's your favourite piece of technology?My laptop computer, which is an Apple MacBook. They are easy to use, look good and I like the entertainment element of the brand.How has it improved your life?I am able to write my song lyrics, stories and poems on it. It enables me to get things done on the move.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I am using it now! It's like my wife. We are married.What additional features would you add if you could?Bigger speakers.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Yes, because technology is continually developing. In 10 years there will just be better Apple Mac laptops with better and more exciting features.What one tip would you give to non-laptop users?Save up some money and buy a laptop.Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?I would consider myself to be a nerd, I love to learn. My brain is like a sponge. I am always hungry for information.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?My laptop.Mac or PC?Definitely Mac!!!! Because I am a creative person and I believe Mac make their products for a creative mind.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?Thugs Mansion by Tupac Shakur.Will robots rule the world?I am afraid that could happen with the way the world is going. But I hope it doesn't.What piece of technology would you most like to own?An Airbus. In saying that, I mean a jumbo jet — fully kitted out in luxury.Emmanuel Jal'snew album, Warchild, is out now. Jal will perform at theNelson Mandela concertin London's Hyde Park on June 27
Were you scared half to death by the MGS IV demo featuring the leaping, shooting gekko robot? Well, look out, because it's no far-fetched sci-fi nightmare. The above is a video of BigDog, a robotics project fromBoston Dynamics- it's developed to work in even the roughest terrains and features an onboard computer that continually analyses and maintains balance and hydraulics performance.So, is it going to be a cute helper bot for lost climbers and stuff? No. It's being developed for the USDefense Advanced Research Project Agencywhich means in two years time, it'll probably have a mini-gun bolted to its back before it drops from silent helicopters into the homes of suspected terror chiefs.Does anyone else find the noise it makes absolutely terrifying?
The phrase "do as I say, not as I do" feels rather apposite at the moment. Do I tell people to back up their data? Yes, I do. When was the last time I backed up all my important data? That would be ... um, more than 36 days ago.I know this because, at the time of writing, it's 36 days since I last rebooted the machine I'm writing this on, and this machine is the new one I got to replace the old one, and it's got a substantially bigger hard drive – 250 gigabytes rather than the 100GB of the old one.So of course I've filled it up like nobody's business. Presently, it tells me, there's 96GB free. So I've managed to chew up 160-odd GB. (Some of that, to be fair, is probably virtual memory that's been paged out to disk.)Even so, I'm paralysed by the fact that I simply don't have any drives to hand that are big enough to hold the backup. I've got a 120GB backup, but that's not going to hold all the stuff on here. And I'm not about to burn 40 DVDs.At this point, one starts looking around at big hard drives. I wandered around my local Currys.digital – hoping that it won't be one of the77 of its 170 stores facing the axe, since it provides the useful service of showing me what DSG thinks the world wants. At present, that seems to be reams of paper, wireless modems, mobile phones, MP3 players and flat-screen TVs. (The paper must be a seasonal thing. It suddenly appeared last week with the sunny weather, like a strange blossom.)Hard drives are there too, but moved recently from a prime position opposite the sales desk to a high shelf. This doesn't mean they're for adults only, it indicates that people aren't buying them enough to merit that prime position in the store. Which tells us, in a circular fashion, that people aren't backing up enough.Here, though, is the next problem. I look at the hard drives. They are big. Properly big. 500GB big. Oh, that's big enough. But wait! There's one beside it – 750GB! Wow, that's got to be big enough for ... hang on, though, there's aone terabytedrive beside it. 1,000GB! (Well, more like 900 once you've formatted it. But still.)Daft amounts of moneyAt this point your mind starts racing. If I buy the terabyte drive, then I can set aside a quarter of it to mirror my hard drive. Then I've got 750GB to play with! I could – hmm, I could do what someone with daft amounts of money some years ago did, and re-rip all my CDs, but this time in AIFF – uncompressed – format. That way, I'd be able to listen to my music without worrying that the sound isn't perfect.Not that I have any hi-fi speakers set up at home, of course, but it's theprincipleof the thing, isn't it? And I could, for safety, rip all my DVDs and store them there so we could watch them any time. Except for that I'd really need aNAS(network attached storage) disk. In which case it wouldn't be useful for backing up. And anyway, I've already got one – which, at 250GB, still has lots of room, even while storing ... um ... my ripped DVDs and music backup.So I look again at the drives and think: yes, but the price is going to come down. Storage prices are roughly halving every 18 months, so if I put this off and come back in, say, September, I can get the 750GB drive for the price of the 500GB one. And that's without doing anything. Well, apart from risking the security of my data.Which means I exit the store empty-handed, because you never need your backup until something goes wrong, and nothing has gone wrong yet, so I don't need it. It's completely illogical, I know, and it's bound to bite me soon.Elliptical orbitAnd so I swing through the store like a comet every week, on the elliptical orbit whose two foci are these: I need to do a backup; I don't want to spend money when there will be bigger, cheaper drives along shortly. I come and go, knowing that I'm getting closer to that point where I will make the purchase; yet also knowing that I'll wish, as soon as I do, that I'd bought the bigger drive, no matter how much bigger. (And wonder: will the drives in six months' time max out at 1TB, or will they increase by larger increments – to 1.5TB and 2TB, rather than the quarter-terabyte steps that we see now?)Meanwhile, though, I'm encouraged by the news that no matter how badly you may think your drive has crashed, almost everything is recoverable if you want it enough. The tragedy of the Columbia space shuttle, which in February 2003 disintegrated as it reentered the atmosphere, killing its seven astronauts, also brings the story of the hard drive discovered in the wreckage.Remember, it had fallen from a couple of miles up after the shuttle exploded. No matter. The disk wasfound, looking like "two hunks of metal stuck together". But inside, the platters with the data weren't warped and, amazingly, the damage hadn't affected the areas where data had been written. In the end, 90% of the data was recovered. (Theexperimentwhose data it held, about "first real-world confirmation of a theory for how shear thinning works in a simple fluid" – though for some reason Nasa prefers to describe it as "the physics of whipped cream" – has now been published.)OK, so it may have been expensive. But doesn't it prove that you can get your data back from pretty muchanything?Damn. It looks like I just found an excuse to put off buying that drive foranotherweek.
The organisers behindPublic, Britain's first participatory art gallery, have announced that it will be opening on June 28. Designed by avant garde architect,Will Alsop, the incredible building will house both permanent and visiting collections of exclusively interactive art. No standing and chin-stroking here. From the release:Public Gallery is a dynamic space with no vertical walls, and incorporates dizzying drops, a glade of steel trees carrying responsive foliage, digital waterfalls, flying avatars, labyrinthine paths and sound tunnels, alongside two temporary exhibition spaces which will see a changing programme of work by internationally renowned artists.Among the opening exhibits will be a piece called Flypad from UK collective, Blast Theory, whose work with alternative reality gaming concepts hasfeatured on this site before.Flypad creates a thrilling, collaborative experience for up to eleven players, who create their own 3D avatars. By stepping onto their Flypad they take off, diving and flying in the gallery's central atrium, with the aim of swapping as many limbs and skins by colliding and holding other players.And you thought the Tate's giant slide was a neat idea...Photo: Graham Peet
TheBritish Psychological Society'sresearch digesthit my inbox this morning, and amid the discussions about the art of wishful thinking and phantom music is information about a study into the contributing effects ofthe amount of virtual blood in a videogame on real-life aggression. A timely publication indeed from the team at Iowa State University. Using the different blood levels available in Mortal Kombat: Deadly Alliance, the team clinically assessed participants'willingness to cause harm or pain. Graphics made a difference.From the abstract:Simple effects analyses showed that those in the maximum blood and medium blood conditions had a significant increase in hostility and physiological arousal, while those in the low blood and no blood conditions did not have such an increase in arousal and hostility. Further analyses indicated that those in the maximum and medium blood conditions used the character's weapon significantly more often than those in the low and blood absent conditions.In this study at least, the graphical payback is enough to encourage players to play more aggressively. There's a greater reward. But how does this translate out of the game?As Tanya Byron reported in herrecent review, research on the relationship between online and offline violence is often contradicted by opposing findings, but in this study - a controlled lab-based experiment with debatable ecological validity - players who experienced more bloody play were primed to recall more violent words (e.g., KILL rather than KISS). How long this effect lasted wasn't assessed.More information isherewhere you can read an overview and comment on the research. Please do ignore the misspelling of 'Kombat'. And be kind. These are psychologists. They're not necessarily gamers. Keep up with the latest videogame researchhere.You can read the article's full abstracthere.
In a post on Facebook'sDevelopers blog, Charlie Cheever says it's banning Google'sFriend Connectto protect its users' privacy -- and, by the way, it violates Facebook's terms of service for developers. He writes:Now that Google has launched Friend Connect, we've had a chance to evaluate the technology. We've found that it redistributes user information from Facebook to other developers without users' knowledge, which doesn't respect the privacy standards our users have come to expect and is a violation of our Terms of Service. Just as we've been forced to do for other applications that redistribute data in a way users might not expect or understand, we've had to suspend Friend Connect's access to Facebook user information until it comes into compliance. We've reached out to Google several times about this issue, and hope to work with them to enable users to share their data exactly when and where they choose.There's a fairly heated debate going on about who's right and who's wrong at sites such asTechCrunch, with the most recent posthere.Facebook, of course, has its own plans forFacebook Connect....
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
The billionaire hedge-fund tycoon Carl Icahn has opened hostilities in a campaign to eject the board of Yahoo by accusing the internet company's directors of "irrational" and "irresponsible" actions in turning down a $47.5bn (&pound;24.4bn) take-over offer from Microsoft.Icahn, one of Wall Street's most aggressive corporate raiders, has put forward 10 dissident nominees for election at Yahoo's annual meeting, including himself and Mark Cuban, a fellow billionaire who made his fortune by selling a webcasting start-up, Broadcast.com, to Yahoo in 1999.His challenge sets the stage for a showdown in California on July 3 at which disillusioned investors will confront the company about the collapse of talks with Microsoft. Negotiations foundered at a meeting between executives from the two companies at Seattle airport two weeks ago.In a letter outlining his intentions, Icahn wrote to Yahoo's chairman Roy Bostock: "It is clear to me that the board of directors of Yahoo has acted irrationally and lost the faith of shareholders and Microsoft. It is quite obvious that Microsoft's bid of $33 per share is a superior alternative to Yahoo's prospects on a standalone basis."Describing himself as "perplexed" by Yahoo's actions, Icahn said it was "irresponsible" for independent directors to accept overly optimistic financial forecasts from the firm's management."I and many of your shareholders strongly believe a combination between Yahoo and Microsoft would form a dynamic company and more importantly would be a force strong enough to compete with Google on the internet," said the letter.Icahn, a 72-year-old New Yorker, has already spent $1bn on a 4% stake in Yahoo and he is seeking clearance from the federal trade commission to purchase up to $2.5bn worth of stock. He wants to remove Yahoo's entire board, including the chief executive, Jerry Yang, who co-founded the business in a trailer on the campus of Stanford University.Anger has been bubbling to the surface among Yahoo investors, who saw the value of their shares drop by 15% when Microsoft walked away. The stock edged up by 8 cents to $27.22 during early trading on Nasdaq yesterday, although it remains well below the price Microsoft was prepared to pay.The company's second-largest investor, Legg Mason, has urged Yahoo and Microsoft to get back around the table, although it has reservations about Icahn's tactic, suggesting it could prove "distracting" for management.A Florida-based fund manager, Eric Jackson, has assembled 150 small investors with 3.3m shares who are keen to vote against the incumbent board.Another influence could be Icahn's fellow hedge-fund billionaire, John Paulson, who has acquired 50m shares, according to reports last night.Analysts suggest that Yahoo's co-founder will find Icahn an even tougher negotiator than Microsoft's boss, Steve Ballmer. "If Jerry Yang had a tough time dealing with Steve, wait till he meets Carl Icahn," said Colin Gillis, of the financial services firm Canaccord Adams.Icahn made his name by seizing control of the airline TWA through a hostile take-over in 1986. His recent successes include forcing the struggling mobile phone maker Motorola to accept two of his nominees as directors. Last year, he helped propel the vaccine developer MedImmune into a $15bn buyout by AstraZeneca.Among the dissident nominees to Yahoo's board are a former boss of the Viacom media empire, Frank Biondi; a Harvard law professor, Lucian Bebchuk; a former head of the New Line Cinema film studios, Robert Shaye; and Icahn's right-hand man, Keith Meister.For several years, Yahoo has struggled to meet Wall Street's expectations as it has fallen behind Google in internet searches, online advertising and in broader innovation on the web. A year ago, discontent among shareholders meant that the re-election of several directors only won support of about 66%.Among the obstacles facing Icahn, however, is a question mark over Microsoft's willingness to come back to the table. Shar VanBoskirk, an analyst at Forrester Research, said: "If they're interested in reviving talks with Yahoo, it's probably not going to be immediate."Alternatives for Yahoo include pursuing a deal with Google to share advertising technology or reviving tentative talks about a combination with Time Warner's internet arm, AOL. Experts say Yahoo's chances of going it alone are slim."We expect a deal to be consummated," said Scott Kessler, an internet analyst at Standard &amp; Poor's in New York. "It's always been strange to me how Yahoo seems to have had Yahoo's management rather than shareholders as its first priority."ProfileBlood-thirsty oil paintings of armies riding into battle decorate the walls of Carl Icahn's suite of wood-panelled offices in a skyscraper overlooking Central Park. As numerous American companies can attest, the 72-year-old financier is fond of a dust-up. Icahn was born in the New York borough of Queens and funded his way through Princeton University partly by using poker winnings. In his early days, he dabbled in junk bonds. He shot to prominence by wresting control of the airline TWA in 1985, where workers accused him of asset-stripping as the carrier plunged towards bankruptcy in 1992. Since then, he has demanded changes at scores of companies - his targets have included the biscuit maker RJR Nabisco, the comic book publisher Marvel, the oil firm Texaco and, unsuccessfully, the media group Time Warner. Forbes estimates Icahn's wealth at $14bn, ranking him the 46th richest person in the world.
Itwasn't a secretso we allsaw this coming, but it's still going to make a lot of people unhappy. Whether the customers will be unhappy, rather than the OLPC's open source supporters, is another matter. Either way, Microsoft has just issued apress releasethat says:Today, Microsoft Corp. andOne Laptop per Child(OLPC) announced an agreement that will make the Microsoft Windows operating system available on OLPC's low-cost XO laptops for the world's poorest children. Through this agreement, trials of the XO running Windows are planned to begin as soon as June in key emerging markets. Recognizing that the challenge of providing high-quality education for children in the developing world is too large to be solved by any single organization, Microsoft and OLPC are committed to working with governments and nongovernmental organizations to ensure the success of these pilot programs.It also quotes some potential customers, such as Andrés Gonzalez Díaz, governor of Cundinamarca, Colombia. He says: "Windows support on the XO device means that our students and educators will now have access to more than computer-assisted learning experiences. They will also develop marketable technology skills, which can lead to jobs and opportunities for our youth of today and the work force of tomorrow."Microsoft says Windows now supports the XO's e-book reading mode, Wi-Fi networking, camera, writing pad, custom keys, power-saving and other features. It doesn't support the mesh networking. There are some details on Inside Up,the blog run by James Utzschneider, who works on Microsoft's Unlimited Potential programme. This makes a Windows-based software bundle available for $3.He says:It is the same basic Windows XP implementation that runs on the Intel Class Mate, ASUS eee PC, and other products in this emerging class of ultra low cost laptop PCs. As I have posted earlier, we had to write multiple custom drivers and a BIOS to get Windows to boot from an SD card in order to do the Windows port to the XO. This is the initial implementation customers will be able purchase when the product RTMs and will be a "Windows only" XO that Nicholas Negroponte himself has described as running "really fast." Customers can also choose to buy the existing Linux/Sugar XO. Longer term, the OLPC plans to write a new BIOS and increase the amount of flash storage on the XO to support a "Dual Boot" option that would enable children to use either Linux or Windows on the same machine.Click here for thevideo(wmv only) of an XO laptop running Windows XP. Windows is running from a 2GB plug-in card.TheNew York Timesand theBBChave reports.
EA has announced a new add-on for the Sims series. Due out in June, the Sims 2 IKEA Home Stuff Pack, features a selection of the chain's latest products. From the release:Whether you want to create a trendy, spacious home office, a chic living room, or a cozy and inviting bedroom, with the new The Sims 2 IKEA Home Stuff, you can make your Sims' dream home truly special. Design your Sims' rooms to fit their personalities with all-new sofas, beds, tables, a TV unit, shelving and more in a variety of colors and patterns for a truly customized look. You can even add the finishing touches with popular IKEA wall art, mirrors, lighting options and vases. Be your Sims' interior designer with inspiring, contemporary styles from IKEA!In some ways it's the natural partnership. There is something unreal about the Ikea experience, all those simulated family rooms, distributed through the warehouse-like shop space - a collection of life-sized virtual worlds. And it's true, Sims rooms do resemble Ikea spaces - all perfect right-angles and disinfected minimalism. According to Steve Seabolt, Vice President of Global Brand Development for The Sims, this is what the community has asked for.But doesn't this show a certain lack of imagination among Sims fans? I mean, this is a virtual world where anything is possible - why seek to replicate the flat-packed mundanity of mainstream interiors? I suppose, it reflects the way a lot of people interact with the game - playing by the rules, looking after characters, trying to build a tidy simulcra of real-life in painstaking detail.It's still weird though - I'd prefer a brand I couldn't afford in reality, or something I'd never consider for my own home. But I guess that's why I'm not an avid Sims fanatic.So, H&amp;M, Ford and now Ikea - what brands wouldyoulike to see in the Sims universe?
Jane's newTerrorism and Insurgency CentreEvents Map has gone live today with a map using "up-to-the-minute interactive visual mapping of terrorist groups and events in order to reveal worldwide geographic patterns and trends". It says:The database includes detailed profile assessments of over 240 terrorist groups across the world. It allows decision makers from multi-national companies and major political players to build up an intelligence picture of areas where they have business or political interests.Also, it "builds an integrated intelligence picture by exporting events and geospatially fusing them to third party content."It's not free -- it's for subscribers only. However, if you have staff operating in places where they risk being kidnapped or shot, it may be of interest.There is already, of course, a freeGlobal Incident Mapthat plots "Terrorism Events and Other Suspicious Activity" as a Google Maps mashup. However, it's more of a demo than something worth consulting for practical help.
A Swiss rocket man has become the first person to fly with nothing but a wing and a jet engine strapped to his back, hurtling above the Alps at 300km/h.Adrenalin junkie Yves Rossy, a former military pilot and current Airbus commander for Swiss International Air Lines, was dropped from a plane at 2,438 metres (8,000ft). After unfolding his wing, Rossy soared through the Alps at 180mph (300km/h), putting on an aerobatic display for fans who had made the trip.Ten minutes later, with his name in the record books, Rossy deployed his parachute, folded the lightweight carbon wing and landed at the Bex airdrome.Speaking to Reuters after his flight, Rossy said: "Happiness, an extraordinary sense of fullness to have once again been able to fly and mostly to show it, because it's one thing to do it on one's own, but to be able to share it live like today, that's extraordinary."The successful demonstration was the result of years of research by the modern-day Icarus, who unsuccessfully tested his first jet engine attached to an inflatable wing in March 2003.He developed his first rigid wing a year later, and completed his first successful flight in 2005, with two jet engines fixed under the wing. A safe prototype was achieved in 2006, allowing him a 5min 40sec flight – sufficient time for a few acrobatics.British fans of the self-styled "Fusion Man" will be able to see him in action this autumn when he attempts a Channel crossing.
Click for larger tableGartner has just released estimated figures for the European PC market in this year's first quarter, showing sales up 14.1% compared with the same period in 2007.Gartner says Dell is ahead in the UK, thanks partly to entering the "retail channel in Dixons and Tesco's. As a result, Dell saw a 200% increase in consumer mobile PC shipments and need to continue that momentum throughout 2008. Similarly, Hewlett-Packard managed to drive both consumer and professional mobile PC shipments growth, achieving nearly 70% overall growth."The UK rankingfor the Top 5 is as follows: Dell, HP, Acer, Toshiba, Fujitsu-Siemens -- as shown in the table above.InFrance, the most noticeable change is the appearance of Asus (of Eee PC fame) in the Top 5. There, the ranking is now: HP, Acer, Dell, Toshiba, Asus.Germanyis different again, thanks to the historic strength of the Siemens brand, and supermarket PC sales. The Top 5 there is: Fujitsu-Siemens, HP, Acer, Dell, Medion.The German market grew by 17.4%, whereas the French market grew by only 7.9%. The UK market grew by 11.2% to 3.1 million units (a million a month), and Gartner says:The UK market was driven by strong mobile PC sales, which accounted for more than 60% of the total PC shipments and nearly 70% of consumer PCs. Mobile PCs saw volumes increasing nearly 40% compared with the first quarter of 2007. The desktop market declined in both consumer and professional markets by more than 15% year-on-year.
Last month a US court ruled that border agents can search your laptop, or any other electronic device, when you're entering the country. They can take your computer and download its entire contents, or keep it for several days. Customs and Border Patrol has not published any rules regarding this practice, and I and others have written a letter to Congress urging it to investigate and regulate this practice.But the US is not alone. British customs agents search laptops for pornography. And there are reports on the internet of this sort of thing happening at other borders, too. You might not like it, but it's a fact. So how do you protect yourself?Encrypting your entire hard drive, something you should certainly do for security in case your computer is lost or stolen, won't work here. The border agent is likely to start this whole process with a "please type in your password". Of course you can refuse, but the agent can search you further, detain you longer, refuse you entry into the country and otherwise ruin your day.You're going to have to hide your data. Set a portion of your hard drive to be encrypted with a different key - even if you also encrypt your entire hard drive - and keep your sensitive data there. Lots of programs allow you to do this. I use PGP Disk (frompgp.com). TrueCrypt (truecrypt.org) is also good, and free.While customs agents might poke around on your laptop, they're unlikely to find the encrypted partition. (You can make the icon invisible, for some added protection.) And if they download the contents of your hard drive to examine later, you won't care.Be sure to choose a strong encryption password. Details are too complicated for a quick tip, but basically anything easy to remember is easy to guess. (My advice is attinyurl.com/4f8z4n.) Unfortunately, this isn't a perfect solution. Your computer might have left a copy of the password on the disk somewhere, and (as I also describe at the above link) smart forensic software will find it.So your best defence is to clean up your laptop. A customs agent can't read what you don't have. You don't need five years' worth of email and client data. You don't need your old love letters and those photos (you know the ones I'm talking about). Delete everything you don't absolutely need. And use a secure file erasure program to do it. While you're at it, delete your browser's cookies, cache and browsing history. It's nobody's business what websites you've visited. And turn your computer off - don't just put it to sleep - before you go through customs; that deletes other things. Think of all this as the last thing to do before you stow your electronic devices for landing. Some companies now give their employees forensically clean laptops for travel, and have them download any sensitive data over a virtual private network once they've entered the country. They send any work back the same way, and delete everything again before crossing the border to go home. This is a good idea if you can do it.If you can't, consider putting your sensitive data on a USB drive or even a camera memory card: even 16GB cards are reasonably priced these days. Encrypt it, of course, because it's easy to lose something that small. Slip it in your pocket, and it's likely to remain unnoticed even if the customs agent pokes through your laptop. If someone does discover it, you can try saying: "I don't know what's on there. My boss told me to give it to the head of the New York office." If you've chosen a strong encryption password, you won't care if he confiscates it.Lastly, don't forget your phone and PDA. Customs agents can search those too: emails, your phone book, your calendar. Unfortunately, there's nothing you can do here except delete things.I know this all sounds like work, and that it's easier to just ignore everything here and hope you don't get searched. Today, the odds are in your favour. But new forensic tools are making automatic searches easier and easier, and the recent US court ruling is likely to embolden other countries. It's better to be safe than sorry.&#183;Bruce Schneier is a security technologist and author:schneier.com/blog
Less than a light bulbEducation supplier RM says it will ship Ecoquiet desktop PCs that use Intel Atom processors consuming less than 50 Watts.tinyurl.com/5faw55Inhale the webAddict-o-matic is a new metasearch engine that picks up the latest buzz from blogs, Digg, Twitter and other sites.addictomatic.comGoogle conquers EuropeComScore says Google has 79.2% of the European search market, while Russia's Yandex is beating both Microsoft and Yahoo.tinyurl.com/6ofcwfSmashwords for ebooksSmashwords is a free site where authors can publish ebooks in multiple formats.smashwords.comHomophone cornerThe ThinkaLink.co.uk site uses homophones (or bad puns) to help you remember things and "make learning fun".thinkalink.co.ukPersonal GuardianSwann's &pound;89.99 USB 2.0 DVR Guardian gadget enables any PC or laptop running Windows 2000/XP to monitor up to four security cameras in your home or office.tinyurl.com/647bvdPiet colours codingThe Piet computer language is named after Mondrian because programs look like abstract paintings.tinyurl.com/3d95zAnti-Trojan firewallComodo claims its Firewall Pro Plus software can stop more than 90% of virus and zero-day attacks from working.tinyurl.com/3zuhgk
GTA IV still seems to be casting a shadow over the release schedule but things are - slowly - looking up. This week's reviews coverSilent Hill: Originsfor PS2 and two Wii games,Emergency Mayhemand - perhaps most interestingly of all -Secret Files: Tunguska. The latter is an old fashioned point and clicker that furthers my theory that the Wii is the ageing genre's new home. Seemingly less exciting Wii fare is offered by Emergency Mayhem, with reviewer Steve Boxer describing it is "moderately successful". And those two words could easily be used to describe the game I reviewed - Silent Hill: Origins. Actually maybe "Alan" and "Wake" would be better. The sooner thishugely promising adventure- heavily influenced by Silent Hill, Stephen king etc - arrives the better.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Eric Savitz from Barron's went to the Fairmont Hotel in San Jose for the Churchill Club's tenth annualTop 10 Tech Trends Dinner. The people making the picks are mostly venture capitalists such as Steve Jurvetson (Draper Fisher Jurvetson), Vinod Khosla (Khosla Ventures), Josh Kopelman (First Round Capital), Roger McNamee (Elevation Partners) and Joe Schoendorf (Accel Partners), so some of them are in a position to back their ideas with substantial amounts of cash.This year's picks are mostly the standard stuff of Bill Gates keynotes, such as Vinod Knosla's "The mobile phone will be a mainstream personal computer", Josh Kopelman's "The rise of the 'implicit' Internet" (your data is "in the cloud") and McNamee's "Within 5 years, everything that matters to you will be available to you on a device that fits on your belt or in your purse." Which isn't to say they're wrong, of course...Some were more challenging. For example:From Joe Schoendorf:Water tech will replace global warming as a global priority.The world is running our of usable water and will kill millions more in our lifetime than global warming. Darfur could go down as the first water war of the 21st century. And with 2 million deaths, might not make the top 10 list. One billion of 6 billion people do not have healthy water. We're losing close to 1 million people a year under 5 years old due to dirty water.And from Steve Jurvetson:Evolution trumps design.Many interesting unsolved problems in computer science, nanotech, and synthetic biology require construction of complex systems. Evolutionary algorithms are a powerful alternative to traditional design, blossoming first in neural networks and now in microbial engineering.Well, this is an idea that's been around for more than 30 years, in one form or another, and I remember writing about it in the 1980s. It still hasn't taken off....And finally:Vinod Khosla:Fossilizing fossil energy.Oil and coal will have trouble competing with biofuels. 99% of discussion on the topic is completely irrelevant to the topic. In 4-5 years will have production proof that can sell biofuel at well below $2 a gallon at today's tax structure and no subsidy.I thought that was an idea that was being put into reverse.....Well, if you had $40 billion to invest, which trends would you back?
Put it down as the first case where the machine showed more taste than the owner. People who wanted to record American Gladiators on their Vista-based Media Centers found that they couldn't: the rather blunt "I'm sorry Dave, I can't let you do that" message said that "restrictions set by the broadcaster and/or originator of the content prohibit recording of this program."Now, you could hope that it was because either the network or the makers of the program realised the error of their ways - Lycra? Giant cotton buds? - but instead it turned out to be due to the "broadcast flag" - an anti-copying mechanism that Vista (in particular) listens out for. Somehow, it had gotten set to "don't allow recording". NBC and Microsoft said they are "looking into" what happened. People at the DVR user site The Green Buttonaren'tpleased.Owners of TiVo and DirecTV PVRs had no problems, which meant it was the lucky souls using Vista Media Center who had the problems.It's a bitter reminder of the fact that DRM is not perfect, but has the power to really mess up your day. That comes up in today's lead story in the Technology Guardian supplement,How Apple is changing DRM, where the example (mentioned here before) of MSN Music shutting down, and other problems with the fact that Windows Media Player in Vista won't let you back up licences for music.
The Mac rumour sites have been buzzing about the idea of a MID (Mobile Internet Device) that could be considered an ultramobile Mac or large iPhone, especially since it was apparently "confirmed" by Hannes Schwaderer from Intel Germany. The interesting twist was that it would have an Intel Atom processor (iPhone kommt mit größerem Display und Intel Atom) instead of the iPhone's ARM chip.However, ZDNet.de has followed up yesterday's story with adisclaimer from Intelthat says, roughly (whentranslated by Babelfish):Intel disclaimed of yesterday the statements of managing director Hannes Schwaderer about future iPhone models, quoted in the ZDNet report. Schwaderer made only general remarks possible mobile Internet DEVICE (MIDs) and did not speculate upon future iPhone models. Apple iPhone was only called as example of small Internet entrance devices in this connection. "Intel knows nothing about future products of other manufacturers and can therefore about it also nothing say", said press spokesman Mike Cato opposite ZDNet.de.PC users have had pocket-sized and tablet style devices for two decades, and now Macs are based on PC technology, there's clearly nothing to stop Apple from doing the same sort of thing. However, it still suffers from continuing embarrassment over theNewton(1993), which was overhyped by Apple CEO John Sculley, and flopped horribly.Current Apple CEO Steve Jobs killed theeMate, a robust and extremely cute education machine based on Newton software, and has generally rubbished the idea. But on previous form, this could easily be taken to indicate that that's exactly what Jobs is planning....
Record labels are losing their battle with digital piracy as the number of people who regularly download songs legally falls back, research will claim today.In the wake of innovative attempts from the likes of Radiohead and Coldplay to develop new marketing and distribution methods, record labels are being urged to overhaul their business models if they want to survive.The music industry had been hoping that an upsurge in legal download sales from sites like Apple's iTunes music store would start to compensate for the effects of online and offline piracy and falling CD sales. But figures due to be unveiled today by research group The Leading Question will show the number of music fans regularly buying downloads falling from 16% in 2006 to 14% in 2007.They also show that, on average, music fans pay for just 3.32 single track downloads per month. While 28% of music fans have paid to download music from a legal download store such as iTunes or 7 Digital, just as many have tried downloading from an illegal filesharing site.Tellingly, 22% have carried on sharing files illegally, but only 14% have continued to download tracks from legal sites."Many UK music fans are telling us they are dissatisfied with the current legal, paid-for digital music experience," said Tim Walker, managing director of The Leading Question. "They might buy a few tracks from iTunes when they get a new iPod for Christmas, but few go on to become regular paying downloaders."Leading music labels have been undergoing a huge structural shift since Napster in its early days made digital piracy a mainstream activity.The BPI, which represents the British music industry, said download sales grew by more than 42% in the first four months of the year, but that "the digital music business doesn't begin or end with iTunes". Over the past two years it has modified its stance on file-sharing, focusing on reaching an agreement with ISPs to block persistent offenders, rather than suing individual uploaders.
Have you got it without gravy?If you haven't heard Eddie Izzard riffing on the fact that the Death Star must have had a canteen, here's a treat for you — with Lego animation thrown in. Wonder how often the menu changed?Basil Brush, please stand upIf you had a penny for every time that Steve Jobs said "Boom!" during one of his keynote speeches, you'd have about... um, only 60p, but it's short. More to come with his next in June?All you need is four handsThe simple way to win at Missile Command: build a giant multi-touch screen and get your friends to help fireGot a technology or games video you love? Tell us in the comments!
One in five teenagers in London has had their mobile phone or MP3 player stolen, according to new research.With the use of expensive personal electronics on the rise, a survey of 1,000 British teenagers found that one in eight youngsters nationwide had been the victim of a mugger, pickpocket or robber. That number rose to almost one fifth of all 11 to 16-year-olds in the capital, where 18% of those surveyed said they had been the victim of gadget theft in the past three years.The news comes as the Home Office announces plans to extend the British Crime Survey – the annual study of crime levels in England and Wales – to include 11 to 16-year-olds. Until now only those aged 16 and over have been interviewed about their experiences."I want to ensure that young people are offered as much protection from crime as possible, and receive support if they do become victims, while also tackling offending vigorously," said Jacqui Smith, the home secretary."Extending the British Crime Survey will help us to understand better how crime affects young people and do even more to prevent it."The research – which was conducted by the Design Council as part of a project aimed at finding new approaches to reducing gadget crime – produced a series of startling statistics that highlight the problem of hi-tech theft for younger Britons.£100 of electronicsTwo thirds of all those interviewed said they carried at least £100 worth of electronics with them, including phones, music players and portable games consoles, and 61% said they were concerned or very concerned about theft.But while teenagers seemed keenly aware of the chances of hi-tech robbery, 42% of those who had been the victims of theft said they did not report the crime to the authorities.The Design Council will present its research to the home secretary at a meeting this morning, with senior academics and researchers suggesting ways manufacturers could help reduce such crime."The industry has to have a reason to want to design out crime. In the past mobile phone companies have actually benefited from crime because lots of people just upgrade their phones," said Lorraine Gamman, director of the Design Against Crime research centre at Central St Martin's College in London.With hi-tech gadgets increasingly being used to hold valuable personal information, mainstream manufacturers are finally beginning to consider the long-term ways they can help reduce theft. Apple, which makes the iPod and iPhone, said that it already helped owners personalise their gadgets and was considering other ways to help deter criminals."Some customers choose to use Apple's free engraving service to engrave their name and email address onto their iPod," a spokeswoman told the Guardian, adding that future versions of the iPod and iPhone would "enable security features such as remote wipe and password policies".But Professor Gamman – whose group has designed items such as table clips to reduce bag snatching, and racks that make bicycle theft more difficult – said that businesses needed to concentrate on making anti-theft systems appealing to ordinary users."People need to know that anti-crime solutions are cost-effective, look sexy and are easy to use," she said. "Maybe companies have to look at what people actually want."WAYS TO DESIGN OUT CRIMETEXT BOMBINGMobile networks can already freeze your mobile phone within 24 hours of it being stolen, provided you know the 15-digit serial number. However, some manufacturers are looking into a system called text bombing, where a theft alert immediately detonates any information on the phone and renders it unusable.LOWER VALUEHi-tech gadgets might be extremely common already, but further lowering of their intrinsic value could make them less appealing to thieves. However, among young people evidence suggests that many thefts are related to bullying rather than simple mugging.LANYARDA decidedly low-tech but straightforward solution is to attach your mobile phone or MP3 player to a strap that is either worn around the neck or attached to the body or a bag.
The holy grail of mobile computing is the prospect of a cheap laptop small enough to forget about when you are carrying it around and light enough not to make you look like a golf caddy lugging around someone else's clubs. That moment has now arrived. I have had a look at lots of fascinating near-misses over the years, including the new MacBook Air, a pulsating piece of engineering which weighs under 1.4kg. The only drawback is that its 13.3 inch screen, which enhances its attractions as a computer, means that it is too large to forget about when you carry it around.I have just tried a Toshiba Portege R500 which at 979g is lighter than the MacBook Air and claims to be the lightest laptop on the planet. Its large screen, sleek looks and stunning lightness ought to ensure it a place in the business market, even though the model I tried had occasional connectivity and other problems.But the lightest on the planet it is not. A couple of months ago I bought an Asus Eee PC 2G on impulse from Currys. I had to take it back because several keys were printing out the wrong letters. It turned out the language settings needed to be changed from US/English to UK/English. The Asus is groundbreaking. It seems to have been born in reaction to MIT's One Laptop Per Child project, which aims to provide a $100 computer for poor countries. This made other companies figure that maybe there was a market in the developed world for a cheap laptop as well. (How brainy do you have to be to work that out?).The Asus is exactly that. I gave it to someone and asked how much it cost after reeling off the specs including word processing, spreadsheets, wireless, Skype, the web, mail, internet radio, presentations (via a PowerPoint substitute), painting, typing tutorial, music, photos, videos etc. He answered &pound;1,000. In fact the basic 2GB version costs only &pound;199 (asus.com/products.aspx?l1=24&amp;l2=0&amp;l3=0&amp;l4=0&amp;model=2007&amp;modelmenu=1).It is not in the same league as a Mac or Toshiba for sassy experience. But who cares? It is less than a fifth of the price and weighed in on the kitchen scales at under 0.9kg (around 2lbs) and fitted into the pocket of my overcoat. Small wonder that 1m units have been sold in its first five months. Curiously, despite its size and cheapness, it actually packs in more features than more expensive rivals. This is because most of its innards - such as the Linux operating system - are open source, created for nothing by the world's geeks. They should have a statue somewhere - like the fourth plinth in Trafalgar Square.In the past, as a non-geek, I have always had trouble installing Linux, but when it is bundled into a computer you don't realise it is there. There is a Windows version of the Asus, but who needs its complexity when you can have a problem-free operating system in a computer with no moving parts?There are downsides. The keyboard, while good enough to type on, is too clunky, particularly the touch keypad. The 7.5in screen - barely half the size of more expensive rivals - could be bigger without affecting the size of the computer (a new version will do just that).When the 4G version (costing &pound;233) arrived it was up and running in seconds, as was the wireless connection (after typing in the code for the router) though at other times it took a while to get the Wi-Fi going; and you may need a Linux driver to activate a printer. You will be lucky to get two hours out of the battery with heavy use. But these are relatively small points. The smaller capacity of the &pound;199 version is quite adequate as I store nearly all of what I write on the web anyway on Google Documents (to which there is a direct link from the Asus).In brief, this is a breakthrough computer that offers the opportunity to reach the 30% of households in the UK that don't have a computer as well as developing countries. A people's PC.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;This article was amended on Monday May 19 2008. In the above column, we said, in error, that the Toshiba Portege R500 weighs 1.2kg. The weight of laptops in this series starts at 979g. This has been corrected.
The Detroit Symphony Orchestra can boast some of the finest conductors and virtuosi in the world: Vladimir Ashkenazy conducts Mussorgsky's Pictures at an Exhibition this month and Itzhak Perlman, Pinchas Zukerman and the jazz maestro Herbie Hancock are all regular visitors. To that enviable list of luminaries must now be added probably the most singular figure ever to take to the stage at the DSO, or any other orchestra - step forward ASIMO!The moment he entered the Max M. Fisher Music Centre on Tuesday night it was evident that this was to be no ordinary performance. For a start, there was his rather stilted gait and the fact that at 130cm (4ft 3 inches) his head rose in standing position barely above those of the seated musicians. And that's before considering his general appearance, which bears an uncanny resemblance to Neil Armstrong on that first moon landing, crossed with Lego Man.ASIMO is a robot, and this was the world's first known example of a live orchestral performance conducted by a robot (as opposed to a robotic performance, of which there have been umpteen). He is the product of the engineering and computer wizards at Honda Motor Co, who have been working since 1986 to perfect a humanoid robot under the acronym Advance Step in Innovative Mobility.In that time Honda has taught him to walk, run, climb stairs, talk and - as of this week - conduct. He had his first public outing in the US in 2002, when he rang the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange. In the long run the company bills him as an answer to the ageing population time-bomb; he will act as a house-help for the aged and infirm.So how did he do on Tuesday night conducting the orchestra as it played the appropriately quixotic Impossible Dream from the 1965 Broadway Man of La Mancha? Let's start with the positives. He kept the beat, marking time without a baton and even moving from three beats to six with admirable clarity.Beyond that, he managed to put some expression into his conducting, moving his torso from violin section to cellos and back again, nodding his head at high points and clenching his fist to denote passion.He also showed a command of the diplomatic side of the conductor's role, greeting the audience at the beginning with a "Hello everyone!" and commenting after the final bow that "It is absolutely thrilling to perform with the Detroit Symphony Orchestra. This is a magnificent concert hall." Honda is clearly planning his next career move as a politician.But the downsides cannot go unmentioned. Larry Hutchinson, a bass player with the orchestra, said that though ASIMO's movements were remarkably human, it was a bit like being conducted by a metronome. There was no two-way feedback, as all the robot had been programmed to do was follow precisely the tempo set in an earlier, human rendition of the song conducted by one of the orchestra's directors."At one point there was a retard - the music slowed down," Hutchinson said. "ASIMO's gesture wasn't very clear to the orchestra and they fell out of time with him. A human would have adapted to that and fixed it right away."You might add that there was also none of the ecstatic pogo jumping of the Venezuelan wunderkind Gustavo Dudamel. And what of musical soul? Think of the Latvian conductor Mariss Jansons - at the end of a symphony his face looks as though it is about to explode.ASIMO remained unruffled and impenetrable behind his dark visor, the only change in mood displayed coming from the orchestra itself, whose movements were reflected in the glass."I'm really not too worried about the competition," said Leonard Slatkin who is scheduled, assuming there is no late switch towards ASIMO, to take over as the orchestra's music director in September. "It's a very sweet and adorable machine, but that's all it is. There's not going to be an academy where robots train to be conductors. It's not going to happen."Critic's view: Waving, not conductingIt was only a matter of time. After walking and talking like a human, ASIMO, Honda's most ambitious robot, has become a conductor. Or rather, has achieved an impression of conducting. As all its gestures were copied from the Detroit orchestra's education director what really happened was the opposite of a performance: it was a simulacrum of an interpretation, a grotesque parody of that most profound, social, and complex of human activities: making music in an orchestra.If you can make a collection of car parts and computers work with real musicians, what's the point of real conductors? Conducting looks like semaphore anyway, so if you could imitate the gestures of Wilhelm Furtw&auml;ngler or Carlos Kleiber, you ought to be well on your way. If only it were that simple.Even if you have spent hours mimicking your favourite maestros, nothing can prepare you for standing in front of a group of musicians. Conducting is about how you respond, trying to make players and singers perform the idealised version of the music you have in your head. It's all about the subtlety of that interaction, not hand signals.Still, at least ASIMO could beat time. Perhaps if you transplanted ASIMO's unerring metronome into the skulls of young conductors, you would produce the perfect musician. Who knows: in a Honda lab somewhere, ASIMO von Karajan may well be taking shape.Tom Service&middot;Tom Service is a Guardian music critic, and is writing a book about conducting
MySpace has won a record $230m (&pound;118m) legal judgment over junk messages sent to its members by a team of notorious American internet spammers."Spam king" Sanford Wallace and business partner Walter Rines have been ordered to pay unprecedented damages to the social networking website - amounting to the strongest punishment ever handed out to a spammer in the US.A court in Los Angeles heard how Wallace and Rines sent more than 700,000 messages to MySpace users, fooling them into visiting gambling sites or adult-rated pages. Disguised as comments from the user's friends, the notes in fact contained advertisements that made the pair a small fee every time somebody clicked on them.Although evidence suggested that the pair made about $500,000 from their activities, district judge Audrey Collins used the terms of America's CAN-SPAM Act, which can levy up to $300 for each infringement of the law, in setting damages.Wallace has long been one of the world's most high-profile junk marketers, earning the nickname "Spamford" for his recurring trouble with the law. In the 1990s he progressed from circulating fax messages to sending internet spam and rose to prominence as the head of Philadelphia-based spam giant Cyber Promotions.The two men, who failed to turn up at court for the judgment, were also banned from similar activities in the future.Hemanshu Nigam, chief security officer for MySpace, said: "MySpace has zero tolerance for those who attempt to act illegally on our site.  We remain committed to punishing those who violate the law and try to harm our members."
That Microsoft-Yahoo takeover? It's back on, at least via a proxy fight being organised by long-time corporate raider Carl Icahn, who knows how to make trouble for companies he owns shares in which don't increase the value of those shares enough for his liking.According to theWall Street Journal,Icahn plans to nominate 10 directors to replace Yahoo's board before a deadline Thursday, the person said. Mr. Icahn's nominees will include former Viacom Inc. Chief Executive Frank Biondi, who has worked with Mr. Icahn on other proxy fights.Jerry Yang annoyed a number of important Yahoo shareholders by insisting that Microsoft should raise its bid for the company - which prompted Steve Ballmer to take his chequebook back to Seattle. Ballmer had previously threatened a proxy bid for the company (that is, to install a board friendly to Microsoft's approaches via the nomination process); in response, Yang called the annual meeting for July 3, meaning (under the company rules) that today - just over a week after Microsoft packed up - was the deadline for nominations to the board at that meeting. That was a strategic move, to give angry shareholders the least possible time to find people who might want to sit on a board that would sell itself to Microsoft. (Assuming Microsoft still wants it. Which I suspect it does, really.)But now Carl Icahn is calling Jerry Yang's bluff. Better get some popcorn.
I'm drowning in paper at home and want to go paperless. I have a scanner but I can't find a product that will let me index and search on scanned documents. All the OCR programs seem to want to create editable files.Gareth BrownWhen I experimented with this idea a dozen years ago, I used a cheap Visioneer PaperPort system. Visioneer was taken over by ScanSoft which was taken over by Nuance, which has now released PaperPort Professional 11. This ought to be a reasonable home-user solution, but gets such a beating onAmazon.com(where 28 out of 48 people give it only one star), it hardly seems worth risking your £72.Originally, Visioneer used its own proprietary format, but now the software can scan files to Adobe PDF. This seems a reasonable choice -- PDF/A is intended for archiving -- and other programs will also scan to PDF. However, it can also be useful to have some understanding of the text, via OCR (optical character recognition), so that the text is searchable. Otherwise you will have to rely on adding keywords or tags to each file, which is a simple but tedious form of manual indexing.If you have any volume of files, you will need to store them in a document management system. Nowadays, many are based either on Microsoft's SQL Server database or MySQL, which is open-source. Most data management systems are aimed at businesses and tend to be expensive.Knowledge Treeis free but looks complicated. However, Speedy Organizer 2008 might be worth a look: at least you candownload a trial versionfrom ZDNet.co.uk. It seems to use the free version of Microsoft's SQL Express.If you didn't already have a scanner, then you could look for a packaged system aimed at small business users. The Fujitsu ScanSnap S510 system, for example, includes a colour scanner, ScanSnap Manager, ScanSnap Organizer and other software for £319 (eghere). There are probably similar systems from Canon, Sharp and Xerox. If you have found a good one, let us know!Backchat: David Widgery says: "I too started with Visioneer PaperPort and still use an early version with my scanner, but its OCR [optical character recognition] and search functions were too slow and unwieldy. Then I discovered FineReader, a fast and efficient OCR application that will read common image files and output to Word, Excel or PDF formats. A kilogramme of random paper from my files occupies about 37MB. My laptop now contains the contents of several filing cabinets, which I can access much more efficiently using Google Desktop Search."
I upgraded to AVG Free 8, which I use with Windows XP and Outlook Express. I now get the paperclip icon with almost all the emails I receive, whether there is an attachment or not. Can you help?Michael FeldmanIn its support forum, AVG says there should not be a paperclip for plain text emails but there will be one for "rich text" (usually HTML) emails. This is normal if you have rich text set as the default. However, you can change the AVG setting to stop showing the paperclip icons. Run the AVG Control Center and double-click the big Email Scanner button for the Properties sheet. Click Configure, and uncheck the box that says "Certify mail Incoming &amp; Outgoing". Click OK to exit, close the Control Center, and restart your PC. "This will disable the certs so that no changes are made to the email but AVG will still scan the emails,"says AVG.Correction: Michael Feldman asked about paperclips in Outlook Express with AVG 8.0, and I inadvertently gave the answer for AVG 7.5. With AVG 8.0, right-click the icon in the SysTray and choose Open AVG User Interface (or run AVG). Go to the Tools menu and select Advanced Settings. In the left pane, choose E-mail Scanner, untick the box that says "Certify mail" and click OK.
Do you have any recommendations for parental control software?Catriona ByresBlue Coat's K9 seems worth a go. I have not tried it myself, but it is free, it's British, and it's recommended by the normally reliableTech Support Alert.Note: Windows Vista has parental controls built in.
Despite its stunning sales success, the Wii hasn't exactly been overburdened with a huge portfolio from third-party publishers. This attempt at a bit of Wii fluff is moderately successful - while it won't win awards, it's fun to play, and should keep the kids amused (why it is rated 12+ is difficult to fathom). It plonks you in Crisis City, which is in the grip of mayhem thanks to criminals running around, broken traffic lights, fire hydrants spewing and so on. You represent the police, fire or ambulance services and try to complete a set number of mini-games that solve the city's problems in a set time; completing missions and picking up power-ups increase the time available. Don't expect anything as sophisticated as narrative, but some of the missions raise a smile.
Paperless home wantedI'm drowning in paper at home and want to go paperless. I have a scanner but I can't find a product that will let me index and search on scanned documents. All the OCR programs seem to want to create editable files.Gareth BrownJS:When I experimented with this idea a dozen years ago, I used a cheap Visioneer PaperPort system. Visioneer was taken over by ScanSoft which was taken over by Nuance, which has now released PaperPort Professional 11. This ought to be a reasonable home-user solution, but gets such a beating onAmazon.com(where 28 out of 48 people give it only one star), it hardly seems worth risking your &pound;72. Originally, Visioneer used its own proprietary format, but now the software can scan files to Adobe PDF. This seems a reasonable choice - PDF/A is intended for archiving - and other programs will also scan to PDF. However, it can also be useful to have some understanding of the text, via OCR (optical character recognition), so that the text is searchable. Otherwise you will have to rely on adding keywords or tags to each file. If you have any volume of files, you will need to store them in a document management system. Nowadays, many are based either on Microsoft's SQL Server database or MySQL, which is open-source.Most data management systems are aimed at businesses and tend to be expensive. Knowledge Tree is free but looks complicated. However, Speedy Organizer 2008 might be worth a look: at least you can download a trial version fromZDNet.co.uk(tinyurl.com/55la8n). If you didn't already have a scanner, then you could look for a packaged system aimed at small business users. The Fujitsu ScanSnap S510 system, for example, includes a colour scanner, ScanSnap Manager, ScanSnap Organizer and other software for &pound;319 (tinyurl.com/6rk3c4). There are probably similar systems from Canon, Sharp and Xerox. If you find a good one, let us know!Paperclips with AVG 8I upgraded to AVG Free 8, which I use with Windows XP and Outlook Express. I now get the paperclip icon with almost all the emails I receive, whether there is an attachment or not. Can you help?Michael FeldmanJS:In its support forum, AVG says there should not be a paperclip for plain text emails but there will be one for "rich text" (usually HTML) emails. This is normal if you have rich text set as the default. However, you can change the AVG setting to stop showing the paperclip icons. Run the AVG Control Center and double-click the big Email Scanner button for the Properties sheet. Click Configure, and uncheck the box that says "Certify mail Incoming &amp; Outgoing". Click OK to exit, close the Control Center, and restart your PC. "This will disable the certs so that no changes are made to the email but AVG will still scan the emails," says AVG. Seetinyurl.com/63dcv7.Parental controlDo you have any recommendations for parental control software?Catriona ByresJS:Blue Coat's K9 seems worth a go. I have not tried it myself, but it is free, it's British, and it's recommended by the normally reliable Tech Support Alert:tinyurl.com/3luho9.Backchat&#183;Gren Jones wanted a satnav that could handle grid references, and David Bennett says: "My TomTom Go does!" Jack Isbester says: "The Garmin NUVI satnav for motorists accepts positions identified by their National Grid co-ordinates and can work to the nearest metre. It will also convert a grid reference to the corresponding latitude and longitude." Phil Gee adds: "I use a coordinate converter such as the one attinyurl.com/3aurwb. This allows conversion from NGR to WGS84 which is accepted in TomTom as a latitude/longitude input."&#183;Chris Platon says he uses "an XDA Orbit PocketPC (which has GPS) running TomTom and also running GPSMap-OS, a freeware program which shows your GPS position on a jpg picture of the OS map downloaded from OS Get-a-Map site or on a Google Earth screen grab. This has been very helpful in producing a map of our field archery target placements in their woodland locations."&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
When Apple approached record companies about selling their music digitally five years ago, they "were extremely cautious and required Apple to protect their music from being illegally copied",according to Steve Jobs's recollection of the process. That meant using digital rights management (DRM) - a software wrapper - to protect songs from unlimited copying. Jobs says it is crucial to the contract: "If our DRM system is compromised and their music becomes playable on unauthorized devices, we have only a small number of weeks to fix the problem or they can withdraw their entire music catalog from our iTunes store."But what's the real effect of DRM? Last year, EMI began offering songs without it on iTunes. "The industry has finally been able to get some hard data about how removing DRM restrictions from legitimately purchased tracks affects piracy," says Bill Rosenplatt, DRM specialist and president of GiantSteps Media Technology Strategies. "The statistics show that there's no effect on piracy."No effect. The assertion is remarkable. If DRM does not in fact discourage piracy, then it is merely a nuisance for the user. Now the Guardian understands that most download stores will remove DRM on permanent music downloads. "We are going to be selling non-DRM music from the summer", says Dave Elston, HMV's digital content manager, adding that it would solve "obvious interoperability issues" - primarily compatibility with Apple's iPod. Amazon has announced that its DRM-free MP3 download store, already online in the US, will be rolled out internationally later this year. Napster in the US is moving to MP3 for non-subscription downloads, and sources close to the company implied that the UK service will follow suit. And Apple offers DRM-free downloads for an increasing number of tracks.Ironically, the music companies are now abandoning DRM because it worked too well. Apple wouldn't license its version to rivals - so the best-selling iPod drove the iTunes store to its present position, where it is the third-largest music retailer in any form in the US. Rosenblatt says that record labels "have been desperate to find a viable competitor to Apple and iTunes". Industry sources suggest that Apple's iTunes store has more than 70% of the UK download market, and growing. "The record companies don't like dealing with Apple, because Apple is in a position where it can dictate the economic terms and dictate the business models," says Rosenblatt. "What's going to draw people away from iTunes? One answer is to get rid of DRM."Licences revokedIn the meantime, some early adopters are suffering the consequences of DRM's failure. Last month, former customers of Microsoft's defunct MSN Music store in the US received an unwelcome email. "As of August 31, 2008, we will no longer be able to support the retrieval of licence keys for the songs you purchased from MSN Music or the authorization of additional computers,"it said.So what does that mean? Protected music files are encrypted and locked with a key. To play the file, the media player must acquire a digital licence that is specific to the PC or portable device on which it is played. The licence may permit music to be copied to other computers or devices, but each device must be individually authorised by an online licence server. Without such a server, former customers of MSN Music will not be able to play their DRM-protected music on any new PCs or portable players that they buy.The problem is worse than it first appears, since a "new" device may actually be your existing PC. Some users habitually reinstall Windows to keep it running sweetly, but doing so removes its authorisation; even adding or changing a hardware component can also break the DRM,as Microsoft notes matter-of-factly in a support article. Worse still, the DRM component in Windows can get corrupted for no apparent reason.This is a common problem for users installing the BBC's iPlayer software, for example, which also uses Microsoft DRM. The fix,described in detail on the iPlayer support pages, involves deleting all the files in the hidden DRM folder within Windows. A side effect is that existing licences are destroyed - so existing DRM-protected files could well no longer play. In other words, there are multiple scenarios in which customers who have bought music, supposedly for a lifetime, may need to re-authorise their purchases. If the licence server has been turned off, the music will never, ever play again. What if you back up your licences? This used to be possible through Windows Media Player. But Microsoft removed the option from version 11, introduced for Windows Vista. Microsoft's Adam Anderson told us that licence backup did not work properly anyway.Getting your backup"The ability to back up content was not granted by every service, leading to user confusion and frustration," he says. "Third-party digital content service providers are best positioned to meet the backup and restoration needs of their customers." So the trail leads back to the licence server - which Microsoft is turning off for its customers. Why is it doing that? According to Rob Bennett, who wrote the shock email, it was too complicated to support. "Every time there is an OS upgrade, you saw support issues. People would call in because they couldn't download licences. We had to write new code, new configurations each time," he told CNet.There are a few mitigating factors. One is that purchased downloads usually include the right to burn CDs - thus removing the DRM, and allowing proper backup. Though it's not quite perfect: most download formats are compressed. The CD will sound the same as the download - but if it is ripped back to a PC in a lossy format (such as MP3), the recompressed file will not sound as good.Customers outside the US are not directly affected by Microsoft's move. Although several download services in the UK use Microsoft DRM - including MSN Music (which is run by Nokia), Napster and HMV - these stores have their own licence servers. Still, if Microsoft itself has done this, and if DRM for this type of purchase is on the way out, then customers with an investment in downloaded music should be cautious. Best burn them to CD, just in case. Some, however, won't let you. Subscription services such as Napster To Go, which gives temporary access to around 5m songs, will keep using DRM. But so far the subscription concept has not taken off.Yet Rosenblatt thinks that subscriptions may turn out to be Apple's answer to the DRM-free competition - because it has already laid the groundwork with films which expire a certain length of time after being downloaded or watched. "You can now rent a movie on your iPod. The functionality on the iPod that enables that to happen is part of the functionality that you would need to support music subscription services," Rosenblatt says.Same old problemsAnd that could mean the record labels will face the same problem all over again. Just as they remove DRM from their products, Apple would re-impose it. Apple customers with a subscription would probably never buy from third-party services, even while the likes of Amazon could undercut iTunes and be iPod-compatible.Mark Mulligan, digital music analyst at Jupiter Research, also expects Apple to change its approach. "It's highly likely Apple will get into the next-generation service game. That could be Apple selling iPods preinstalled with unlimited access to music, or with a bundle to a subscription offering," he says. Mulligan sees the market evolving into multiple tiers. At the top end, a minority will be willing to pay a premium for the best quality, DRM-free downloads. The middle tier will be "subsidised offerings like Nokia's Comes With Music, where you buy a device and the cost of the music is included subsidised"; while at the bottom will be advertising-supported services such as Qtrax, SpiralFrog and We7, where free music is paid for by embedded advertising.That would leave Apple with the top-end iTunes downloads and a subscription business. But would Jobs back it? In January 2007, Reuters asked him if Apple would do so. "Never say never, but customers don't seem to be interested in it," Jobs said. "The subscription model has failed so far." Which hardly rules it out forever. DRM might not stop pirates, but it does rivals. And in business, the latter can be a greater threat than the former.
