Today's Technology supplement includes "Where the Xbox 360 went wrong", in which I try to dig into what the problem really is. Is it the GPU? Is it just that it can't cope with the heat? Is itbecause people plug it in via surge protectors?Although Microsoft UK declined to talk to us (which does leave the distinct impression that nobody there knows - though they're welcome to leave a message if they do know), one can deduce things. Let's apply some basic electronic engineering knowledge...The most obvious suggestion is that parts overheat; the Xbox 360 draws 160 watts, which has to be dissipated via two large heatsinks and two fans. One suggestion is that when the machine gets hot, the motherboard warps and pushes the graphics processing unit (GPU) off its board. Another is that some of the soldering is imperfect and so cracks at high temperature. A Microsoft support document also suggests, improbably, that surge protectors and extension strips contribute to the problem by preventing the current surge needed for the fans to turn on; this seems unlikely, since that surge would be too small to trip them.In desperation, some owners have turned to home-grown cures - including wrapping a towel around the machine, blocking the fan vents. This may - depending who you believe - either cause the solder to reflow or the GPU to reseat. (Microsoft has not commented.) The fixes sometimes work, at least temporarily.We can deduce some of the reasons from the fact that Microsoft is declaring that the problems are sorted out - just as it is moving from 90-nanometre to 65nm chips, which should reduce its power consumption significantly, and using a two-part heat sink in the new designs.Even if there are lots of people with surge protectors taking back Xboxes, that doesn't mean anything - until you know how many people who are not taking back Xboxes use (or don't) the same things.And then there's the money:The sum being set aside amounts to between $90 and $99 for every console sold - extra loss on machines that are already sold at a loss. On its launch, analysts reckoned that each Xbox contained $525 worth of components; but the machine sold for, at most, $499, and more price cuts are rumoured to be on the way to keep ahead of Sony. On average, Microsoft took a $126 loss on each console sold at its starting price - $1.4bn so far.The billion-dollar figure also indicates that Microsoft's repeated insistence that the failure rate was about average for such hardware - that is, between 3% and 5% - cannot have been true. The real failure rate is probably about five times greater than the company has admitted, which would put repair costs at between $330 and $660 per console. At that upper limit, it would be cheaper for Microsoft simply to send a cheque for a brand new console.There is some murmuring within Microsoft, or at least its aggravated bloggers, aboutwhether heads should roll- and also whether anyone at the top of the Xbox division who sold shares recently knew this was on the way and so should face aninquiry about selling while having insider knowledge.But will this hurt the Xbox? Help it? Make no difference? Over to you. Though if you happen to know the precise reason why they're failing (perhaps you work in a repair shop) we'd love to hear.Update:Newsweek's blogsays"If you can't tell us what's wrong, then recall the damn thing." And nexgen.biz points to stories saying thatRobbie Bach of Microsoft sold shares in May, when the noise about this problem must have been getting louder on the internal Microsoft system - you don't sign off a billion dollars of profit without going a long way up the company; in fact, to the top.
"Hewlett-Packard has developed a new service capable of receiving photos from cell phone cameras, running them through sophisticated image-processing algorithms, and returning scientifically based recommendations for the shade of foundation, lipstick, blush and eye shadow that best suits a person's skin tone," saysScientific American.Colour matching is subjective, so HP hired freelance experts: "makeup artists you'd hire for events, a movie shooting or weddings."There's a press release,HP Technology Takes the Guesswork Out of Matching Colors.Nobody's really going to do this themselves, are they? But it might work as part of a sales pitch at an in-store beauty counter.HP's Jhilmil Jain holds the specially designed color chart near her skin while someone uses a mobile phone to capture and send the image via MMS for a color recommendation.
Yahoo Searchnow has built-in suggestions, which could save you some typing. The suggestions kick in after you have typed three characters. Typingpar, for example, produces a drop-down list that starts with Paris Hilton but also includes Linkin Park. By the time you've got toparis h, the suggestions includeparis hilton jailandparis hotel las vegas.You can turn it off if you don't like it.Google has the same sort of service,Google Suggest, but it's still in the lab.Of course,Google Suggesthas been part of the Google Toolbar for years, and it's already in theYahoo! Toolbar for Firefox. Yahoo has also been testing the idea as Livesearch atAllTheWeb. But if you haven't tried it before, it's worth a go.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
If you can't beat 'em, join 'em. That's what the venerable Encyclopedia Britannica apparently decided to do in a series of blog posts beginning last October with the mission of engaging web evangelists. It would rebut the claims that its values were obsolete and defend its honour on the internet. It would out-blog the bloggers who thought it fit only for mockery as an relic of a past age, the symbol of out-of-touch fogies, an anachronism with no place in a new era.And to be sure the blog world knew about this event, it made sure to inform other bloggers, sending out a notice: "Published at theBritannica Blogis the first of three biting commentaries on learning and education in the era of web 2.0: We encourage you to visit the forum, comment on the posts, and leave a link in your comments back to your own site. For the benefit of your readers, we'd appreciate a link to the forum from your site as well." (freerangelibrarian.com.)This behavior is sometimes called linkbaiting - creating posts with the primary goal of garnering links from other blogs, often connoting a pushy and crass attempt to gain readership via controversy.But coming from Britannica, it was also a signal that it understood the tactics of competition for mindshare. Blogging helps those who promote themselves.Someone there seems to have sat down with the A-list Blogger's Playbook, and asked the question: "How do we make this gimmick work for us?" It was as if an impresario had thought "OK, A-lister, you say that in order to prosper in this brave new media world, where attention is the name of the game, pandering to the crowd is the way to go. There should be much ranting against The Enemy and a large amount of stroking the audience that they're the last best hope of earth. We can do that. You didn't invent snark, we had snottiness a long time ago. Except we won't do it in terms of a shtick of populism against a decadent elite, but apply the format to a besieged culturalist sensibility that appeals to our audience." Instead of a call to crash the gates, sound the alarm of barbarians at the gates.And as Britannica standard-bearer bloggers proceeded to press every hot button of internet culture - Google, Wikipedia, copyright, even hoary complaints about the youth of today - it turned into an impressive demonstration of the contradictions of putting a style in the service of a contrary cause. Like fighting for peace, this was flaming for scholarliness (blogs.britannica.com).For example, in one notable post with multiple layers of irony, the phrase "If you can't Google it, it doesn't exist" was critiqued as if it were meant as a prescriptive injunction not to bother looking beyond search engine results.This arose from misreading a very short discussion in a print article. The saying is attributed to Jimmy Wales, co-founder of Wikipedia. But he never said it with that truncated form; his own intent was to point out the weakness of complete reliance on search engines, and that there's still value in reference books. (Seesethf.com.)But the forum was not completely devoted to bashing the usual targets and contained rebuttals such as accusations of Luddism or calls for experts to volunteer their time to fix Wikipedia articles - a stance that sits uncomfortably with the concept of wisdom of crowds. Not inviting prominent web advocates to participate attracts their audiences to cheer them on as part of the show.If one of the supposed means of benefiting from blogging is by serving the needs of a niche community, parading some of the opposition can't have been bad for business. Like professional wrestling (an analogy which may be more relevant than one might think), each side gets to show off its flashiest moves.Ultimately, it remained unclear whether Britannica had co-opted blogging or had been corrupted by it. One of the tragedies of substituting popularity for authority is that even critiques must then favour the bombastic over the thoughtful to be heard.sethf.com/infothought/blog&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Raph Koster's a fan of the so-called "playful web", in which game-like activities are incorporated into traditional websites and software applications. Recently, he pointed towards Amazon.com as an example of a company doing some interesting things in this non-game/game space with their Askville and forthcomingQuestvilleservices, who seems to have learned a thing or two from role playing games.Askville, a Yahoo! Answers clone in which participants ask a seemingly random question of the community and receive points (or Quest Coins in this case) for responding to someone else's question, offers virtual currency (the aforementioned Quest Coins), XP (experience points) and levels (closely related to the XP). But why?A cynic might argue that these are key hooks in an online community's business plan: get folks intrigued enough, offer something that makes 'em feel like they're getting something back, and then watch as brand loyalty grows. That is, in effect, what games do. They dangle a carrot in front of players' noses and then keep 'em reeled in for 20-70 hours of dedicated media play time. Yes, that's why traditional advertisers are now integrating brands into games.But Questville appears to offer one step up from this traditional game-led marketing mechanic. The Quest Coins one wins in Askville will be valued for things that can be done in Questville, when that application is released later this year. People like Raphandotherssuggest that this will be some kind of collaborative information-seeking virtual world (an online treasure hunt?), and that the perks received by offering information in one app will feed the game in the other. Feels to me like they're trying to have a small pop at Google, using the best features of the social web.So surely this is all good for both the playful web and the extension of games into the real world. But commentatorProkofy Nevaaruges (on Raph's blog) that Amazon isn't simply using the community-building techniques for a greater end. Prok offers that the bookseller has fallen into some of the traditional traps which virtual world companies sink into when trying to develop such a compelling product:o the presence of board queens or core groupies or top-ten leader board members or whatever you want to call it -- people who run stuff, and hurry to "set straight," or chastise or "keep order" -- and interpret game dev actions and intents (though they have no legitimacy in doing so)o the use of the secretive police informant method to "report abuse" without any accountability (I don't notice that your coins are debited if you falsely report)o threats that people make to you in private IMs that if you don't answer their question better, or don't take them more seriously with their question, or frankly, don't answer their politically-biased and loaded question the way they like, they'll "weaken" you by voting you downo requests to the mob to come flash-mob a vote to "balance it" because they don't like how it's turning outo belief that game features can be "voted up" or incorporated only if "everybody" or "the mob" or "most people" or "the heavy users" approve and want them -- the notion that if you as an individual suggest a feature that might be a good thing, if nobody else votes for it, the game devs should ignore it (my God, I hope game devs have more sense than that!)o belief by core users, heavy leaderboard types, programmers in RL, etc. that the user interface as it stands is absolutely perfect even if clunky or counter-intuitiveIs this really somewhere a non-games company like Amazon should be dwelling? More on where games meet the web from Raph himself ishere.
Sorry, that was the snappiest headline I could come up with. Anyway, Sony has announced several 'strategic partnerships' with third-party developers including NCsoft Corporation, Ubisoft, Midway and Konami, to ensure PS3 gets the exclusive content it needs this year. The console versions of Haze and Unreal Tournament have both been confirmed as PS3 exlusives in the run up to Christmas. Haze will arrive on PC and Xbox 360 next year. As you probably already know, Metal Gear Solid 4 has also been confirmed PS3 exclusive when it debuts early next year.The Unreal agreement would also seem to offer a more in-depth partnership between Epic and Sony. As the press release explains:"Sony Computer Entertainment (SCE) and industry veterans Epic Games announced a multi-stage agreement. Revolutionizing the industry with the advent of the Unreal® Engine when first launching the Unreal franchise several years ago, Epic Games has joined with SCE to fully optimize the Unreal Engine for PS3 development to assist developers using this engine to accelerate game creation and maximize performance. Already underway, this optimization currently affects seven developers using the Unreal Engine to create 20 games already in the works and with many more to come.Sony is expecting 100 third-party titles to be released on PS3 this fiscal year, 15 of which will be exclusive to the platform.Elsewhere, a couple of new annoucements.First up is a 'new franchise' named Infamous for PS3:"Developed by Sucker Punch Productions, the creators of the smash Sly Cooper franchise, finds players discovering extraordinary super powers. As the players power grows they will feel what its like to either be a Super Hero or wreak havoc in a city and population that will evolve and react depending on the choices the player makes."Could this have, in anyway, been inspired by...Heroes?Confirmed for PlayStation Network download were WipEout HD (a version of PSP title WipEout Pulse) and echochrome, which is described as a 'crafty puzzler'.
More from Sony's conference at E3 - the company has announced some interesting new features for its online environment, Home, set for launch in the Autumn:* Launch Games Within PlayStation Home: Users will have the ability to launch Blu-ray Disc or PlayStation Network games from inside PlayStation Home. Since PlayStation Home is designed to be a virtual meeting place for a worldwide community, users who want to play a game together can meet in one location to set options and start the multi-player online game.* New Home Square: The newly designed Home Square replaces the PlayStation Home lobby concept first introduced at the Game Developers Conference in March. The new open-air space provides internal developers with more flexibility to build upon the community experience.* New Personal Spaces: Four new apartments including a Beach House, Norwegian Cabin, Manhattan Penthouse and a traditional Japanese House, were introduced today to allow for additional user choice and personalization.The in-Home game launching is the key addition really, going that bit further to competing with Xbox Live and its seamless, user-friendly service. Merging social networking and virtual environments with multiplayer gaming is something new on console.Other than that the addition of a Norwegian Cabin will no doubt send ripples of excitement through the gaming community.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too, looking at the problems with Microsoft's Xbox 360 console, the reshuffle of ministers who look after public sector information (and what it means for information businesses), why sploggers use Google's Blogger, not Wordpress.com (even though they're both free), the reasons why you can't watch Channel 4, Sky or the BBC online using Vista or a Mac or Firefox.. plus gadget reviews, newly asked questions and a wife whose husband has a new cybernetic best friend.. who's female.Features:Where the Xbox 360 went wrongWhoops, there is a problem with the console failing in significant numbers after all, said a reluctant Microsoft this week. So what is the cause? Charles Arthur investigates.Can the new ministers make a difference?Free Our Data: The new prime minister's parliamentary team will need to get to grips with the issue of free data.Why Google is the service of choice for sploggersSpam bloggers are making cash from the search giant's AdSense - but they face opposition from a very determined man. Michael Pollitt reports.Why TV on demand insists you use its chosen browserChannel 4's new download service is restricted to those using Windows XP and Internet Explorer. Kate Bevan reports.Silverlight looks better by the MoonlightAfter a 21-day 'hackathon,' Novell's Mono group of open source developers managed to show Moonlight - an incomplete version of Microsoft's still-unfinished Silverlight - running on Linux at a conference in Paris last month.Removing anonymity won't stop the online flame warsWhy do people attack each other via blogs and online forums? Researchers now think they know. Laura Marcus reports.Newly Asked Questions:Is the Pirate Bay going to be shut down again?Swedish anti-copyright website the Pirate Bay has been targeted by police before, writes Bobbie Johnson - most notably last year when it was shut down for three days.Will ISPs begin to filter their networks for illicit music?They might after a ruling in Belgium, says Charles Arthur, where the local ISP, Scarlet (which was once part of Tiscali) has been given six months to begin filtering out infringing peer-to-peer content on its network.Gadgets:O2 CocoonThe white plastic finish and the curved shape prompts comment on its suitability as a Star Wars Stormtrooper accessory.Logic3 i-Station IS10Logic3 makes iPod accessories galore, but this is its first foray into the exciting world of alarm clocks.Pinnacle PCTV DVB-T Flash StickThere are plenty of USB stick digital TV tuners on sale, but the Pinnacle PCTV DVB-T Flash Stick raises the bar a little in that it also boasts 1GB of Flash memory.Opinion and comment:Has Britannica co-opted blogging or has it been corrupted by it?Seth Finkelstein: If you can't beat 'em, join 'em. That's what the venerable Encyclopedia Britannica apparently decided to do in a series of blog posts beginning last October.iPhone is more than the sum of its partsCharles Arthur: In the case of this new device, the only question that some people want to ask is: who's getting all the money?Preserving old games is a service to humanityKeith Stuart: Last week, Microsoft took some time out from repairing Xbox 360s to announce a joint initiative with the National Archives.TechnobileCatherine Cooper: Meet Jane, my husband's bossy but desirable mistress - and even I can't live without her nowIf Facebook is just this year's version of AOL, is that bad?Jack Schofield: Facebook is now scything through the Guardian - even the editor has signed up - thanks to its compelling combination of MySpace, Flickr, forums and Friends Reunited, all done with a bit of taste.Ask Jack:Unfair use?My ISP tells me I've gone over my 40GB download limit. I am sure I have not. I don't download much or stream anything, so this amount has surprised me. Can I keep track of it so that I can rebut its claim?Upgrade for gamesMy son recently bought Sid Meier's Civilization IV without checking the recommended system requirements so it's a £30 screensaver. Is it worth upgrading a five-year-old PC - in our case an AMD-based Mesh Matrix XP 1600 - or biting the bullet and buying new?Upgrade for graphicsI have a five year old AMD 1.3GHz class PC running an nVidia GeForce 5200 with 768MB of memory. Can I upgrade my system with a new graphics card rather than having to shell out for a new CPU and motherboard?And finally..Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
As rumoured for several months, Sony has designed a new version of its PSP handheld. The update is thinner, features a video-out port and will be available in stores from September in Japan, North America and Europe."While succeeding the basic functions and design philosophy of the current PSP including a 4.3 inch wide high resolution LCD screen... new PSP is 33 percent lighter and 19 percent slimmer than the original version, making the all-in-one handheld entertainment system even easier to carry around at approx.189g in weight (weight of current model is approx.280g) and approx.18.6mm in thickness (thickness of current model is approx.23.0 mm).Adding a video-out port enables new PSP users to experience high quality UMD Video, pictures and movies from Memory Stick Duo and game software titles on their TVs at home. Also, new PSP is equipped with enhanced feature to temporarily store game data from UMD, reducing load time during game play. Moreover, the ability to charge the unit through PS3 or PC via USB cable during data transfer is newly equipped, further positioning PSP as a true handheld device."The new machine comes in three basic colors: "Piano Black", "Ceramic White", and "Ice Silver". There will also be three pearlised light colors: "Felicia Blue", "Lavender Purple", and "Rose Pink". Apparently this will meet a variety of lifestyle preferences for all ages.The additions are more or less what has been expected - although some optimistic fans were hoping for a more extensive array of features - a built-in camera, onboard flash memory and mobile phone capbilities among them. No doubt, however, the Go!Cam will remain compatible.Is this enough to give PSP a boost against DS - or at least to make it more desirable among gadget geeks looking for a sleeker multimedia handheld?
My son recently bought Sid Meier's Civilization IV without checking the recommended system requirements so it's a £30 screensaver. Is it worth upgrading a five-year-old PC -- in our case an AMD-based Mesh Matrix XP 1600 -- or biting the bullet and buying new?Steve FowlesIt's generally not worth upgrading an old PC to run games, because these tend to operate at the high end of the hardware's capabilities.You can sometimes get a dramatic increase in games performance by installing a new graphics card. In this case, Civ IV is famous for its 3D graphics, and 3D graphics performance was the weakest link in your PC even by the standards of 2002. (The spec sheet says nForce IGP, for Integrated Graphics Processor. The graphics chip is built into the motherboard, so you probably don't even have a graphics card.) But to get really good games performance, you would also need extra memory and a faster hard drive, so a new PC could be the best bet.Of course, you don't need to take the old PC out of service. It could still work well for email, web browsing, word processing etc. If you have a four-port Ethernet router, you can have both PCs online at the same time.
My ISP tells me I've gone over my 40GB download limit. I am sure I have not. I don't download much or stream anything, so this amount has surprised me. Can I keep track of it so that I can rebut its claim?Fredrik EdlundYou may already have the information on your PC, because some firewalls log the amount of data uploaded and downloaded. Look for an entry that says something like "view traffic" or "traffic monitor". If not, it's too late ... but you could still measure the amount of bandwidth you use in a week and estimate the monthly total.Read more....There are dozens of programs that will log the amount of data you upload and download. The best known include Locktime's NetLimiter 2 Monitor and Hoo Technologies' Net Meter. Codebox Software'sBitMeter IIlooks good and is freeware, and there's also an open source project,FreeMeter Bandwidth Monitor For Windows. Other options are atnonags.com.Bear in mind that these programs may not measure exactly the same thing as your ISP, but the numbers should be close enough.I consider myself a very heavy user, and my firewall says I managed to clock up 10GB last month. However, it might be possible to rack up 40GB without noticing. Is there some peer-to-peer filesharing going on in the background that you don't know about?Perhaps you tried one of the movie services that uses Kontiki, which includes Sky and the BBC. Perhaps your PC has been compromised and is part of a botnet distributing spam. You should certainly run some anti-virus checks in Safe Mode. Perhaps you have unsecured Wi-Fi and a neighbour is using your connection. Or perhaps your ISP is wrong.
have a five year old AMD 1.3GHz class PC running an nVidia GeForce 5200 with 768MB of memory. Can I upgrade my system with a new graphics card rather than having to shell out for a new CPU and motherboard?Dan CookThe nVidia GeForce 5200 was an entry-level graphics card and not particularly good for its day, but should provide decent 2D graphics, given the generous amount of memory. However, it's probably fitted in an AGP (Accelerated Graphics Port) slot, and this is rapidly being phased out in favour of PCI Express.You could try a newer nForce card or, preferably, an ATI Radeon if you can pick one up cheaply on eBay, but then the slow processor might become the limiting factor. PC hardware has moved on in the past five years, and a new PCI Express motherboard, processor and graphics card should provide a boost in performance.Try testing your PC atpcpitstop.com(using the panel on the left of the site). This involves accepting a small download. It will rate your PC's performance, compare it with similar machines, and suggest things you can do to optimise it. If you register it will store the scores, so you can compare the results before and after making changes to your system.
The white plastic finish and the curved shape prompts comment on its suitability as a Star Wars Stormtrooper accessory. However, the design hides some neat tricks in this MP3 player/phone. O2 has done away with anything not related to music. Although there is a 2 megapixel camera, there are no external controls as all the buttons are dedicated to MP3 player functionality. There really is an emphasis on making this an alternative to carrying around a separate MP3 player. It has 2GB of onboard memory (expandable via the MicroSD slot) and the battery should provide up to 15 hours of music playback. The front of the phone also acts as a data screen, although it appears to be just white plastic - information about the track you're playing, incoming call details and even the beginnings of text messages all scroll across the front as blue LEDs.shop.o2.co.uk
Alien conceptWhile online fraud goes unpunished (The shambles over cybercrime, July 5), the only hacker who has seen the sharp end of the law is Gary McKinnon, guilty of hacking into Nasa servers looking for aliens. You can get away with stealing credit card numbers, but Buddha forbid you are into aliens. Off to jail for 80 years you go.technollama.blogspot.comFloodplain speakingThe Environment Agency agrees that the data should be "made available, as widely as possible, to the public" (Rising tide of frustration, July 5). What we do not agree with is unlicensed profit-orientated companies using the data for their own commercial ends, while licensed companies, and possible competitors to OnOneMap, abide by the law.Our flood data is available free to homebuyers and the general public via theEnvironment Agency website. Public utilities also have access to the dataset for England and Wales free of charge, as do the emergency services. Planning authorities also have free access so that we can ensure there is no inappropriate development in flood plains.The Environment Agency believes information on flood risk should be accurate and up to date. The information atOnOneMap.comhas been extracted from our official website and adapted for use by OnOneMap.com, and so there is no guarantee that this information is accurate or up to date.David King, Environment AgencyPhysical evidenceAt first glance it might indeed seem ironic that web 2.0 companies can be based on something so analogue and physical, but actually it doesn't surprise me (The missing link, July 5). I don't think cyberspace has ever intended to replace physical space, rather to enhance it. Without the rise of web 2.0, Moo cards simply couldn't exist.globalsuburb.wordpress.comTrainTracker is not funAleks Krotoski criticises TrainTracker for not being engaging enough and suggests that we provide a service which is fun to use, as games are (Gamesblog, July 5). Fun is not TrainTracker's raison d'etre - it is there to provide train times when our call centres are busy.The service's objective is to be as successful at providing times as it possibly can be. Engaging the caller is only part of that task and sometimes the service suffers because of the need to be able to successfully answer the maximum number of train time questions as possible. Perhaps you should have mentioned the direct number - 0871 200 4950 - to allow your readers to make their own decision about whether it's a useful service or not? A third of a million customers use TrainTracker every month and over 80% of them do so successfully. Is it perfect? Of course not. Could it be improved? Watch this space. But is it a success? Undoubtedly.Duncan Henry, National Rail Enquiries&#183;[TrainTracker] is awful. I usethetrainline.com. Which reminds me - there was something I wanted to look up ...feelinglistless.blogspot.comAmateur reportsIf the news media cuts down on the number of journalists it uses because citizens are now doing their own reporting, the overall volume of news may increase but will be less informative and authoritative (Amateurs can be good and bad news, July 5).adsetsinformationweblog.blogspot.com&#183;Underground and independent musicians undoubtedly have their work cut out when it comes to gaining any kind of attention on the web. You could say this is putting musicians in worse situation than they were before. But the new social network sites, music filter platforms and MP3 blogs are undoubtedly empowering fans in a positive way.songaday.co.uk
Facebook is now scything through the Guardian - even the editor has signed up - thanks to its compelling combination of MySpace, Flickr, forums and Friends Reunited, all done with a bit of taste. It was started at Harvard in 2004 and spread virally through universities and colleges, but two things have made Facebook the hottest thing on the web this year. The first was offering membership to everyone. The second - which happened just two months ago - was launching an applications programming interface, enabling people to create programs for the site. The API turned Facebook into a development platform.Opening up Facebook has pulled in a tidal wave of teenagers and older users, where "old" starts at around 25. According to research published last week by ComScore, the number of 12-17 year old users grew by 149% over the past year, with 25-34 year olds up by 181%. Unique visitors per month shot up from 14.1m to 26.6m. And that's just in the US.Facebook doesn't appeal to everyone, and social network expertDanah Boydhas seen what she calls an American class division: "Soldiers are on MySpace; officers are on Facebook." But any successful social network - where people sign up their friends - is likely to go far.Opening up the API has produced a flood of programs, and although most are trivial, a few have taken off. The most famous example is iLike, which lets people follow what their friends are listening to. It signed up about 3m users in its first fortnight. iLike staff were emailing everyone they knew to borrow servers to cope with demand.At first glance, Facebook's API looks like a way to develop proprietary widgets of the sort that are already splattered across blogs, personalised portal pages and even desktops. Sudoku, local weather, Harry Potter quotes, a virtual lava lamp ... there are already 1,590 of them, and many have yet to reach 50 users. But it takes time for big companies to develop decent applications, and I think much better things are on the way. PayPal and the Zoho online office are already on board. The audience is just too big to ignore.A more serious objection has been raised by blogger Jason Kottke, who says "Facebook is the new AOL". It's a closed garden and if you want to reach its users, you have to follow its rules. It gets worse, of course, because you might also have to develop custom apps for another dozen sites with their own proprietary platforms. The alternative is a platform where anybody can develop apps and interoperate with everybody else using freely available tools, says Kottke. "It's called the internet and it's more compelling than AOL was in 1994 and Facebook in 2007."He's right in principle, but what if he's wrong in practice? Developers might not like the idea of a Balkanised internet - with incompatible services dominant in different countries - but if Facebook users like what they've got, why should they care?Some might see the internet as a confusing mess. They don't want to waste time figuring out which sites are best: they don't want freedom of choice, they want freedom from choice. The success of Apple's iPod strategy - connecting the portable music player with PC software and an online store - shows that people are happy to go for the packaged experience if it simplifies their lives.But it may not last. Facebook is still a tiddler compared to AOL, which as recently as 2000 was powerful enough to take over the mighty CNN Time Warner media empire in a $164bn deal. And how is AOL doing now?&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
There is another woman in my husband's life. Her name is Jane, and she lives in the TomTom GPS system we bought a few months ago. We could have chosen other people to tell us where to go: English Tim, a kind of camp James Bond; Aussie Ken, who sounds like he's had a few beers and would rather start a fight than give us directions; or Americans Bonnie or Richard, who are just plain irritating. But no, we settled for strict school-marmish Jane.She refused to speak to us at first, demanding that we spend an extra &pound;50 on an external aerial so she could see her satellite better. She's here to stay now - but only on her terms.On holiday in France she refused to find the village we were going to until we were actually there - as if she were saying, "Oh, that St Agnes! Not one of the other 10 or so all over Europe I found for you!" And when we need her most, when we are stuck in a one-way system in an unfamiliar city, it is then that she will decide to fall silent and turn her screen grey, sulking.She's one of the family now - even helping our children learn to speak. When Jane orders "Bear left!" our son will helpfully shout "Bear right!" from his car seat and my younger daughter will lisp "baaaah lehhhh". Which all leads to us taking a wrong turn, and Jane scolding, "Turn around when possible!"And she has a mischievous side. Because the TomTom website is so frustratingly complicated (and expensive), Jane's maps are already out of date. Consequently she tries to lead us into illegal right turns and the wrong way down one-way streets. If we are driving on a new road, the little icon on Jane's screen will picture us driving through a field while Jane shouts, "Turn around when possible!"But in my husband's eyes, she can do no wrong. At the beginning of every car journey he spends 10 minutes fiddling with her screen, telling her what to do while she pretends not to know what he is talking about. Recently when some friends had their car towed and needed a lift to the pound he grandly announced: "Jane and I are going on a rescue mission." And she is a clearly a desirable mistress - if we accidentally leave her bracket (never her!) in the car, then as often as not on our return the window will be smashed.But even as I sit in the car promising to myself that next time she tells me to "turn around when possible" in her patronising tone I'll throw her out the window, I know I won't. We've become so reliant on her now we no longer have a map in the car.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
They might after a ruling in Belgium, where the local ISP, Scarlet (which was once part of Tiscali) has been given six months to begin filtering out infringing peer-to-peer content on its network. The court recommended that the ISP investigate Audible Magic, an audio fingerprinting application which dips into files as they are being transferred and tries to determine whether they are in fact copyrighted music; it can then block their transfer.The International Federation of the Phonographic Industry welcomed the decision, saying it "sets an important precedent in the fight against piracy internationally" because it implements EU legislation - and so might mean ISPs in the UK would have to use filters too."The internet's gatekeepers, the ISPs, have a responsibility to help control copyright-infringing traffic on their networks," said John Kennedy, head of the IFPI, which estimates that about 20bn illegal files were shared on P2P networks last year - 20 times more than legal music downloads.However, Ian Fogg, the EU broadband analyst at Jupiter Research, thinks that ISPs have a bigger problem with video file sharing, which consumes far more bandwidth - and that they are planning to launch their own video services, but not music, and so are unlikely to listen to the IFPI's entreaties.And anyway, the music game is changing. With Prince readying his next album as a covermount on a Sunday newspaper while CD sales continue to droop, the signs are that paid-for digital formats aren't taking over from the paid-for polycarbonate CD as the industry might have hoped. Data released by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) on Tuesday show that 90% of UK singles sales are digital, but only 3.5% of albums."The simple fact is that not enough is being done to encourage multiple track buying," tutted Mark Mulligan, Jupiter's digital music analyst (weblogs.jupiterresearch.com). "The iTunes-dominated distribution model has created a business model which is simply not in the interests of the record labels." It costs about the same to bring an artist with a single to market as one with an album - but the album generates all sorts of spinoff benefits.Overall, ISPs might implement filtering of music (though they'll probably do it to video streams first) but that isn't going to dig the record business out of the hole it finds itself in, because people aren't buying music as they used to. Instead, the artists are winning as more people spend their cash going to live gigs - such as Prince's 21 concerts in London, beginning next month.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
There are plenty of USB stick digital TV tuners on sale. The Pinnacle PCTV DVB-T Flash Stick raises the bar a little in that it also boasts 1GB of Flash memory. The drivers for the TV tuner are stored on the stick, which means it will work almost instantly on any PC with no need for the user to load any software. In theory then, the stick is an ideal travel device - although users will probably need to take its accompanying mini indoor aerial with them too. As the Flash Stick is also kitted out with a personal video recorder, users can also archive programmes on to a PC's hard drive, a DVD or even the stick itself - which means that they can carry up to three hours of programmes around with them. It might be innovative, but the Flash Stick isn't without its faults - the worst being the very slow way it toggles between channels. The remote control that accompanies the device is barely usable and the PVR software could be a lot simpler. Yet I shouldn't be too harsh. For &pound;59.99, this is great value and a must for anyone who wants to watch TV on the move.pinnaclesys.com
It has very quickly become a time-honoured tradition that as soon as Apple produces a new gadget, or variation on an old one, people the world over who have stumped up good money submit said gadget to an autopsy that wouldn't shame the military investigating an alien. Pieces are set out on the table, photographed, detailed. And then, as with any good autopsy, the silent witness is asked how it came to be there. The latest such gadget fell into peoples' hands with the launch of Apple's iPhone, which was at once determinedly ripped apart as gently as possible and its components named, numbered and priced. For in the case of this new device, it seems that the only question that some people want to ask is: who's getting all the money?The components analysis company iSuppli, for example, has been chopping up iPhones to see who makes what inside it, and so who's going to get all that lovely moolah from the million or so that have sold so far. It reckons that the hardware and manufacturing costs for an 8GB model is $265.83 (&pound;131.97) - meaning that at the retail price of $599, a whopping 55% is pure profit. All depending, of course, on the meaning of "pure" and "profit".In January, iSuppli had estimated - without even dismembering one - that an iPhone's hardware and manufacturing costs were $264.85. That's only 0.3% variation in its estimate, which means it's either brilliant or that these analyses completely miss the point. (Though let's mention in passing that iSuppli found two British-originated chips in there: an audio codec chip from Wolfson Microelectronics, and a Bluetooth chip from CSR of Cambridge, which appears to be stunted - probably by Apple's or AT&amp;T's software - to be useless except for headphone/microphone links.)Analyses like these are comparatively easy to make, but they don't really get to grips with what's challenging about making some - any - piece of equipment. It's like looking at the printed edition of this paper, doing a sum about how much pulp paper costs, how much printers charge, and how much it costs to drive a van from A to B, and decide that newspapers must be thriving, profitable businesses that are minting it. Hell, they even have adverts where people pay to be included! And if you read it on the web, there aren't even printing costs! Whereas in fact many newspaper groups are finding life tougher and tougher.A team at the University of California recently did a more in-depth analysis of the iPod (pcic.merage.uci.edu) to see who gets what from putting its 451 parts together. For example, the tiny Toshiba hard drive costs $73, but is made of about $54 in parts and labour. So Toshiba added $19 (plus its own direct labour costs) of value to those parts. And that's the most expensive single part. The total of the bits comes, by the authors' estimates, to $144.40, on a gadget that costs $299 in the US. That would put Apple's profit margin at 36% of the retail price.So are we all getting gouged here? The problem with these analyses is that they assume that these products fall out of a clear blue sky, their design realised by morphic resonance (where everyone suddenly understands something simultaneously), and that Apple - and other companies, for Toshiba's creation of the miniature hard drive for the original iPod accounts for a lot of the product's rocketing success - just sits around deciding where to buy advertising spots. That's rather like saying that the bodies that medical students practise on have all the same content as live ones. It's obvious that isn't true, because when alive, those bodies had that something extra, the gestalt, which made them alive, not dead. Objects such as iPhones are more than the sum of their parts; the weakness of looking at the pieces, like looking at the body in an autopsy, is that it ignores the human inside.charles.arthur@guardian.co.uk&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
What's the difference between WordPress.com and Google's Blogger? Both offer a free blog hosting service that's easy for first-time bloggers to use; you can set up your own blog in a matter of minutes. But if you're planning on setting up a spam blog - or "splog" - don't try your luck at WordPress. While Google's Blogger is sometimes described as a haven for splogs, with some estimates suggesting that three-quarters of the blogs there are just empty spam, WordPress.com keeps the tricksters out, with splogs estimated at just 1% of the total.Splogs are about making money (Cashing in on fake blogs, November 17 2005) by unethical means. Their creators design spam blogs to achieve high search engine rankings by filling them with questionable or stolen content that is added automatically. Set up a few thousand splogs, use Google's AdSense ad-serving programme to line the pages of the blog with paid-for click-through adverts, and the money rolls in while polluting search results for everyone else.Money-go-roundThere are probably millions of splogs, which are constantly being deleted by their hosting services. Technorati, which monitors 86m blogs, reckons between 3,000 and 7,000 splogs are created each day, peaking at 11,000 last December.The spam-fuelled money-go-round works like this. Advertisers pay Google, Google pays its AdSense publishers, and some of the latter either create splogs or pay professional sploggers to do so. When users click on AdSense links, it encourages sploggers to create more splogs, and that makes for increasingly useless search engine results.An anonymous American who calls himself "Splogfighter" (fightsplog.blogspot.com) has battled splogs on Blogger for two years by reporting them to Google. He has detected at least 1m splogs including, earlier this year, a splogger in charge of a record 265,000. His database contains details of 13m blogs; he has even created a visual method for watching when they're created (fightsplog.blogspot.com)."It used to be that a splog will have lots of links but almost all of them would be pointing to a web page on a single domain or to a single IP address. The newer splogs now contain a number of links that point to a large number of domains," says Splogfighter. "I think people are paying spammers to create these splogs so they can get traffic to their site, which ultimately translates to AdSense revenue."Not every splogger wants to become a Mr Big. Splogfighter sees many sploggers with small numbers of splogs carrying AdSense adverts or links that point at "made for AdSense" sites - which only exist to carry advertisements. His dilemma is whether his time is better spent finding and reporting a thousand sploggers with 10 splogs each, or 10 sploggers with 1,000 splogs each."Then there are so-called professional sploggers. They generate large blocks of splogs with links that point to websites that are not owned by one individual. The number of these professional sploggers is pretty small but they tend to keep generating splogs indefinitely," he says."Google is making money every time someone clicks on an ad shown on splogs or on MFA [made for AdSense] sites that are linked from splogs. I have reported hundreds of AdSense accounts of sploggers, but very few had their AdSense account taken away."Two months ago, Splogfighter saw the splog problem quadruple, although more recently, he says, Google has started to block and delete splogs in large numbers - leaving him optimistic but isolated. Google has contacted him only once, to offer lunch and a gift from the Google store."Google has been very much silent. There are times when I'm largely ignored. They do actually respond quickly to sploggers that create tens of thousands of splogs," says Splogfighter. "Google has more resources and engineering know-how to tackle this than me. This is more of a priority issue than a technical one."And what is Google doing? Over the past month, the Guardian has contacted Google several times trying to find out how many blogs there are on Blogger, and how many splogs and AdSense accounts are terminated for abuse each month. But our questions have gone unanswered."We've always had a policy that publishers are not to create web pages specifically for ads, and we are actively enforcing this," says Google. What about Splogfighter's campaign against splogs on Blogger? "We can't comment on the issues raised by this site [Splogfighter]."Why then does WordPress.com, which also offers free blog hosting, have so little trouble? In part, because Matt Mullenweg, WordPress's founder, makes cracking down on splogs one of his priorities."For WordPress.com, keeping splogs off the system is as much economics as anything else," says Mullenweg. "I like to think that the internet's perception of WordPress is better because we're vigilant against spammy content."Users of WordPress.com are encouraged to report splogs. Says Mullenweg: "We respond within hours to any splog report, 24 hours a day."There's another, perhaps essential, difference: WordPress.com doesn't allow AdSense ads. Might that be the reason why sploggers haven't prospered there?Mullenweg plans to allow users to add Google's AdSense to their blogs. But will this open the floodgates to sploggers? "Part of the WordPress brand is high-quality blogs, and we're not going to do anything to damage that. We have an extraordinary number of really high-quality blogs, and some of them could do quite well with AdSense," says Mullenweg. "We plan to make it a paid upgrade, at least $15 (&pound;7.45) a year per blog, and our policies on splogs or spammy content aren't going to change."Another perspective on splogs comes from Jonathan Bailey, who runsPlagiarism Today, a site about online plagiarism, content theft and copyright issues. Copying helps splogs multiply, thanks to programs that create Blogger-hosted splogs automatically and then fill them with relevant content stolen from the internet. While Bailey can advise how to limit this, finding the culprits is another matter."Chasing sploggers, generally, is not worth it. The software that these guys use can generate thousands of spam blogs an hour. Even the people who gave them the blog to use don't know who they really are," says Bailey.Advertisers should also consider where their adverts are being presented, says Bailey: "If they find out that their adverts are being displayed on these junk sites they're not going to want to spend as much. Google, for better or worse, has its hand in every aspect of spam blogging. It finances them through AdSense, hosts them through Blogger and directs traffic to them via the search engine."There is, Bailey believes, some pain ahead for Google: "These sites do make Google money and are not going to be done away with without both spending money to stop them, and losing at least some business."Without figures from Google, how much pain there might be is frustratingly unknown. Other than Splogfighter's monthly data, there are no reliable figures available that put Google's splog problem into perspective. And that's badly needed to help clear - or damn - the company's name.Spam-fighting techniques"It appears that Google's response boils down to 'trust us'. They, to date, have offered no real evidence of their efforts and, have kept all attempts to gather information at arm's length," says Bailey."This is in stark contrast to other search engines, like Microsoft, that have published papers on their spam-fighting techniques and seem to be taking pride in their efforts. Google could take a few simple, but harsh, steps and practically stop spam blogs on its Blogspot [Blogger] service; similar improvements could stop the abuse of AdSense."Splogfighter continues to keep a close eye on the numbers, noting a recent monthly fall in his splog detections from 575,000 to 275,000 with cautious optimism. While he believes Google is deleting a lot of splogs, he's now going to ramp up data collection and test some new identification methods.But as long as Google keeps quiet about the true extent of its splog problem, he could have a long battle ahead.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Logic3 makes iPod accessories galore, but this is its first foray into the exciting world of alarm clocks. What makes this one different from all the others on the market is the sound quality. It's got a subwoofer and 2.1 channel sound, which explains the speakers stretching around three sides of the alarm casing. Sadly, while being necessary, it does make for an uninspiring design, especially with the iPod docked uncomfortably on top. The LCD time screen backlighting can be adjusted, for those who find light a problem when sleeping. As expected, the &pound;69.99 unit will charge your iPod while docked. There is also an integrated rechargeable battery, which means that it continues to work in the event of a power cut. As well as letting you wake to your iPod, it can be set to an ordinary buzzer or FM/AM radio alarm, and it's possible to set two separate alarms, although they have to be for the same day.iworld.co.uk
Swedish anti-copyright website the Pirate Bay has been targeted by police before - most notably last year when it was shut down for three days. But this week it survived a different sort of challenge, after reports emerged suggesting that officials in Stockholm were considering whether to add it to the country's internet child abuse blacklist.Usually the Pirate Bay provokes controversy because it points to millions of pieces of copyrighted material online, with new films - such as Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, which opens in the UK tomorrow - often appearing on it within hours of release. This time, though, the police claimed that the site was pointing to images of abuse images, meaning that it might be blacklisted entirely - and in effect removed from public view.The accusation infuriated the Pirate Bay's founders. One of them, Peter Sunde, said on his blog that he had never seen such material on the site, and that it was an attempt to tarnish the site by association."The police have never contacted us in any aspect regarding child porn! And who would put it up there?" he wrote. "It will forever make our site associated with something as disgusting as child porn." (tinyurl.com/2qlzh6)Some users, however, said that they had seen what appeared to be links to child abuse material on the site - with the result that those links were quickly (and quietly) removed.The end result? The police said they would take it no further, and the Pirate Bay said it was the victim of a grudge. Whatever the truth, it seems that Sweden's piracy battle is on hold - until the next time.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Among its other changes, Gordon Brown's new government has made a clean sweep of ministers responsible for public sector information - the subject of Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign. For the past 15 months, we have urged government to make freely available the unrefined data that public bodies collect in the course of their duties (except where this would damage privacy or national security). We argue that the knowledge economy would generate enough new taxable income to offset the extra cost to the Treasury of doing this.In the Blair government, we saw welcome signs that ministers were beginning to sympathise with the case for free data. Following the Brown reshuffle, half a dozen new or moved ministers will have to get to grips with the issue. Here is our guide to the people holding the keys to Britain's digital crown jewels - and what challenges await them.Michael WillsAs minister of state in the Ministry of Justice, Wills, 55, is responsible for the National Archives and with it the Office of Public Sector Information (OPSI). The office runs the "click use" licensing scheme for public sector information and polices fair trade in data. As a former TV executive and DTI minister, Wills has a good understanding of the knowledge economy and new media.Challenges:OPSI lacks the resources and powers to do an effective job. The Treasury has already spurned calls for more.Stephen TimmsThe minister of state for competitiveness and information industries in the new Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform will have a key role in setting the rules under which trading funds such as the Meteorological Office and Ordnance Survey operate in the information market. Timms, 51, is one of the government's most IT-aware ministers; his previous stint as chief secretary to the Treasury gives him clout in matters of economic policy.Challenges:drafting terms of reference for an independent audit of the costs and benefits of trading funds; coordinating other government responses to a study by the Office of Fair Trading which suggested that anti-competitive practices are rife in the market for public sector information. As minister responsible for the Shareholder Executive, which ensures that nationalised industries are profitable, there may be conflicts in Timms's role.Derek TwiggAt the Ministry of Defence, Derek Twigg, 47, will oversee sponsorship of two important trading funds - the Meteorological Office and the UK Hydrographic Office.Challenges:a review later this year will decide whether the Hydrographic Office should remain as a trading fund or be fully privatised.Lord RookerAs minister of state in the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Lord Rooker will be responsible for handling the implementation of the most far-reaching international initiative to open up access to government data, the Inspire European directive. The 66-year-old veteran has wide experience across government but no track record in knowledge-economy issues.Challenges:transposing the Inspire directive into UK law in a way that will enable public bodies to exchange geographical and other environmental data freely, while protecting the interests of trading funds (a provision won by the UK government against the wishes of the European Parliament).Baroness AndrewsThe Department for Communities and Local Government oversees the government's largest and most controversial information business, Ordnance Survey. Lady Andrews (Kay Andrews), 64, is an experienced junior minister in the department and its predecessor, the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, where she had firsthand experience of the difficulties of negotiating licences across government for geographical information. As an academic and author on science and education policy, she is expected to take a keen interest in the re-uses of public sector information.Challenges:overseeing Ordnance Survey in its sometimes prickly relationship with other parts of government and the fast-growing geographical data business. Resolving a long-running row over access to postal address databases. Agreeing a new strategy for the use of geographical information in government.Ed MilibandThe 36-year-old minister for the Cabinet Office and Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster inherits from his predecessor Hilary Armstrong responsibility for coordinating the government's responses to the Power of Information, a call on the government to engage more with the culture of web 2.0. This includes giving more access to public sector information and reviewing the role of trading funds. The Cabinet Office is due to "take stock of progress" by the end of the year.Challenges:banging departmental heads together and making the case for free information in a tight public spending round.&middot;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Again and again we hear the suggestion that if only people would use their "real" names when commenting on blogs and sites such as the Guardian's, everything would be sweetness and light. Wouldn't it? New research suggests not, says psychology lecturer Dr Ros Dyer, who researched computer mediated communication for her PhD at Staffordshire University.In fact, contrary to expectations, her experiments demonstrated that students who were familiar with each other took more liberties on screen, not fewer. "There was four times as much flaming when they knew each other than when they didn't," Dyer says. There was also - dating sites take note - more flirting when people used their own names.At another college, Dyer set up a message board with the aim of creating an online version of student late-night coffee sessions putting the world to rights. But it had to be taken down because the flaming - and bullying - became intolerable. With names known, abuse flowed.Another study into online behaviour found that certain types of individual are attracted to the net precisely because it allows them to behave in a way they are less likely to offline. It is, therefore, somewhat self-selecting before you even hit a key: what you read may not reflect the writer's real-life self.One of the authors of this study, Dr Chris Fullwood, an internet psychology lecturer at the University of Wolverhampton, says: "Removing anonymity may have some small effect, but not a massive one. This is because a number of factors contribute towards what psychologists call online disinhibition. Removing one of them - the anonymity - and not removing any of the others means it will probably still occur as people remain invisible and so can disassociate their online from their offline persona." (Seeliebertonline.comfor more.) Professor John Suler of Rider University also explains the main causes of online flaming besides anonymity atenotalone.com.Dr Daniel Goleman, the author of the bestseller Emotional Intelligence, thinks the problems are caused by a lack of emotional and social intelligence. Last month, using the example of an email war between two engineers who knew each other, he wrote a paper about web rage and why it happens. In essence, as most of us already know, it's much easier to get mad with someone online.He says: "Flaming is a symptom of a larger malady - an epidemic failure of social restraint. The same syndrome seems at work in bloggers who take a perverse glee in attacks and threats (such as those recently against blogger Kathy Sierra). They see web rage as cool." (danielgoleman.info)Fullwood adds: "Some people deliberately create a different persona online, even if they use their real name, because it's like a big computer game to them."And so relieved of the norms that usually govern human interaction, if we feel like yelling abuse online, many of us will. We can poke people all we like on Facebook but until someone invents a computer that really delivers a punch, there are no immediate consequences if you simply can't resist telling someone to make love elsewhere.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Here are the links to previous Ask Jack columns, going back to July 2005. Up to July 12, there are multiple questions on a single page....July 2007July 12, 2007:Unfair use?;Upgrade for games;Upgrade for graphicsJuly 5, 2007: NTSC DVDJune 2007June 28, 2007: Leaving 98SEJune 21, 2007: Maximum RAMJune 14, 2007: Flash drivesJune 7, 2007: Oldie phoneIssues from July 2005 to May 2007 follow....May 2007May 31, 2007: Birdwatching webcamMay 24, 2007: PC choiceMay 17, 2007: Internet Explorer 7May 10, 2007: Energy-efficient notebooksMay 3, 2007: Dead PC?April 2007April 26, 2007: Works databaseApril 19, 2007: eBook readersApril 12, 2007: Future of HotmailApril 5, 2007: USB 1 or 2?March 2007March 29, 2007: Keeping Windows secureMarch 22, 2007: Naming namesMarch 15, 2007: Finding your own spaceMarch 8, 2007: Connecting with VistaMarch 1, 2007: HDTVFebruary 2007February 22, 2007: Vista or Mac?February 15, 2007: Billing attack?February 8, 2007: Monitor disposalFebruary 1, 2007: Early Vista?January 2007January 25, 2007: Consumer choiceJanuary 18, 2007: Broadband frustrationsJanuary 11, 2007: Adobe security holeJanuary 4, 2007: HomePlug connectionsDecember 2006December 21, 2006: Finding a reliable ISPDecember 14, 2006: Windows or Linux PCDecember 7, 2006: Buy now or wait for Vista?November 2006November 30, 2006: Notebook cleaningNovember 23, 2006: IE7 arrivesNovember 16, 2006: Which satellite?November 9, 2006: Small PCsNovember 2, 2006: Saving your dataOctober 2006October 26, 2006: Wi-Fi phoneOctober 19, 2006: Anti-virus choiceOctober 12, 2006: Badly returned spamsOctober 5, 2006: Xbox 360 or PS3?September 2006September 28, 2006: Mac touchSeptember 21, 2006: SpamCop blockedSeptember 14, 2006: Data cardsSeptember 7, 2006: Google privacyAugust 2006August 31, 2006: New notebookAugust 24, 2006: Easier readingAugust 17, 2006: Plane computingAugust 10, 2006: Still phishingAugust 3, 2006: IP and privacyJuly 2006July 27, 2006: WGA or not WGAJuly 20, 2006: Damn Small LinuxJuly 13, 2006: ePostal privacyJuly 6, 2006: Free your own dataJune 2006June 29, 2006: iPod failureJune 22, 2006: Windows Vista DRMJune 15, 2006: Music back-upJune 8, 2006: Loss of colourJune 1, 2006: Legally Windows?May 2006May 25, 2006: Hidden voicesMay 18, 2006: Help -- PC tuitionMay 11, 2006: ExpressCardsMay 4, 2006: Waiting for Vista?April 2006April 27, 2006: A Linux laptop?April 20, 2006: Adobe for Intel MacsApril 13, 2006: Speeding up a PCApril 6, 2006: Using C and D drivesMarch 2006March 30, 2006: Unreadable picturesMarch 23, 2006: Anonymous surfingMarch 16, 2006: Windows registry cleaningMarch 9, 2006: Removed from GoogleMarch 2, 2006: Silent miceFebruary 2006February 23, 2006: Your own domain nameFebruary 16, 2006: Quiet PCFebruary 9, 2006: Drive wipingFebruary 2, 2006: WiMax wireless broadbandJanuary 2006January 26, 2006: Email blacklists -- NTL actsJanuary 19, 2006: Are you Vista ready?January 12, 2006: Starting a Web siteJanuary 5, 2006: Forged and bounced e-mailDecember 2005December 22, 2005: Clean feedDecember 15, 2005: Micro hi-fiDecember 8, 2005: Wi-Fi your hi-fiDecember 1, 2005: Speed checkedNovember 2005November 24, 2005: The value of a megapixelNovember 17, 2005: Windows XP start-upNovember 10, 2005: Taken phishingNovember 3, 2005: Is it worth switching to a Mac?October 2005October 27, 2005: PC shoppingOctober 20, 2005: From cassette tapes to MP3October 13, 2005: Domain namesOctober 6, 2005: Backing upSeptember 2005September 29, 2005: Portable computersSeptember 22, 2005: Unsafe email,USB limitsSeptember 15, 2005: Plasma v LCD TVsSeptember 8, 2005: Move it, De-dupeSeptember 1, 2005: Green underlines on Web sitesAugust 2005August 25, 2005: Clear the airAugust 18, 2005: Kid-safe emailAugust 11, 2005: Text on railsAugust 4, 2005: Come togetherJuly 2005July 28, 2005: Email limitsJuly 21, 2005: WMA licence problemsJuly 14, 2005: Dell printer catchJuly 7, 2005: "Free" music downloads
Wii-jig board photo from Engadget.Engadget bloggedMicrosoft's E3 2007 keynote, which seemed to be mostly Peter Moore parading games due later this year, including Halo 3. There will also be a dark green Halo 3 Special Edition Xbox 360, and the (much less likely to break) Xbox 360 Elite version will ship in Europe on August 24.Otherwise there are now 7 million Xbox Live members, and they have spent $125 million on video downloads.Next up wasNintendo's E3 2007 keynotefeaturing Mario: Galaxy. Also promising a gun-like Wii Zapper, and a little steering wheel that will be bundled with Mario Kart Wii. A Wii Fit game will come with a "strange floor mat" -- not exactly DDR but it should hit the Wii's core audience*. There's also a "balance board":"It's very thin. So by standing on this board, it can measure your weight. And it also measures how your balance shifts while you're standing on the balance board. So we can also use this an interface for games that allows you to use your full body as input ... and of course it's wireless."* overweight middle-aged American women and children, apparently.Finally there'sSony's E3 2007 keynote. This kicks off with "the newest version of the PSP, which will be available in September. It's not too different, it still has UMD and the same screen, but ... It's 33% lighter, 19% slimmer, and the battery is much improved." There are a few PS3 games such as Wipeout HD, and Gran Turismo 5: Prologue will appear before the real thing. "NCSoft will be joining the PlayStation camp." The show ends with another Killzone trailer -- but presumably this one's not as fake as the last one.Not a great start to E3, then, but it might well make the Top 10 so far this century.
Will Steve Jobs buy an Xbox 360 to watch Disney movies? Maybe Microsoft could send him a free one, now it has signed a deal with Disney-ABC Domestic Television. This will "allow Xbox 360 owners to rent films on demand as they become available from Walt Disney Pictures, Touchstone Pictures, Miramax Films and Hollywood Pictures," reportsAP.There's apress releaseand anXbox.com web site.
EA has announced its E3 line-up. Not many new announcements to add to theMirror's Edge newsfrom yesterday. In fact, just one addition - The Sims 2: Castaway. This probably speaks for itself but just in case:"EA is excited to announce The Sims 2 Castaway, a brand new game from The Sims Label that challenges your Sims to survive and prosper on an uncharted tropical island. Available on the Wii, Nintendo DS, the PlayStation 2 computer entertainment system and the PSP system this Fall, the journey in The Sims 2 Castaway begins when your Sims are washed ashore and must overcome the forces of nature, craft tools for survival, and explore their surroundings to unravel the island's mysteries.They'll learn to build a life from scratch in an undiscovered paradise while unearthing clues that will lead them back to civilization. By discovering the many useful treasures and ancient mysteries hidden deep within a diverse jungle, your Sims will discover all the things a tropical island has to offer, including plants, fruits, wildlife and more! From tattered clothing to sunburned skin, your Sims will change as they take on the many challenges of tropical island life and learn to survive in style.This also sounds a little like the PSP version of Harvest Moon and joins MySims (Wii, Nintendo DS) and SimCity Societies (PC) in a full on Sim assault.The full EA press release ishere.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
NCSoft, creators of some pretty powerful online games like the mega Lineage series and the City of Villains/Heroes series, have announced that one of their more left-field gameswill be closingon 1 September. Auto Assault, a Massively Multiplayer Online Game about, well, cars, will be driving into the pit stop in the sky.With World of Warcraft still somehow dominating Western sales, EverQuest the previous front-runner and Ultima leading the pack before that, am I to believe that out-there mainstream online game concepts that do NOT feature Tolkien-esque themes are doomed?Please, say it ain't so.
It's difficult to argue that what we do in our down time doesn't affect us in one way or another. Most people would agree that hearts and minds can - and have - been swayed through clever use of mass media channels, from Communism to Capitalism to Beatlemania. I'm not suggesting that human beings are empty capsules to be filled, unthinkingly, with the fodder of those in control of the public voice; arguably, there's a synergistic effect between the audience and the medium: our desires and actions are reflected in the content we consume, and the content we consume reifies that which we are unclear about.So how does this all play out in games? The Daily Mail brigade would have us believe that there is a direct correlation between the violent content in games and violence off-screen (while not taking into account the other sources of violence present in our everyday lives). Behavioural relationships are extremely difficult to pin down, and such conclusions are over-simplistic. What about ourattitudesto things like violence, capitalism and conflict? How might games be shifting these enigmatic psychological properties of the great British public over time?Well, Gareth Crabtree's contacted the gamesblog to ask these questions of folks interested in this relationship. He writes,I am in the first year of a PhD at Manchester University which is centred around how the representation of conflict in video games has helped to shaped the British pleasure culture of war. I am using a questionnaire to gather information on the audience of this genre of games, as well as asking questions about the personal experience of play.You can contribute to this research by contacting him at Gareth.J.Crabtree+at+student.manchester.ac.uk. We'll be following his results with interest.
Just a couple of minor snippets Greg didn't mention - for those of you with restricted internet access. Microsoft has announced a new version of Bungie's classic FPS, Marathon - the spiritual predecessor of the Halo series. Marathon: Durandal will be a Live title featuring 27 single-player levels, 13 multiplayer levels and one survival mode. There's some screenshots available but they're so dark I didn't bother posting them. This was the first networked title I ever played and back in 1995, Future Publishing staff managed to bring the company's intranet to a virtual standstill playing this for hours on end.Classic sideways scroller, Golden Axe, has also been confirmed for Live duty, while Microsoft released some images of the previously announced Bomberman Live (above), complete with its ever-so-slightly isometric display, eight-player online and character customisation options. There's also to be a PC version of Viva Pinata - a sensible decision as the original was criminally under-appreciated on Xbox 360. The game may well find its casual audience here.Finally, Microsoft announced a deal with Disney for the studios movies to appear on the Xbox Live movie rental service - but only in the US currently. "Xbox 360 owners will be able to rent popular Disney films on demand as they become available, such as Bridge to Terabithia, Miramax Film's The Queen and Touchstone Pictures' Déjà Vu."
Chaos descended on Westminster last night, as the Guardian's technology team emerged triumphant at the second BT Technology quiz between politicians and the media.The whole concept was started after an article on our pages byRichard Sarson, documenting the technological ineptitude of parliamentarians: a challenge was duly issued and the media took on the MPs. The 2006 challenge saw the Guardian squeaked into second place by the team of MPJohn Robertson(here's whatthe Register had to say) but revenge was sweet as we took the title last night.Charles, Jack and I were ably assisted by Technology Guardian production editor Stuart O'Connor and blogs editor Kevin Anderson in what can only be described as an epic tussle, hosted by Stuff magazine/Gadget Show impresario Tom Dunmore.The competition was fierce - the team from the BBC were narrowly ahead for much of the evening - but things took a turn for the better in the final round: a musical showdown (read: game of SingStar) in which our captain Charles Arthur showcased his vocal talents.The highlight of the evening surely had to be when Charles, up against BBC Online's tech correspondent Darren Waters, hit the perfect high note in a rendition of David Bowie's Life On Mars. The screen proclaimed "cool!" but the audience knew it meant so much more, and rose to their feet to shower him with acclaim.Our winnings went to charity, and there's a nice trophy too. Photograph evidence to follow...
Microsoft's E3 conference may havelacked any genuine surprisesbut you can't knock the quality of titles shown. Mass Effect, Halo 3, Gotham 4, GTA IV etc - the 360 has a sparkling pre-Christmas lineup that is unlikely to be bettered by Sony or Nintendo (though you can't discount Mario Kart)There were some announcements. The European release of the 360 Elite - think standard 360 with 120gb HD, HDMI connection and black paint job - was confirmed for the 24th August. The price will be announced later, presumably after Sony Europe announces full details of the PS3 price cut. Elsewhere there was a commitment to launching the video service worldwide, but the focus was very much on the games. And in a belated realisation that gamers don't just want to shoot stuff in gritty urban environments Microsoft unveiled quiz title Scene It? - essentially Buzz 360 - and Viva Piñata: Party Animals, a Mario Party style collection of mini-games. Rock Band and Guitar Hero III - complete with the mighty Muse - complete a more varied lineup. Whether these will widen the 360's customer base - still predominately hardcore gamers - remains to be seen.Microsoft's impressive release list will increase the pressure on Sony to deliver when they present later in the week. A rumoured PSP redesign will help but Sony really needs to unveil some games that properly show what the PS3 is capable of.Nintendo's resurgence means their conference, which begins late afternoon UK time, will be more important - and thanks to tighter entry conditions, quieter - than ever. Will Mario Kart and Super Mario Galaxy finally add some depth to the Wii's thin release schedule?
The Nintendo DS platform is host to some of the most creative and left-field games since the heady days of bedroom Spectrum programming in the 1980s. The added benefit of multimedia technology, like sound controls and video inputs, means that the gamut of games that the Japanese software giant can release exceeds the expectations of even the most visionary home-coders.Take, for example, the latest announcement from Nintendo HQ:Face Training, Brain Training-like software for your visage. As Alice at Wonderland says,In a world where people seem to think it's okay to get cut and pulled and 'sculpted' into the shape they want (it's so weird!), here's a less bloody, visceral and dangerous alternative: facial exercising. Makes sense.Wiredexplains more fully:Otona No DS Kao Training, or Face Training, includes a camera that plugs into the Game Boy Advance slot on the Nintendo DS and videos your face as you play the game. The idea is what the Japanese call "facening," or facial exercises. By doing certain facial exercises, you can make your skin more elastic and have a prettier face, or so goes the theory.No release date yet for Europe of North America. Don't hold your breath waiting for one either. Unless, of course, it's part of the game.
TheE3 Media and Business Summitstarts tomorrow - hands up if you're excited![Pause as tumbleweed drifts by to the sound of a mad old hag cackling on a rocking chair]The drastically eviscerated gaming showcase is expecting just 3000 invite-only insiders to traipse through the doors of the Barker Hangar in Santa Monica, California, as well as several hotels in the vicinity. Participants will be there "to have personal meetings in hotel suites and meeting rooms with media, retailers, developer partners, and other key industry contacts," rather than to have their ears and eyes assaulted by 3000 stands determined to out do each other for sheer audiovisual cacophony.Of course, there will be a few announcements and some footage of anticiapted titles - go toE3expo.comto keep up with all that. Right now, for example, there are trailers of Speedball 2, Boogie and NiGHTS, which are all worth a look. But there's a feeling the likes of Sony and Microsoft aren't really taking this one seriously, preferring to concentrate on their own events. Also, you've got the likes of Tecmo vice president John Inadaproclaiming, "I don't have money to waste on an experimental project" and newish publisher Gamecock holding afuneral for E3.Also, as Rob Fahey at Gamesindustry.bizpoints out: "with its reduction in size this year, there's a strong sense that E3 has become altogether more provincial. The focus is very strongly on North America, with many overseas journalists facing difficulty in getting invited to the event."Anyway, if you want to try and get yourself excited, you may want to check out Rumorreporter.com's'random and brave E3 predications'for some interesting gossip and speculation. You'll also find a list of theTen Most Important Games at E3 2007at a site called Advanced Media Network.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Like "Dog bites man," Google buying yet another company barely raises an eyebrow beyond the Google-watching fraternity. Still, recent acquisitions includePostini(a snip at $625 million),GrandCentral,Zenter,FeedBurnerandPanoramio, as well asDoubleClick. That's not bad going for six weeks.
"The production phase of Assignment Zero has come to a close," saysAssignment Zero, and the publishing phase has started with the first five pieces in Wired.There'sAn intro from Jay Rosen(Can Crowds Create Fiction, Architecture and Photography?) and Anna Haynes saysOpen-Source Journalism: It's a Lot Tougher Than You Think
Mr. Reeling's assistants (the team who turned the South Bank into a playground duringHide and Seekin May) have contacted the gamesblog to alert us and our faithful and talented readers that they would like to invite you people to submit game ideas for this year'sCome Out &amp; Playfestival taking place in Amsterdam at the end of September. The event which "turned New York City into a playground for a weekend" by showcasing 25 games throughout the Big Apple over two days, wants to hear from European designers. From the email:All of the Hide and Seek crew are busy working on some new pervasive games to submit toCome Out and PlayAmsterdam. We're looking for new blood, right now, to work on game design ideas with us.We'll be playtesting those ideas later in the summer and we're definitely going to Amsterdam in September, so we'll keep you posted with playing opportunities in the near future.If you'd like to get involved on the game design front email us (mr_reelings_assistant+at+gideonreeling.co.uk) with a bit of info about yourself and what you're keen to do, and we'll add you to our design team - it's all terribly open source so the more the merrier.The deadline forsubmissionis15 July 2007. Sorry about the late notice!They also bring the good news thatHide and Seekwill return to the capital in October for the 2007London Games Festival.
In a remarkably prescient and candidinterview with The Wall Street Journal, EA's new chief executive, John 'Road to Damascus' Riccitiello, has spoken out against the industry's reliance on sequels and well-trodden genres. "We're boring people to death and making games that are harder and harder to play," he says, while suggesting that publishers need to explore new markets and experiment with fresh sales and distribution approaches.It's a later comment that will really interest critic's of EA's output: "For the most part, the industry has been rinse-and-repeat. There's been lots of product that looked like last year's product, that looked a lot like the year before." This approach does, of course, sound extremely similar to the annual updates churned out by EA Sports. The Wall Street Journal piece goes on to point out that EA income has been falling for the last three years. So maybe Pogo and Rock Band will be the new flag ships for the company.One thing's certain, if the boss of EA has noticed - and is critical of - the industry's timorous reliance on familiar brands, something really big is happening. Publishers like EA, Ubisoft and Eidos are all setting up dedicated casual divisions, perhaps recognising that games are not the digital lifestyle product that young people are most interested in anymore."[videogames are] at risk of being a little less interesting than Facebook and iPods and the next cool cellphone," says Riccitiello sagely. The question is, will he channel this righteous ire solely into EA's casual dept, or will he demand that EA Games and EA Sports take heed and cease all sequels and annual updates? Also, will pigs develop wings and scorch across the sky like jet planes?
Usability guru Jakob Nielsen doesn't have a blog. Instead he posts regular articles to Alertbox, a column on his UseIt site. The latest column --Write Articles, Not Blog Postings-- explains why.It's not for everyone, of course: blogs do have lots of valuable functions. But as usual, Nielsen is doing something different.
Some sites are reporting that Sony is cutting prices on the PlayStation 3, including ourGamesblog, but it's not yet clear how it's going to turn out. In the US, Sony is actually introducing a new 80GB model at the old $600 price, so the current 60GB machine drops $100 to make room. We'll need to see the final packages to know if it's just clearing shelves of slow-selling stock or is serious about establishing a new price point. If the bundles are the same, the extra $100 is terrible value for just 20GB of extra hard drive space.AsThe New York Times notes: "Even after cutting the price, Sony will still have the most expensive game console available. An Xbox 360 with a 120-gigabyte hard drive sells for $480, but less powerful versions sell for less."The big unknown is whether Xbox 360 sales are going to take a hit following "reports of widespread product failures," or whether Microsoft offering a 3 year warranty will renew buyer confidence. But it's clearly a set-back for Microsoft, and Sony might be able to take advantage.Of course, Microsoft also has more room to cut the price than Sony. But that might threaten its plan to turn Xbox into a profitable business, as Peter Moore says, "in fiscal year 08".Update: Michael Pachter, a Wedbush Morgan analyst, "expects the recently released Xbox 360 Elite to go from $479 to $399, the Premium model to see a drop from $399 to $349 and the Core system to be reduced from $299 to $249," reportsGamesIndustry.biz. "We do not believe that the company is prepared to allow Sony to erode its pricing advantage," he says.
Fancy looking inside one of the biggest science and engineering projects in the world? This week's instalment ofScience Weeklysees physicist extraordinaireBrian Coxand architectCharles Jencksgo behind the scenes at Cern - where the web was born - as the workers prepare to the Large Hadron Collider particle accelerator in Switzerland.Meanwhile Guardian science bodIan Samplereports from Europe's biggest fertility medicine conference in Lyon, with fertility expertSammy Leegiving us some insight behind the headlines.And we go on a musical vibe by welcoming back troubadour physicistJonny Berlinerwith the premiere of 'The Subatomic Particle Song', as well asNunatak, the British Antarctic Survey's band.Go to the podcast blogfor the full rundown, or just listen in byclicking here.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Perhaps not the biggest surprise ever but Sony'sPS3 price cuthas to be welcomed. UK details will be revealed later this week but anything less than the equivalent - around 50 quid - will be disappointing. And if they can get it to say 349.99 UKP then suddenly the PS3 will be in touching distance of mainstream consumer consciousness.The launch of an 80gb version - for $599 - in the US makes less sense though. Be honest - is it really the "lack" of hard drive space that is stopping you from getting a PS3? No, thought not. I'll be very surprised if the 80gb version comes to Europe this year and certainly not without some major content partnership announcements. But the price cut is good news - how low does it (realistically) have to go before you'll be getting your PS3?
Ever since I was a wee child, I've been waiting for the rise of the robots. You know, that moment when they take over the world, crushing all of humanity beneath their metallic feet and ordering fleshpots around in tinny tones.It's certainly been a long time coming, but the latest step on this path to droid domination arrived this morning when PC World, Britain's biggest megastore chain, said it will be opening a series of "Roboshops" - areas of the shop dedicated to robots. (The name sort of gives it away)Of course, being a mainstream chain, it's really more about expensive robotic toys than cutting edge research and development - initially the shop will sell things likeSpykeeand a home entertainment system inside anR2D2 shell. But alongside things like Robosapiens, it does indicate how the idea of robotic helpers are finally entering our lives.Keith Jones, the MD of PC World, says the company thinks this is where the future might lie. "We are convinced that robotics will play an increasingly important role in the field of consumer technology in the years ahead and the time is right for us to enter this developing market. The robot will soon become a mass-market phenomenon."Mass market robots would certainly be the most futuristic thing on the high street - but we've all seen the movies, and we know where this story ends. As such I'd just like to say, right here, right now, that I for one welcome our robotic overlords.
The first week ofthe Gamesblog's Text Adventure Adventure(working title) WikiGame project has not been without its technical issues. I apologise to everyone for my inability to read instructions by signing us up on a wiki platform which requires its own server. Listening to authority been a problem since grade school. Many many thanks to the person who moved us over to Media Wiki.For those who have just tuned in, the WikiGame project is a collaborative game development experiment in which we, as a collective, attempt to create a text adventure game from concept to conclusion. The game's wiki is hosted at theText Adventurepage (not the one previously established), and further details are available there.We already have a mighty list of people who have signed up to partake in the various streams -Storytellers,DesignersandCoders- but more are welcome. Do you have an idea that's been burning in your fingertips for some time? An itch to code something but don't have the outlet? Come on down! The coders are particularly active at the moment, with a dynamic discussion already underway.We Storytellers and Designers are also busy considering where to set the action and what should and shouldn't be included. Several of the entries on the lists have tickled me, including theStory Wants, "At some point, the player has to type 'Kneel before Zod'" and "Character death notices should be in the form of a haiku". Top suggestion as well in theStory Do Not Wantscategory, "No celebrity or fleeting cultural references - I'd like this story to last a bit longer than whatever is on the frontpage of the tabloids at present". Finally, an excellent suggestion for theStory Setting: "London Tube network - everyone has access to the map, easily mapped. Any other (Paris/New York) good too", tying in the plot of this game to potential ARG-like components (another suggestion).While the extremely clever Coders get on with deciding the nuts and bolts of the project, it's time the Storytellers got down to some creative writing. I propose that we establish a rough couple of paragraphs by Friday 13th July so the Designers can get to work on the nitty gritty details of what the coders will be working on. Head to thewikiif you'd like to have your say, or come along simply to check out the game's progress.Don't fret if you don't feel like you're qualified to take part. While there are several industry pros already on the job, there are newbies like me who are also along for the ride. The adventure is open to all!
Glenn-Douglas Haig wants $14,000 (&pound;7,000) for a prosthetic leg. Secilia U is looking for $85,000 (&pound;42,000) for a cochlear implant so she can hear her daughter. Kim McCann-Swanson is a new mother who has been diagnosed with cancer - she needs $20,000 (&pound;10,000) to cover medical bills and living expenses.In every respect, it is begging, but in a new way. Fundraising via the internet is being touted as the future of charity. Atrealitycharity.com, you can share your ailment online and see who feels sympathetic. The website's aim is simple - to help individuals looking for financial aid to hook up with people who can spare some money. It works best when it takes on the feel of a chain letter (the buzzword is "viral giving"): send a link to five friends and get them to do the same, and within a day there might be 500 people prepared to dig deep. It doesn't cost a penny for individuals to launch an appeal - the site is funded by the registered charities who pay for space on it.Not all appeals are successful: McCann-Swanson, a 30-year-old from Wisconsin, has more than met her target in just four weeks, but countless others - such as Sarah Jenkins from Chesham in Buckinghamshire, looking for $60,000 (&pound;30,000) to clear her student loans - have yet to raise a penny. Understandably, it's the people with the most heart-wrenching stories and, perhaps, the most convincing documentary proof of their financial woes, who fare best.RealityCharity, which has had 3m hits since April, has been described as "the eBay of giving", although cynics may consider it the Facebook of spongeing. "I grew up in a very philanthropically minded home," says Oxford-educated Alex Blass, president of the Baltimore-based company that runs the website: "My father is the biographer of Dr Stanley Milgram, who invented the 'six degrees of separation' theory, and having been to almost 40 countries and seeing many unmet needs, I thought I could apply the principles of social networking and six degrees to philanthropy and fundraising."
