It all began in the summer of 1995, when Larry Page and Sergey Brin met at Stanford University (Brin showed Page around the school). The two students founded Google - named after googol, the term for 1 followed by 100 zeros - a year later in a suburban garage. It was incorporated on September 7 1998 - which became Google's birthday.With millions using Google every day, it is regularly voted one of the world's top brands. Page and Brin have been described as the Thomas Edisons of the internet. But some worry that it has become a major threat to privacy.Google's tentacles are everywhere.It runs services for blogging, email, instant messaging, shopping and social networking. It also offers a suite of word processing, spreadsheet and other tools to rival Microsoft's products in the workplace, and is building a software platform for mobile phones that may challenge Apple's iPhone and others.This week Google launchedChrome, a new web browser, opening up another front in its battle with Microsoft.Google was also accused of selling out and reneging on its "Don't be evil" motto when it launched in China in 2005. The company modified the version of its search engine in China to exclude controversial topics such as the Tiananmen Square massacre or the Falun Gong movement, provoking a backlash in its core western markets.Itsfounders admitted last yearthat the decision to censor its search engine in China was bad for the company.Timeline1995&#183; Larry Page and Sergey Brin meet at Stanford University1996&#183; Now computer-science students, Page and Brin begin collaborating on a search engine called BackRub, named for its ability to analyse website backlinks for relevance&#183; The first version of Google is released on the Stanford University website in August1997:&#183; Google.com is registered1998&#183; An unincorporated Google Inc receives its first investment: $100,000 (£56,000) from Sun co-founder Andy Bechtolsheim&#183; Google sets up a workspace in a garage in Silicon Valley&#183;  Google files for incorporation in California, granted on September 7 - now celebrated as Google's birthday1999&#183; Google outgrows its garage office and moves to an office with eight employees&#183; The company gets $25m of venture capital and moves to Mountain View2000&#183; The first 10 language versions of Google.com are released: French, German, Italian, Swedish, Finnish, Spanish, Portuguese, Dutch, Norwegian and Danish&#183; Does a deal with Yahoo to become its default search provider&#183; Google becomes the world's largest search engine with the first billion-URL index2001&#183; In its first public acquisition Google buys Deja.com's Usenet Discussion Service, an archive of 500m discussions dating back to 1995&#183; Eric Schmidt becomes chairman, then chief executive&#183; Page and Brin are appointed presidents of products and technology, respectively2002&#183; Major partnership with AOL&#183; Google News launched, with 4,000 sources2003&#183; American Dialect Society members vote "google" the most useful word of the year for 2002&#183; Acquires Pyra Labs, the creators of Blogger2004&#183; Gmail launched&#183; Google goes public: IPO at $85 a share&#183; Partnerships announced with leading libraries and universities to digitally scan millions of books from their collections2005&#183; Google Maps and Google Earth launched, a satellite imagery-based mapping service, followed by Google Talk2006&#183; Google goes live in China&#183; Acquires video-sharing site YouTube2007&#183; Street View in Google Maps debuts in five US cities&#183; Acquires DoubleClick, an online advertising company2008&#183; New Yahoo partnership announced&#183; Real-time stock quotes go live on Google Finance for the first time&#183; Belgian newspapers push for up to €49m (£39.4m) in damages from Google for publishing and storing their content without paying or asking permission&#183; Surprise launch of new web browser Chrome in September
What's your favourite piece of technology?MyTomTomsatnav.How has it improved your life?I no longer have to telephone my wife and say: "I'm lost, please stay on the line and steer me to where I want to go." She's very good on directions and I'm hopeless, so I don't have to trouble her any more.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Last week, when I was taking my car for a service. I'd been to the garage many times, but I started to think about a remake of Thunderbirds when I had no idea where I was. So it was time to launch Thunderbird 6 – yes, it was TomTom to the rescue.What additional features would you add if you could?Software that I could have implanted into my brain which would enable me to find my way around without having to rely on that horrible little clever dick.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Yes. We will all have TomTom impolants in the brain, so take my tip – don't buy any TomTom shares!What one tip would you give to non-satnav users?Find a partner who knows their way around and has a telephone. Alternatively, buy a TomTomDo you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?A nerd. Out of the two, it just seems to be the one that sums me up.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?ARolls-Royce. When they changed the shape from a Silver Cloud, I got one of the first new models which was given to me as a present by Lew Grade, who was the man who backed all my shows. The car was absolutely wonderful, the only trouble was it was hopelessly unreliable,. Having said that, it was a very long time ago, and Rolls-Royces today are absolutely superb.Mac or PC?I'm PC all the way.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?I don't have an iPod. I'm also one of these people that don't have categories of music I like. If I like a piece of music, it might be Sinatra or classical. I like what I like, I have no particular swing to any sort of music. If I do play anything in my car [on CD] it would be Ravel's Bolero – that's great to drive along to.Will robots rule the world?Never. We'll destroy them before they get too big for their boots.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A new Rolls-Royce.Gerry Andersonis the creative legend behind the classic TV series Supercar, Thunderbirds, Captain Scarlett and the Mysterons, UFO, Joe 90 and Space 1999. His 1969 filmJourney to the Far Side of the Sun, aka Doppelgänger, is out on DVD on Monday
On which planet does this advert make any sense? (Answer that and you could be in line for a $300 million contract....)Maybe it's the first part of a series that culminates in a knockout advert for Windows 7 in 2010 -- possible, given its very leisurely pace. (At 90 seconds, it's clearly a net ad, not a TV ad.) But it obviouslyispart of a series, so I assume you're supposed to figure out what it means (if anything) and guess what's in the next one.As a one-off, it will probably go viral*, so millions of people will see it at no cost to Microsoft. But that's only half the job, unless there's a decent "payload" in the end. And so far, that's nowhere in sight....* Update 1: It's currently No 2 inToday's Top 20 Viral Videos.Update 2:TechCrunchhas published a memo to Microsoft staff explaining the campaign. Click below for more....Update 3: It turns out the best place to watch the Microsoft commercial is atWindows.com, where it's in nice sharp Silverlight widescreen. This also offers more videos, product info, downloads and a Buy button. There's also apress releasewith an explanation and marketing info.From: Bill Veghte Sent: Thursday, September 04, 2008 5:37 PM To: Microsoft - All Employees (QBDG) Subject: Telling the story of WindowsSince it first launched nearly 25 years ago, Windows has been one of the most successful products in the history of the high tech industry. As we set our sights on the next 25 years, it is essential that we deliver incredible offerings on a great platform. We must also tell the story of how Windows enables a billion people around the globe to do more with their lives today. We must inspire consumers with the promise of what Windows uniquely makes possible across the PC, phone and web.Telling our story means making significant investments to improve the way consumers experience Windows. To that end, we are focused on making improvements at practically every consumer touch point, from the moment they hear about the Windows brand in our advertising to how they learn more about Windows products online; from how they view Windows and try it at retail to how they use the entire range of Windows offerings - Windows Vista, Windows Mobile and Windows Live - across their whole life.Today, we are kicking off a highly visible advertising campaign. The first phase of this campaign is designed to engage consumers and spark a new conversation about Windows - a conversation that will evolve as the campaign progresses, but will always be marked by humor and humanity. The first in this series of television ads airs initially in the U.S., and it aims to re-ignite consumer excitement about the broader value of Windows. The first television spot aired on NBC during the opening game of the NFL season and will be seen throughout the evening on various primetime programs. Worldwide, you can view this first TV spot at http://msw.This first set of ads features Bill Gates and comedian Jerry Seinfeld. Think of these ads as an icebreaker to reintroduce Microsoft to viewers in a consumer context. Later this month, as the campaign moves into its next phase, we'll go much deeper in telling the Windows story and celebrating what it can do for consumers at work, at play and on-the-go. At that time, I'll be back to share more information about our plans to further strengthen the bond between consumers and Windows - one of the most amazing products, businesses and brands of all time, and, with the right tenacity, passion and agility from all of us, a story that has many great chapters to come.
It's finally here then. Spore, the creature-creation/strategy/god game, is released today.Reviewshave been positive and it looks like Will Wright, creator of The Sims, has another hit on his hands. Iargued yesterdaythat Spore is unlikely to match the sales success of The Sims but with over 3 million creations already on theSporepedia- and not all of themwalking genitalia- it's clear that Spore could be the PC hit of the year. That's assuming WoW expansion Wrath of the Lich King slips to 2009 of course. Anyway, what do you think of Spore so far then? Worthy of the hype? Shortlived toy? Too complex for a massmarket? The future of PC gaming?
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
This weekend, the latest version ofSpaceship!, the game developed by the readers of this blog, will make its debut atBarcamp Brighton. Released to the geeking masses of web and game developers and designers, we're looking forward to fun and feedback. We're also group-coding one of the rooms that hasn't been designed yet, so if you'll be around at the event, come down with your thinking caps on and a sense of adventure: therewillbe something playable at the end of an hour!To celebrate the leaps and bounds and strides we've made, we've developed a newOfficial Spaceship! Website, where you canplay the game, find out allaboutit, and learn how you canjoin in.The latest version features even more of the fast-paced wit and wisdom of the previous iteration; players can wander around the top deck and even head down into the lower realms. More puzzles have been implemented and more room have been integrated. Go the coders!Check out the fruits of your labours, and do let us know what you think: your feedback really is the petrol that keeps our inspiration machine pumping.If you happen to find a bug along your travels, head to theCasual Testerspage of the new site and tell us what went wrong!
Shares inSonyplunged today after the firm was forced to recall hundreds of thousands of Vaio laptop computers amid reports that some models have caught fire and injured their owners.Shares in the electronics giant fell more than 4% - their lowest level in almost three years - following the sudden recall of 438,000 PCs worldwide.The recall is a major embarrassment for Sony. In 2006it was forced to recall 10m lithium ion batteries, at a cost of ¥51bn (£272m), amid fears that they could overheat and catch fire.Sony said it would offer free repairs in the 48 countries, including the US and the UK, in which the potentially faulty model is on sale.A Sony source, who did not wish to be named, admitted that the firm had known about the problem since last August and could have acted more quickly."We fully recognise that there were problems with the speed of our response, but we are doing our best to address the problem and make sure it doesn't happen again," the source told the Guardian.Though Sony insisted that the problem would have a negligible effect on earnings, analysts said it could harm the firm's brand, just as its president, Sir Howard Stringer, isattempting to boost its flagging reputation for quality control."If these things pile up and reveal that Sony's structurally weak, then its brand value will definitely be hurt," Mitushige Akino of Ichiyoshi Investment Management told Reuters.Sony said Vaio laptops produced between May 2007 and July this year could contain faulty wiring near the machine's hinge that, in some cases, has caused them to short circuit and overheat.The revelation is a blow to Sony's laptop business, which executives hope will be worth ¥1 trillion by the end of the 2011 fiscal year.Sony said it was aware of 203 overheating cases - 83 of them in Japan - going back to August last year. A small number of Vaio owners had been minor burns, reports said.Despite the firm's reassurances Toshihiro Nikai, the economy, trade and industry minister, said Sony had been too slow to act. "It is not appropriate, given how big the issue is," he said.Analysts speculated that the recall could harm Sony's earnings. The firm's shares dropped 4.2% in Tokyo today to end at ¥3,880. Shares briefly dropped to ¥3,850, their lowest level since November 2005.
TH Daily has an interesting story,Chrome is a security nightmare. It turns out that Chrome indexes and stores your bank account and other personal financial information even on secure (https://) pages, though whether it's actually a "security nightmare" is another issue.Do the stuff you would normally do like look at your balances and gawk at your latest transactions and then open up a new tab in Chrome by clicking the "+" symbol. In the right-hand history search box, enter a few keywords and see what they get you. Surprised? I bet you are.The history search feature means you can find all your financial, medical and other secrets from the browser without going anywhere near the secure site. Or someone else can. If you have a PC where someone else can access it -- for example, in almost any office -- then it's a recipe for disaster. Since you'll never remember toalwaysuse the "porn mode" (InCognito), then the best answer may be to stay well away from anything password protected and personal.The Electronic Frontier Foundation has a different concern. It says, according to CNet's headline,We're concerned about Google's Omnibox. There's a privacy issue because anything you type in gets sent back to the Google mothership, and it's storing some of it. The ways to avoid that include (1) turn off auto-suggest; or (2) use a default search engine that isn't Google; or (3) use porn mode. Any one will do.Still, EFF staff technologist Peter Eckersley says: "We are genuinely really worried about the Omnibox thing. It's just one more piece of the complete puzzle of Google seeing everything that everyone is doing."According to the same CNet story:Simon Davies, Founder of Privacy International and a senior fellow with the Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC) also expressed concern over the Omnibox feature. "I'm astonished that these terms are sent to Google even without the return being hit," Davies said. "That is beyond anything that Google has ever contemplated before."Hmm, well, if Google has already stored every search you've made there, and it has all your email, and your calendar, and your docs, and your photos, and it knows where you are going and when and why, it may be a bit late to complain about things like that.....Meanwhile, over at the Google Operating System Blog (no connection with Google, or operating systems), Ionut Alex Chitu has posted 10Google Chrome Tips.One of them is to right-click on the page and select Inspect Element, then look at the resources used by the page. I didn't mention this before because I found it a mixture of the incomprehensible and the boring. Turns out you have to inspect, choose Resources, and thenreload the page. Now why didn't I think of that? Anyway, once you know, itisinteresting.Another tip is one I missed in my three-minute review but found -- like everybody else -- a minute later. You get the list of pages you have already visited byright-clicking the arrows.The 10th and last tip is that Google does have an open source version of Google Chrome called, simply,Chromium. It also has ablog. It's under a permissive BSD license so anyone who wants to take the code and exploit it for their own evil proprietary ends will be able to do so.It will be interesting to see how "the community" goes about dealing with Chrome's deficiencies, starting please with clones of NoScript and AdBlock, rapidly followed by some useful form of bookmarking.Runs faster, crashes faster: Sorry, I forgot to include the (mercifully short) story of the day: you can crash Chrome by typing :% in the address bar. I expect someone will figure out how to crash it remotely, if they haven't already done so....
That's certainly the thinking behind Microsoft's decision to drop the price of the basic Xbox machine to $199 in the States. Aaron Greenberg, director of product management for Xbox 360, is quoted as saying, "Over 75 percent of all console sales historically were sold below $200... We know that there's tens of millions of PS2 owners who bought their systems when (the PS2) hit $199."Sure, Aaron, but then PS2 wasn't completing with Wii - a brilliant machine designed specifically for an immense untapped market of casual users; it was competing with Dreamcast - a cult machine designed for people who wanted to play really good arcade conversions. And Chu Chu Rocket.However, add theupdated UI, themusic games, the Netflix deal, and theavatar system, and you've got a compelling family entertainment solution for half the price of a PS3.Or you've got a cheapo, HD-less version of a hardcore piece of kit that'll just confuse non-gamers looking for a Wii Sports clone. Wow, price cuts are confusing.
Wippit, the pioneering (pre-iPod) British music download service, is being laid to rest as American-owned services take over. The site toldDistorted-Loop.com:"Wippit has closed. After eight years of pushing the digital boundaries, Wippit can no longer compete in the current market climate. Thank you to everyone that has supported us over the years and apologies to those that will miss us."Wippit's founder and former CEO, Paul Myers, left last year.In commenting on the closure, Wayne Rosso, ex-CEO of Grokster and OptiSoft, blames the labels.
To celebrate the release ofViva Piñata: Trouble in Paradise, we've teamed up with uber Brit developers Rare to give you the opportunity to get into the game. Actuallyinit, folks. How? Well, let me tell you..The sim has a particularly clever special feature: exclusive, official Viva Piñata cards can be downloaded from the 'net and waved in front of the Xbox Live Vision Camera to, "affect the weather, the time, garden items, piñatas, you can do just about anything," according to Rare's Ryan Stevenson.Now, you can develop your own, and that's quite nice. But how about having onespecially developed by Rareforyou? Kinda like the one developed for me, above (note the hair and the tiara)? Oh yes.All you have to do is pick a Piñata fromthis lineup(click 'Select the item in the Piñata Vision Card', come up with a theme for his/her costume and provide a unique, creative and appropriately Piñata-y name. That's it. Easy peasy.Send in your entries to gamesblog +at+ gmail +dot+ com by Monday 8 September and you shall be rewarded with your own,exclusive Viva Pinata cardand asigned copy of the game.Go go go!We'll throw in a signed copy of the game
It's rare these days that a PC release takes centre stage butSporeis clearly the game of the week. The god/creature/RTS/space sim created by Sims designer Will Wright is released tomorrow and isreviewed today. The game gets a 5 star review - "the whole experience feels thoroughly fresh and innovative, and you will want to replay it several times". I mucked around with the creature creator download that was released over the summer and have just started playing the full game. So far, so good, but will Spore have the longevity of The Sims? I can't see it. However friendly the interface and however fun the creature creation process is Spore still feels more like a "gamers" game - space, combat, strategy - than The Sims ever did.Theother reviewis Braid, the fantastic platform/puzzle game for the Xbox 360. Highly recommended to any 360 owner looking for something a little different.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Gizmodo hasled the wayon reporting Dell's subnotebook/mini-note/netbook, and now it hasfull details. As expected, it features a 1.6GHz Intel Atom (Diamondville) processor, a 1024 x 600 8.9 inch LED screen and solid state drive (4, 8 or 16GB). It says: "Only the Windows XP version is available now for $399, in black or white -- the $349 Ubuntu flavor, along with the rest of the six-color rainbow are a few weeks away."Dell says the Ubuntu 8.04 version will have a "custom Dell interface (coming soon)".Dimensions &amp; WeightWidth: 9.13" (232mm) Height: 1.07" (27.2mm) front / 1.25" (31.7mm) back Depth: 6.77" (172mm)TheUK versionis black only, and Windows XP only, so far, and costs "from £299" including VAT and delivery.
The launch of Google Chrome has gone completely unnoticed, hasn't it? What's that you say? Blanket coverage of a barely-out-of-beta browser? Oh. Just as much attention (it seemed) was paid to its end-user licence agreement (EULA), which in its first incarnation said (in part 11.1):11.1 You retain copyright and any other rights that you already hold in Content that you submit, post or display on or through the Services. By submitting, posting or displaying the content, you give Google a perpetual, irrevocable, worldwide, royalty-free and non-exclusive licence to reproduce, adapt, modify, translate, publish, publicly perform, publicly display and distribute any Content that you submit, post or display on or through the Services. This licence is for the sole purpose of enabling Google to display, distribute and promote the Services and may be revoked for certain Services as defined in the Additional Terms of those Services.and as the cover-all get-out11.4 You confirm and warrant to Google that you have all the rights, power and authority necessary to grant the above licence.Wait, though, that couldn't be right surely? I write an email in a web browser interface (in Chrome) and what I write is Google's? Or a Google Docs document?Matt Cutts of the Google search teammoved quickly to deny itwith a blog post yesterday:Q: Dude, this anonymous commenter said that Google claims that they own everything you touch when you run Chrome! Should I be worried?A:No, of course not. I debunked that misconception last night in a Mashable comment and this morning in a ReadWriteWeb comment. Google does not want to claim the rights to everything you surf or do in Chrome, just like we didn't want it thetime beforewith Google Docs. :) I'm sure that other Googlers will clarify that point more officially. It is good that people pore through the license and ask these questions though, because if something looks worrisome then we can use that opportunity to make it more clear.But even so it drew afair-use cartoon responsefrom Broadstuff (that's an extract at the top of the post).Now Google has altered the EULA:11.1 You retain copyright and any other rights that you already hold in Content that you submit, post or display on or through the Services.And 11.4 has gone - along with 11.2 and 11.3. (We never liked them anyway.)Cuttsquickly re-blogged: Rebecca Ward, senior product counsel (ie top lawyer) for Google Chrome told him:"In order to keep things simple for our users, we try to use the same set of legal terms (our Universal Terms of Service) for many of our products. Sometimes, as in the case of Google Chrome, this means that the legal terms for a specific product may include terms that don't apply well to the use of that product. We are working quickly to remove language from Section 11 of the current Google Chrome terms of service. This change will apply retroactively to all users who have downloaded Google Chrome."So that's sorted then. Hell, does this meanpeople read EULAs? We still want to see if they can be proved in court -Apple vs Psystarwould have been a good opportunity, but the fruity one seems not to want to play - I don't think the EULA is part of the case.
Many moons ago, we covered an event in which industry analyst Sean Dromgoole lamented the lack ofGaming Stars- developers who achieve a status equal to their virtual characters. I'd argue that there are a few around the world whose legends have spanned the decades of gaming history (Will Wright, Hideo Kojima, Shigeru Miyamoto), some who've fallen off the radar (Jon Romero, John Carmack, Lorne Lanning) and some who are making persistent motions towards the big time in the next generation (Greg Costikyan,CliffyB,American McGee).British developers have been well-represented in the past, making waves around the world for their unique styles and talents, but the pool of next generation gaming entrepreneurs seems to be lacking a certain British lustre. Perhaps it's because the UK games industry is, "owned by larger publishers and their studioheads aren't high profile businessmen," says our own Keef.Who are the modern day equivalents ofBritishgames industry, bedroom-coding superstars Peter Molyneux, David Braben, Jez San, Ian Livingstone, Charles Cecil? Who would be the up-and-coming Darlings, Stampers or Olivers? Whose names adorn the new games you've got on pre-order?I've got a a couple of suggestions of my own to start us off, so do keep reading, but I want to know which next generationBritishgame development legends you're keeping your eyes on...Sam Houser, RockstarSam Houser is co-founder of Rockstar Games, based in Edinburgh, and is responsible for taking the Grand Theft Auto franchise into the 3D era - a move that arguably made the game the mainstream phenomenon it is today. An enfant terrible, theWSJdescribed him as "A secretive, demanding workaholic, he also has a temperament and a budget befitting a Hollywood mogul."Paulina Bozek, SCEEThe oft-celebrated, multi-award winning Paulina Bozek has been the Game Director on Sony Computer Entertainment Europe's Singstar series since its inception. With the firstInteractive BAFTA for New Talentunder her belt and as one of the international games industry's 100 most influential women, Bozek is clearly one to watch.Other suggestions:David Amor and Andrew Eades(Relentless) - for their tireless pursuit of the mainstream in Buzz!, and of good working practicesThe team atMedia Molecule- for having the courage to develop new gaming paradigms, like Little Big Planet, by integrating the lessons learned in other digital industriesAlex Ward- for heading up the team that's produced the consistently exciting Burnout seriesWhat about the British indie greats? The mobile games giants? PC kings? Any of the others we might have missed?
I am a small, private donor to a developing world charity helping a village with no electricity. So far I have been able to give them a clockwork radio and torch. Are there any cheap computers designed for this market?Chris BergThe most widely publicised device is the MIT-inspired XO-1 laptop, which has been developed under the One Laptop Per Child (OLPC) project. You can donate a laptop for $200, but you can't direct it to a particular village (laptopgiving.org). Alternatively, have a look at UK-basedAleutia. This company has developed the low-power E2 Mini Computer (£199), which can be powered by a foldable solar panel, and is suitable for use in Africa. The project started after Mike Rosenberg, the founder, set up a cybercafe in Takoradi, Ghana, to work with street children. The site's wiki says: "We package the E2 with low-power LCDs, folding solar panels, and rugged batteries to form a 3kg, $900 kit that can be dispatched anywhere and set up in minutes, and is used by aid workers in the field." (wiki.aleutia.com).TheEthical Superstoremay suggest some cheaper non-computer ideas.
I have accidentally deleted some photos (grandchildren, special events etc) that I thought were backed up on my slave drive. I used Active File Recovery to undelete them, but I cannot open them.Irfanviewsays "cannot display header".TonyTry usingPhotoRec, which is designed for "digital picture and file recovery": it's not guaranteed to work but at least it's free.Image Recallmay be even better: it costs £24.99, but there's a demo version. Programs that will try to reconstruct damaged image files includePix RecoveryandEasyRecovery Pro.
I'm seeing much more spam with zip attachments. The messages are carefully crafted to induce any busy office worker to click on them without thinking, and often seem to be targeted at individuals within the company. I'm not about to click on one of these, but if I did, what would happen?Roger WilsonThis is a common way of distributing botnet-controlled Trojan files, such as the ZBot banking Trojan, ideally a variant known asPrg. The basic idea is to capture and simulate all the keystrokes used to access your (preferably commercial) bank account to perform a fraudulent money transfer that is almost indistinguishable from the real thing. ZBot can also attempt to disable your firewall, steal credit card numbers, take snapshots of your screen and download extra components as required. Anti-virus software should block it, including online scanners such asKaspersky. However, anyone who finds it would also need to change their banking and other passwords.
In the film Sleepless in Seattle, an onscreen alert box popped up every time a new email was received by one of the characters. I use Hotmail, Gmail and the Microsoft Vista successor to Outlook Express, but none of them seems to offer this convenience. Why not?Michael McCarthyIt's one of those things that sounds like a good idea but can easily become really annoying. Still, many, if not most email programs have some form of alert, including Windows Live Mail, and you can set a sound for New Mail Notification in the Control Panel's Sounds and Audio Devices applet. If you have Windows Live Messenger, you can get email alerts that, if clicked, will launch your Windows Live Mail program. For Gmail, you can use theGmail Notifier- still in beta - but if you install the Google Talk client, you will get email alerts automatically.There must be dozens of email alert programs and add-ons, many of them free. You can browse a selectionhere. Otherwise, Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks starred in both Sleepless in Seattle and You've Got Mail, and I have not seen either.
Displaying more inventiveness than pretty much anything else released this summer, Braid is a revelation. On the surface this is a Mario-style platformer - think jumps, pipes, spikes and cute enemies - but Braid is basically a puzzle game. This is an infuriating/exhilarating brain-teaser that asks you to both navigate the world and find the goodies within. The use of the time is the key. Pressing a button allows you to rewind your previous moves - always handy when you die. But the real use of time is allowing you to manipulate the game world. Some items are immune to your time fiddling, allowing the designer to set up some fiendish puzzles. It looks good, too. The beautiful backdrops and classical music are a world away from the gaming norm. Longevity is an issue, especially if you succumb to online playing guides. But by being both highly original and a pleasing pointer to how smaller download games can offer much-needed originality, Braid is a real treat.
I &amp;heart; your YouTube video!You hadn't heard that YouTube started in 1985"? Oh, yes, it did - you could send in your video in VHS or Betamax, and the nice lady would tell you what comments people had mailed in. Hilarious.Destination: car parkThis video could also be called "When rockets go bad". This one did, in a dramatic fashion, blowing up its paylod - and melting parts of vehicles in the car park. Does your insurance cover that?Coffee to go, with headlinesBored with your regular latte? This uses caramel "ink" to draw on your coffee. Which is going to be cold, as it takes two minutes to print the design.Got a favourite technology or games video? Tell us in the comments!
David Campbell and his family were asleep in their farmhouse in Northern Ireland when the 16-foot blade from the wind turbine crashed through the roof of his home one windy night in January last year. "It was like a bomb hitting the roof," he told the Belfast Telegraph. "It shattered the tiles and the blade disintegrated itself."Campbell was not the only person to see the direct effects of a turbine failure. Just over a year later, in February, a 200ft Vestas wind turbine near the Danish city of &Aring;rhus disintegrated spectacularly in high winds when a blade came loose and smashed into the central tower, causing the whole structure to collapse. The incident was captured on video camera and footage has been viewed thousands of times onYouTube.Just two days later a turbine close to the town of Sidinge, in Denmark, sent a blade flying more than 300ft before it hit the ground. Keld Boye, a farmer whose land is near the structure, told Danish television: "I drive my tractor and my wife rides horses out there. Just think if we'd been out there when it happened."After Denmark's climate minister demanded an investigation, authorities found the blade loss was caused by a lack of maintenance: regular checks on bolts in the turbine had been neglected. The Danish government announced mandatory service checks for every one of the 5,000 wind turbines in the country.Cracking upTurbines in Britain - there are 2,000, almost all of which are onshore - aren't immune from failure. A 200ft turbine at a wind farm in Kintyre collapsed last November in a 50mph wind. Following that, 26 wind turbines across Scotland were shut down as a precautionary measure while the broken structure was examined. Then the following month in Cumbria, a 100ft steel turbine crashed to the ground.Six months later, in June, as concerns over the incidents last year were receding, a blade cracked away from a 190ft turbine on a Sheffield University research park. Police evacuated the area while engineers allowed the 30ft blade to fall to the ground. The turbine was made by WES, a Dutch company. Earlier that month, the British government had published its renewable energy strategy - with plans to build around 4,000 new onshore wind turbines.The turbines that failed in Cumbria and Scotland were built by Vestas of Denmark, the industry's leading name, which has installed 35,000 turbines globally. The Health and Safety Executive (HSE) is expected to shortly publish the results of its investigation into the collapses. Vestas said that the collapses were isolated incidents that did not appear to reflect any inherent construction problems.But there is no clear safety standard for the strength of turbines, or their blades. We asked the HSE what legal requirements it has for turbines' strength, or their proximity to homes. It suggested we ask the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform ... which said it was probably an HSE issue.So what's the risk of turbine failure? Mike Graham, professor of aerodynamics at Imperial College, says a modern turbine typically spins at 25rpm, which translates to a few million times a year. "Turbines have to face a lot of force," Graham says. "They are equivalent to the lift forces faced by aircraft in takeoff, and some blades are of comparable size now to the wing of a Boeing 747."Unlike aircraft, however, wind turbines operate in "the lower part of the Earth's atmosphere, where it is very turbulent and wind is more interrupted. Repetitive loading of forces causes cracks. But the industry is well aware of this." Engineers calculate the forces and add a safety margin, which is then built into the design.But crucially, manufacturers do not disclose how close to tolerance they make their products, according to Professor Leon Freris, a consultant who is also a member of the board of Ascot Renewco, an insurance company which underwrites policies for turbines. "The most critical components on a wind turbine in terms of fatigue loading are the blades and the gearbox," Freris says. "The majority of blades at present are made of glass-reinforced plastic." They are made to last 20 years, but accelerated fatigue tests, and two years of testing, are standard before new designs are included in products.Errors can be made, though. Earlier this year, Suzlon Energy had to repair or replace almost its entire stock of 1,251 turbine blades, after many  developed cracks. The refit is reckoned to have cost the company $25m (&pound;14m).Graham says most wind turbines require gearboxes to enable the slowly turning blades to power fast-running generators: "It's one of the major problem areas. Gearboxes are big heavy things based at the top of a tower and they are prone to failure. There is a lot of unsteady loading because they operate in wind."Blown outIn Germany - which, with 20,000, has the most wind turbines of any country - Der Spiegel reported last summer on a host of incidents in the previous year. They included one 230ft structure folding in half, two turbines burning down and another two turbines losing blades. Insurers expressed concerns about construction and maintenance, culminating in a report released last year by the German Insurance Association (GIA). It claimed many insufficiently strong turbines were being produced, and that faulty gearboxes and blades were having to be replaced with alarming frequency.The GIA says insurers in the country now see the wind industry as risky: "Wind turbines are exposed to a high risk - storm, lightning, fire and ice. Also because of the extreme strain on the materials, there are often high damages. The insurance industry demands more time for the development and tests of new constructions, and higher standards for maintenance and repairs."Warren Diogo, an underwriter for Ascot Renewco, believes the failed turbine incidents in the UK have been "insignificant from an insurance perspective due to their remoteness and relatively benign consequences". But he adds: "Should these occurrences escalate, causing more severe damage or injury, insurers are likely to more closely scrutinise them." Stuart Young, chairman of the Caithness Windfarm Information Forum, which opposes wind farms in north-east Scotland, says: "They pose unnecessary risks to the public."But Charles Anglin of the British Wind Energy Association says: "In any field of development there are going to be health and safety issues. If there are issues the industry will learn from them. Any piece of equipment can fail. But we have some of the best industry safety records in the world. The UK incidents were due to very particular circumstances. The turbine in Cumbria was 20 years old."He adds: "If the implication is that there has been some reduction in standards because of an increase in numbers, that's wholly unproved and that's not something we would tolerate as an industry. Manufacturers expect extremely high standards of safety. If you look at what happened in Denmark, there was monitoring in the equipment so they were able to clear the area and it was several hours before breakage. There was no danger."Vestas, the Danish manufacturer, stresses that its turbines comply with international standards. And standards of construction are not falling, say manufacturers, despite a backlog of orders thought to be worth more than $3bn. Alfons Benzinger of Siemens says: "We do not see this as being correct and an extremely low number of accidents worldwide support this. Safety has been and will always have the highest priority."Meanwhile, the great UK wind energy gold rush continues. Several schools across the country have submitted plans for smaller urban wind turbines of between 30ft and 80ft tall, following calls in March by Lord Turner, in his role as the government's climate change tsar, for turbines to be built next to motorways and outside every school.Bradford Council in West Yorkshire recently received a planning application for the construction of a 400ft turbine about 300ft from a residential area. Jo Tremere, who lives within a few hundred feet of the proposed site in the suburb of Tong, has campaigned against it. She says: "We all know that clean energy is needed. But residents around here are really worried. The turbine they are proposing will be bigger than the Statue of Liberty. These things can be dangerous even if they are away from areas of housing. But if a turbine like this collapsed or snapped a blade in a built-up area, then people could die."
It's having a busy time, making waves that have been felt all around the mobile and web world — especially the latter.First up, Android — a software stack for mobile devices that includes an operating system, middleware and key applications. That's not our description, but Google's. We'd describe Android as Google's attempt to give Linux a pretty face before putting it on to mobile phones as part of the company's ongoing endeavour to conquer the world, perhaps as part of the Doctor Who Christmas special plotline.Google's dastardly plan began in January, when it launched the Android Developer Challenge. This encouraged geeks to devise applications for Android in the hope of winning some cash. Some serious cash: a total of $10m (&pound;5.6m) in prize money was offered. Google gave 50 developer teams $25,000 each just to open their netbooks. Those who made the most "innovative apps" would win much, much more.The geeks got to work and, eight months on,the resultsare just in: 10 entries each bagged a top prize of $275,000, and 10 more grabbed equal shares of $1m. Where did the remaining millions go? This moolah's been set aside for part two of the challenge, scheduled to begin when the first Android handsets go on sale - which also happens to be about now.What innovative ideas did all this money reward? $275,000 went to CompareEverywhere, a price-comparison service that uses snapshots of product barcodes to look up the most competitive deals online. Another $275,000 went to GoCart, a price-comparison service that uses snapshots of product barcodes to look up the most competitive deals online. Fortunately, most of the remaining 48 finalists innovated beyond barcode-scanning.Meanwhile, Google has been doing some "innovating" of its own: it's invented a web browser.Google Chrome, which was released in beta yesterday, is pitched as a reinvention of the browser. For our money, though, Google's real innovation was to turn a press release into a comic book that supposedly slipped out early. A slip-up that's garnered Google plenty of press for Chrome, naturally.So what is Chrome? Check out thecartoon press release, but if you're still lacking time, Google says that Chrome bolsters stability by treating websites not as websites but applications, supposedly ensuring that one sickly site won't cause every other one in your browser to keel over.It's impossible to see the arrival of a browser from Google as anything but a push into the last internet space that it doesn't yet have a foot in - and hence as an elbow in the ribs to Microsoft, which is releasing Internet Explorer 8, as well as Firefox and Mozilla. Existing browsers date back to the 1990s, it says - a subtle dig. Does the future have a chrome finish?
I've spent the past fortnight thinking hard about sex. Not the frivolous, wanton fantasies that occasionally flit into your head when sitting on a train or staring dully out the window, but the messy, complex and occasionally harrowing world of internet sex. It's become somewhat of an obsession, but I assure you that it's all above board.I blame academia. Having set up a rather nice, rather innocent research question for my social psychology PhD, somehow during the writing it's become a curtain-twitching snoop into the lascivious, under-the-digital-bedsheets activities of 70.5% of the 734 Residents in my Second Life sample who report that they get up to no good. Cor, and do they get up to a lot of mischief. Before you start shaking your fist and crying wolf, everything I've (accidentally) observed or heard about has been between consenting adults. It may occasionally involve a mild element of discomfort, some furry ears or excessive use of the third person, but anything I've ever met in the virtual world has all been within the legal bounds of most international treaties.The literature review has been particularly amusing; I now have a library of cybersex articles and books, dutifully underlined and highlighted, stacked on my desk. It turns out that people who use Second Life are a randy bunch. Most online sex estimates place active online sexual activity around the 2% mark (versus passive, like looking at pictures and videos), whereas the vast majority of the people I surveyed between April and December 2006 have had at least one sexual encounter in the virtual world. Brits are a particularly active bunch which, depending on your views on online pleasure, is either a great thing for international relations or a sad state of affairs in the bedrooms of Blighty. Word of mouth has it that World of Warcraft also has its private nooks and crannies for inter-species intercourse. So much for Azeroth being the "new golf", as internet commentator Joi Ito famously put it; it's the new Valhalla by those accounts.Sex in virtual worlds and sexual fantasies involving computer game characters has always passed me by. I've never flirted with the thought of getting off on textual fornication, nor have I ever really understood the appeal of Lara Croft in her knickers or her raft of real-life bendy model counterparts. But to each his (or her) own, because there's plenty for everyone on the internet, whatever your pleasure.It wasn't meant to be like this, but at the moment I'm happy for the distraction. I'll get back to the meat of the thesis later. For now, I'm off to explore the darkest recesses of online depravity. Sorry, Dad, you're not going to get to read this one.
Blue sky thinkingThe Department of Children, Schools and Families haslaunched a websiteto enable people "to share their aspirations for the future of life and learning" by writing messages on flyable virtual paper planes.Power walkingThe US companyM2E Poweris developing technology that charges a mobile phone by using the kinetic energy that is generated as you move around.Joined-up radioPure'sEvoke Flow radiowill combine DAB and Wi-Fi radio with FM and an internet portal to provide "the first truly connected radio".Europe's most onlineAccording toComScore research, the Netherlands has Europe's highest internet penetration (82% for those aged 15+) but British users spent most time online: 28.5 hours per user per month, it says.Treo goes ProExpansys is taking pre-orders for thePalm Treo Procamera phone with qwerty keyboard (&pound;399.99) running Windows Mobile 6.1.Women in gamesThe fifth annualWomen in Gamesconference is being held at Warwick University on September 10-12.The art of the PCDell has launched someArt Edition versionsof its Studio 15 and 17 notebooks featuring work by "urban artist" Mike Ming.
Chucking out your inboxI sometimes wonder if reports that talk about people's compulsion to read and respond to email is produced by people with some interest in promoting email itself (Breaking the email compulsion, August 28). In my experience, it is true that many do respond to their work emails. People's personal email accounts are a very different matter. I sometimes wonder if most people look at their personal email accounts from one week to the next, judging by the lack of response. Sending someone a text - or, if online, an instant message - does often bring results. However, these are quite intrusive forms of communication so the response may not always be what you would want.Keith Flett,LondonI would like my email to be an alerting mechanism. I want my email to alert me when a colleague has posted a question about a particular project in our team site, when my sister posts a message for me on Facebook, when someone posts a comment in response to one of my blogposts.tfpl.typepad.com/tfplThat's right - email addiction is just like gambling addiction. That explains a lot.stusviews.vox.comI wonder if we will ever be in a position to do away with email?markwatmough.co.uk/blogToo hard for humansThe problem lies in usability v vulnerability (Are you a man or a mouse?, August 28). You want to make it as easy as possible for users while making it as hard as possible for spambots. Captchas were never easy for users, and apparently now they're easy for bots. Group sourcing filtering isn't necessarily the answer either. Now what? That is indeed the question.ma.ttEven when you can distinguish those shapes that are meant to be characters from the deliberately inserted wavy lines, you face something like "oo9I0g". There is no way to reliably distinguish between 9 and g, 0 and O, 1 and l and I. So you type in zero zero nine one zero g, on the offchance. It rejects you. You don't get another shot at the ambiguous letters. Oh no. A fresh bleeding captcha. This time you find you have to choose between identifying a letter as either a very thin letter j or the letter i with a slight curve at the bottom. Failed.whydontyou.org.ukI rely on a simpler test to determine if someone is a human or not, mainly because it's not as annoying as a Captcha, and it prevents a lot of spam comments from making it through. It's easy to add a basic question to a form which must be answered correctly. Questions could be as simple as, what colour is an orange?geekamongus.comAlphabet spamSo change your name to zzzz.zzzz.grovesmedia.wordpress.comToo personalIt sounds like a progression of such dubious developments as Windows' personalised menus (those that learn which options you use the most and display those items first), and predictive text (An interface for your eyes only, August 28). I have previously noted the trend towards customisable interfaces and the prospect of an interface that optimises itself for you personally is certainly alluring. But it always comes at a cost to standardisation - if we all have computer interfaces that are specific to us, how can we transfer to using someone else's computer or even teach or communicate about a program if we have no common ground?blog.ponoko.comDon't call them LiliputersThey're called kneetops and ultra-portables (The rise of the all-conquering Liliputer, August 28). NOBODY calls them "liliputers", and if you do, you should DIE a HORRIBLE DEATH.Read all this week's letters in full on theTechnology blog.Write to: Letters TechnologyGuardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER. Telephone: 020 7239 9925. Fax: 020 7239 9933. Email:tech@guardian.co.uk
Not a lot is known about Harald Blatand, the 10th-century king of Denmark (son of Gorm and father to Forkbeard), except that he united warring factions in Sweden, Norway and Denmark into a Christian community. He probably wouldn't be known at all in this country but for the fact that a group of people saw what Blatand had done as a metaphor for what they were about to try to do: the formidable task of persuading a number of normally uncooperative industries to adopt a common standard for a new short range wireless technology - Blatand, or Bluetooth, as it translates into English.That was 10 years ago this month, and while I don't see signs of any street parties, it deserves to be celebrated. This is not only because, after a shaky start, Bluetooth - whose radio signals can be sent for up to 10 metres - is now embedded in products from cordless headphones to wireless printers and even pedometers, but also to how it happened, which contains lessons about industrial strategy.Its HQ is now in the US, but it was a European initiative - take a bow, Ericsson - that set a global standard instead of leaving warring corporations to establish their own as the de facto norm. Its role model was GSM (Global System for Mobile communications), which established a standard in mobiles for Europe and most of the world outside America. It is the main reason Europe is ahead of the US in mobile phone technology.It is no coincidence that Europe has some of the most successful corporations developing Bluetooth, such as Cambridge Consultants and its spin-off, Cambridge Silicon Radio (CSR). As the world becomes ever more competitive, it will become increasingly important to pay attention to such apparently mundane things as setting global standards, which hardly ever hit the headlines but which can have a huge impact on the distribution of economic growth.Bluetooth, already embedded in 75% of mobile phones, is likely to get more successful as its range improves to up to 100m, its use of energy falls and its new applications, such as satellite positioning for cars, get more popular. I don't yet like wearing a Bluetooth earset for my phone because they are still too cumbersome and tricky to work with your fingers. But they are popular with drivers because they are a legal - though not entirely safe - way of using a phone while driving. I don't doubt I will eventually succumb.Many users still don't know that Bluetooth enables you to send photos directly to your laptop or to another similar phone. It can be used as a modem to access the web from your laptop (but beware of data charges) or to find a like-minded person in a room or walking down the street. One of the numerous applications available at the Bluetooth Gift Guide Event in London this month is a Sony Ericsson Bluetooth watch that links to a phone in your pocket so you can monitor calls or text messages without drawing attention to the fact. This is one way the watch industry is fighting the fact that the ubiquity of mobile phones means you don't really need a watch.The list of Bluetooth products - from cordless keyboards to Polaroid's PoGo instant printer for mobiles - is an ever growing one. It has transformed the gaming industry through applications for the Wii and PS3. The industry claims that more than 1bn Bluetooth devices have been shipped, and by 2011 it will be 2bn.The success of Bluetooth is probably only just beginning and some of its most popular uses have probably not even been dreamed of yet. It hasn't got a particularly attractive name. Maybe it should have been called Blueberry after the way King Blatand reportedly turned his teeth blue by eating too many of them. Is it too late to change?vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Film lovers will remember the 1951 Ealing Comedy with Sir Alec Guinness, The Man In The White Suit, in which a company - British, of course - developed a suit that couldn't get dirty. It resisted stains actively.The concept was purely fictional at the time, but half a century later, the research company P2i Labs has brought it a step closer to reality with the launch of its patented ion mask technology.Demonstrated last week, it involves treating materials in what looks like a big microwave oven and coating them at molecular level with a substance that isn't so much waterproof as water-repellent (hydrophobic): a treated kitchen towel and J-Cloth can be simply brushed dry.The clever bit, however, is that because the coating is microscopic it doesn't add weight or restrict air passage through the coated substance, which retains its characteristics. So the first products based on the technology to be available to the public - waterproof boots from Hi-Tec - keep feet dry but are as well-ventilated as their soakable counterparts.Possibly more important applications are those outside the clothing industry. Dr Ian Robins, P2i's business development director, says that a maker of pipettes has started using it. "The ion-mask process reduces the surface energy of the pipette tip and therefore almost completely eliminates the retention of any fluids, hence making far more accurate dispensing of fluids."Cars will also benefit from the idea. "The ion-mask process is also used for the treatment of filter media, making filters more able to be used with very low surface tension liquids such as octane and pentane," Robins says. "One application is used for the treatment of filters used in automotive applications where resistance to octane is vital." It's also being applied to some surfaces of Formula 1 cars to make water slip off them.P2i Labs is also investigating the use of the treatment to reduce the misting and fogging of lenses and to increase water resistance from electronic devices. This is aside from some of the fun stuff that happens in the labs. Chief executive Carl Francis says that some of the developers have tried processing their spectacles to see whether their vision improves in the rain at all. There's been no formal report on the results, but they certainly don't see any worse.Francis confirms that the limitations on the applications are logistical rather than technical: the small research company can't support all of these applications and it has to prioritise where to point its efforts. Sir Alec would have been proud.
We spend far more effort defending our countries against specific movie-plot threats, rather than the real, broad threats. In the US during the months after the 9/11 attacks, we feared terrorists with scuba gear, terrorists with crop dusters and terrorists contaminating our milk supply. Both the UK and the US fear terrorists with small bottles of liquid. Our imaginations run wild with vivid specific threats. Before long, we're envisioning an entire movie plot, without Bruce Willis saving the day. And we're scared.It's not just terrorism; it's any rare risk in the news. The big fear in Canada right now, following a particularly gruesome incident, is random decapitations on intercity buses. In the US, fears of school shootings are much greater than the actual risks. In the UK, it's child predators. And people all over the world mistakenly fear flying more than driving. But the very definition of news is something that hardly ever happens. If an incident is in the news, we shouldn't worry about it. It's when something is so common that its no longer news - car crashes, domestic violence - that we should worry. But that's not the way people think.Psychologically, this makes sense. We are a species of storytellers. We have good imaginations and we respond more emotionally to stories than to data. We also judge the probability of something by how easy it is to imagine, so stories that are in the news feel more probable - and ominous - than stories that are not. As a result, we overreact to the rare risks we hear stories about, and fear specific plots more than general threats.The problem with building security around specific targets and tactics is that its only effective if we happen to guess the plot correctly. If we spend billions defending the Underground and terrorists bomb a school instead, we've wasted our money. If we focus on the World Cup and terrorists attack Wimbledon, we've wasted our money.It's this fetish-like focus on tactics that results in the security follies at airports. We ban guns and knives, and terrorists use box-cutters. We take away box-cutters and corkscrews, so they put explosives in their shoes. We screen shoes, so they use liquids. We take away liquids, and they're going to do something else. Or they'll ignore airplanes entirely and attack a school, church, theatre, stadium, shopping mall, airport terminal outside the security area, or any of the other places where people pack together tightly.These are stupid games, so let's stop playing. Some high-profile targets deserve special attention and some tactics are worse than others. Airplanes are particularly important targets because they are national symbols and because a small bomb can kill everyone aboard. Seats of government are also symbolic, and therefore attractive, targets. But targets and tactics are interchangeable.The following three things are true about terrorism. One, the number of potential terrorist targets is infinite. Two, the odds of the terrorists going after any one target is zero. And three, the cost to the terrorist of switching targets is zero.We need to defend against the broad threat of terrorism, not against specific movie plots. Security is most effective when it doesn't require us to guess. We need to focus resources on intelligence and investigation: identifying terrorists, cutting off their funding and stopping them regardless of what their plans are. We need to focus resources on emergency response: lessening the impact of a terrorist attack, regardless of what it is. And we need to face the geopolitical consequences of our foreign policy.In 2006, UK police arrested the liquid bombers not through diligent airport security, but through intelligence and investigation. It didn't matter what the bombers' target was. It didn't matter what their tactic was. They would have been arrested regardless. That's smart security. Now we confiscate liquids at airports, just in case another group happens to attack the exact same target in exactly the same way. That's just illogical.&#183;Bruce Schneier is a security technologist and author:schneier.com/blog
Electricity-free charityI am a small, private donor to a developing world charity helping a village with no electricity. So far I have been able to give them a clockwork radio and torch. Are there any cheap computers designed for this market?Chris BergJS:The most widely publicised device is the MIT-inspired XO-1 laptop, which has been developed under the One Laptop Per Child (OLPC) project. You can donate a laptop for $200, but you can't direct it to a particular village (laptopgiving.org). Alternatively, have a look at UK-based Aleutia (aleutia.com). This company has developed the low-power E2 Mini Computer (&pound;199), which can be powered by a foldable solar panel, and is suitable for use in Africa. The project started after Mike Rosenberg, the founder, set up a cybercafe in Takoradi, Ghana, to work with street children. The site's wiki says: "We package the E2 with low-power LCDs, folding solar panels, and rugged batteries to form a 3kg, $900 kit that can be dispatched anywhere and set up in minutes, and is used by aid workers in the field." (wiki.aleutia.com).The Ethical Superstore may suggest some cheaper non-computer ideas:ethicalsuperstore.com.Photo recoveryI have accidentally deleted some photos (grandchildren, special events etc) that I thought were backed up on my slave drive. I used Active File Recovery to undelete them, but I cannot open them. Irfanview says "cannot display header".TonyJS:Try usingPhotoRec, which is designed for "digital picture and file recovery": it's not guaranteed to work but at least it's free.Image Recallmay be even better: it costs &pound;24.99, but there's a demo version. Programs that will try to reconstruct damaged image files includePix RecoveryandEasyRecovery Pro.They want your moneyI'm seeing much more spam with zip attachments. The messages are carefully crafted to induce any busy office worker to click on them without thinking, and often seem to be targeted at individuals within the company. I'm not about to click on one of these, but if I did, what would happen?Roger WilsonJS:This is a common way of distributing botnet-controlled Trojan files, such as the ZBot banking Trojan, ideally a variant known as Prg. The basic idea is to capture and simulate all the keystrokes used to access your (preferably commercial) bank account to perform a fraudulent money transfer that is almost indistinguishable from the real thing. ZBot can also attempt to disable your firewall, steal credit card numbers, takes snapshots of your screen and download extra components as required. Anti-virus software should block it, including online scanners such asKaspersky. However, anyone who finds it would also need to change their banking and other passwords.Email alertsIn the film Sleepless in Seattle, an onscreen alert box popped up every time a new email was received by one of the characters. I use Hotmail, Gmail and the Microsoft Vista successor to Outlook Express, but none of them seems to offer this convenience. Why not?Michael McCarthyJS:It's one of those things that sounds like a good idea but can easily become really annoying. Still, many, if not most email programs have some form of alert, including Windows Live Mail, and you can set a sound for New Mail Notification in the Control Panel's Sounds and Audio Devices applet. If you have Windows Live Messenger, you can get email alerts that, if clicked, will launch your Windows Live Mail program. For Gmail, you can use theGmail Notifier- still in beta - but if you install the Google Talk client, you will get email alerts automatically.There must be dozens of email alert programs and add-ons, many of them free. You can browsea selection. Otherwise, Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks starred in both Sleepless in Seattle and You've Got Mail, and I have not seen either.BackchatRichard Cooke wanted a PC to edit native AVCHD hi-def movies with Pinnacle software. Neil says he edits it with Sony Vegas Movie Studio Platinum. There is a free trial version of the Sony software atSoftpedia.Annie Hall wanted to send newsletters from her Talk Talk mailbox. According to comments on theAsk Jack blog, Talk Talk can send an email to up to50 recipients, but kds1767 reckons Talk Talk will solve the problem by soon offering Hostopia's Announcer service. AttendantLord says: "My partial solution is to send bulk emails using the email facility of the hosting company for my website (Vision Internet)."Last week, I mentionedWindows Easy Transfer Companionbut Microsoft has withdrawn it. A Microsoft staff member said in a forum: "I think the download link is removed because [it] is not compatible with Windows Vista Service Pack 1 or Windows XP Service Pack 3."Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
In 1983, the Sony Corporation of Japan launched a device on a largely unsuspecting world. The Sony Betamovie became the world's first commercial camcorder, using videotape, not film. Despite retailing at around &pound;1,200 - then around the cost of a decent second-hand car - the Betamovie camera helped usher in one of the most defining and disruptive cultural activities of the 1980s: the home video.Fast forward to the present day and the descendants of the Betamovie are far lighter and unimaginably cheaper than those sold in the 1980s. The online retailer Firebox is selling theBusbi video camera- which, at &pound;34.95, is perhaps the most basic camcorder ever released. Yet despite being 40 times cheaper than the original Sony Betamovie, it's not a device to sneer at. The quality may be poor when compared to that of more expensive devices, but the Busbi is more than adequate if the intent is to share the results on one of the most defining and disruptive activities of today: YouTube.Flipping simpleThe Busbi is one of a growing number of pocket camcorders, a new category of low-budget, shoot-and-share video cameras.  In the US pocket camcorders have caught on as quickly as the iPod once did; indeed, they have much in common with the bestselling digital music player. Another basic camera, the Flip, offers a similar silhouette to the iPod and roughly the same level of simplicity. Even so, despite their sales success, the diminutive cameras have also polarised popular opinion: some love their ease-of-use and low cost, while others see only a clunky and primitive device on the shelf before them.Despite the low cost of the Busbi, the nascent pocket camcorder market has been cornered by the Flip Ultra. According to David Pogue, technology reviewer at the New York Times, the Flip has single-handedly changed an entire industry. Since its launch last May, it has captured more than 14% of the US camcorder market, selling more than 1m - and most of those have gone to women.The Flip, which costs &pound;99, is an astonishingly simple piece of technology. You take it out of the box, switch it on, press the red button to start shooting and that's basically it. The Flip, moreover, stores an hour of video, runs off a pair of AA batteries and needs neither cable nor chargers to maintain it. When you want to upload, you flick a switch and a USB arm flips out (hence the name) allowing you to upload everything to a computer in a couple of clicks. The software is held on the device and is automatically linked to social networking sites including MySpace and YouTube.Pure Digital, the manufacturer of the Flip, has already announced a sister product called the Mino, 40% smaller than the Ultra, which will be in UK shops in time for Christmas. Furthermore, the Flip's success has led to several other pocket camcorders to follow. The most notable among them is Kodak's Zi6, a pocket camcorder capable of taking high-definition video, which will sell for just $180 when it launches later this year.It was photography giant Kodak that launched the second consumer camcorder, the KodaVision 2000 in 1984, but failed to capitalise on its position as the world's largest supplier of processed film. In 2001, it tried again with the launch of the MC3, a hybrid video and MP3 player, but it bombed, adding to the woes of the troubled corporation that has struggled with the conversion from analogue to digital technology."I think the MC3 was ahead of its time," says Andrei Andrievsky, a product manager at Kodak. "None of the videoblogging infrastructure that exists today was available back then. Teenagers are on YouTube several times a day. They are using video for self-expression and social connectivity [in a way] that was not there many years ago."So how can manufacturers sell camcorders that now cost less than a decent pair of jeans? Says Andrievsky: "The price point came available very recently, as the cost of components has fallen." It's the same reason, he says, that mobile phone companies can offer video recording capabilities on their handsets. Even so, despite the falling costs, Andrievsky says that the Zi6 is not competing with the "serious" camcorder market. "If someone wants to videotape a wedding or the birth of a child, I would not recommend the Zi6," he admits.With the price of camcorders falling so dramatically, the big question is: how low can they go? It's telling, perhaps, to learn that Jonathan Kaplan, the Flip's founder, originally envisioned the Flip as a disposable single-shot camcorder. RCA's Small Wonder - the original pocket camcorder - now retails in the US for around $90, and you can buy a Busbi online for &pound;29.99 at Amazon. Few expect the cost of the devices to rise.Snapped upMeanwhile, the cost of traditional camcorders is falling just as swiftly. According to retail analysts GFK, the average price of a camcorder is &pound;262. "The average price keeps falling," says Nigel Caplow, a consumer electronics expert at GFK. "Last year the total number of units sold in the UK rose from 850,000 to 877,000, but the value of those units fell from &pound;243m to &pound;229m." That value, he says, would have fallen further if it were not for the introduction of more expensive high-definition cameras, which have an average price of &pound;600.When the Betamovie was released in 1983 it was a defining product of its time: hardware-driven, technically challenging and expensively produced in Japan. Pocket camcorders similarly capture the mood of today: software-driven, technically simple to operate and cheaply produced in China.
As one of the games industry's colossi, you'd expect Will Wright's latest game to be epic, but Spore is more ambitious in its scope than any game ever: he could have called it Sim Universe. Spore is essentially five games in one, with stages titled Cell, Creature, Tribal, Civilisation and Space. Inspired by the 1977 Eames film Powers of Ten, it starts you off gently by giving you control of a single-cell organism, which you evolve until it can leave the sea and walk up the beach. The Creature phase is the one that has generated the most publicity: it allows you to design an organism from scratch - although, in truth, aesthetic whims are less of a priority than making use of the body parts you acquire with their attendant properties. Evolve sentience and you must attempt to dominate an area of your planet in the Tribal stage; once you dominate a planet in Civilisation, you can head off to the stars for some surprisingly relevant (in these days of global warming) terraforming. Spore's best phases are Creature, Tribal and Space - Civilisation is too dependent on manic activity when you first start playing it. But the consistency between phases (the scope alters, but basic gameplay principles, such as the option to play aggressively or diplomatically, still apply) is stunning, the whole experience feels thoroughly fresh and innovative, and you will want to replay it several times. Essential.
Individuals and companies should have guaranteed rights of access to government-held non-personal data, says the chair of the panel advising government on use of public-sector data.In a formal letter to Michael Wills, the justice minister, the chair of the government's advisory panel on public sector information, Professor David Rhind, says that making such data available is "essential to encourage the widespread [private] exploitation of [public-sector information]" - and says many private-sector companies would be happy to take on the costs of sifting raw data in order to add value for resale.Theletter(PDF) also warns that the 2006 exclusive licence to healthcare data between the NHS and Dr Foster, a private company, which then offers public access to health and social care information, is "unwise". It may also be contrary to the 2003 EU Directive on Re-use of Public Sector Information - and, possibly, illegal from January.The letter, while formal, contains many hints about the panel's thinking on future pricing and funding models for "trading funds", which are self-funding companies within government, such as Ordnance Survey, Land Registry and the UK Hydrographic Office.Rhind, who led Ordnance Survey from 1992 to 1998, before it became a trading fund, notes that there have been "many concerns expressed about the charging levels and procedures employed by some PSBs [public-sector bodies]". This is the crux of the Free Our Data argument, which contends that making non-personal public-sector information available for free would stimulate the economy, generating more in tax receipts - which could be used to fund the public-sector bodies - than would be lost from direct receipts to the trading funds.That assertion was backed up by ananalysisperformed by a group from Cambridge University that was published with the Budget in March. "The great bulk" of panel members agree with the Cambridge analysis, says Rhind, but adds that none would want the quality of the data generated by trading funds to decline if that model were abandoned. (The campaign agrees: preserving high standards is critical.)Rhind hints at tensions within the panel, whosemembersinclude Neil Ackroyd, who is in charge of data collection and management at Ordnance Survey. However, the pressure for some change from the panel and from ministers including Wills and Tom Watson, the Cabinet Office and civil service minister may prove hard to resist.Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog.
The diagnosis wasn't promising. "Oh no," said my colleague. "You won't like these. They'll break. That's the trouble with lots of these headphones. They just can't stand up to the constant wear and tear."This made me pause for a moment, but the Vibe Duo headphones from V-MODA didn't live up to my colleague's expectations. At all. And for anyone who bought the original iPhone - you know, the one that has a battery life longer than six hours - the benefit of the Vibe Duo is that it has a specially deep plug, which can reach the parts of the original iPhone's headphone/microphone socket that other headphones (well, most other headphones) can't.Now, at &pound;70 for the pair, you may quail before handing over your cash. Haven't these people heard of the credit crunch? Possibly not, because these are such good headphones when it comes to noise cancellation: position them well, and you'll cut out almost all - but not completely all - external noise. That's a balance I like: unlike the standard iPod headphones, which don't cut out much external noise, and not like some in-ear headphones which render you completely oblivious to outside announcements. (These are the ones used by people who are the last to get off the train when problems are announced; they can't hear anything and have to infer what's happening from everyone else's migration.) I hate some in-ear models, which insulate you from the world so much - and hence amplify any sound transmitted by your facial bones, so you hear every breath echoing around your sinuses.Equally, though, the Vibe Duos don't drop out of your ear at the merest step. The microphone is sensitive, the clip is useful and the sound very good.What these do have is staying power. As in, they'll take really quite bad treatment and come up smiling. Having used them for some months now - to the frustration, I think, of the folks at V-Moda, who wanted a quick review; I however wanted to see whether they would live down to my colleague's forecast - I can say that these are listening devices that will put up with the worst I can dish out. I've dropped my iPod and they've hung on gamely, without breaking; the rubbery doodabs for your ears stay in place despite being pulled in and out of my pockets; the lead stays resilient despite being bundled up again and again. That's quality. Best of all, they're not white - so you can look around at your fellow commuters and feel that in one sense at least you're well apart from the crowd.Pros:Excellent sound, good fit, nice detail, strong, deep plug that fits original iPhoneCons:Priceyv-moda.com
People have been getting it together online for years now, whether it's via dating and contact websites or virtually via their avatars in online worlds such as World of Warcraft and Second Life. But it took a Florida plumber to develop a system that further blurs the line between the virtual and real worlds."I've been called the Hugh Hefner of the digital millennium," says 47-year-old SL entrepreneur Kevin Alderman. "I consider myself a facilitator and an innovator." Alderman was quick to sign up to the virtual world program when it launched in mid-2003. And while he happily lost many an hour to cyberspace, there was something about SL that annoyed him."The characters on screen - the avatars - couldn't touch. There was a barrier in the coding and they'd bounce off each other." Alderman set up Eros, which is now a multimillion pound software company, and the next step on the evolutionary ladder for cybersex was born.Using the SexGen software developed by Eros, users can "interact" with each other more fully. "We go the full spectrum from a kiss or caress, right through to all the positions of the Kama Sutra - anything you can imagine. You type, or say, what you want to do and the avatars do it. And they make a full range of noises."Sexed-up avatarsEros also customises avatars so you can turn your run-of-the-mill onscreen representation into any type of anatomically correct stud or vixen you can think of. Alderman's own alter-ego - the rugged lothario Stroker Serpentine - is now something of an SL legend. "And then I met Fyre Rain, who I love dearly and became my online partner," he says.Which would be a fairytale ending to the story ... if it  were not for the fact that Kevin is happily married with two children. "I'm very honest with my wife about what I do, we have a strong relationship, and I couldn't do this without her support." His wife, Debbie, agrees. "I absolutely don't think it's cheating - because she's a cartoon character in my mind," she says."He might be physical with himself, but he's not actually physical with her, and that doesn't bother me. It's a role, a fantasy, a character." But what of the emotional connection he has with a woman who lives nearly 1,000 miles away, with her own real-life husband and children? They claim to be in love with each other; doesn't that count as adultery?"No [it's not emotional cheating], as you can have an emotional relationship with many people, but that doesn't make it adulterous," says Debbie. She also didn't have a problem when Kevin's online partner started getting jealous because he wasn't spending enough time on SL, or when Kevin met Fyre Rain in the real world. ("It was very nice," said Kevin. "There wasn't any sexual awkwardness, it was just like meeting up with an old friend, although it was a little odd when we went back to having sex online.") However, Debra does concede: "If she was hot and 20 I might have to think again."Dr Sarah Munwah, a pyschologist from Berkeley University, doesn't agree. "I think it is very much cheating, and I think they're kidding themselves if they don't think of it that way. This is a situation where you have to be withdrawing some of your energy from [your wife] and your family in order to pursue another relationship. You wouldn't feel comfortable doing that in the real life, and it may not be skin to skin, but you're still doing essentially the same thing."Aside from issues of adultery, Munwah admits she finds SL fascinating. "It is a very interesting area in terms of psychology. Because of the barrier the virtual world creates, people feel less inhibited and will experiment with experiences and personality traits they would not normally consider."The real question this leads to is, which relationship is more honest? The real world where people are often embarrassed to say what they really feel, or the virtual whose mask allows relationships to develop uninhibited?"Both online infidelity and real/virtual world relationship development were investigated in the BBC One documentary Wonderland: Virtual Love and Cyber Space in January. The programme followed "Carolyn" as she receded ever more into the virtual world, spurning her husband and four children, for "Elliot".Things came to a head when "Carolyn" flew from Pennsylvania to London. Alas it turned out, that the real-world "Elliot" didn't quite match up to his muscle-bound, weapon-clad, topless online persona."I think I had more hopes that it [the relationship] could be carried outside of SL," said a weepy "Carolyn" who subsequently returned home to rebuild her real-life marriage.So what does the future hold for online lovers? Alderman sees the future becoming even more interactive. "We sell products that remotely actuate, erm, 'marital aids', from within the virtual world. I can have a device operated halfway across the planet."Alderman believes that his $40,000 sensor suit which he uses for avatar development, converting real-life movements in to digital movements, will be able to be used in real time when internet speeds quicken.Having a strokeAnd he is working on a way to combine this with other technology which could lead to scenes that were once only the realm of sci-fi movies such as The Lawnmower Man. "There are systems - haptic technology - that use electronic pulses to contract muscles. So by using this as an interactive device you can actually feel like someone is touching, or stroking, or caressing you. We're currently looking into them ... they're only a couple of years away."Many a Second Life addict may well never leave the house again.
Hey, rock and roll: I just had the most amazing web experience. Yes, friends, I registered my small business to pay its VAT online. OK, I should get out more, but stay with me: VAT is a key milestone on my road to e-citizenry. For years I've cited it as an example of a transaction not worth doing electronically. My little company's quarterly paper form takes only minutes to fill out. Of course, the VAT people then have to process my handwriting, but that's their problem.No more. What swung me was trying outbusinesslink.gov.uk,the government's all-purpose portal for transactions with business. It's one of the trio of megasites destined to take on nearly all official transactions in the name of joined-up public services and, in theory, lower costs. (The other two aredirect.gov.ukfor citizens' transactions andnhs.ukfor healthcare.)Of the three, Businesslink has the strongest case. Businesses are more likely than citizens to be equipped to transact electronically with government, so an e-service is likely to reach a critical mass of users more quickly. Digital exclusion is nothing like the concern it is with private citizens and NHS users; neither is privacy. And if you ask proprietors whether they would rather deal with officialdom through a single web portal or through separate relationships with a dozen different agencies, the answer will be pretty clearcut.A single Businesslink service illustrates the possibilities. Namecheck allows entrepreneurs to check new business and brand names simultaneously against registers in Companies House and the Intellectual Property Office, cutting in half the time needed. As Businesslink is supposed to absorb material from more than 160 other government websites by April 2011, there's plenty of room for more such rationalisation.However, because this is a clunking great government IT project, there is also room for concern. First, even if everyone agrees with the theory of providing a one-stop shop, it'll be a hard slog persuading individual state agencies to hand over their key functions. Directgov has a similar problem, but Businesslink has the special difficulty of extracting web content and commitment from bodies that may lack resources to cooperate. Links with local councils - responsible for licensing, public health and many other areas of business regulation - pose their own set of problems.A second concern is Businesslink's place in the "gov 2.0" programme launched by last year's Power of Information report. Unlike its NHS counterpart, user-generated content is not an integral part of the Businesslink programme. Its owner, HM Revenue and Customs, doesn't seem enthusiastic about sponsoring wikis for businesspeople to exchange ideas for tax-dodging. Possibly that will change as the web 2.0 philosophy percolates through Whitehall. But then we'll have a new set of worries, to do with competition with commercial sites and social communities which might have ambitions to set up their own portals.Finally, there is Businesslink's own business plan. The site is outsourced; run by the Serco Group under a contract agreed in 2005. While the contractor seems to be making a fair fist of the job, the government needs to ensure that it keeps a grip on the project and that the costs - &pound;35m a year - are recouped from savings elsewhere.All these factors seem to merit more external scrutiny than the service gets. It is possible that Businesslink is an example of Whitehall finally getting e-government right, but some independent confirmation would be nice.
The launch of Google's Chrome web browser has not been as embarrassing as Apple'sSafari for Windows, but it has at least one security problem that Apple has already fixed. As Ryan Naraine reports at ZD Net:Google Chrome vulnerable to carpet-bombing flaw. The commonality comes from the fact that both browsers use the same open source WebKit engine. The story says:The Google Chrome user-agent shows that Chrome is actually WebKit 525.13 (Safari 3.1), which is an outdated/vulnerable version of that browser. Apple patched the carpet-bombing issue with Safari v3.1.2.Aviv Raff has used the WebKit flaw along with a known Java bug toshowhow users can be tricked into into running executable files directly from Chrome.People using Chrome also should make sure they change the Options|Minor Tweaks sheet so that files are directed to a folder, and check the box so you're asked first, to make sure files are not downloaded directly to the desktop,One minor flaw doesn't seem to have a solution. WebKit/Safari stupidly stores cookies and files in a known location: C:\Documents and Settings\[you]\Local Settings\Application Data\Google instead of creating random directory names like Internet Explorer.By using Chrome, we've already given Google permission to update the browser however it likes, and GoogleUpdate.exe is running as a background process, so watch out for the security update. It shouldn't take long.....Finally, my installation of Chrome has just (a) crashed on start-up, after being unable to access google-analytics; and (b) reloaded in an unusable form. It's dead, Jim. Yes, it's a beta.
Nintendo consoles have often found themselves reinterpreted as musical instruments. Mario Paint on the SNES featured a Composer feature that was whole-heartedly adopted by experimental artists, while Polish outfit Gameboyzz Orchestra (nowMikroochestra) constructed manic blipcore out of converted Game Boys.Now, Nintendo, is making the link official. The company has teamed up with synth manufacturer, Korg, to bring a version of the classic DS-10 synthesizer to Nintendo DS. Developed by AQ Interactive, Cavia and Procyon Studio (and released back in July in Japan), the application uses the touch interface to recreate all the controls of the original. From the UK press release:As you compose, work your way around the synthesizer using the replication of the original KORG MS-10 interface spread across the duel screens of the Nintendo DS. Create the sound of your choice using the Touch Screen: through switching interruptors; modifying drumbeats by drawing marks; or editing the synthesizer tone colour by tweaking knobs and connecting patch cables between the jacks on the Synthesizer Patch Panel, With the ability to save up to 18 different sessions, continue to develop and build electro tunes over time and even connect to fellow musicians' consoles through the wireless connection function to work on a project together.It's an interesting project and something that's bound to be enthusiastically adopted by blipcore merchants. Plus, having once edited Korg's official magazine without ever having touched one of the products, or indeed any synth, I'm looking forward to it too. Next up, an 808 drum machine?It's out on October 10. Here's theofficial website.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Now that he'snot dead, Steve Jobs has roused himself to gather the world's press in various cities around big screens to announce something next Tuesday. (The main event is at Yerba Buena Center for the Arts in San Francisco at 10 am Pacific Time next Tuesday.)The question is, what? All the expectation is that it will be new iPod nanos - perhaps something a bit longer and thinner, more like the original than the current squab-shaped one. (Yes, squab.)It was, after all, at a September event three years ago that the first iPod nano was unveiled - rather neatly, from Jobs's change pocket in his jeans; the invitation had had a picture of a change pocket.So, using that deconstruction, and noting that there's generally something vaguely like a connection between the theme of the invite and what gets shown off, we can infer that this is something to do with iPods (note generic silhouette ad) and iTunes (note Coverflow-style pic).That means, to me, that we might -might- also be seeing the introduction of the long-rumoured subscription model for iPods.Nokia has stolen a march, with its unlimited access for (certain) Nokia buyers:Anyone willing buy a Nokia Comes With Music pre-pay phone will be able to download up to 2.1m music tracks - about a quarter of the number available from Apple's iTunes - onto their computer for no extra charge for 12 months.That sound? Gauntlet being thrown down. Mark Mulligan at Jupiter (now owned by Forrester)thinks it would make sensefor Apple to sell iPods preloaded with music, and to offer a subscription model. Doesn't mean it will happen, but you can see that once it's figured out the DRM for a subscription system (which it's done for films: watched films expire after 24 hours) then Apple could do it for music.So my money's on new iPods, for the Christmas season, and perhaps iTunes music subscription.But could it even be the long-rumoured but frequently-lost-in-prototyping iPod flea?Update:Andy Ihnatkospills some small beansin a brief Twitter on Thursday evening: "Well, yes," I said. "If, _hypothetically,_ you were to ship new hardware to me, I _would_ be home the morning of the 10th to sign for it." You'll have to guess who that Apple-only reviewer may have been speaking to.Oh, and my prediction now also includes iTunes 8.
On this week'sTech Weekly, we welcomeSix to Start's Adrian Hon into the pod studio to talk about their new Alternate Reality Game for Charlie Higson's Young Bond series:Shadow War.We also tackle the details of Vista's security: Charles has a close look at the benefits of Microsoft's new operating system over XP.Check it out!And there are so many other ways to get your Tech Weekly fix:Download programmeSubscribe for free with iTunesPodcast feed URLCall our Skype voicemailMail us at tech@guardian.co.ukPost a message on the blogGet our Twitter feed for programme updatesJoin our Facebook groupSee our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
PSP transfer? HD? Power usage? Availability in Norway and France? Storage requirements? Sony have answered your questions aboutPlayTV, their forthcoming Freeview recorder for the PS3. Read on for full details...What was the thinking behind PlayTV? Won't PS3 owners - generally tech loving early adopters - already have Sky+/Freeview PVR?PlayTV and the firmware upgrade of 2.42 provide the PS3 owner a single machine that can switch between game play and TV using the slick interface to watch and record free to air TV, in their house or while travelling with the PSP using Remote Play.Will a UK PlayTV work with a US PS3?PlayTV does not work with US PS3.What's the future plans for PlayTV - will new hardware be required for HD if/when Freeview HD comes on board?All manufacturers have to upgrade their hardware as the new standard has only just been defined. Currently no commercially available DVB-T2 exists. Sony is currently evaluating this new standard.Can you store the recorded TV on an external hard disk? (and if not how many hours of video can you record on the various PS3 models)PlayTV allows you to move the content to the XMB where you can manage this in the same way you do with all of your media on the PS3. All broadcasts vary depending on how the information is encoded and sent out over the airwaves, we use the average of 1hr = 1GB, when you are using PlayTV there is a recording size in the library, you will soon see if your favourite programmes are taking up more or less space than the guidelines.Can you clear up the transfer to PSP - is it a feature that's present now, or one that's going to be added in the future?PlayTV doesn't support direct PSP transfers but you can enjoy live or recorded video content via Remote Play feature.. PlayTV allows you to move the content to the XMB where you can manage this in the same way you do with all of your media on the PS3We understand that it may be possible for people who are very technically savvy to convert files moved over to the XMB, however, PlayTV was not created with this purpose in mind and it's not something we encourage.What's the effect on the PS3 in terms of stability when recording while playing a game that takes data from the hard drive - is there any evidence of performance drops in gaming while recording?We have tested all PS3 and many Playstation games released as of today and have not noticed any significant issues during recording. PlayTV was designed to ensure that game play would always take priority as the Playstation 3' is first and foremost a games machine.What plans are there for upgrades/updates in the future (in general)?SCEE is evaluating future plans.Are there any plans to release alternative models to allow recording of FreeSat / Cable / Sky channels?SCEE is evaluating future plans .Is HD recording still going to be coming to the current model? Are Sony looking at updating PlayTV's capabilities regularly via update?SCEE is evaluating future plans.Toshiba are releasing TVs this winter which use a pared-down Cell to upscale SD. Will there be upscaling of Freeview live/recorded TV in the way there is for DVDs?Currently the picture on all TV types for PlayTV is of a high standard, in the market there are many variations of the upscale options available, Playtv does rudimentary upscaling of the picture already. The UI is also fully scalable between SD and HD pictures.Why can't you record 2 things at once? PlayTV has 2 tuners, so it should be possible.We dedicated one tuner to do the recording and one to do the watching. Our find and record feature will find all of your programmes and this paired with a clever conflict management system should ensure that you can always record what you want.What's the release date for the Irish version?DVB-T has not been rolled out in Ireland. Once digital rollout has been completed. SCEE will investigate further.If you're going away for a week or so and want to record something, do you need to have the PS3 on all the time or can you put it on some sort of standby mode so it'll wake up when it needs to record?The PS3 only needs to be left in standby mode. It will wake up, record and shut itself down when the recording is completed.Does it do series record?PlayTV fully supports a daily and weekly repeat option. Allowing you to set recordings for any programme at any time and create repeats for up to 25 times.If files cannot be moved to personal storage or the PSP why not? What is the difference to a DVD recorder where you can record as much broadcast TV as you want and store it on Disc?PlayTV doesn't support direct PSP transfers but you can enjoy live or recorded video content via Remote Play feature.. PlayTV allows you to move the content to the XMB where you can manage this in the same way you do with all of your media on the PS3.We understand that it may be possible for people who are very technically savvy to convert files moved over to the XMB, however, PlayTV was not created with this purpose in mind and it's not something we encourage.When the unit comes to Europe, will it work with Norwegian terrestrial TV?Currently, SCEE has no plans to launch in Norway.Will it work with French digital signals?YesWill it only work with free to air channels, or can I also pick up encrypted channels such as Canal+?Only Free to Air Channels are supported by PlayTV.Any plans for Home integration (such as inviting people into the virtual flat to watch programmes stored on the hard drive and so on)?SCEE currently doesn't have any plans to integrate PlayTV into Home.Does the BluRay remote work with it?Yes and we have developed a guide for you to use which is accessible from the main menu. A hard back sticker is also supplied for use with the BD remote control.Does red button stuff still work?Yes you can use the red button of BluRay remote or if you press L3 on the Sixaxis you will get an on screen keypad where you will be able to use the interactive services.Will PlayTV will be able to receive the new Freeview HD format ?Refer to Q aboveWhy did Sony make one solution remotes, even their own redundant with the ps3. Surely if they believed that their console would be the centre of family entertainment system they, would have put in IR control, as in all stand alone Sony blue ray players. When will the come up with a solution to allow me to use my Harmony remote control with the ps3?The PS3 is designed as a gaming machine and controllers and remotes have been designed to be Bluetooth compatible, when using PlayTV you will only need to turn the TV on, set your TV to the desired volume and the use PlayTV and the PS3 for all your entertainment needs.I'm happy for my ps3 to be on when needed but not all day. What I'm hoping for is a function which will turn the ps3 off after a few hours of being idled by the user. Does this function exist?The PS3 will wake up from its lowest power consumption position of standby to make the recording and then shut back down to standby on completion of the recording.I like to turn my PS3 off at the plug on the back, rather than leave it on all day while I'm at work. I've understood that even on stand-by the PS3 uses a fair amount electricity. If you have the Play TV, it's more than likely to be left on all the time or standby. So will it be encouraging the use of more electricity?The PS3 has been designed to use the least amount of power possible in standby mode.PlayTV is released on the 19th Sept. It costs 70 UKP.
Passengers on London Underground could be using their mobile phones to get through the ticket barriers and even pay for their lunch within the next two years, after a trial in the capital by O2 and Transport for London.O2 incorporated Oyster card technology and a Barclaycard into a Nokia 6131 handset and gave it to 500 testers, who spent six months using it as an electronic wallet. They made more than 50,000 tube journeys and bought items from shops such as Eat, Yo Sushi and Krispy Kreme.Claire Maslen from O2 said the company was putting together a consortium to launch a full service within two years. "The 2012 Olympics are an obvious target to aim for, but I think that is a very conservative timeframe," she said.The trial used near-field communications (NFC) technology, as used in the Oyster card. The "e-wallet" can be topped up from a bank account and used to pay for items under &pound;10. In Japan similar phones have been used for more than four years.Philip Makinson from Greenwich Consulting said mobile wallets had failed in the past because of the number of users needed to make any system viable."It requires cooperation, not just between handset manufacturers and network operators, but third parties such as Visa or Mastercard and banks and retailers. To reach critical mass you really need to have at least three of the big [phone] operators involved," said Makinson.
That's the immortalMorecambe and Wisequestion, of course, and after five minutes with Google Chrome -- mostly waiting for the Flash plug-in to download -- I went to Google's official Features guide in Google's browser, clicked Google's menu, and got the familiar apology above from Google's YouTube....Otherwise, it seems pretty snappy and easy on the memory. While it's a bit like driving aNoddy car, I quite like the look-and-feel that Google has borrowed from Office 2007 (albeit it's not as slick as Office). It makes IE7 look dated.The only really really stupid bit of design I found in the first five minutes was that Google forgot to copy the IE7 feature that lets you put the menu bar back -- the thin text bar that gives you access to your Favorites. With Chrome, you turn off the useless bookmarks bar so itnevershows (well, turn it off and it's still on your start page. Whoops) and then find you have to turn it back on to get at Favorites (your Bookmarks bar, Ctrl-B). This Chrome icon is very inconveniently placed on the far right, so the alignment jumps about, left to right, depending on the maximum length of an entry/subfolder/whatever. This is not just annoying, it's a horrible bit of usability.Google could otherwise have copied IE7's trick of putting History, Favorites and QuickTabs on the far left hand side of the tabs bar. Alas, that perhaps wouldn't have seemed as natural in Chrome, what with Google having moved the tabs to an inconvenient place on top. Anyone know how to get the damn tabs back to a closer/more accessible/nicer spot?Of course, Chrome is an unfinished 0.2 beta, so Google has quite a few years to fix such things before it gets to version 1.0.....Meanwhile, if you want an early review, The Wall Street Journal'sWalt Mossberghas been using Chrome for a week....
There'san interesting pieceon MSN today, entitled, 'Why Mario should retire'. And here's why, according to columnist, Patrick Goss:...he's in danger of becoming so ubiquitous that he'll become taken for granted - or worse, considered passé. Mario is linked so heavily with some of the most powerfully iconic games of all time that he is already rightly regarded as the face of gaming, but wouldn't it be terrible if his almost uncountable cameos in Nintendo games started to eat away at that impact?Goss concedes that game icons don't age like movie stars - Mario will never have to face the ignomy of Segal or Stallone, wobbling through action flicks at a time in their lives when they should be thinking about Stannah Stairlifts rather than Kalashnikov rifles. But with Super Mario Galaxy forming little more than a support act to the might of Wii Sports, does he have a point about retirement?Just look at Sonic. Sega has shamelessly pimped its haggard standard bearer for the last decade in a series of titles that have never reached the heights of Sonic 1, 2 or 3. Although we'll always love him, he's become the embarrassing uncle at every family reunion, trying to pull off the dance moves that made him a hit in seventies discos, but which now merely lead to quiet revulsion, shame and slipped discs. Nintendo will never do that to Mario, but as the old guy moves further out of fashion, and Miyamoto edges further and further away from the creative core of the project, something may well give.But no, this is ridiculous. Nintendo can't retire Mario. While there's a chance of another Mario 64, he's got to stay in the game. (Just as some of us hope that Sonic will one day deliver the good once again, in the biggest re-invention since the Rick Rubin-inspired Neil Diamond.) Mario is a vital reminder too, that games don't have to be about stylish, brooding lead characters, malevolently blasting their way through cybernetic worlds. Somewhere deep within this feverish industry is a bright, sunny soul in which creativity and child-like wonder are unabashedly celebrated. For these qualities, Mario is a timeless talisman. He is, in many ways, the heart of gaming.
You need a break. A 30-minute break when you can find out the news - Apple, Google, Microsoft are in it - and have a look at what's going on. Join Aleks (that's her over there on the right) and Jemima and myself for your guide to Young Bond - who doesn't use a mobile phone, oh no - and I look at Vista's security.Listen to the programmeDownload programmeSubscribe for free with iTunesPodcast feed URLCall our Skype voicemailMail us at tech@guardian.co.ukPost a message on the blogGet our Twitter feed for programme updatesJoin our Facebook groupSee our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
This week,Aleks Krotoski,Jemima KissandCharles Arthurmet withAdrian Hon, co-founder of creative new media games agencySix to Startto find out about its new Alternative Reality Game for the final book of Charlie Higson'sYoung Bondseries. The company specialises in creating new forms of storytelling across all interactive spheres, with projects under its belt from the BBC, Channel 4, Cancer Research UK and Penguin Publishing. Now Six to Start is attempting its first ARG for kids – and with a franchise like Bond, the team discuss digital ownership, user-generated content and the challenges of creating stories for digital natives.And after Microsoft'sVistaOS was declared dead by pundits, Charles asks whether the next generation system is better than XP. Security-wise, it certainly seems so. Joining him to discuss the issues are Mike Erwin, from Webroot, andBruce Schneier, who is BT's chief security technology officer.Plus the team gets dirty with the latest news stories, from the unfortunate – and untrue – demise of Steve Jobs to the latest Microsoft acquisition, ciao.co.uk. All this and more, including your views on the blogs, on Tech Weekly – your one-stop-shop for gadgety goodness.Don't forget to:•Comment on the show•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Post a message on the blog•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Paul Thurrott's coverage of the Google Chrome leak/announcement ends with theremarkthat "what we've really got here is an example of Google pulling a Microsoft: Creating an unnecessary me-too product that they can use for product tie-ins. All of the features here are present in existing browsers, all of them. So what does Google really bring to the table?"The idea of opening tabs in separate processes has been part of Internet Explorer 8 since March, at least.Web-apps in windows that don't have an address bar or toolbar are not just a decade old in Internet Explorer, they've been a pain in the backside for a decade. Malware writers love them. I used to use Proxomitron to force them to have obvious controls.The thumbnail home-page is basically Opera's Speed Dial, and IE7 has had a thumbnail view for a couple of years (albeit it only shows current tabs).Putting tabs over the address bar is the standard Opera view, and utterly pointless for most people.Chrome's InCognito is already in IE8 as InPrivate Browsing, and was in Safari 3 before that.Omnibar is Firefox's Awesome bar.Auto-completion, anti-phishing and sandboxing features are all pretty old hat by now.Google can't even think up a new name:Microsoft Chromewas an old tool that allowed "Web developers to add multimedia features to HTML using Microsoft's DirectX technology".Additions and corrections are, of course, welcome ;-)As with Gmail, Chrome may be a big hit if it's brilliantly executed, especially given Firefox's general crashiness and bad memory leaks (which, to be fair, used to be part of IE too). But if it's more like Google Base, Knol, Orkut, Froogle and similar rubbish, it may not catch on....Update from comments: And the lucky winners so far (round of applause, please) are:fred2: "treating JavaScript as compiled" (which should make Google apps run faster)djhworld: "You can drag out tabs into a new window (and back again)". I admit this is cute but I suspect I won't have much use for it. I'd rather be able to drag toolbars around. (Toolbars? What toolbars?)Me: the Task Manager that shows memory use, and is accessed very quickly by right-clicking the title bar. Love it. Every browser should have one....There are also a couple of Jerk of the Day prizes but I'm far too polite to award them....
