One thing concerns me about Sony's next gen SingStar plans, and it's not the hours of humiliation that I intend to rack up. It's this paragraph included inMCV's announcement coverage:... there will be the ability to upload performances recorded with the EyeToy camera and photo images to Sony's My SingStar online community, and even transfer the footage to PSP for humiliation on the move.From what I've heard from industry insiders, Microsoft chose not to include a feature like this on their Live community because they wouldn't be able to screen the content for "appropriateness". Knowing what I do about the debauchery that surrounds SingStar sessions, there could be plenty of 18-rated content.I do hope Sony will expand on their plans soon.
Feel free to add pointers to events in comments....May 23-25, 2006WinHEC(Windows hardware Engineering Conference, SeattleMay 25-26, 2006,Apply Serious Games, Society of Chemical Industry, London SW1May 30-June 3, 2006,USENIX 06Annual Technical Conference, Boston Marriott, BostonMay 31-June 2, 2006,Search Engine Strategies, Business Design Centre, LondonJune 5-6, 2006,International Serious Games Event (ISGE)for developers and publishers, International Convention Centre, Birmingham, UK. (Supported by UK Trade and Investment, Coventry University and Advantage West Midlands.)June 6, 2006,Content 2.0, RSA, John Adam St, LondonJune 13-14, 2006,Where 2.0 Conference 2006, San Jose, CaliforniaJuly 11-12, 2006,DevelopGame Developers Conference, Brighton.July 24-28, 2006,O'Reilly Open Source Convention 2006, Portland, OregonJuly 28-29, 2006,BlogHer Conference '06, Hyatt San Jose, San Jose, CaliforniaJuly 30-August 3, 2006,Siggraph 2006: The 33rd International Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques, Boston Convention &amp; Exhibition Center, Boston, MassachusettsSeptember 18-21, 2006,O'Reilly European Open Source Convention 2006, Brussels, Belgium
On Thursday I wrote aboutSamsung's SSD(solid state drive), and to my surprise it has decided to offer it built in to a couple of PCs (one of them its Q1 Origami model) in Korea. See theTechnology blogfor details, and a photo.
Samsung will offer a UMPC (Origami) and a notebook PC based on its 32GB Flash-based SSD (solid state drive) in Korea, starting next month. The drive is the one I wrote about last week inAsk Jack, but I'm still surprised to see Samsung building it into PCs, even as an experiment.TheSamsung press releasecovers the benefits, including speed, resilience and quiet operation. It also gives the prices:The retail price for the Q1-SSD will be KRW2.3 million (US$2,430), while the Q30-SSD will sell for KRW3.5 million (US$3,700).That's pretty expensive for low-spec Celeron-based PCs with only 512MB of memory!Both machines will run Microsoft Windows XP, and the ultra-mobile Q1 uses the Tablet PC Edition. In the photo above, however, the screen at the front is showing Windows Vista with the mountain screen background and a bunch of gadgets (clock etc) on the right hand side. At the moment, that looks like becoming the Vista equivalent to Bliss -- XP's rolling hills.
"Guy Goma became an overnight sensation ... when he was mistaken by a BBC News 24 producer for Guy Kewney, who was supposed to be interviewed about a court case involving Apple Computer and the Beatles Apple Corps Ltd," reportsUPI.It waswonderfully entertaining, but who thought about the UK's Immigration Service, which seems to make a habit of looking up the credentials of people who appear on TV. According to UPI, Goma overstayed his tourist visa and may now be deported....
Not many websites have reduced me to tears -- well, not without using Flash and Java -- butThe Saddest Thing I Ownis another thing altogether. Some heartbreaking stuff there.....
I've been quiet for the past couple of days because I've been doing a Windows Vista reviewers workshop in Seattle, and attending theWindows Hardware Engineering Conference (WinHEC). Technically I should be listening to Bob Muglia's speech on the Windows Server platform but my bladder couldn't survive three keynotes in a row ... and my brain shut down half way through the second.Bill Gates kicked the thing off this morning, with a (webcast) speech lasting the thick end of 90 minutes. It mostly consisted of pleasant generalisations, but had one major point of interest: a demonstration of what Ervan Pouliquen, a Windows Live senior product manager, called "the first devices built for Windows Live users".Windows Live looks pretty much like a Web 2.0 portal intended to compete with similar offerings being built by Google and Yahoo, only worse. But Microsoft is a platform company, and behind the scenes, it has been doing aplatform marketing job, to bring in other hardware and service providers.One result was the demo shown at WinHEC, with the Windows Live Messenger client on a mobile phone, and a phone call made using Verizon Web Calling. There will be a Windows Live SDK (software development kit) this summer, and DSP Group will produce some hardware reference designs. Microsoft, Plantronics, Logitech, Philips, Motorola and Uniden are joining in.There are voices within Microsoft arguing that it should follow Apple in trying to monopolise the whole value chain, providing the hardware, operating system, applications, online services and maybe even the retail stores. The success of the Xbox (where it tried to get partners, and failed) points in that direction -- though it should be remembered that Microsoft has lost around $4 billion in that business, so far. The launch ofMTV's Urgeand the Clix portable with Windows Media Player, and the attempt to make Windows Live a platform, are more like business as usual.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Gamestudy, a blog that looks at the huge Korean games industry, has justpostedabout a new 'sports' drink,Enerzen, aimed at MMOG fans, more specifically, players of the country's most successful massively mulitplayer title, Kart Racer.The site has also uploaded an excellent ad for the drink, which pans in slow motion, and to the accompaniment of wilting classical music, across a LAN room filled with male gamers enthusiastically engaged in a race while knocking back the surely caffeine-packed gloop.Apparently, the text that flows across the screen translates as:"All of Youth, It is time for taking Enerzen. While your competitors are sleeping, You, brave new worker(!), should recharge your energy for the win."It's all weirdly sensual and poetic - not words usually associated with the average LAN session.Of course, this isn't the first energy product to target gamers. A couple of years ago, a US company namedMindFXbegan aiming its energy supplement, Maxx Impulse, toward game fanatics who became disappointed when their Quake reactions slowed after three days without sleep.However, Jolt cola remains the beverage of choice for most dedicated American gamers - the brand's parent company,Web Planet Beverages, clearly understands and centres on this market - seethis ad, complete with bottle pictured next to PC keyboard and 'Blow away the competition' message.So what's your gaming recharge poison? In my experience, the quick burst of energy that energy drinks deliver has often proved counter-productive - the number of planes I've crashed in Battlefield 1942 when a caffeine rush has kicked in just as I've taken off with five team mates aboard just doesn't bear thinking about.
As the folk over atBlogger Buzzremark,There should be more fictional blogging. They suggest you check outJean-Luc Picard's blog:A vital part of engineering has broken down on theEnterprise.It's the laundry machine.Of course there's already theSamuel Pepys blog, though of course that involves time travel in a different direction, and is about real-life events. "Fictional" should really be blogs by people (or similar) who don't really exist. Yoda's blog like to read we might, although translation need it also would or else spectacularly annoying become certainly would it to read.Though surely someone must have done Captain James T. Kirk's blog? With the emphasisonparticular words in a sentence whereyoudon't... expect them?
Well, it had to happen sooner or later - frankly, I'm surprised it took so long. Yesterday, Ubisoft officially announced that it has secured the rights to produce a game based around the hit series, Lost. The game will be developed at the company's Montreal studio and is due out next year across consoles, handheld platforms and PC.Amid the usual mix of over-excited hyperbole and eye-gougingly soulless marketing double speak that litters the press release, there's one telling paragraph:"Many of us on 'Lost' have been hardcore gamers for years..." said 'Lost' producer Bryan Burk.Really? I never would have guessed. Out of all the youth-centred drama series emanating from the US over the last five years, Lost is the one most obviously influenced by the principles of videogame design and construction.Of course, the high concept of the series - disparate characters with various personal demons brought together by explosive tragedy - is pure disaster movie basics. But almost everything else comes from videogames.The setting has a convenient natural barrier (in this case the sea) not only preventing escape, but also giving the creators a defined space to work with, negating the need to create superfluous landscape. Survival Horor games are often set within small towns and villages to limit explorable areas. Resident Evil Code: Veronica even starts on an island.The deliberately obtuse central mythology borrows from classic survival horror design - there's an unseen monster, a long-term survivor (Danielle Rousseau reflecting the Steve Burnside role in Code: Veronica or Ada Wong in Resi 2) and a buried hatch, hinting at a new explorable area. These are all staples of the Resident Evil and Silent Hill series'. The island's Hanso Foundation - a military scientific corporation central to the plot arc - is effectively Umbrella Corp.The series also takes a restless smash and grab raid on culture, borrowing themes and ideas from classical literature, philosophy and art. Again, it's a familiar device of the Resi series, from the use of the Moonlight Sonata in the first game to the multitude of movie references in number four.The purchase of Lost represents a weird new stage in the world of the multimedia crossover - a TV series that is consciously or unconsciously built with the machinery of videogame design, turned back into a videogame.Popular culture eats and regurgitates itself. Then eats itself again.Just don't get me started on Prison Break.
TheNYTannounced that the Warner Brothers subsidiary Legendary Pictures have bought the option for the big screen adaptation of the massively multiplayer online role playing game World of Warcraft. A WoW movie is a terrible idea for so many reasons. A few, you ask? 1. It has no plot. 2. The game is good because it'syoudoing the things, not some beefed up beefcake in a Lordi outfit. 3. The only reason they're interested in the property is because it has so many users. It's called a cash-in, people. 4. Hello niche market.Five other properties that have been wildly successful in one format only to be mangled in another include:1.Dungeons and Dragons: table-top role playing as amovie? 2.Steve Irwin: decent bloke, terriblefilm3.Jackson 5: great band, terriblecartoon series4.The Birdcage: they should've kept itin French5.Pac Man Fever: great game. Music?!
A search engine that knows exactly what you are looking for, that can understand the question you are asking even better than you do, and find exactly the right information for you, instantly - that was the future predicted by Google yesterday.Speaking at a conference for Google's European partners, entitled Zeitgeist '06, on the outskirts of London last night Google chief executive Eric Schmidt and co-founder Larry Page gave an insight into perhaps the most ambitious project the Californian business is undertaking - artificial intelligence (AI)."The ultimate search engine would understand everything in the world. It would understand everything that you asked it and give you back the exact right thing instantly," Mr Page told an audience of the digerati representing firms from Warner Music and AOL to BSkyB and the BBC. "You could ask 'what should I ask Larry?' and it would tell you."Speaking after what was tabled an end of day 'fireside chat', Mr Page said one thing that he had learned since Google launched eight years ago was that technology can change faster than expected, and that AI could be a reality within a few years.Certainly in that short period of time, Google has gone from a start-up in Mountain View to one of the most recognised brands in the world. As evidence of its meteoric rise, the Hertfordshire hotel in which the conference took place was also home to the England football team. The post-conference press roundtable was briefly interrupted by assistant manager Steve McLaren who had evidently got the wrong room.Google's executives were also forced to defend their tactics. While suggesting the business could one day capture a 20% share of the $800bn (&#163;424bn) global advertising market, Mr Schmidt explained that the apparently scatter-gun approach to research that lets engineers spend a fifth of their time working on pet projects, also allows the company to innovate faster than any rival.While this has created some products (such as shopping service Froogle) that have not been a great success, it also led to the Gmail email service which despite still being only in test form is rapidly catching up with market leaders such as Hotmail.But Mr Schmidt admitted that the company is spending more energy than perhaps it has in the past on integrating some of these seemingly random ventures back into its core revenue-generating search tool, something that could be seen as a sea change within the business, though Google executives maintain it is not going through a major consolidation phase.But the lack of a visible pipeline of development from Google - which never gives a clear indication of what it is working on until it is released - infuriates some of its stockholders, who would rather it concentrated on a few lucrative services."We are very clear and I want to be clear and on the record," said Mr Schmidt. "We run the company for the benefit of our end-users globally."Looking at the current court case in Houston where Kenneth Lay and Jeffrey Skilling, former executives of collapsed energy giant Enron, await the outcome of their trial for fraud, he added: "Speaking as an American company chief executive, when the management team starts focusing on the stock price rather than focusing on its business and customers you get a really bad outcome. We are focused on doing the right thing for the long-term"Mr Schmidt also attacked suggestions from some major US cable companies that providers of capacity-hungry internet services - such as video and TV - should be charged to run their services over the web. This presents a challenge to what is generally seen as the internet's neutrality, that everyone should be able to get on to it."We believe this violates one of the founding principles that built the internet today and it could stifle the next wave of innovation," he said.In fact Google is currently working on its own video tool. While adamant that the company is not looking to get into the provision of content itself, it is looking to produce a video tool that will allow broadband TV viewers to find the shows they want from the hundreds that are available across the world. It is looking for media partners interested in using such a tool.Mr Schmidt also had a few consoling words for the traditional media business which sees its profitability being utterly eroded by online rivals. He said usage of traditional media placed online is rising rapidly, but circulations - the revenue generator - are declining. "You don't have a lack of audience problem, you have a business model problem," he said.
I've just received word from Rivers Run Red, the folks who helped to organise theRadio 1 Big Weekend eventinSecond Life, that they've got tickets to give away to a special advance screening of XMen 3 on 24 May in London's fabulous Soho. They've also given us a smart movie poster signed by Rogue, exclusive to gamesblog readers. If you're up for it, head to Second Life and find your way to the Avalon Sim for 8pm GMT, and then enter the raffles. There are two - be sure to enter both for the chance to win win win.To RSVP, send an email toNickfor your guest list ticket, and include your avatar name.Update: You have 24 hours to enter
Nostalgia? Relief? Sweet sweet after touch? It's a mixture of all of these and more that makeSensible Soccer 2006my game of the year so far. Sure, it lacks the epic grandeur of Oblivion or Colossus, but for sheer leap off the sofa yank the pad from the console excitement Sensi betters both. I've been playing the PS2 review code for a week now and can thoroughly recommend it. The developersKujuhave nailed the essence of what made the original Sensible Soccer such a blast - fast paced action, aftertouch, imaginative use of the sliding tackle - while adding enough features to tempt those who missed out in the 90s.Sensi was originally created in the pre/early Premiership era and in some way the action reflects this. Long balls, heavy tackles and dodgy keepers are all to the fore and anyone who, like me, used to pay a fiver to stand on the terraces in the late 80s will feel right at home. And to be honest, nostalgia does play a big part here. From the music to the thudding sound effects, Sensi 2006 does take you right back to the Amiga/Megadrive era. But, and this is crucial, unlike other retro remakes the action remains enjoyable even when the nostalgic glow has worn off. This is mainly due to the strength of the original game, but also the subtle yet welcome additions such as sprinting and replays.This was the last chance for Sensi. If Kuju/Codemasters had mucked this up the "brand" would have been banished to mobile/toy ignominy. Luckily they haven't. It won't outsell FIFA or outclass PES but Sensible Soccer 2006 is good enough to appeal to more than just the over 25s who adored the original.
Tip o' the hat to Tom Martin at devart.org for alerting us tohttp://www.worldcupkickoff.com/, which providesall you will ever need for knowing all the match details for the upcoming World Cup 2006. Whether you use your mobile phone, MS Outlook, Apple iCal or Mozilla Calendar, you can download and keep all the fixtures you are interested in so you will never miss a single game! Just download the calendar file and install it on your favoured software following the instructions on the left.Note that in the UK we're presently on GMT+1. I think.Alternatively, it could still be useful if your desire is to miss every single game, or head for the supermarkets or shops at a time when you can be confident that it'll be quieter.We're also impressed by the big sticker in the top left of the site: "Forever Beta (Probably)". Ah, honesty in advertising - was it just us, or did it never go away?
It's beenannouncedthat the newDS Litehandheld console will be released in the European territories on 23 June, only two weeks after its release in the US. While this delay may irk some gamers, a fortnight is nothing compared with the six monthSony PSPreleasedebacle.In the UK, the re-vamped DS will cost £99.99.Joystiqhas kindly pointed out that this is £30lessmore than the US price and £2 less than the Euro price.Edit: that's what I meant.
A security breach at one of the biggest internet service providers in the UK led to thousands of customers' private details being made public, it has emerged.Wanadoo, which has 2 million internet subscribers in Britain, admitted that a technical mistake led to swaths of customer account information - including their real names and passwords - being published online."Wanadoo would like to reassure customers that this was an isolated incident and as soon as we were made aware of the problem, the information was removed from the public domain," the company said in a statement. "An investigation is currently taking place to uncover how this happened."A spokesman for the company said that the leak was fixed as soon as technicians became aware of the problem last week - but admitted that they had no idea how long it had existed for. Internet postings from some customers speculated that the loophole, which seems to have emanated from Portugal, may have lain undiscovered for as long as two years.Around 20,000 customers are believed to have been affected directly, although red-faced officials refused to confirm exact numbers. It is not clear exactly what information had been mistakenly published, but it is believed that affected customers had their real name, email address, user name and password all put online.As a result of the breach, the company's chief executive, Eric Abensur, was forced to send an email message directly to customers, urging those affected to change their passwords as soon as possible."Any compromise of the security and integrity of our service is unacceptable," Mr Abensur told subscribers.It is not the first time an internet company operating in the UK has mistakenly published customer information. Last year Tiscali was forced to apologise after mistakenly displaying the name, address and contact information of random subscribers."I feel that any company dealing with technology at this level should be far more aware of security, and yet it seems that it has been grossly neglected at the expense of the customer," said one customer. "If an ISP is making mistakes of this magnitude, how can any of its users ever hope to be safe?"The incident has caused consternation at Wanadoo, which was originally set up as pioneering service provider Freeserve before being bought by France Telecom six years ago.The parent company recently announced plans to axe 2,000 Wanadoo jobs as part of a restructuring. The company will be folded into the Orange brand this summer as its French owners look to converge their mobile and online businesses.
Welcome back. How was your weekend?
The more I read about Microsoft's Live Anywhere, announced at this year's E3, the more excited I get about the possibilities for social gaming. According to theBritish Gaming Blog,Live Anywhere is about accessing the features of Xbox Live - online video games, communication and digital multimedia - on Xbox 360, Windows and Mobile Phones. You get one gamertag, one set of achievements, one list of friends.In some ways, this is a networked extension of what the (ever-innovative) Sega Dreamcast was trying to do with its hybrid game/playable memory card controllers, which were used for the wired-to-tv product and could then be dismantled and taken away to continue the game on-the-go. The experience gained in playing with the handheld was then transferred back to the console-based game when it the controller was put back together again. That was a single-player experience of pervasiveaccess. The Xbox360 version has exploded this idea and have situated it in the connected community centralised by pervasivegaming.As Jez comments onJoystiq, the kind of pervasiveness promised by Microsoft through this service could create revolutionary access and consumption of massively multiplayer online games. I propose that it will also enhance the potential social aspects of offline/single-player products as well. Xbox360's Live is already a kind of meta-game in which members of the community "play" with reputation and trade. They may not be explicit aims of the service, but these factors have proved to be a large part of the fun. We've already seen this emergent meta-playfulness in many online games.Of course, it also brings closer the crazy idea of integrating game contacts, game experiences and social network applications. For more on this, check outherebeforeandhere.
Lexus IS 250&pound;22,400Top speed: 144mphMiles per gallon: 37Good for: Soft touchesBad for: Hard shouldersIt probably says more about my miserablist tendencies than I'd care to admit, but I've spent the past week praying that my car would break down. I wanted to stutter to a halt in Neasden; fail to start in Bromley; maybe even burst into flames on the M25... And not for the usual reasons (avoiding lunch with the in-laws; hoping to be rescued by a life-changing RAC mechanic), but because the Lexus IS is officially the car least likely to go phut.A survey published by Parker's Car Price Guide - the mug's bible for anyone hoping not to be taken for a ride by a man in a sheepskin coat - reveals that nine of the top 10 most reliable cars in Britain are Japanese. The only non-Japanese entrant is a BMW 5-Series (which sneaks in at number nine).It may come as a surprise to you that Lexus is Japanese. Many people think it's American, which isn't surprising as the brand was created to be an upmarket US export by its mother company, Toyota. Like many aspirational parents, Toyota wanted the best for its prestigious offspring and a new name was a logical step in setting it apart from its mother - a voracious, all-consuming global player known for her workmanlike runabouts.The first Lexus (should that be Lexi?) were sold in America in 1989 and the name is supposedly shorthand for the Japanese project's initial brief: 'Luxury Exports to the US'. Whether or not that's true, the Lexus's record can't be quibbled with - it's been the best-selling luxury brand in America for the past five years, with an astonishing penetration into the country's cultural heartland. In a single TV evening last week, I watched a mafia boss driving one on The Sopranos and then, during a documentary about Loretta Bobbit - the woman who famously cut off her husband's penis and gave the English language a new word - found her at the wheel of an IS250.The car is a direct rival to the thickly iced slice of the market occupied by BMW's 3-Series. The Lexus looks similar to the BMW. It's a similar size, similar price and even comes with a similarly huge Teutonic helping of technology - it has both heated and cooled seats. In all, it's a lovely, lovely car - almost as lovely, in fact, as a BMW. But not quite...The automatic version of the Lexus has a reputation for being incredibly smooth; the last word in refinement and as silky as one of Ryan Giggs's jinking runs. But the manual falls a long way short. The gearbox is clunky and heavy. I spent all week failing to find second and the peculiarly short gearstick means you can't put the car into reverse without first releasing the handbrake. I know you don't often need to do a reverse hill start, but I can't be the only person who has had to back up a one-way ramp in a multistorey.The only other luxury that's in short supply is space. It's a 'mid-size' saloon, but unless you are a 'mid-size' person you are going to feel very cramped - and the endless roof static meant I spent all week looking like Stan Laurel. At least if I'd broken down an RAC man could have lent me some hair gel.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Babies assigned a personal website at birth; companies that store your 'digital assets' like a bank; search engines which find your perfect holiday with undreamt-of precision. These are some of the concepts on the agenda at the 15th International World Wide Web Conference, the first to be held in Britain.From Tuesday, 1,200 delegates from 46 countries, including such outposts of cyberspace as Nicaragua and Nepal, will be at the International Conference Centre in Edinburgh, a city synonymous with the world's biggest arts festival rather than talk of Uniform Resource Locators and HyperText Markup Language.Britain's turn to host the gathering of the world's foremost webmasters is long overdue, particularly since the event will be headed, as always, by Sir Tim Berners-Lee, a Briton, who is the director of the World Wide Web Consortium and widely recognised as the father of the web.He will take the conference platform along with speakers whose diversity illustrates the all-embracing tentacles of his invention, including representatives of Motorola, Amazon, the UK Film Council, Reuters, Yahoo!, Nokia, Orange, Microsoft, Boeing, IBM and Walt Disney. Jack McConnell, the Scottish First Minister, will welcome delegates to the city.There will be sessions on creating a successful web-based business, as entrepreneurs seek to exploit 'the second dotcom boom' and hit on a big idea that will make them rich after the fashion of Google or the small ads website, craigslist. According to Wendy Hall, a longstanding colleague of Berners-Lee at Southampton University and executive director of the WWW2006 conference, the 'next Google' will be the first business to seize opportunities offered by rapidly developing technology.The babies of the future, for example, will have a web address instead of a National Insurance Number. Hall said: 'I have a vision that in the future when a baby is born you'll get some sort of internet ID that is effectively your digital persona, and it will grow with you. It will actually represent you in some way - what you know, what you've done, your experiences. I guess you'd call it your URI [Uniform Resource Identity]. This is the thing that always identifies you. Every time you do something on the internet, it is effectively logged, building up this profile that is with you for your life. Then you have your life's record, which can include any legal documents or photographs or videos that you might have, that you can pass on to your children. We will be able to build software that can interpret that profile to help get the answer that you need in the context that you're in.'Already anyone who goes online is adding to a 'digital footprint', and will have to manage it increasingly carefully, Hall believes. 'People are beginning to become aware of how easy it is to have their identities stolen. You need to understand what information about yourself you are leaving digitally around the world. I think of it like a bank. Our digital assets are as valuable to us as financial assets: they are going to be what defines us in the future. There are businesses that will grow up that will help you manage your digital identity.'Hall likened the moral dilemmas posed by the collection and use of personal data to those thrown up by human embryo research, and called for the government to establish a regulatory body. 'There are very deep ethical issues with this. I think we need not government itself but a well trusted, respected committee that will have oversight of the moral and ethical issues involved here. The UK has done very well out of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority, where we have a very good way of deciding ethically whether we should do stem cell research, for example.'Like an embryo is potentially a human life, your digital profile is actually you. You're dealing with people's health, emotional and educational records, and I think it's too important to just say, well, the businesses will take care of that.'The conference will also hear about Berners-Lee's ongoing ambitions for the 'semantic web', a phase which would employ software that can interpret the data currently on the web, understand its meaning and draw links between disparate sources. Hall explains by using the example of an online travel agent which, on the semantic web, would know who you are, how many children you have and what you like to do, and be able to search a global database of hotels to find the ideal destination, instead of merely producing a list of web pages.Despite fears of internet fraud, Hall remains optimistic. 'The web really changed our world in 1994 and it's continuing to change our world. People think the web's here and that's it, that's how it's going to stay, but it's changing all the time. I'm not saying there aren't big issues to sort out, but I think the message is, "You ain't seen nothing yet".'
Playing computer games may actually be good for children, according to a government study that found no proof that even violent games triggered aggressive behaviour.The games can improve children's decision-making and instil 'positive learning traits', some research suggests. At least one study argues that make-believe violence helps children 'conquer fears and develop a sense of identity', as gruesome fairytales once did.The review was ordered by ministers over concerns about possible links between bloodthirsty games and real-life violence. The fatal stabbing of 14-year-old Stefan Pakeerah, whose attacker was said to have been obsessed with a game called Manhunt, prompted a campaign by his mother to have violent titles banned.The review concluded fears about violent games reflected deeper social concerns about 'the changing nature of childhood in a modern world'. Most research suggesting a link came from America and did not take into account the context in which children played.Ministers have discussed age-labelling of games and are understood to be planning talks with the industry about helping parents choose titles.
I recently did an Office Reviewers' Workshop, which was hard work,but I also mentionedthat to attend, you have to sign an NDA (non-disclosure agreement): "The drawback is that you agree not to talk about stuff before it is released."One of the people presenting was Jessica Arnold, who runs Outlook 2007 in the Office team, and I guess she hasn't signed an NDA, because she's just given Robert Scoble a look at some of the new features. You canwatch the video on Channel 9. (I'm downloading it now -- 126MB -- but you can stream it if you can stand the buffering.)Yes, the video does look better: Scoble's department has bought a very expensive new camera.In my little piece about the Office workshop, I wrote that: "The main attraction is that you get the word directly from the decision makers - product managers and program managers such as Jensen Harris, Gray Knowlton and Brian Jones." Bit less of an attraction if they're going to put it out on video, of course, and as it happened, I'd heard Jensen Harris's presentation before....Still, there's another attraction: you can have a whinge about a product's failings to people who can actually do something about it. It may not do any good -- I whinged to Jessica about Outlook 2007's inability to export vCards in batches, not just one at a time, and I've been complaining about that since the last century. But it does make you feel better.
Here's an email we received this morning which seems to suggest that 419 scammers are branching out into a whole new playground..Von: Joy GoomanEmail:joygooman@xxxxxSehr geehrte Damen u. HerrenGeschäfts-Vorschlag! Sicher sind Sie verwundert, diese Nachricht von jemandem zu erhalten, den sie nicht personlich kennen. Der Grund weshalb ich mich an Sie wende ist das ich Simon Muzenda in, der erstgeborene Sohn von Azabeya Zulue, einem der bekanntesten schwarzen Farmer in Zimbabwe. Er wurde vor kurzem im Laufe des Landstreites in meinem Land ermordet. Ich erhielt Ihre Adresse durch das Interne und habe mich entschieden mich an Sie zu wenden. Bevor mein Vater starb, nahm er mich mit nach Johannesburg um dort einen Betrag von 9,5 Millionen US$ (Neun Millionen funfhunderttausend US Dollar) bei einer privaten Sicherheitsfirma zu deponieren.Compare that with opening of one I received today (in English):Permit me to inform you of my desire of going into business relationship with you. I know this mail may come to you as a surprise, since we have not known or written before. Afer you receive this mail kindly contact me on my private e.mail contact below. introducing myself, I am Sussy Kamara, the Only Daughter of the late Mr and Mrs Dikko Kamara, my father was a gold and cocoa mercahnt based in accra, ghana and Abidjan (Ivory Coast), he was poisoned to death by his business associates on one of their business trips. before the death of my father on 29th june 2004 in a private hospital here in Abidjan.My German's none too good, thoughGoogle's translation servicesays the top one reads:Very honoured ladies and Herrenbusiness suggestion! You are surely surprised to receive this message from someone to that it not personally know. The reason why I to you turns is which I Simon Muzenda in, the firstborn son of Azabeya Zulue, one the most well-known black Farmer in Zimbabwe. It was murdered recently in the course of the land controversy in my country. I received your address by the internal and have myself decided me to you to turn. Before my father died, he carried me forward after Johannesburg around there an amount of 9.5 million US$ (nine million funfhunderttausend US dollar) at a private safety company to deposit.That about makes sense. Pretty much the same thing. Are German-language 419s new? Are the scammers spending their ill-gotten gains on language lessons, or is this just our Anglo-centric view of the Net and Nigeria? We'd be interested to know.Meanwhile, if you want any more evidence of how 419ers destroy peoples' lives - though of course as the saying goes "You can't con an honest man" - then read thisNew Yorker piece about one man's experience. (He's in prison himself now for defrauding his own patients in the pursuit of nonexistent riches.) It's scary how even apparently educated people can think they'll get the better of scammers who do this for a serious living.If the New Yorker piece feels like too many words, wewrote about the same topic in Technologya few months back.
Following the success of itslast table, Hitwise has, "by popular demand," compiled a table to show how Google, Yahoo! and MSN properties stack up inthe portal wars.Google (47.40%) dominates search, and this is no surprise. Yahoo (16%) is getting hammered, even though Yahoo's search is as good as or better than Google's. MSN Search (11.50%) is doing even worse.But in most other listed categories, Yahoo is winning, and Yahoo Mail (42.4%) is thrashing Hotmail (22.90%). It's amusing, but not surprising, to see the reality of the blogosphere's assumption that "everybody" uses Gmail (2.54%). The blogosphere's "everybody" ignores 97% of the US population as standard. ;-)Yahoo News (6.90%) is beating the fundamentally-flawed Google News (1.9%).Yahoo Finance (34.90%) is beating MSN Money (13.40%) and Google Finance (0.29%). That's a terrible result, but I'd expect it to change: Google Finance is good.When it comes to maps, Mapquest (56.30%) dominates the market, ahead of Yahoo Maps (20.50%) and Google Maps (7.5%) -- another shock for the blogosphere, I guess. MSN Virtual Earth (4.30%) is ahead of Google's bought-in Google Earth (2%).But as always, popularity may be temporary, and is no guarantee of quality.....
Get all this week's posts on one page by clickinghereHighlights include:Guy 'not black' Kewney -- the videoApple announces the MacBookSony caught out -- faking Blu-raySpammers kick Blue Frog into submissionWMP 11 becomes a visual media managerFinally -- PS3 will cost a bargain GBP425
The Generator BlogThe internet is good at being useful but it's better at uselessness, as shown by the Generator blog, a portal into the ever expanding phenomenon of software that generates something you have absolutely no need for, such as Alanis Morissette lyrics, Monty Python silly walks or kitten names. One can construct a comic book story starring some superbly cheesy 1970s cut-outs using the Comics Generator or convert photos into puzzles using the Puzzle Generator. Also great is the Movie-plot-o-matic, which will generate a pitch for your perfect film - especially if it involves "an antisocial loner teaming up with a crotchety codger".JDgeneratorblog.blogspot.comRetro To GoRetro is now a lifestyle all of its own, generally made up of things - fridges, cycling jerseys, anglepoise lamps - that were never cool when they were around the first time but strangely seem to have developed an alluring sheen of charm over the course of time. And stuff that has been repurposed for modern society, such as groovy new space hoppers. Ostensibly it's a shopping site with links to the merchants and makers of said goods, but also includes a regular spot pointing out upcoming retro-theme TV shows, movie reviews and junkshop gems in which they review some tat they've found at the local Cancer Research store.JDwww.retrogo.comA Scanner DarklyThe latest movie to be adapted from a Phillip K Dick story, A Scanner Darkly stars our man without a spoon Keanu Reeves in another tale of existentialist drug paranoia as a man who is asked to spy on his friends. Using a process called interpolated rotoscoping (sounds painful), the film plays like a graphic novel come to life with live action film overlaying animation.Regardless of how good the movie turns out, it looks stunning. The site's great too: instant messages pop up from some evil cubicle dweller called Fred, there's a psychological test designed to send you insane, a constant soundtrack of extreme static and a downloadable art pack so users can make their own poster of the film.JDwip.warnerbros.com/ascannerdarkly
A few interesting developments in the field of live music. Sandi Thom (sandithom.com), who got signed after 20 consecutive nights of webcast gigs, recently played three webcast gigs on two different continents in one day. Fancy that.It's a trend the fine folk atliveroom.tvare hoping to cash in on with their irregular top quality broadcasts of unsigned acts.Far posher is Extra Venue (yahoo.co.uk/extravenue), a free live music site with bundles of goodies from top draws like the Zutons, Snow Patrol and Corinne Bailey Rae, who also invites us to her native Leeds for a spot of siteseeing.All very lovely but even better iswww.fabchannel.com, which has complete gigs from exotic Amsterdam including recent shows from Richard Ashcroft and Editors, whileblueroom.att.comhosts all manner of cool live acts performing live in the US.
MondayMore overtime lawsuits hit US courtsMaking your Xbox360 talkTuesdayIs PS3 expensive? It's all relativeTake 2 caught in the buff againSony unveils Blu-ray notebookRockstar Vienna: blogger reveals the consequences of closureWednesdayThe science of Guitar HeroWill you be paying with Project Entropia dollars or pounds stirling, sir?DS everywhereThe E3 round-upsThursdayE3: 1995TechnologyGrey gamers needed!Edinburgh awardsXbox Live passes 24 million downloadsFridayPS3 UK = 425 poundsKatamari rolls up San Fran on 21st MayDa Vinci gameSonic joins one-button revolution
I somehow overlookedthislittle mobile gaming tit-bit from E3 - apparently Sega was showing off a new Sonic title, Sonic Jump, exclusively designed for Java handsets. The game sees you controlling the loveable hedgehog as he - yes - jumps on a series of trampolines, bouncing higher and higher until he finally meets his nemesis, Dr Eggman. What happens then? I don't know, but it probably involves jumping.Designed to attract casual gamers, the controls consist of just one button - jump. And with the might of the Sonic brand behind it, this may represent a re-birth for the one-thumb gaming trend, which briefly hit the West last year (one-thumb games are massive in Japan and Korea) before being buried under a landfill of movie licenses and quiz games.When Sonic Jump is released it won't be alone. Player X has just announced a mobile phone version of Scalextric, which uses just one button to mimic the trigger-based controllers of the cult slot-car racing legend. It also features a track editing element, although mercifully, you won't be able to accidentally bend the metal slots as you're putting bits together, thereby rendering the track piece useless. Curse my impatient chubby childhood fingers!Finally, Telco took its ingenious multiplayer puzzler,Kodo, to E3 where the company attempted to break an unlikely sounding world record for the highest number of players simultaneously taking part in a game on one handset. Theoretically, 26 can play Kodo at once. I'm not sure if they broke the record, and neither is their UK PR company, but it sounds like a worthwhile jape.Anyway, one-thumb gaming... it is clearly one of the most sensible ideas to hit mobile game design and there have been some fantastic examples, inluding Skipping Stone and Nom by Korean publisher Gamevil, and Jumbo Rumble from Digital Chocolate. But is itsexyenough? So far players in the West have resisted the genre, perhaps mistakenly equating interface simplicity with shallow gameplay. But with Wii set to smash up people's expectations of videogame controls could one-thumb play finally be about to get the understanding and attention it craves and, in my opinion, deserves?
Ok, I wasn't expecting much but theDa Vinci Code gameis a disappointment so far. Clearly rushed out to co-incide with thecritically pannedmovie, the game will frustrate its natural audience - casual players tempted by familiarity with the book - and bore regular gamers.Much of the game, well what I've played so far, is based around solving puzzles. Examining, combining, problem-solving - veteran point and click fans will feel right at home. But then it goes horribly wrong, with tedious combat and stealth that feels tacked on simply to appeal to younger players. This jarring mix of puzzling and action ruins what could have been a competent tie-in and, considering the mainstream audience, it would have made more sense to concentrate on brains rather than brawn. Maybe it will get better - it can't get much worse - but at the moment the Da Vinci Code game appears to match the quality of the film.
So what are you doing this weekend (other than watchingEurovision)?
A man walks down the street, prominently displaying his mobile phone. His T-shirt is branded, as are his shoes, and the billboards he walks past flip between car advertisements. Nothing unusual there - except that this is a video game.The games industry is thriving, and is estimated to be worth &pound;23bn worldwide this year alone. Reports this month that Microsoft might spend $400m (&pound;211m) buying Massive, a New York-based games advertising firm, has thrown a spotlight on in-game ads - one of the world's fastest-growing media markets."Games are big business," says Paul Lee, a technology and media analyst with Deloitte Research. "And there's been quite a significant change in complexity and time spent on them. Now video gaming is probably the most important new media around - even more so than web browsing."Unlike the real world, where advertising assails us from every surface, virtual environments have, until now, remained relatively free of marketing. Often, game makers have placed their own fake advertising inside games to pump up the perception of reality. But the situation is changing, partly due to a new generation of internet-friendly games consoles.Some market analysts forecast that game advertising will be worth up to $2bn by 2010. Although some forms of in-game advertising - such as product placement and sponsorship - have existed for a number of years, a new market in "dynamic" advertising is quickly opening up thanks to the rise in internet connectivity.New technologies enable companies to drop live adverts into games straight from the internet: on virtual billboards, virtual T-shirts or virtual racing cars. In theory, this makes it possible for a regular stream of new ads to be tailored to the player's interests and built to fit the environment of any game. In practice, a number of developers, marketers and publishers have already jumped on the bandwagon."The Microsoft news is a very positive thing," says Ed Bartlett, vice-president of IGA Worldwide, another leading in-game advertising company. "It really comments on how serious this market's going to be, and guarantees that there's going to be continuing support."LegitimacyMr Bartlett says that the legitimacy provided by Microsoft's move has helped stimulate interest in dynamic advertisers, who take information such as a player's age, location and tastes into account in placing targeted marketing, without ever breaking the feeling of a game world.Google has, of course, used a similar concept - placing advertising on your screen, based on what you are doing and where you are - to build a multibillion-dollar business in web advertising.For advertisers, the appeal of in-game ads is simple: in a media environment where young men, in particular, are spending more time playing games than watching television, in-game advertising offers brands a crucial new line of approach."It's going to be a long time before we see a Colgate advert in Grand Theft Auto," says Paul Jackson, an analyst with Forrester Research. "But some of the edgy brands wouldn't have so much of a problem advertising in games like that."Some people are more sceptical about the medium-term growth prospects, and say that although in-game advertising has a place, it requires several factors to link together before it can become a serious player.But games publishers and developers are enthusiastic about the possibilities, and keen to stress that new revenue streams could provide a vital lifeline for them. British companies are not alone in struggling to cope with increasingly large budgets and short life cycles of video games. A typical top-rated title may take several years to develop and cost in the region of &pound;10m, which many investors deem too risky."Video games are big business - but they are constituting more and more financial risk," says Paul Lee, of Deloitte Research. "If you look at the next generation of games, the cost could go up to $20m. Now compare that to an Oscar-winning film - there isn't much difference."OriginalityThe result of such expensive productions has been a slow decline in levels of originality and a reliance on an endless torrent of sequels designed to put money in the bank. However, some developers think that the extra revenue from in-game advertising could reduce budgetary pressures and buoy Britain's host of innovative but fragile games companies."I think that in the UK and Europe we're quite brave with our games," says Peter Chan, of Codemasters, a British-based publisher and developer. "But if you've got the opportunity to do a game that you once wouldn't have, because there's now a new revenue stream, then people will take that chance. There are risks that some people will go too far ... but for any publisher going forwards, it is a fantastic opportunity."According to some insiders, market growth shows no signs of stopping. Audiences are expanding, bringing in more female gamers and those over 40, who have traditionally eschewed the medium. The technological capabilities are being stretched all the time, with high expectations of Sony's PlayStation 3. Even handheld devices are in on the act. Both the PlayStation Portable and Nintendo's DS have built-in wireless internet connections, as does a new generation of mobile phones.Peculiarly enough, there is no real backlash against the prospect from grassroots gamers. Punters are tempted by the idea of more innovation or cheaper prices but they also appreciate the realism of changing advertising when it is placed properly. "In some genres, if done well, it seems like a win-win situation," says Paul Jackson of Forrester Research.Ed Bartlett, of IGA Worldwide, points out: "Gamers say that these things are adding measurably to the in-game experience. It's one of the few media where that happens."
The Free Information Society has a wonderful (but very US-oriented) collection offunky retro recordings, from PT Barnum via Adolf Hitler declaring war and Mahatma Gandhi (Soldier of Peace) to the Apollo programme (One Small Step For Man; Houston We Have a Problem). There's lots of dead presidents.Don't miss Robert Frost - Fire and Ice.
Microsoft is finallyfirming up the requirements, and I guess you should soon be able to see PCs with stickers that say a PC is Vista Capable or Vista Premium Ready. If you already have a PC, skip to the end....Vista Capable means a PC runs Vista but without the 3D user interface, Aero Glass. Microsoft says that includes at least:A modern processor (at least 800MHz). 512 MB of system memory. A graphics processor that is DirectX 9 capable.A Windows Vista Premium Ready PC includes at least:1 GHz 32-bit (x86) or 64-bit (x64) processor. 1 GB of system memory. A graphics processor that runs Windows Aero. 128 MB of graphics memory. 40 GB of hard drive capacity with 15 GB free space. DVD-ROM Drive. Audio output capability. Internet access capability.Seethis pagefor more info on the graphics requirements.The minimum required spec ishere.If you already have a PC, go to Microsoft'supgrade pageand download the Windows Vista Upgrade Advisor beta. (Note: it's English only, and requires Windows XP.) There's aFAQabout it.
The annualBay to Breakers12k race is happening in the very hilly city of San Francisco this Sunday to commemorate the devastating earthquake of 1906, and if you happen to be on the West Coast of America and so-inclined,a gaggle of Katamari Damacy fanswill be rolling up the streets (and possibily other runners), just like the Prince in the bizarre interactive series. Kickoff is at 8am. You do have to keep yourself amused somehow when running such a distance.Looking forward to seeing thisFlickrset.viaWired.
Hitwise has published a niceTop 20 of Google domains. The main search page gets 79.98% of the hits to these properties, followed by image search (9.54%) and Gmail (5.51%). But most get less than 0.5%, and the bottom eight get 0.1% or less.Hitwise says: "some of the latest Google offerings have yet to capture significant market share in their category (Google Finance currently ranks 39th in the Business &amp; Finance - Business Information category, with 0.29% market share of visits to the category, Yahoo! Finance in contrast, ranks #1 in the same category with 35.6% of market share)."
Will your new PC run Windows Vista? Will your old one? SeeAsk Jack
Accordingto Gamesindustry.biz, Sony Computer Entertainment MD Ray Maguire has revealed the UK price point for the full-spec PS3: £425. In a video interview he told Eurogamer TV, "I don't think it's an expensive machine; I think actually, it's probably a cheap machine... If you think a Blu-Ray player by itself might be GBP 600-700, and we're coming in at just GBP 425 - it's a bargain."This is clearly Sony's corporate line, but some may feel such a comparison is a misnomer. Early adopters of new audio visual formats are not necessarily gamers - few self-respecting home cinema enthusiasts would have purchased PS2 as their first DVD player, for example. Although it was cheaper than purpose-built models at the time, the specifications and interface were not as good, and the machine itself didn't fit comfortably into established home entertainment set-ups. PS3 is undoubtedly sexier as a home entertainment machine, however, and as Blu-ray is Sony's baby, it may be a more tempting prospect for the usually snobbish tech intelligentsia.Of course, all this may be academic. While commentators have expressed concern and even astonishment at this price point, they seem to be forgetting the relative lack of machines likely to be available at launch: just two million. Frankly, Sony could double the price and those units would still never touch the shelves. Pre-orders will gobble them up, and amid the panic and the hype, demand will grow. When the next lot hits the global market, they'll be swallowed up too.Sony didn't have a great E3... so what? If failing to impress the specialist media always led to disaster, Hollywood would have fallen into dust decades ago. And those pundits making comparisons between PS3 and N64 (i.e. a once dominant force releasing controversial technology a year after its competitors) are overlooking key factors. N64 launched into a market which had effectively been revolutionalised by PlayStation on aglobalscale. In comparison, Xbox 360 is still struggling in Japan - which remains the psychological hub of the industry.Yes, Sony is bullish, just as Nintendo was 10 years ago. But, unlike Nintendo, clinging in 1995 to the archaic cartridge format, it is looking ahead. Hi-Defisthe future. The ball is there for Sony to drop, not for its competitors to snatch away.
"Sony Computer Entertainment UK MD Ray Maguire has revealed that PlayStation 3 will retail for £425 when it launches in the UK on November 17th, but has defended the price point as 'a bargain' for consumers," reportsGamesIndustry.biz."I don't think it's an expensive machine; I think actually, it's probably a cheap machine," he commented. "If you think a Blu-Ray player by itself might be GBP 600-700, and we're coming in at just GBP 425 - it's a bargain."Comment: 'A bargain' is when customers are offered something for less than they are happy to pay. But why should anyone pay a premium price for a Cell processor? So far, the Xbox 360 (plus a year's developer experience) seems to be delivering more and better games than the PS3, for less money, and the Wii clearly has its own appeal, so the Cell doesn't look like a bargain at all.When it comes to working as Blu-ray player, I don't have any Blu-ray movies and I don't have an HDTV, so that feature has exactly zero value. What it costs Sony is irrelevant.IfI get an HDTV (not this year or next) andifBlu-ray movies come out at competitive prices (ie not £40 each), then I might be interested in a cheap Blu-ray player, and I might even pay twice the price of a decent DVD player to get one ... but £425 would still be too much.There's no doubt that the PS3 could be a stunning success. In the long run, developers will presumably get to grips with programming the hardware, and mass production will bring down the cost of Blu-ray drives, enabling Sony to cut the price. Two years from now, it could look terrific value. But not when it arrives.
Yes, Microsoft has announced that there have now been over 24 million downloads from Xbox Live worldwide, a figure boosted considerably by the company's decision to make key E3 demos available to subscribers. As the press release merrily points out:"Xbox Live members downloaded over 5 million pieces of gaming and entertainment content during the 7 days of E3: Bringing It Home, consuming more than 600 Terabytes of data, shattering all previous records for the network. At the same time, traffic on Xbox.com doubled during the week, driving more than 6 million unique users to the site as well."Naturally, being a reasonably competitive company, Microsoft gleefully pointed out that "Only Xbox Live could bring E3 home in high definition for consumers around the world" - apart from (among others I suspect) the site I blogged about last week, offering the Hi-Def Spore demo to lowly PC and Mac owners.Anyway, enough quibbling, do you want to see which ten demos received the most downloads? I bet you can't guess number one...1. Halo 3 Game Trailer (Microsoft Game Studios) 2. Lost Planet: Extreme Condition Free Playable Demo (Capcom) 3. Test Drive Unlimited Free Playable Demo (Atari) 4. MotoGP '06 Free Playable Demo (THQ) 5. X-Men: The Last Stand Pack (20th Century Fox) 6. Gears of War GameTrailer (Microsoft Game Studios) 7. Call of Duty 2: Skirmish Map Pack (Activision) 8. Spiderman 3 Game Trailer (Activision) 9. Fable 2 Trailer (Microsoft Game Studios) 10. Uno Xbox Live Arcade Game (Microsoft Game Studios)Good to see Lost Planet right up there at number two - a slightly atypical Xbox title in that it has been developed in Japan and doesn't involve WWII, terrorists, comic book characters or Master Chief...
Games may not be the first, or even the seventh, thing you think of when you hear Edinburgh Festival. But over the last couple of years theEdinburgh Interactive Entertainment Festival(EIEF) has grown into something pretty interesting - and not just because it is more accessible thanLeipzig. There is a definite attempt to take a more serious look at gaming, even if the event hasn't quite decided what it wants to be.The shortlist for the 2006 EIEF Edge Awards were announced today, and may surprise you. Yes, the likes of Killer 7 and Ouendan are exactly what you'd expect from a list that, "rewards neither commercial success, nor necessarily popularity." But it is less obvious to see how Amped 3 and Dragon Quest VIII have, "marked out innovative new paths or achieved new standards of excellence." Good games yes, but what aboutColossusorPsychonauts? Both meet the criteria of an Edge magazine review in the last year. Anyway, the full list is below. My money is on Brain Training to win, with perhaps Guitar Hero as an each way bet.Amped 3 (360, developed by Indie Built, Inc., published by Take Two)Brain Training (DS, developed and published by Nintendo)Dragon Quest VIII (PS2, developed by Level 5, published by Square Enix)Electroplankton (DS, developed by Toshio Iwai, published by Nintendo)Fahrenheit (PC/PS2/Xbox, developed by Quantic Dream, published by Atari)Guitar Hero (PS2, developed by Harmonix, published by Red Octane)Killer 7 (GC/PS2, developed by Grasshopper Inc, published by Capcom)Ossu! Tatakae! Ouendan! (DS, developed by Inis, published by Nintendo)
"Sony took the wraps off its Vaio UX50 ultracompact PC at a news conference in Tokyo on Tuesday" and Martyn Williams of IDG News Service has done a"hands on" report.
It's time to chat.
Screenshot: WinSupersiteYesterday, Microsoft released a beta version of Windows Media Player 11, which could be considered a sort of pre-release of the Windows Vista version (it's been in the Vista code for about 7 months). It's still a development of versions 9 and 10, but with a much cleaner and more visual user interface, and it will also take over photo management from the old Windows picture viewer, though this isn't obvious at the moment.WMP11 also takes music download/MP3/WMA player integration to the next level, as per iTunes 6. There will be new music services (eg Urge) and new portable players (eg iRiver Clix, Creative etc) to exploit it.Paul Thurrott hasreviewed WMP11and WinSupersite is the best place for screen dumps that offer a good idea of how it works. He concludes:Despite being an avid iTunes user for the past few years, I find myself drawn to Windows Media Player 11. It's better looking, has a better user interface, and offers dramatically better performance than Apple's entry. What's lacking are iPod integration and a few iTunes-related niceties that I've come to expect, such as integrated support for podcasts and a decent tag editor. Unfortunately, these are basically must-have items for me, so I won't be switching to WMP 11. On the other hand, WMP 11, like Internet Explorer (IE) 7 (see my review of Beta 2), is a surprisingly good software offering and will likely be quite satisfactory for many, many people. If you're currently using an earlier WMP version, you should upgrade to WMP 11 immediately. It's a dramatic improvement over its predecessors, albeit with one that continues to ignore the market reality of the iPod.CNet has areviewwith avideoand10 reasons to love WMP11. PC Magazine has areviewand a slideshow.Coverage in the mainstream press has tendednotto focus on the product, eg the Daily Telegraph'sGates and MTV versus the mighty iPod, though it doesn't mention theiRiver Clix, a new version of the U10.If you just want to play media, of course, thenMedia Player Classic(think 6.4) is hard to beat.
I admit to not understanding more than the basics about my PC, but I can't find a way of reducing my ignorance. I don't want to become a professional: I just want to be able to set up things like wireless networks, troubleshoot errors and glitches properly. Manuals and "how to" books don't help. Any ideas? Deirdre Janson-SmithSome local education colleges, libraries and leisure centres still run introductory courses in computing, but that's pot luck. Another alternative isLearnDirect, which offers online learning and also has some local centres. LearnDirect offers courses that lead to the European Computer Driving Licence (ECDL), a qualification created by the British Computer Society to promote computer literacy (http://catalogue.learndirect.co.uk/qualifications/details/547720/). However, the main thrust seems to be about improving the quality of the workforce, which isn't quite what you need.The best option would probably be one-to-one tuition in your own home. This is available fromDigital Unite, which started in 1996 as Hairnet, with a focus on helping "silver surfers". It now specialises in "nervous first timers" but also provides ECDL training. Personal tuition costs about £25 per hour, plus travel charge if necessary, negotiated in advance. You can contact DU through its website or on 0870 241 5091.Backchat: Don Macdonald of North West London OnLine says the most important service helping beginners learn IT is 6,000 UK Online centres (www.ufi.com/ukol) -- small centres where the friendly atmosphere and small groups encourages learners. "Our network of 12 centres runs IT courses six days a week, with staff and volunteers who speak 13 languages."
When can we expect "solid state" Flash hard drives of a reasonable size and price in the computer world? I know they exist in the military world. Ken HickfordPeople have been predicting the death of hard drives for more than a decade, but mechanical drive manufacturers have kept making astonishing advances. Samsung has launched a 32GB Flash drive, and forecast that a third of notebook PCs would use solid state hard drives by 2008. The advantages of SSDs (solid state drives) include speed, low weight, low power requirements, small size, and resilience -- they tend not to break if you drop them.The problem is that, assuming Flash memory chips cost $20 per gigabyte, 32GB would still cost $640 -- about £340. You could get up to 700GB of conventional hard drive storage for that sort of money. However, when solid state hard drives do become commercially viable for general use, you'll see them advertised in ultra-mobile PCs, where light weight and low power requirements command premium prices.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday June 1 2006We mistakenly said that Nominum is a company hoping to sell hardware for a new integrated phone and email system in the article below. Nominum sells only software.How many times have you received an email saying you have just missed a telephone call? Or a voicemail explaining you have been faxed information? Or a text message containing a phone number?There have never been more ways for us to communicate, and yet each new method simply adds to the last. The internet is not superseding mobile phones, and mobiles are not replacing landlines. To make matters worse, these communication devices are not keen on communicating with one another.It can be done, of course. Calling from a landline to a mobile is seamless, but often slow and expensive. A BlackBerry can send and receive emails, but the system behind it is complex and you have to pay extra for the privilege. Skype offers cheap or free phone calls over the internet, but is far from universal or perfect.What is needed is a simple method to connect all these devices quickly, easily, efficiently and cheaply. Fortunately, it exists. Called Enum, it is due to arrive in the UK in time for Christmas.Internationally approvedEnum is an internationally approved method for linking the old telecommunications network with the internet. It works by using your phone number to create a unique address on the internet. This address is then used to store what are called Naptr (Naming Authority Pointer Records), which contain whatever contact details you wish to include, such as a landline number, mobile, fax, website, email, instant messaging address - in fact, any method of communication that can be reached using the internet or phone network. You can then add rules that make it possible to redirect people to one or other of these contact details depending on who they are, how they are connecting, what time it is and so on.According to Chris Risley, chief executive of Nominum, a company hoping to sell the machines that will do most of the work, Enum provides "a good anchor and a good route". It also, he says, comes with a range of advantages: "First, we will get digital-quality sound and then lots of other applications: movies, instant messaging, video conferencing ..."Jay Daley, IT director of Nominet, agrees Enum has "very large potential". Nominet runs the UK's internet registry, meaning it is in charge of all domain names that end in ".uk", and the company is so keen to take on the equivalent role with Enum that it is seeking a change to its articles of association so it can bid.Daley says the higher-quality phone calls will also come at a lower price, perhaps even free, but with charges for additional services. And Enum could enable people to build their own virtual telephone exchanges - which is precisely the situation witnessed by Michael Haberler, one of a few people with real-world Enum experience. Haberler is chairman of Internet Foundation Austria, part of the successful bid to bring Enum to Ireland later this year, and he started the world's first commercial Enum service in December 2004.There have since been 5,500 Enum registrations but they relate to 60,000 end-points because most of the business has come from companies looking to recreate their own internal telephone networks with digital technology. People moving from standard phone lines to Voice over Internet Protocol for the cost savings are seeking additional savings by having digital exchanges. But this relatively simple process has brought with it an enormous array of problems: Who gets to run the Enum database? Who is allowed to add to or alter it? Who will ensure there is no abuse of the system?When Enum was approved in 2002, the idea was that individuals would grab their own number and use it as a way of controlling communication. But this is fraught with legal issues, such as identity theft, privacy concerns and a new generation of scams. The need to check that someone is who they say they are has added an authentication requirement. Under the strict UK model that has evolved from five years of discussions and trials, the cost may be as much as &pound;10 per Enum.Authentication difficultiesEveryone agrees this is too high, leading to consideration of an entirely new telephone number so there is no need for authentication. Haberler has tried this approach in Austria - it worked, but business is still "fairly small and slow".The problem, he explained, is that phone and internet companies are not interested in pushing it because of the support problem; they would much rather run the system themselves and get people to apply through them. This second type of Enum, usually called Carrier Enum, is what we are most likely to see at Christmas: companies such as BT will offer to handle the privacy and technical issues, neatly packaging the result as a new product or service.Tony Holmes, chairman of the UK Enum Group and a BT employee, says it is a good way "to get an awful lot of numbers into Enum". The system's success is a bit chicken-and-egg, he says. "We need the applications to drive it, and we need the numbers for the applications."But in the five-year delay in rolling out Enum, a number of competing protocols have appeared. Applications from Google, Microsoft, Skype and others already do much of what Enum promises - and use searchable names rather than old-school phone numbers.But it is not too late for a system based on phone numbers, says Desiree Miloshevic, Enum policy advisor for Afilias, another company looking to play its part. "In 50 years, we won't need telephone numbers," she explained. "But you can't yet click to dial a number. Kids still use telephone numbers and you still see them on business cards and posters."So while Enum may not end up being the future, it will play a vital part in creating it - and will bring some potentially exciting advances in the meantime.&#183; How does it work?Enum takes your number, reverses it, then inserts it into a part of the internet used exclusively for infrastructure. The Guardian's telephone number is 020 7278 2332, so its Enum internet address would be: 2.3.3.2.8.7.2.7.0.2.4.4.e164.arpa, where "44" is the UK's international dialling code, "e164" is the name of the telephone numbering system and ".arpa" is the internet infrastructure equivalent of .com. Thanks to the efficiency of the internet's addressing system, a computer can understand and connect to the address in a fraction of a second. That makes a fast, stable and very cheap bridge between the old telecommunications system and the wider internet.Types of EnumUser Enum:An individual applies using his telephone number and inputs all his contact details. It comes complete with worries over privacy, ID theft and phone scams, and is likely to be too expensive and complicated for the average consumer.Carrier Enum:Communications companies such as BT, Vodafone or AOL offer an Enum as part of another service and retain all your details for you.Private Enum:Companies run private digital phone exchanges for employees.Infrastructure Enum:Industry uses Enum as the basic framework for connecting networks cheaply, efficiently and swiftly.
I have a number of CDs written seven or eight years ago. If I copy all the files to my hard drive in Windows Explorer, a message will come up telling me that a certain file is corrupt and cannot be copied. Windows then stops copying, which makes it quite a lengthy process. Ian SmithIf you open a Command Prompt (looks like MS DOS), then the xcopy command will do the job. However, I suggest you tryRoadkil's Unstoppable Copierfor Windows and Linux. This can be set up to ignore damaged files, but will also, as the blurb says, "attempt to recover every readable piece of a file and put the pieces together. Using this method most types of files can be made useable even if some parts were not recoverable in the end." The program is free but Roadkil welcomes donations via PayPal.
