pls rt bc everyone needs alex from target on their tlpic.twitter.com/31udOj9Fxd&mdash; ash (@chntxl)November 2, 2014This weekend, the internet made a Target employee famous.Currently known only as “Alex from Target”, all it took was for one person to tweet a picture of him.Within 12 hours, Alex was a top trending topic, had been written about onvariousnewsoutletsand had amassed a total of 274,000 followers on a Twitter account linked to him. He’s also gained a few fake accounts along the way.All this happened without anyone really knowing Alex’s full name, age or location. Yet, somehow, he now has a fandom of his own and is now getting the kind of attention saved for members of One Direction. One Twitter account reported to belong to him has tweeted the following:Am i famous now?&mdash; DGM_Alex  (@acl163)November 2, 2014Target has said they are in contact with Alex’s store and family, but no comment has been made beyond that. They added they were “proud to have a great team” and lent their support to their employee on Twitter.We heart Alex, too!#alexfromtargetpic.twitter.com/LvA7qc5RfS&mdash; Target (@Target)November 3, 2014Accidental internet fame can happen incredibly easily. You could be one tweet away from becoming the next meme. Usually, it happens to people who expect it the least.Sometimes this fame can be cruel and frightening. But sometimes it can open doors for other opportunities. What can you do in that situation? Here are three examples of people who know exactly how it feels to bear the brunt of accidental internet fame.DogeWow. Such Doge. So meme.Photograph: Know Your MemeNot to be confused with Venetian royalty, doge is a meme which became popular late in 2013. As with all memes, the concept is simple and a bit bonkers. It involves superimposing broken English in colourful Comic Sans over pictures ofshiba inus. It doesn’t make much sense, but it doesn’t have to.Doge managed to baffle mainstream media earlier this year when it was discussed onRadio 4’s flagship Today programme. It’s also morphedinto its own cryptocurrency.Welcome to the internet, where anything can happen.The original picture of Kabosu the shiba inu, which has become synonymous with doge.Photograph: Atsuko Sato/http://kabosu112.exblog.jp/The unintended face of doge is a shiba inu called Kabosu, an adopted rescue dog living in Japan. Her owner Atsuko Sato is a teacher in Japanwho writes a hugely popular blog about her pets.Kabosu, thought to be seven to eight years old, was abandoned along with several other dogs after an unscrupulous breeder went bankrupt. Most of the dogs were put down. Luckily for Kabosu, she was adopted by Sato in November 2008.The 51-year-old kindergarten teacher often posts pictures of her pets on her blog and its Facebook page, but had no idea of Kabosu’s unexpected internet fame until a fellow blogger alerted her in August 2013. And at first, she was a little afraid.She said: “I was stunned.“A photo from one of my blogs had wandered off by itself. It was more like a feeling of: ‘how could something like this have even happened?’ My thoughts weren’t at all that the meme was cute or interesting.“If I’m being honest, I felt frightened by the net.”And things got weirder when Kabosu became the face of DogeCoin. The currency hit the headlines afterit was used to fundraise money for Jamaican athletes in the Winter Olympics.But over time, Sato has come to see the meme as something more positive, as the number of Facebook fans from overseas increase and she gets more and more comments from people now inspired to adopt their own rescue dog.“It’s not just comments saying ‘Kabosu-chan is so cute!’, but also things like ‘I was worried about getting a rescue dog, but since I saw Kabosu-chan’s happy-looking face, I’ve started to want a dog from similar circumstances for myself’.“The thought I most want to convey on my blog is that ‘rescue dogs can be happy, and can become an important part of your family’. But I’m very happy that it’s not been just in Japan, but even overseas too.”“All of that is thanks to the meme. I am very grateful.”As with most popular things on the internet, Sato says she still can’t understand how it all happened.“I wasn’t sure about posting that picture to the blog because I thought she didn’t look cute in the picture,” she joked.“But it’s a good thing I did post it after all!”Thanks to David Pegg and Yuki Shirota for the Japanese translationBalpreet KaurNot all internet fame starts out positively.The picture of Balpreet Kaur which was posted to Reddit in 2012.Photograph: ImgurAspiring neurosurgeon Balpreet Kaur had no idea her picture had been posted on Reddit until she was told by one of her Facebook friends. The picture, taken without Kaur’s knowledge, was uploaded to the site’s r/funny subreddit under the headline“I’m not sure what to conclude from this.”The user was apparently confused that Kaur is a woman with facial hair.While many may have been upset at the situation, Kaur took a different approach and responded to the thread to explain her position as a baptised Sikh. In doing so, she turned the entire situation on its head, gaining the respect of redditors and shutting the internet bullies down with her calm and reasoned response.She wrote: “By transcending societal views of beauty, I believe that I can focus more on my actions. My attitude and thoughts and actions have more value in them than my body because I recognize that this body is just going to become ash in the end, so why fuss about it?“When I die, no one is going to remember what I looked like, heck, my kids will forget my voice, and slowly, all physical memory will fade away.Balpreet Kaur’s response to her picture being posted on Reddit in 2012.Photograph: Reddit“However, my impact and legacy will remain: and, by not focusing on the physical beauty, I have time to cultivate those inner virtues and hopefully, focus my life on creating change and progress for this world in any way I can.”Many people replied thanking her for teaching them more about her faith and many, including the original poster, apologised for any offensive remarks they wrote about her.Writing for the Guardian in 2012, she said:I am well aware of how I am perceived by others: is she a man? A bearded woman? Transgendered? These perceptions find their roots both in simple curiosity and ignorance of the sheer diversity of the human race. I cannot stop people from forming convoluted first impressions based on what I look like, but I can stop them from turning that ignorance into misplaced assumptions or even hatred. This is why, having been alerted to the posting of the photo, Ireplied in the thread, and engaged with the posters discussing my appearance. What I learned from this experience is that building bridges between people isn’t really that hard: an honest conversation, a simple exchange of meaningful words that make up our lives, can change people’s opinions and change the world for the better – one step at a time.Success KidThe original Success Baby picture, taken when Sam was 11 months old.Photograph: Laney Griner/FlickrFist clenched, a look of pure determination on his face, Success Kid is the boy who can do it all. You may have seen his face posted when someone’s particularly proud of an achievement.Success Kid’s real name is Sam Griner and the photo is one of many his mother Laney, a photographer, took of her son and postedon her Flickr page.She still remembers the day and the moment she snapped this picture.“He was so funny, crawling through the sand and then trying to eat fistfuls of it. He would move so quickly then, it was hard to snap shots of him sitting still,” she said.“I only got that one shot of him, and going through my camera on the drive home, I immediately loved it. I posted it to my Flickr account as soon as I got home, and it was an immediate hit.“It’s funny because so often people, usually those with little experience with toddlers, assume it’s a posed photo. Good luck trying to get a toddler to pose like that.”The picture was taken in 2007, but it wasn’t until two years later Griner began noticing it around the internet. Initially, someone had photoshopped a crying child in the background with the title “I hate sandcastles”.Griner admits: “I didn’t like it at all then. It was at the beginning of the whole meme thing. Sammy was still a baby and I didn’t even know what a meme was at that time, I just didn’t like him being portrayed as a bully.”Fortunately, a year later, the meme changed and Sam became Success Kid, which Griner says she thought was “just adorable”. This led to Sam starring in commercials forVirgin Media in the UKand in the US in commercials for Vitamin Water.And does Griner have any tips for parents whose children inadvertently become internet-famous? “Now it’s maybe a little different because memes and internet stardom is more widely known,” she said.“But still, it’s got to be a surprise for most anyone who finds themselves in this situation. I think the best thing to do is accept it, because once the internet has it, it’s really out of your control, for the most part.“Most importantly, retain the copyright to your photo, because the internet has now made it marketable. Not that you must now seek to market it, but it’s nice to have some control over how it’s used, and the right to take legal action over unauthorized use for commercial purposes.”#successkid#3Dprintingpic.twitter.com/LL5Gbx9BAA&mdash; Laney Griner (@laneymg)May 9, 2014As for Sam, who turned eight this year, Success Kid is something he’s grown up with and is fully-aware of.“It’s strange to think he’ll never remember a time he wasn’t. He mostly really likes it. We’ve only done a couple of appearances, so it’s mostly just the photo. He likes it and it sort of embarrasses him.“All of it is pretty awesome. Just that it happened to us. I took a photo of my kid at the beach, like any parent might, and posted for friends and family to see. Who could’ve ever known what would happen next. It’s been full of fun experiences and financially has helped quite a bit. I have no real complaints. I feel pretty fortunate.”
The website holiday.com doesn’t look like much at the moment but its owners believe it is worth millions. The name is being sold at an auction in London this week with a reserve of £5m, but some reports suggest it could go for £20m or more–“holiday” is one of the most searched-for terms online. Jag Singh from Breathe Luxury, a company that is selling the name on behalf of a client, along with more than 30 others including golfcourses.com and Arab.com says he hopes a travel company, rather than a speculator, buys it, “so it becomes what it’s supposed to become”.Even though new domains (such as .uk) are being released, single-name dotcoms are still the most sought-after. The one regarded as setting the record is sex.com, which sold for $13m in 2010, though the founder of one holiday site has said he paid $35m for the name VacationRentals.com. According to the sales chart fromthe Domains Name Journal, the highest figure so far this year was a private sale of the name MI.com for $3.6m in April.“There are one-word dotcoms that are probably acquirable [from their owners] for under $10,000,” says Bill Sweetman, a domain names expert who runs Name Ninja, a consulting firm in Toronto. For the more desirable ones, “you are probably going to be negotiating to buy it for tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars.”Last month, Jon Schultz’s company sold Ebola.com in a deal worth a reported $150,000. He had bought it in 2008 for $13,500. In a recentinterview with the Washington Post, which described him as a “merchant of disease”, it sounded as if Schultz knew when the time was right to sell: “We’re already doing 5,000 page views per day just by people typing in Ebola.com to see what’s there.”But Ebola.com isn’t likely to be his biggest moneyspinner – he also owns the domain names birdflu.com and H1N1.com. “Birdflu.com is worth way more than Ebola.com. We’re definitely holding onto that one for the event. That one’s airborne and Ebola would never go airborne in the United States like bird flu can.” While you can question his basic human decency, you can’t fault his entrepreneurialism – according to the Washington Post, he researches and then registers obscure diseases.Owners of domain names range from large investment companies such as HugeDomains, which owns more than a million names, to amateur speculators and individuals who registered a domain (hiphop.com, for instance, is owned by a man in Twickenham).Who could have registered holiday.com? Sweetman says that although he doesn’t know its history, “at some point more than two decades ago, it was not registered and somebody could have paid as little as $50 to $100 for that name. I would suspect it went through several hands. Some of these ultra-premium names were once active businesses back in the dotcom days and a lot of companies [that] built businesses around one-word dotcoms ran into financial trouble during the crash. The companies collapsed and in some cases didn’t even hold on to the domain names, or they were lost through oversight or technical incompetence, or whatever. About 15 years ago, a generation of domain speculators scooped those names up when they expired.”Are there any one-word dotcom domains left to be registered? “There are probably some very obscure words that we don’t even know are words that are sitting there unregistered,” says Sweetman. Time to get out the dictionary?
Researchers at Birmingham City University have identified six types of killer who use Facebook to commit crimes, in the first-everstudyon how the social networking site can affect criminal behaviour.Dr Elizabeth Yardley and Prof David Wilson, from the university’s centre of applied criminology, analysed cases of murder in which the site had been reported as a significant factor. They found 48 examples from across the world, including that ofWayne Forrester, an HGV driver, who killed his wifeEmma in 2008 after reading her Facebook posts in which she claimed that they had separated and she wanted to meet other men.They identified the types of killer as: reactor, informer, antagonist, fantasist, predator and imposter.A reactor is as straightforward as it sounds: someone who sees something that enrages them on Facebook, and they react violently – often with lethal force. An informer uses Facebook to tell others they intend to kill the victim, that they have killed the victim, or both. An antagonist engages in hostile exchanges on Facebook that escalate into face-to-face, sometimes fatal, violence.For fantasists, the line between make believe and reality becomes blurred and murder may be a way of maintaining the fantasy or preventing others from discovering the deception. A predator creates and maintains a fake profile to lure a victim and meet them offline; and an imposter posts in the name of someone else. This could be the victim in order to create the illusion they are still alive or another person to gain access to and monitor the victim’s profile.LaShanda Armstrong, an example of an informer,asked for forgiveness on her Facebook pageafter having argued with her partner before driving into the Hudson river, killing herself and her three children. She had posted: “I’m sorry everyone forgive me please for what I’m gonna do … This is it!!!”Yardley, lead researcher, said she and her colleague wanted to see whether murders in which Facebook was reported to have been involved were any different to other homicides. They found that on the whole they are not – victims knew their killers in most cases and the crimes echoed what they already knew about this type of crime.But they did find that their sample differed from general murder trends and characteristics in some respects: the age profile of victims and perpetrators was relatively low; women were over-represented as victims; there was a relatively high proportion of murder-suicides; and those involved in murders could not all be described as marginalised.Yardley said she did not believe social media should be blamed for the crimes and the report makes clear its dislike of the term “Facebook murder”.“We conclude that ‘Facebook murder’ is not a useful or conceptually valid term for criminologists examining the role of social networking sites in contemporary homicide,” they said.Yardley added that there was nothing inherently bad about social media. “Facebook is no more to blame for these homicides than a knife is to blame for a stabbing. It’s the intentions of the people using these tools that we need to focus upon.”
All of Taylor Swift’s albums have been removed from Spotify and other streaming music services, in an escalation of the artist’s previous policy of “windowing” her new album releases.When Swift’s new album 1989 was released on 27 October, it was not available to stream on Spotify and its rivals, following the same policy used for its predecessor Red.As of today, though, that album and Swift’s entire back catalogue have been removed. While Swift and her label Big Machine Music have yet to comment,Spotify broke the news in a blog post.“We hope she’ll change her mind and join us in building a new music economy that works for everyone,” said the company.“We believe fans should be able to listen to music wherever and whenever they want, and that artists have an absolute right to be paid for their work and protected from piracy. That’s why we pay nearly 70% of our revenue back to the music community.”Spotify added that nearly 16 million of its 40 million active users had played Swift’s songs in the last 30 days, while her tracks had been added to more than 19 million playlists on its service.According to play-count statistics on Spotify this morning, Red’s tracks had been played more than 260m times on the service since the album was made available to stream in May 2013, eight months after it first went on sale.When 1989 was windowed,Spotify informed its usersthat “The artist or their representatives have decided not to release this album on Spotify. We are working on it and hope they will change their mind soon.”Shortly after, the firm’s head of public policy, Jonathan Prince, tweeted in a similar style, asking the artist not to “let down” her fans.Hey@taylorswift13the haters gonna hate, hate, hate but 40 million+ Spotifiers gonna play, play, play. Don’t let them down for too long. xo&mdash; jonathan prince (@jonathanmprince)October 30, 2014Now those 40 million Spotifiers won’t be able to play, play, play any of her songs unless Big Machine – which the Guardian has contacted for a comment – decides to put it back on.This has happened before with a high-profile artist: Paul McCartney’s back catalogue was removed from streaming services in 2010, before being made available again in 2012.One factor in the removal is likely to have been the record-breaking first-week sales of 1989, which in the USlooks likeit could overtake the 1.319m copies Britney Spears’ debut sold in its first week. That would make Swift’s album the highest selling first week by a female solo artist in US history.The removal comes days after the New York Post reported thatBig Machine’s owner Scott Borchetta was looking to sell the labelfor more than $200m. The report claimed that Swift has only one album left on her contract with the company, but also that her family owns a stake in the business.It remains to be seen how today’s news might affect Big Machine’s valuation, although if the result is a bump in sales for Swift’s older albums – Apple’s iTunes store is currently discounting Red and 2010’s Speak Now to £4.99 each – could drive the price higher.The digital marketing for 1989 has already sparked controversy among British fans of Taylor Swift, who complained that one track, released via Apple’s iTunes store in the run-up to the album’s release elsewhere in the world, was withheld in the UK.“To all my wonderful UK fans, I realise that you are not yet able to get ‘Out Of The Woods’ due to a new strategy my record label is working on in the UK,”she explained in a post on Tumblr.“My good friend Ed Sheeran utilised the same strategy with ‘One’ in the UK and he seemed very happy with the feedback from his fans. But, ultimately, it’s down to you. Let me know.”Those same fans will now be letting Swift know their opinion on the removal of her back catalogue, for better or worse.Why is Taylor Swift’s 1989 not on Spotify? Because she doesn’t want it there
Google’s chief executive Larry Page has admitted that the company has outgrown its mission statement to “organise the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful” from the launch of the company in 1998, but has said he doesn’t yet know how to redefine it.Page insists that the company is still focused on the altruistic principles that it was founded on in 1998 with theoriginal mission statement, when he and co-founder Sergey Brin were aiming big with “societal goals” to “organise the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful”.Questioned as to whether Google needs to alter its mission statement, which was twinned with the company mantra “don’t be evil, for the next stage of company growth in aninterview with the Financial Times, Page responded: “We’re in a bit of uncharted territory. We’re trying to figure it out. How do we use all these resources … and have a much more positive impact on the world?”Google has unprecedented resources brought about by its search and web advertising dominance, which has seen countries become uneasy in the face of a company that wields so much influence over a universal resource such as the internet.It has faced anti-monopoly probes by the European commission and most recently pressure from Europe over the “right to be forgotten” forced to remove search listings to information deemed to be outdated and not in the public interest which saw Britons requestover 60,000 links be deletedby October.‘Once we say we’re going to do it, people believe we can do it’Page said he aims to use the resources at his disposal to go far beyond today’s technology and market, creating spurs into tomorrow’s technology spaces from artificial intelligence and robotics to health, disease and biotechnology lead by Brin and his “moonshot” Google X labs, from which Google’s self-driving cars, smartglasses and nano technology pill sprouted.“We do benefit from the fact that once we say we’re going to do it, people believe we can do it, because we have the resources,” said Page. “Google helps in that way: there aren’t many funding mechanisms like that.”While some aspects of Google’s moonshot research have seemed logical extensions of the company’s existing interests – artificial intelligence fits perfectly with advanced search – some have drawn concerns that the company is overstepping its bounds.Research areas in biotechnology, health and medicine, for instance, have been traditionally funded by public money with universities and other research centres, at least in their infancy, rather than private companies.Page’s attitude is “well, somebody’s got to do it” and Google’s resources allow it to do more than most.This article previously stated that “don’t be evil” was part of Google’s mission statement, and has been corrected.•The ‘father of Android’ leaves Google for new technology hardware startups•Google launches Fit app to take on Apple’s Heath and Samsung’s S Health•Google is developing a cancer and heart attack-detecting pill
There are two types of people in the world: those who have never heard of Slack, and those who can’t imagine life without it. The latter group explains why the workplace chat app has just received $120m investment valuing it at $1.12bn. Not bad for a product launched just over a year ago.What is Slack?At its simplest, Slack is a chat app aimed at businesses rather than individuals. It works best for small to medium-sized teams, who create a joint account and can then talk with each other on IRC-style channels, send direct messages, and create private groups.Why is Slack different from normal chat services?Much of the reason why the app is popular is simply a matter of polish. A team can be up-and-running in a matter of seconds, the free apps for desktop and mobile are stable and well designed, and the web interface is full-featured enough that users who can’t install software – typical in many businesses – can still use the service.But the app also distinguishes itself from the competition in the extent to which it lets users customise it to meet their needs – and the ease with which that can be done. Linked social media posts can be embedded, images can be downloaded and stored, and “slackbot” can be set up to answer common questions or perform complex tasks automatically.At its heart, Slack wants to be the repository for everything a company uses, tying together disparate apps like Dropbox, Google Docs, Twitter and many others. Users come for the chat, and stay because everything else works so much better through the app.Where did it come from?Slack began in 2009 as Tiny Speck. Set up by the Flickr founder, Stewart Butterfield, the goal was very different - the creation of an online game called Glitch. That opened its doors in 2011, as a casual, massively multiplayer game, played using the Flash plugin. But a combination of a bug-plagued launch, unclear goals, and a failure to embrace mobile gaming just as it was taking off doomed Glitch, which shut down in December 2012.Out of the ashes came Slack. Originally created for internal use at Tiny Speck, to help co-ordinate the creation of Glitch, the team realised it could be popular among a wider audience.If that story sounds familiar, it should: it’s almost the same as the genesis of Flickr. That came out of Butterfield’s first attempt at making a game, called Game Neverending. When that failed, a core set of features were pulled out, and released as the photosharing service, eventually sold to Yahoo for more than $20m in 2004. It seems Butterfield is doomed to repeatedly fail to make games, and instead create hugely successful web services.Surelysomethinghas gone wrong for Slack?The company has had its share of teething problems. In October,Valleywag revealedthat the service’s security model is deliberately leaky: anyone could enter an email address from a major company, and see a list of all the teams running within. They couldn’t access the actual chat channels without being in control of the email address, but eavesdroppers could still discover that Twitter had a team called “iOS Flock”, Apple had a team called “Games Editorial”, and Google had a team called “Tribe Wearables”. Not the most thrilling information, but it was still made public when it should have stayed private.What’s next for Slack?The company has 30,000 teams signed up, but only 73,000 individual subscriptions to its premium tier, which lets users search their complete message history and hook up an unlimited number of external apps to the service. That’s earning it $1m a month in revenue, but it’s got some way to go to justify a $1bn valuation.Butterfield says that the “as the leader of a brand new product category, we have a huge advantage right now. These next six to 18 months are going to be critical for growth and this funding round gives us unlimited flexibility to ensure that Slack’s momentum will continue to pick up steam.”•Tiny Speck’s Stewart Butterfield on Glitch, APIs and mobile apps
Another autumn, another instalment in the world’s biggest game series. And while some analysts are forecasting a downturn in sales after last year’s lacklustre Ghosts (certainly pre-orders have dropped significantly this time), Advanced Warfare isn’t just another factory line addition to Activision’s billion-dollar franchise.For a start, San Francisco-based studio Sledgehammer Games is leading development for the first time, after helping out on Modern Warfare 3. The team has been given an unprecedented three-year dev cycle, providing enough time to radically rethink the multiplayer experience. This has resulted in some of the biggest changes to the game’s dynamics since Perks were introduced back in 2007’s Call of Duty: Modern Warfare.Here, I’ve picked out the five key new features from the point of view of a professional player, providing pointers on how to use these changes to gain a tactical advantage over your competitors.Dawn of the exosuitProviding your character with a range of bionic abilities, the new exosuits could radically change how you approach multiplayer. The major impact is on movement. Boost dash, boost dodge, boost jump, boost slam and boost slide all offer new ways to engage and disengage gunfights, while potentially making you a more difficult target. They can also provide an element of surprise, allowing you to ambush other players from unexpected angles. The new abilities need to be used with caution, however. Players are unable to shoot a weapon straight after using a boost – a seemingly minor penalty that could cost you your life.Weapons and lootAdvanced Warfare has a completely new arsenal, ranging from the futuristic Em1 laser rifle to the IMR, a four burst assault rifle that’s even able to print additional ammunition throughout a game.On top of this, the game adds a new feature, Weapon Loot, provided via supply drops received throughout play. Every time something lands, there’s a chance of gaining a brand new weapon with modified stats such as the ASM1 Speakeasy, which has reduced damage but a higher fire rate. For pro-gamers it’s an exciting addition as it opens up far more class creation options, allowing thoughtful players to get a rich set of tactical advantages over enemies. There are around 35 base weapons in the game, but with weapon loot, the count rises to around 350, making millions of different weapon combinations to select from. In one supply drop, I came across a rare elite Bal-27 called the Obsidian Steed which has increased damage but reduced accuracy – however, I used a foregrip attachment and a red dot sight to counter this and make it a far more destructive weapon.As ever, the two most important things to look at while trying to decide on a weapon are accuracy and TTK (Time To Kill). So far, I have been using the Ak-12 which is a very consistent assault rifle available to use right from the start of Advanced Warfare multiplayer. Most professional players who use submachine guns have been experimenting with the MP11, a very mobile weapon with a high fire rate which works perfectly with the added pace of Advanced Warfare.Maps: verticality and dynamismThe maps in Advanced Warfare are structured completely differently to those in previous titles, providing numerous routes of navigation around the map rather than the traditional three-lane blueprint, and much increased verticality. Taking full advantage of the new exosuit mechanics, players have the choice of using rooftops and ledges that were just not as easily accessible in other Call of Duty titles. Newcomers will have to adapt to this quickly, or spend their entire time being shot by the opposition from a range of lofty perches.Indeed, the key to success in Advanced Warfare is to dominate the high ground. Sure, this tends to provide less overall cover compared to being on the ground level, which is where you will tend to stick if you are playing an objective such as trying to capture an opponent’s flag or planting the bomb in Search &amp; Destroy. However, the rooftops will allow you to get a much wider field of view – especially effective if you decide to run an Assault Rifle or a Sniper – which will help your team control the map and overall win the game.Similarly to other recent Call of Duty and Battlefield titles, Advanced Warfare has its own range of dynamic map events, which can change the environment and kill players caught in the wrong place at the wrong time. For example, the Tidal Wave on the Defender map fills part of the environment with water, cutting your access and forcing tactical adjustments.It will be important to know what to expect and how to change your play style when these features come into effect. For example in Riot, when the Prison Defence System is activated, the location of all of the opposing team members outside of the prison building is revealed. In response, you need to slow down your play and focus on holding off areas inside of the jail where the opposition will not be able to find you as easily.Scorestreak customisation: personalisation and bonusesThis is the feature I was most excited about when I attended the multiplayer reveal back in August. For so long we’ve had a very minimal choice when it comes to selecting scorestreaks, the system that rewards players with special weapons and items when they make kills, play the objectives and assist teammates.In Advanced Warfare, however, we can alter scorestreaks to our own personal preferences. Each streak starts out as a base version: the XS1 Vulcan for example, will fire a single laser strike from the satellite. However, you can then add extra options, such as the ability to fire two laser strikes, or increase the width of the beam. This does increase the cost of the scorestreak, making it harder to achieve, but it provides the opportunity to rack up more kills.You also gain a bonus score if you kill an enemy while playing an objective, which, for me, is a key tactic. On the game mode Domination for example, a kill will reward you a 100 score, but a kill while capturing a flag will give 200. Playing those objectives and getting to scorestreaks as quickly as possible could win you the game.Perk management: class warfareAs in previous Call of Duty titles, managing perks will be one of the fundamental elements behind failure or success in multiplayer. Many people completely overlook perks, or choose perks which don’t compliment their weapon choice or don’t work efficiently with other perks, putting them at an instant disadvantage to a well-equipped player.Advanced Warfare’s class creation set-up operates as a “pick 13” system, providing 13 slots to be filled with a combination of weapons, attachments, exosuit abilities and perks. Its the latter that should dominate – I would advise using around a total of four perks.In Perk Slot 1, I run “Low Profile”, which keeps you off the radar to UAVs making it more difficult for the opposing team to find you. In Perk slot 2, I opt for “Peripherals”, which gives you a larger mini map (you should always spend a large amount of your time checking the map while playing; it will make it easier to find the other team). For Perk 3 I use a “Wildcard” enabling the selection of two perks instead of just one. Now, run “Toughness” so you are able to win more gunfights, and “Blast Suppressor”, which keeps you off the radar when using your exosuit.This set-up works with any weapon and gives you a very strong chance of succeeding at Advanced Warfare while your friends are still struggling with the basics.Ben Perkin is a professional Call of Duty player with the Lightning Pandas team. His Call of Duty tactics videos are available viahis YouTube channel.Kevin Spacey on Call of Duty Advanced Warfare: ‘It’s a brand new audience for me’Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare – a non-gamer’s guide
Apple’s first smartwatch, the Apple Watch, will not be available to buy until spring 2015, according to a leaked internal video from Apple’s head of retail, Angela Ahrendts.The Apple Watch was scheduled for early 2015, but a transcript of the video sent to technology site9to5Macstates that the watch will not be available until spring, giving Google’s Android Wear smartwatches a nine-month head start.“We’re going into the holidays, we’ll go into Chinese New Year [on 19 February], and then we’ve got a new watch launch coming in the spring,” said Ahrendts in a video to Apple retail employees.At the Apple Watch’s unveiling in September, Apple said an early 2015 release for the watch scheduled, but spring could indicate any time from March until May.The Apple Watch will miss the crucial 2014 Christmas period, which analysts are expecting will see wearable technology including fitness trackers and smartwatches be the big gifts of the year.‘Such a difficult and humbling program’One of the reasons Apple Watch is taking so long to come to market is designing a smartwatch posed a greater challenge than designing the iPhone, Apple’s chief designer, Jony Ive, told an audience at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art on Thursday night.“Even though Apple Watch does so many things, there are cultural, historical implications and expectations,” Ive explained. “That’s why it’s been such a difficult and humbling program.”Ive said he believes with “every bone in his body” that the Apple Watch will define the new smartwatch category, which until now has seen Android and Samsung’s Tizen dominate with watches such as the Motorola Moto 360 and Samsung Gear line.Pebble’s high-profile and successful Kickstarter campaign for an e-ink smartwatch in April 2012 showed that there was appetite for a lightweight computing device on the wrist.‘You’re going to end up charging it daily’Apple chief executive, Tim Cook, previously admitted that the Apple Watch will suffer from poor battery life, something the company is working on to attempt to prolong and one of the reasons why Apple’s watch will require a Bluetooth connection to an iPhone, offloading processor-intensive actions and access the internet.“We think you’re going to end up charging it daily. Overnight, that’s what we think,” Cooktold the audience at WSJD Live conference. “I think given my own experience, and others around it, that you’re going to wind up charging it every day. Because you’re going to use it so much.”‘Haven’t quite hit the right formula yet’Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails fame, who was previously chief creative officer at Beats Music, elaborated on his new role at Apple which will take him away from making music.“This is very creative work that’s not directly making music, but it’s around music, Reznortold Billboard. “It’s exciting to me, and I think it could have a big enough impact that it’s worth the effort. I’m fully in it right now, and it’s challenging, and it’s unfamiliar and it’s kind of everything I asked for — and the bad thing is it’s everything I asked for.”Apple is expected tointegrate the Beats Music subscription service, which is only available in North America, into the iTunes brand next year seeing iTunes move into the streaming model shown popular by rivals Spotify and Deezer.“I think the right streaming service could solve everybody’s problems,” Reznor said. “I just think we haven’t quite hit the right formula yet.”•Tim Cook: ‘I consider being gay among the greatest gifts God has given me’•Apple iTunes music sales down, so what next for Beats Music?
Monday!
Andy Rubin, co-founder and ‘father’ of Android, has left Google to set up a startup incubator for technology hardware.Rubin sold his Android company to Google in 2005, heading up its development until March 2013 when he moved to take the lead in Google’s “moonshot” robotics projects.“I want to wish Andy all the best with what’s next,” Google chief executive Larry Page said in a statement. “With Android he created something truly remarkable – with a billion-plus happy users. Thank you.”Professor James Kuffner, a researcher at Google and Carnegie Mellon’s Robotics Institute, will replace Rubin in charge of Google’s robotics effort, which included a series of acquisitions of robotics companies including Boston Dynamics by Google in 2013. He spent five years working on Google’s self-driving car project and more than seven years at Carnegie Mellon.Rubin’s new startup incubator will concentrate on new companies developing new technology hardware, rather than internet services.Rubin left Apple in 1992 and went on to set up Danger, maker of the SideKick-branded smartphones later acquired by Microsoft, and Android in 2003. Google co-founders Page and Sergey Brin bought Android in 2005 without telling Eric Schmidt, then the chief executive of the search giant.At Google as head of Android, Rubin was known for insulating the Android team from the rest of Google maintaining it like a separate company inside the search giant. The Android group had its own lunchroom within the Google campus, for instance.His entrepreneurial spirit and love of robotics led him away from Android, and now to his new incubator, where he will help grow new technologies from a hardware perspective.•After Rubin, what’s next for Android?
Price from £40,276MPG 46.3Top speed 142mphI have an antique mantel clock which I inherited from my grandmother. It sits in silence on a dusty shelf in our kitchen. My wife finds its resonant tick “depressing – like my life’s slipping away”. I know what she means, but I find that time-embalming tick and answering tock reassuring, soothing even. Either way, it’s not a sound you expect to hear in the cockpit of one of the most dynamic and technology-crammed vehicles on the road.The clock in the centre of the dashboard ofPorsche’s new Macanhas a very loud tick. And it’s odd to be put in mind of my old Scottish granny – non-driver, teetotaller, church-goer, giggler – as I contemplate the empty road ahead of me and the totally psyched 3-litre V6 258bhp diesel that’s about to thrust me down it faster than a school boy shovelling stolen sweets. And it’s great having her with me, in spirit, at least. It’s also strangely appropriate, because of all sports-car manufacturers, Porsche is endlessly alive to its history.Playing in the sand: the Macan goes through its paces.The Macan is Porsche’s seventh model series and its first to venture into the compact sports utility vehicle segment. The small SUV pitch is already crammed with serious playas – there’s Audi Q3, BMW’s X3 and Range Rover’s Evoque. So Porsche has determined its Macan will set new standards for performance, both on and off the road, not least because its award-winning traction management has produced one of the world’s most powerful drive systems. The Macan champions all that Porsche holds dear: eye-bulging acceleration and jowel-trembling braking coupled with extreme agility and optimum steering precision.For lovers of thrilling, tarmac-skimming roadsters, Porsche’s shameful secret is that its bestseller is the elephantine 4x4 Cayenne – a car so ugly my eyes sting and my nostrils water whenever one barges past me (hey… I didn’t realise how well-named it was). And, yes, at first sight, the Macan does seem to be a shrunken version of its older, uglier sister. But look again. Its neater proportions and broader profile accentuate its sporting elegance. The wraparound bonnet and sculpted haunches all point to an SUV that’s more sports car than 4x4.Inside story: the quietly opulent interior.The Macan is built at Porsche’s Leipzig factory. The Germans have invested €500m in the plant and established an entirely new production line. They intend to make 50,000 every year. There are four models to tempt you: Macan, S, S Diesel and Turbo. I tested the S Diesel – the economical, long-distance runner of the pack. Its turbocharged engine accelerates to 62mph in 6.3 seconds and then on up to 143mph, yet it will do 46.3mpg. On the road the ease of its throttle matched by the savagery of the response is exhilarating. Standard equipment on all includes the super-smooth seven-speed Porsche Doppelkupplung (PDK) transmission, ParkAssist, multi-function steering wheel, electronic tailgate, three-year warranty… I’d run out of space to list everything here.The Macan is named after the Indonesian for “tiger”, apparently. A supple, fierce, apex predator – hey, this one is well-named, too…Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
The web’s biggest consumer companies make the bulk of their incomes, and have built up vast assets, from targeted advertising. It accounts for around 90% of Facebook’s revenue and much the same for Google. By supporting a vast range of services that variously offer search, chat, email, file storage, video and photo-sharing, they can track every nuance of online activity, preference and behaviour, targeting and adapting advertising and services.Yet with such a simple and lucrative core business, Facebook and Google are investing significant sums in new, exploratory and seemingly unrelated technologies. Facebook astonished the industry withits $2bn acquisition of Oculus Rift, a promising but niche and untested virtual reality headset. Google X, the company’s notionally secretive experimental wing, has bought 14 specialist startups since March 2013, covering robotics, machine learning and gesture recognition, but has also been developing Google’s self-driving car project, the augmented reality Google Glass headset and Project Loon, which is developing ways of using a network of balloons in the stratosphere to bring internet connectivity to developing regions. Why?First, these firms have vast resources at their disposal: the intellectual prowess of engineers and scientists, and the financial means. Google has $126bn in assets; Facebook $24bn. Shareholders expect a diversification of revenue streams to make the company less vulnerable to changes in consumer behaviour. Investing in new products gives insight into possible trends and, at the scale of Google and Facebook, with at least a billion users every month, introducing even a trial version can influence consumer behaviour by pushing out a service to a vast audience.Google was once confidently described as an advertising company, but its business now could be seen as disruption, using its vast size, network power and technical approach to challenge and often undermine. Subsidised by its core advertising revenue, Google can afford to ignore existing business models. Academia and book publishing have been challenged by its programme to scan millions of books, in and out of print. Telecoms firms in the developing world are challenged by its wacky internet-connectivity balloons. Mapping firms by its online maps. The car industry by self-driving cars. News publishers by Google’s scraping of and linking to their content.Part of the motivation is to understand and predict changes in consumer behaviour. The shift to mobile internet was a major change for most consumers and meant websites redesigning their sites. Facebook, which was slightly caught out by the speed at which consumers moved away from desktop, says 703 million of its 864 million daily users now access the site on mobile. With Oculus Rift, Facebook wants to pre-empt the next wave of consumer activity. Oculus will, it hopes, give clues about how immersive technology could be used to drop users into a room with animated friends and family members. It might sound dystopian, but Oculus is a powerful and compelling technology to try – and far more rewarding than a glitchy long-distance Skype call.Despite technological innovation, no one entity can yet claim to see the future. But with their vast oversight of consumer behaviour and influence in rolling out new services, today’s technology corporates arguably do more to determine the future than any other organisations on Earth.
‘For us, products really don’t get that interesting to turn into businesses until they have about one billion people using them,” Mark Zuckerberg told investors last week.Facebook hit that dizzy one-billion mark two years ago. Now 1.35 billion people – roughly equal to the population of China – log on to the social network site every month.Ten years old this year, Facebook reached a peak market capitalisation of $200bn (£125bn) in 2014. But it faces a problem: how to keep on growing? And its solution has Wall Street worried.Zuckerberg, its co-founder, has big plans – and those plans are expensive. Its Internet.org initiative would bring the internet (by drone, potentially) to the billions of people who are not online, and even create a virtual reality universe that could one day rival the world wide web as the premier platform for learning, commerce and play. And Facebook will deliver this via its$2bn virtual reality acquisition, Oculus Rift. No one could accuse Zuckerberg of playing safe.He said last week: “For the next 10 years, our focus is on driving the fundamental changes in the world that we need to achieve our mission: connecting the whole world, understanding a world with big leaps in AIs [artificial intelligence], and developing the next generation of platforms.”To realise those ambitions, Facebook said its expenses could rise by between 55% and 75% next year. Theshares, which had hit an all-time high earlier in the week, promptly plummeted 10%.Not that that will shake Zuckerberg’s resolve: with control of 55% of the voting stock, he can afford to disregard those who don’t share his vision, for now.David Kirkpatrick, author ofThe Facebook Effectand founder of Techonomy Media, a technology-focused conference company, says he is continually surprised that people are surprised by Zuckerberg’s long-term focus.“From the very first time I met him, in September 2006,” says Kirkpatrick, “my most profound impression was that here was someone looking at the long term. It’s not typical. Larry Page [Google’s co-founder] has it, in his way, but very few people have that focus.”Mark Zuckerberg is known for his long-term focusPhotograph: ReutersHe added that people had only to listen to the “fervour” with which Zuckerberg speaks about his projects to see how seriously he takes his approach.Brian Wieser, senior research analyst at investment consultancy Pivotal Research, believes Facebook has earned the right to make those long-term bets: “If you go back to the initial public offering, I had a sell rating on them then. I just felt like they hadn’t made many efforts towards meaningful monetisation. Then, very suddenly, you started to see new products that made money. They very quickly developed a lot of things that drove revenue growth above and beyond expectations.”He says analysts are quite right to factor in the amount of money Facebook is spending in their calculations – and punish its share price accordingly – but that Zuckerberg himself is best placed to see where the industry he has defined is heading.“So would I give them a pass?” he asks. “On balance, yes.”Facebook is not alone in playing the long game. Google has recently moved intodriverless cars, robotics and nanotechnology – areas unlikely to see profits for decades. Amazon, too, regularly irritates its investors by focusing on growth tomorrow rather than profits today.But Facebook, with Zuckerberg controlling the company and profits and revenue growing, is unlikely to face a real backlash in the near future. As it announced its spending plans, it also revealed that its third-quarter revenue was up 59% from the same period last year, hitting $3.2bn.Most of those dollars come from advertising and, according to Facebook, about two-thirds of it now comes from ads on mobile devices, up from just half a year ago. Mobile was once an area where the company struggled.Facebook is expected to take an 8% share of the $140.7bn global advertising market in 2014, according to eMarketer, up from 5.8% in 2013. Its share of the mobile ad market is expected to reach 20.4% this year, up from 16.5% in 2013. By comparison, Google is expected to lose mobile ad market share this year, falling from 46.4% in 2013 to 44.6%.In the near future, Facebook could further bolster its position in mobile thanks to two recent purchases: message service WhatsApp and photo sharing app Instagram. Instagram cost Facebook $1bn in 2012, a price that looks like a bargain compared with the sky-high prices now being paid for social media companies. Instagram, with about 200 million users, was teenage favourite in a survey called “Taking Stock With Teens” by investment bank Piper Jaffray this year.“Instagram would probably be worth $15bn if it was for sale today,” says Kirkpatrick. “You can’t question Zuckerberg’s judgment on that one.”WhatsApp was a buy of a different order: Facebook paid $21.8bn for it last February. It reported just over $10m in revenue in 2013, and a total net loss of $138m for the year.Wiser points out that a big part of that loss, about $98.8m, was stock-based compensation. The actual cost of building WhatsApp’s huge audience was in the single-digit millions.“The risk for them is: what’s to stop someone else spending that sort of money to develop a rival that replaces WhatsApp? It was expensive, but I can only say that I defer to them as to whether it’s the future of communications platforms,” he says.Model Cara Delevingne on Instagram, which Facebook paid a bargain price for.Not everyone is happy with what Facebook offers. Earlier this year, a poll of marketers by Forrester Research found widespread discontent with the company. Despite the fact that it offers the largest audience in history, companies believed that Facebook ads offered less value than any other digital platform, the survey found. Marketers’ posts were allegedly failing to reach more than a small slice of fans, and some worried that in any case many of the claimed legions of fans are fake.Forrester principal analyst Nate Elliott says the company has made some improvements since the survey but that marketers – who are Facebook’s bread and butter – remain unhappy.Keeping the marketers happy “is just not interesting to Facebook,” he says. “Their head and their heart is in building tools to connect people.” And as long as it has such a huge audience, advertisers just have to accept it. “I’d like to think it is a big risk,” Elliott says. “But it’s not like they are being punished for it.”Since Zuckerberg’s announcement about Facebook’s next 10 years,Rupert Murdoch has given more details about what went wrong at formerly high-flying MySpace. It is a cautionary tale. When the media mogul bought the site for $350m in 2005, it had 300m users and was Facebook’s clearest rival. It was also working on a video service which it believed could have rivalled YouTube.The story ended badly, of course: News Corp sold MySpace for $35m in 2011.His company “messed up” MySpace, Murdoch said last week. Its founders have blamed a desire to make money rather than build the business.Facebook, on the other hand, is making money – lots of it – and so far its focus on its product has not cost Zuckerberg many sleepless nights.In the past 10 years, Facebook has gone from college dorm to world domination. “We’re a long-term company, run by a founder with a very long-run vision,” Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer said last week. The question for investors is whether that vision will continue to pay off, but for now few are prepared to stand in the founder’s way.GOOGLE’S SEARCHA lot has changed in a couple of years for Google. In 2011 the company made 96% of its $37.9bn (£23.7bn) annual revenue from advertising. That had barely changed in two years and it warned in its accounts that “reduction in spending by or loss of advertisers could seriously harm our business”.But in the latest full-year accounts available, for 2013, the share of Google’s $59.8bn revenue coming from website advertising had dropped to 62%.That figure rises to 83% – or $50.6bn – if Google Network members (that is to say, ads that Google places on other publishers’ websites) are included. Of the remainder, 8% of the revenue came from Motorola, the mobile phone company that Google bought for $12.5bn in 2011 and sold to Lenovo earlier this year for $2.9bn.But the final 9% of income is classed as “other revenues”. That covers Google Play [its version of Apple’s iTunes music service and App Store] and numerous other ventures, from self-driving cars to smart smoke detectors, robots, alternative energy, space exploration and its Google X lab.In total, “other revenues” were up 111% on the previous year to $4.9bn.Mostly accounted for by Google Play, those other revenues have continued to rise ever since. In the most recent quarter, to the end of September, they came in at $1.84bn, up 50% on the same period in 2013.Google, which is famous for allowing employees to spend 20% of their time on projects not directly related to their day-to-day job – does not provide many details about what such projects contribute financially.Many of them – including driverless cars andnanoparticles that could travel through the bloodstream to detect early-stage cancer and other diseases– have yet to generate any income (and are very cash-hungry) but could prove massive moneyspinners in the future.Victor Anthony of Topeka Capital Markets, who has been covering Google since its flotation in 2004, told CNBC: “Investors always worry when CEOs spend their capital — they wonder about the long-term return on the use of that capital. These [new ventures] are long-term initiatives, and the returns aren’t immediately clear.”Google’s chief financial officer, Patrick Pichette, says: “As you know from the Nest acquisition [internet-connected thermostats and smart smoke detectors] and Google Glass and wearables, we continue to innovate and we continue to be committed to the hardware in areas that are kind of enterprising, promising; it’s on new frontiers that we’re actually focusing.”Rupert Neate
Shinji Mikami, video games’ answer toGeorge A Romero, invented the survival horror game withResident Evilin 1996.The Evil Withinmarks his return to the genre after almost 10 years. It feels like he never left.The Evil Withinhas a B-movie plot: after an incident at an asylum, Detective Sebastian Castellanos hurtles into a deranged world of monsters that – against overwhelming odds – he must survive with limited supplies.There are scene-for-scene nods to pastResident Evils–the game is heavily indebted to the franchise – while the village levels look identical to the eerie European setting ofResident Evil 4. As a result, there is a rather old-fashioned air here, with antiquated gameplay mechanics, and trial-and-error boss battles that can become frustrating. Yet it remains a gripping game, with nerve-racking stealth sections, creepy music and gruesome visuals. Mysterious shadows pass just out of sight, bodies vanish, doors creak and chase scenes descend into blind panic.This has already been a great year for horror games (including the recentAlien Isolation), butThe Evil Withinproves that – even after a decade away – Mikami remains the master of terror.
A bold bid to move children’s tablet play on from frippery and idle time-wasting,Osmo’s educational aims are cleverly disguised by genuinely fun gameplay. Unlike most apps, it comes in a box, complete with physical letter tiles and primary-coloured shapes. The game is played on the table in front of the iPad, which is placed in a special stand; a lozenge, positioned over the camera, reflect its gaze downwards.Words, Tangram and Newton, the first threeOsmotitles, come in book-style packaging. Words displays a picture on the screen and a number of blanks to be completed by placing letters in front of the iPad. Cooperatively or competitively, this against-the-clock, digital version of hangman builds spelling and lateral-thinking skills. Tangram creates a physical, shape-matching challenge, while Newton uses pen and paper to redirect falling beads to a target by drawing lines.All three are simple enough for children of six and above to enjoy, but also compelling enough to work as a rather novel after-dinner entertainment for grownups. ButOsmois perhaps most impressive for what it doesn’t do. The game avoids over-complicating things, doesn’t offer too much choice, and hasn’t covered the titles with branding. It’s just a great idea, stripped down to its bare essentials and delivered with absolute finesse.
If a year is a long time in politics (and it is), then it’s an eternity in communications technology. Fourteen years ago, about 400 million people were using the internet. Today, the number of net users is pushing the 3 billion mark. But that’s not the really big news. What’s truly startling is that 2 billion of these folks are getting their internet connections primarily via smartphones, ie, handheld computers that can access the internet as well as make voice calls, send text messages and do the other things that old-fashioned “feature phones” could do.This is startling because smartphones are a relatively new development, and when they first appeared less than a decade ago, most of us thought that they would remain an elite consumer product for a long time to come, staples of affluent professionals in the industrialised world, perhaps, but of no relevance to poor people in the developing world who would continue to be delighted with crude feature phones that could just about do SMS.How wrong can you be? We underestimated both the power of Moore’s law and human nature. Gordon Moore’s “law” postulated that computing power – crudely measured as the number of transistors that can be fitted on to a processor chip – doubles every 18 months. That doubling has been going on for nearly 30 years and it helps to explain how Apple’s new iPhone 6 fits 625 times as many transistors on its CPU chip as the Intel Pentium chip had when it was powering a 1995 desktop PC. And much the same holds for the processors in the smartphones manufactured by Samsung et al. What this means is that “everyone gets a pocket supercomputer”.The quotation comes from a riveting presentation given last week byBenedict Evans, a Brit who is now a partner inAndreessen Horowitz, one of Silicon Valley’s noisier (and possibly more successful) venture capital firms. Mr Evans bears more than a passing resemblance to the young Harry Potter, which makes it hard to believe that he has been a perceptive observer of the tech industry for the past 15 years or so. But this may just be a manifestation of the well-known tendency of policemen to appear younger with every passing of a columnist’s year.The message of his presentation is that it no longer makes any sense to draw a distinction between the future of networking technology and the future of mobile devices. Once upon a time, only geeks and early adopters had powerful computers. The advent of the smartphone means that now everyone has one. And when that happens, technology ceases to be “technology” and becomes, effectively, invisible, like electricity and running water in the developed world. “When tech is fully adopted,” says Mr Evans, “it disappears.” He backs it up with slides showing how references to “railways” in printed books peaked in 1920, “steel” peaked in 1945 and “computerisation” in 1990. In 10 years’ time, the word “smartphone” will be greeted by blank looks from most people under the age of 25.It’s difficult to overstate the implications of this change. Mr Evans points out, for example, that internet users already spend more time in mobile apps than they do on the web. This is partly because, in general, smartphones are far more sophisticated devices than PCs, but largely because they are always nearby and always on. This means that the mobile advertising business is where the commercial action is going to be. Just one illustration: mobile ads have doubled Facebook’s revenue, now running at $6.5bn annually, in just two years.Similarly, the smartphone business overtook the PC industry in 2012 and now dwarfs it for the simple reason that people change their phones much more rapidly (every two years) than they upgrade their PCs (every five years). Smartphone and tablet sales now account for nearly half of the entire consumer electronics industry. More Apple and Android phones have now been sold, for example, than all the Japanese cameras ever made. Microsoft’s share of personal computing device sales has declined from 90% in 2009 to about 20% now. And Apple (which is a minority player, remember, in the smartphone business) now makes almost as much revenue from iPhone sales as the entire PC industry does from making desktop and laptop computers. Computing devices used for watching video now far outnumber actual “televisions”. And so on and so on.What this means is that the contours of our emerging networked future are now beginning to emerge from the fog of hype, patent litigation and “informed bewilderment” that obscures our view of computing and networking technology. What we’re witnessing is the fusion of the internet with mobile telephony. All we now have to do is to figure out what that means for our grandchildren. The good news is that young Evans will probably still be around to give them advice.
The antithesis of modern, narrative-driven action games,Sunset Overdrivebrings some welcome fizz to an often stern, po-faced genre. And appropriately, a new energy drink is to blame, having turned the inhabitants of Sunset City into murderous mutants.Most of the missions are simple, involving little more than collecting items and bringing them back to base. Grinding over rails in the style ofTony Hawk, which is an essential part of combat, requires no skill, and dying results only in an instant respawn nearby. The city offers plenty to explore, with hundreds of challenges to complete and moves to unlock, and there is a great multiplayer mode.But details are irrelevant, really, becauseSunset Overdriveis just so much fun. The comedic tone, complete with outdated pop culture references, gives the game a certain charm, as do its cartoon visuals. But it’s how you move and fight that makesSunseta joy. Swinging on poles, running across walls, grinding on phone lines and bouncing on cars, all the while shooting mutants with exploding teddy bears or a host of other bizarre weaponry. Utterly bonkers, and absolutely the most fun you can have on Xbox One.
Some of the most promising digital talent in the UK and Ireland was rewarded at the inaugural Future 8 Awards in London on Saturday, with winners chosen for their skill in projects spanning web design, video, music and animation.More than 500 young people between the ages of seven and 17 entered the awards, which were launched by kids marketing company SuperAwesome in partnership with the Guardian.The winners were split between eight categories: mobile app development, web development, online video, music, animation, games, blogging and a “maker” category for hardware design.Twelve year-old Faheem Anwar won the mobile app category for his app called The Youth Booth that will help children organise safe days out at theme parks and local events, and earn group discounts.He was inspired by his father “who told me that I didn’t get out a lot and needed to be more social with my friends, so I decided to make something about this!” He wants to make more apps and release them through app stores. “Even if I don’t make much money from them, it’ll still be a good thing to put on my CV,” he said.The animation category was won by 15 year-old Jonathan White, whose entry – Recineration – blended 3D animation and live action. “What inspired me to create my entry is I love the way animation can be used in so many different areas,” he said.“Usually when people think of animation, they think of films that Disney have done, but I love the way animation can be brought into other areas, making things a bit different.”Natalie Shay, 15, won the music category for a song written for a friend’s birthday, complete with a video. “I thought it was pretty good so I put it on YouTube,” she said. Now Natalie is building an audience through her YouTube channel, and has already released her debut single on iTunes.Music category winner Natalie Shay performing at the Future 8 Awards.“I’m hoping to release my next single in April, and I’m shooting a music video for the first track on that,” she said. Her prize includes time in a professional recording studio, which should help with that.The web development award was won by 16 year-old James Corneille for his siteskizzie.com, which uses animation to help young children learn languages. Its roots lay in a previous site called Tus Gaeilge which he’d developed to teach Irish language. He’s now planning to add more languages and animations to skizzie.com.Seb Gallop, 17, won the games award with his ambitious concept for a game called Lifeless City, for which he produced a 33-page concept document describing a zombie-infested post-apocalyptic world, where players have to create societies and sanctuaries to survive in, and build relations with other societies.The online video category was won by 15 year-old Fin Moorhouse, who began making films since he was nine, making more than 50 short films exploring genres including sci-fi, silent films and superheroes. His winning entry, Every Child, focused on the latter, and starred his nine year-old sister.“It’s about a young girl who dresses up as a superhero, and she walks to a hill, and then something surprising happens,” he said. “I thought maybe the superpower could be the imagination, and I ran with that idea. I thought children maybe have the most fertile imagination, and adults maybe don’t.”The blogging category was won by 16 year-old Amber Kirk-Ford with herMile Long Bookshelfsite, which focuses on young adult (YA) literature. She’s been blogging since she was seven.“I originally started blogging to get my opinions out there. My blog is now five years old, and I don’t think I’ll ever stop,” she said. “ One day I would like to work in journalism or publishing, so whichever one I go for, I think this will help a lot.”Finally, the Maker category was won by 14 year-old Billy Timimi with a product called ConvertaDesk, which doubles as a homework desk and a place to tinker with hardware: it transforms from a writing and DIY desk to a complete workstation by flicking a switch.“If I want to work on the computer while I’m soldering, so I can look at soldering diagrams online, I have to go downstairs and it’s a real pain. The ConvertaDesk solves all these problems,” he said.“There’s been a shift in understanding that kids are building things, that kids are creating. And parents are realising that this is something they want to support, rather than just telling them ‘go outside and get some fresh air’,” said SuperAwesome chief executive Dylan Collins.“The spectrum of entries for these awards was remarkable. And while these creators are talented now, but it’s what they’re going to do in two or three versions time, when they’re 15, 16, 17 that’s key. They’re going to be doing some extremely interesting things in a couple of years’ time.”Sponsors for the awards, which were held at the Google Campus in London, included Sony Music, Penguin Random House, WeMo, Outfit7, NOW Music, NaturalMotion Games, Stick Sports, Bin Weevils and 55Pixels, many of whom are hosting a winner in their studios for a day and advising them on how to develop their digital creative skills.•Dylan Collins on children’s media, from YouTube to Minecraft•The Guardian is media partner for the Future 8 Awards
Sunset City is the first place on the planet to sample Overdrive, a new fizzy drink that turns its users into slavering man-eating mutants. Floyd from Sunset’s brewery calls it the “awesomepocalypse”. Looking a bit like Dreamcast classic Jet Set Radio, a big, colourful city is there for you to explore by grinding rails and roofs, bouncing on parked cars and laying waste to swathes of howling freaks using oversized weaponry. The plot revels in its own silliness, its self-referential humour mocking the trumped-up missions and familiar crate-smashing, object-fetching objectives. Sunset Overdrive is a raucous ride, engineered for maximum fun and hilarity.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKMX Vs ATV Supercross, Xbox 360, PS3 &amp; PCIn MX Vs ATV, bikes and four-wheel all-terrain vehicles face off in a series of races along jump-laden dirt tracks. As in previous outings, one stick steers and the other leans your rider, adding a degree of interest to the business of getting round corners. Races have wildly uneven difficulty levels, and you’ll find yourself 30 seconds behind the leader in one, only to win by a similar margin in the next. But despite its low-rent looks, interminably long races and a physics model that bears no resemblance to the branch of science established by Isaac Newton, it’s not entirely without its charms – especially when riding the more responsive ATVs.Nordic Games, £18.94-£34.99Boom Beach: Task Force Update, Android &amp; iOSFrom the same people who produce the highly addictive and eternally chart-topping Clash Of Clans, Boom Beach is another lightly social realtime-strategy-meets-tower-defence game that’s free to download, but outrageously tempting to pour actual money into once you become hooked. It’s been around for months, but the latest update adds massive cooperative missions that get you to team up in task forces of up to 50 players to take on fearsomely powerful objectives in what is rather a big shakeup for such a finely balanced game.Supercell, free
Games out this week includeLords Of The Fallen(PS4, Xbox One, PC), which gives you yet more opportunities to hack up Tolkien-inspired beasts;Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles – Danger Of the Ooze(Xbox 360, PS3, 3DS) is a side-scrolling 2D beat ’em-up that’s as old school as the heroes in halfshells it promotes;Strawberry Thief(iPad) is a collaboration between the V&amp;A and Abertay University, letting you fly a bird around a William Morris painting, colouring it in as you go;WWE 2K15(Xbox 360, PS3, PS4, Xbox One) brings more of the improbable muscle-ballet that is American wrestling to console owners;Invizimals: The Resistance(Vita) is the latest instalment of Sony’s augmented reality virtual pet game; andThe Unfinished Swan(PS4, Vita) is the ethereally beautiful PS3 game remade for the current generation.
Google has been fined 2,250 Canadian dollars for an image on Street View that captured images of a Canadian woman’s cleavage.A Canadian court judge ruled that despite being in public, sitting on the steps of her private property, Maria Pia Grillo’s privacy had been disrespected and that her “modesty and dignity” had been violated.“In addition to malicious comments and humiliation she suffered at work, the plaintiff, in particular, has experienced a significant loss of personal modesty and dignity, two values that she held and are eminently respectable,” said judge Alain Breault, describing his approach to the case as “European” and ordering Google to pay a $2,250.Google declined to comment.‘Right to have a private life’Grillo had originally sued for $45,000 in damages, including for the “right to have a private life” explaining that despite the image having had her face automatically blurred out, as with all images captured of people by Google’s Street View cars, her house and car registration plate clearly identified her as the subject of the image.Grillo said that she suffered “mockeries, derisions, disrespectful and sexually related comments in relation to the photographs” due to the fact that she was clearly identifiable despite Google’s anonymisation.The images were captured in March 2009, later released onto the site in October that year. According to court documents Grillo requested Google remove the image, but did not receive a response from the technology company, headquartered in Ontario for its Canadian operations.‘At the mercy of potential predators’“This puts me, my house, my vehicle and my family members that I live with at the mercy of potential predators. I feel very vulnerable knowing that the information is available to anyone with internet access. The damage has been done,” said Grillo in the court documents.Grillo filled the lawsuit in 2011 with the Canadian small claims court. Google told the court that it had blurred all the parts of the image requested by Grillo. Her house was blurred in 2011 removing her image from the mapping service.Google’s Street View cars drive around public streets with cameras that capture a 360-degree view of the environment. The images are then stitched together to create a service that allows users to browse streets and buildings from the ground level.But the service has seen resistance from data protection regulators in various countries including Germany, which fined Google €145,000 for “unprecedented privacy violations” and Italy, which recentlyfined Google €1mover complaints that the cars capturing images in 2010 were not clearly recognisable.In the UK, Google was told in 2013 todelete data captured about Wi-Fi networksby its Street View cars, or face prosecution by the Information Commissioner’s office.•Google Street View causes stir in Botswana•Google Street View used to map Shackleton’s island•Google Street View lets you explore pyramids from comfort of your home
Lumino Cityis a unique project – an adventure game set in a real-world model, constructed over the course of three years by the tiny State of Play studio based in south-east London. Handmade entirely from paper, card, lights and motors, the enormous environment has been filmed and digitised, forming the backdrop to an epic puzzle-filled quest.Speaking to Jordan Erica Webber at the GameCity festival, studio co-founders Katherine Bidwell and Luke Whittaker talk about the process of making the game and the exhibition in GameCity’s new dedicated building.They also reveal the game’s release date for the first time.
Christos Reid makes games about friendship, humanity and depression, guided by his own life experiences. At the GameCity festival on Wednesday he chaired a talk with Depression Quest developer Zoe Quinn about the healing power of games, and the ways in which game systems can be used to explore the mechanics of mental and emotional states.After his talk, we spoke to Reid about his games Hug Marine and Lunar Boy and the experiences that led to their development. “I wanted to do something happy, something that would make me feel good,” he explains about Hug Marine, in which players take on the role of a space marine who seeks to hug aliens rather than blast them into space.“Game development is therautic,” he says. “If you suffer from specific anxieties, it’s nice to develop a game – it’s a mathematical thing. You can put shapes together and everything works. You can construct a world you feel safe in.”GameCity festival interviews – Mitu Khandaker-KokorisGameCity festival interviews: Alistair Aitcheson – video
The Spanish government has successfully passed a new copyright law which imposes fees for online content aggregators such as Google News, in an effort to protect its print media industry.The new intellectual property law, known popularly as the “Google Tax” or by its initials LPI, requires services which post links and excerpts of news articles to pay a fee to the organisation representing Spanish newspapers, the Association of Editors of Spanish Dailies (known by its Spanish-language abbreviation AEDE). Failure to pay up can lead to a fine of up to €600,000.The law is the latest volley in the war between European newspapers and Google. The publishers accuse the search firm of using their copyrighted material to build up a news service without doing any reporting itself; Google defends itself by claiming that it 10 billion views to newspapers’ websites every month.The company says that it is “disappointed” with Spain’s new law. “We believe that services like Google News help publishers bring traffic to their sites. As far as the future is concerned, we will continue working with the Spanish publishers to help increase their revenues while we evaluate our options within the framework of the new legislation.”A similar law passed in Germany saw Google removing the affected newspapers from Google news altogether – before the publishers eventually came back andasked to be relistedafter seeing their traffic plummet, a stepthey saidthey had to take because of the “overwhelming market power of Google”.The “Google tax” isn’t the only component of Spain’s law, which tightens up existing regulation. Once it comes into action at the beginning of 2014, the country will also require websites to remove links to material that infringes copyright, even if the websites themselves don’t make money from the infringement.That requirement doesn’t require copyright holders to go through a judge before demanding links be removed, while imposing fines of €600,000 on sites which don’t act.The law also applies to the third party sites providing hosting or payment services to the infringing site, something that has led opponents of the law have labelled it “censorship”, comparing it to the financial boycott of Wikileaks. “The law opens the possibility for the state to sabotage any online content simply using fear,”lawyer Carols Sanchez Almeida told Gizmodo. “Are you going to risk a fine of €600,000 to host a link? No.”The LPI was passed by the ruling People’s Party, in the face of heavy resistance from the opposition parties, who called it “a disaster” and “a missed opportunity.”•Google investors press for code of conduct on tax
The nature of perfection is one of those abstracts that, though forever undefinable, we’ll still spend hours bickering over it. At certain times anything can be perfect – a cold drink on a hot day, a first kiss, a red shell in second place on the last lap. We may not be able to say what perfection is, but we know it when we feel it.Which doesn’t mean there are no rules. When thinking of perfection in games a useful guideline is the word’s etymological root – the Latinperficio, meaning to finish something. That is, a perfect game is such a complete realisation of its concept that you can’t imagine it ever being surpassed; it’s “perfect” in the sense that the idea has nowhere left to go.This is important because a perfect game need not necessarily be a timeless one – though they often are. I ran a quick Twitter poll about perfect games and an immediate, overwhelming favourite was id software’s 1993 first-person shooter Doom.Rise of the space marineDoom is certainly brilliant, and unlike almost any other early 3D title, remains a pleasure to play. But what makes it perfect is that, even though other games have improved on elements of it, the overall design has not been surpassed within its type. Doom popularised the FPS genre, establishing a “pure shooter” template and weapon-set that has often been imitated but never bettered or even much diverged-from in the years since. Subsequent FPS titles have added not-inconsiderable aspects like the ability to look up and down, or more fullyfeatured multiplayer modes, but the core of Doom remains a kind of urtext for the hyper-accelerated aggressive style of shooter.The other side to Doom is its simplicity. Compared to the kind of FPS game we play in 2014, it’s stripped-back and laser-focused, and this seems to be a key principle of what people think of as a perfect game.Consequently, there’s a kind of sweet spot for early 1990s 2D titles – frequent candidates for “perfection” include the likes of Sensible World of Soccer, Super Mario World, Super Metroid and The Legend of Zelda. These games focused on getting simple mechanics spot-on, and then crafting a game around them. Many contemporary titles now considered modern classics are similarly based around nailing a core mechanic.Super Meat Boy, for example, is a twitch platformer built around an intuitive but very deep control system. Spelunky is a procedurally generated platform adventure, or “roguelike”, that combines countless simple elements into very different and complex playthroughs (all underpinned by exceptional mechanics). Fez is a little more out-there, but again is constructed around a single perfect core mechanic.Perfect polygonsBut what about complex 3D games? The likes of Metal Gear Solid 3, Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time, Super Monkey Ball, Resident Evil 4, God Hand, Vanquish, Portal and Dark Soul are all considered perfect by some.Let’s look at characteristics they share. Some have exquisite control systems based around navigating a complex 3D space in a new kind of way – Super Monkey Ball and Vanquish, for example. Some are built around a range of character abilities and “intelligent” enemies, and the game’s meat is in combining the two over a series of paced encounters – that’s MGS3, Resi 4 and probably God Hand. Dark Souls set a new standard for 3D world-building by constructing an interconnected single space in which the whole game took place, a tightly-packed open-world that made architectural sense. Portal did kind of the opposite, building discrete spaces for crazy spatial experimentation, while the Sands of Time simply had one amazing idea – rewinding time to reverse your mistakes – and executed it perfectly throughout a very good 3D platformer.In each case, aspects of these games could be fairly criticised. MGS3 has unbearably long cutscenes, God Hand’s environment textures are poor, Dark Souls’s later areas are clearly rushed. But perfection doesn’t mean flawless. These games are perfect because the one characteristic they all share is exploring a gameplay concept to the uttermost. Super Monkey Ball is an unimprovable simulation of what it would be like to be a monkey encased in a pyrex ball navigating suspended 3D environments. Resident Evil 4 is designed to be gaming’s Die Hard, a pure action set-piece thrillride from start-to-finish, and it maintains this momentum throughout. God Hand ekes out every idea possible within the confines of kicking thugs in the nuts.The point is that no other game has managed to follow-up these ideas and make something better. God Hand remains singular. Resi 4’s sequels diluted and diminished the formula. Dark Souls II had little to add, and abandoned the overworld structure. Super Monkey Ball’s follow-ons are a sad story of decline.Singular treatsThese games may exist in popular genres, but certain other games achieve perfection by virtue of being unique. Gitaroo Man, a bizarre rhythm game with a super-sweet and surreal setting, is impossible to imitate. So too Katamari Damacy (though Namco has tried), Rhythm Tengoku (though Nintendo has tried), and even it could be argued something The Beatles: Rock Band. The latter may have mechanics entirely based on a pre-existing game, but there’s simply nowhere else to go with the idea of a Fab Four music game.But let’s focus on two games that proved the most popular crowd-sourced candidates for video game perfection. Tetris, probably the greatest puzzle game ever made, and Super Hexagon, which kind of balances between being a puzzler and a rhythm-twitch game.Both are simple – but, more than that, they are also minimalist. Tetris’s creator Alexey Pajitnov initially considered building the game around pentonimoes – shapes formed from five blocks. But there are twelve variations of pentonimoes, which he considered too many, and so he settled for tetronimoes (seven variations).Tetris works in layers. It is easy to play: the shapes and fixed playing field are visually clear, and the controls are comprehensible. The only random element is what shape will come next. As Tetris gets faster and faster, it is almost as if instinct takes over but the end is always the same: a flat parp as you hit the top of the screen, the playing field fills up, and your score’s displayed.Even though the games are quite dissimilar, Super Hexagon is also built around a very simple interaction – spinning an arrow to guide it through gaps in layers of hexagons – which gets faster. Both games have exactly the same principles underlying them: simple objective followed by an increase in pace that leads to mistakes. Super Hexagon’s rhythm is much more obvious because the exceptional backing track is a key part of the experience, but the principle is identical.Perfection, subtraction and additionI described Tetris and Super Hexagon as minimalist, and what’s important is that you could not remove or add a single mechanic to either and improve it. This is a good guide for perfect games – you could say, for example, that the PlayStation 2 adventure Ico is the ultimate example of 3D minimalism. But then who would exclude games like Bayonetta, Journey, Planescape: Torment, or Street Fighter II?The more you think of it the more there are. Super Mario Kart on the SNES has to be in there. Does Team Fortress 2 or Counter-Strike get left on the sidelines? Not on my watch. I think of perfect as an expansive term rather than a closed shop, something that describes a flawed-but-complete achievement rather than an unattainable ideal.When I asked Twitter for perfect games, one of the more surprising candidates proffered was the PlayStation 2-era bling-’em-up Def Jam: Fight for NY. That was alongside votes for The Bard’s Tale, Mother 3, and Sin &amp; Punishment 2.So what’s your choice?30 greatest video games that time forgot30 greatest British video games
Video games have always done horror. From the earliest text-based adventures to the most up-to-date action chillers, designers have used the interactive elements of the medium to scare the bejesus out of us.We have endured the survival horror genre, with its references to George Romero and Japanese ghost stories. We have done sci-fi scares with Dead Space and Stalker; we have done rural horror with Slender; and military horror with the F.E.A.R titles. Everyone has a jump scare moment, or a “creeping toward a door looking at the screen through your fingers” moment. Even the people who make games.So to find out what scares game makers, we went around the GameCity festival and asked them. Here’s what they said.Silent Hill 3 (Daniel Rosenfeld, musician, Minecraft)“I don’t think I’ve ever been scared by a game,” claims the musician and sound designer behind those terrifying zombie and creeper noises in Minecraft. “Oh no, wait, Silent Hill 3,” he immediately adds. “The mannequin room. You just walk in and all you can see are mannequins. There is complete silence. Then you walk away and suddenly, the head of a mannequin explodes. That’s it. That is the scariest moment in video games.”Amnesia: The Dark Descent (Robin Griffith, Space Budgie)“I’m scared ofeverything,” exclaims Robin Griffith, co-founder of Space Budgie, developers of forthcoming programming adventure, Glitch Space. “I tried to play Amnesia but I am still currently in the first cupboard you get to,” she says. “I found a broom, so I am just sitting in the cupboard with the broom. I don’t think I’m going to be leaving the cupboard.”Nightmare House 2 (William Pugh, writer and designer, The Stanley Parable)“Nightmare House 2 is a Half-Life 2 mod,” explains William Pugh, creator of award-winning adventure, the Stanley Parable. “There was a section in that where they had a long, dark corridor that you’d fall down into. You’d walk to one end and find there was nothing there, so you’d head to the other end, nothing there. So you’d turn around again, but every time you walked along the corridor it would get shorter.“You ended up in a little box. You’d be turning around trying to do stuff, but it’s blank walls and you can’t do anything. Eventually you look up and there’s a ghost right above you. It screams, the floor opens up and you fall through. It plays with that whole thing that people never look up in first-person shooters, and that’s really cool.”Walking Dead (Katherine Bidwell, co-founder, State of Play games)“This is the scariest game I’ve ever played. Ihatezombies,” says Bidwell, who’s studio, State of Play, is about to release its visually astonishing platform adventure, Lumino City. “The whole thing terrifies me. But it’s the start; the whole build up of the atmosphere. Oh yeah, and the decisions you have to make – ‘Right, either he’s dead or she’s dead, their lives are in my hands.’”Nightbreed (James Parker, games designer and scriptwriter)“The scariest moment in games for me was definitely the failure screen in Clive Barker’s Night Breed on the Amiga,” explains Parker, who has designed games for Konami, Atlus and Eidos. “You actually saw this screen all the time, because it was an almost impossibly difficult. The ending screen is just you alone in an asylum, with the most terrifying haunting madman’s laugh. It was one of only four games I owned so I just get persevering with it, destroying myself mentally. It just ruined asylums for me.”Alien: Isolation (Mike Bithell, game designer, Thomas Was Alone)“My scariest moment was very recent – at the crowded Eurogamer Expo,” says Mike Bithell, creator of the award-winning puzzle-platformer, Thomas Was Alone. “I fell off the chair,” he admits. “I got caught by the alien for the first time and … yeah, I fell of the chair, pulling the headphones and joypad out of the socket. At least I got a lot of laughs.”Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time (Adriel Wallick, indie game developer)“There’s a part in Ocarina of Time when you go under the well in Kakariko village,” saysWallick, who challenged herself to make a game a week this year. “You encounter these zombie enemies, and the camera zooms in, you can’t move anymore and they let out this blood-curdling scream. The first time it happens, it’s really, really freaky because there’s no other point in the game where it prevents you from moving like that.”Half-Life 2 (Andrew Roper, indie developer)“There’s a section in Half-Life 2 called Ravenholm,” explains Roper, who’s currently working on retro shooter, Tango Fiesta. “It’s dark and delipidated, and it’s where you first discover where head crabs have taken over and mutated human bodies. You’ve got to find the exit, but there are these faster head crabs that hunt you over the roof tops. I played it when I was younger and it was so tense; just trying to navigate without messing my pants.”So how about you? Let’s hear about your scariest gaming moments in the comments section …
Facebook is making it easier for users of the Tor anonymising service to access the social network, by launching a .onion address.The company is describing it as “a way to access Facebook through Tor without losing the cryptographic protections provided by the Tor cloud”, in an effort to convince Tor users that their anonymity will be maintained.The Tor network provides privacy both by having connections jump through different servers, known as relays, across the world, making it hard to tell where the user is based, and by encrypting all of a users’ traffic.Facebook also provides encryption using SSL, as indicated by the ‘HTTPS’ portion of the URL in the address bar. But it’s been tricky for Tor users to access Facebook in the past because of the way the social networking giant blocks hacked accounts - where it sees a user is accessing from an unknown IP address it suspects something is wrong.“Tor challenges some assumptions of Facebook’s security mechanisms - for example its design means that from the perspective of our systems a person who appears to be connecting from Australia at one moment may the next appear to be in Sweden or Canada,”explained software engineer Alex Muffettin a blog post.“In other contexts such behaviour might suggest that a hacked account is being accessed through a “botnet”, but for Tor this is normal. Considerations like these have not always been reflected in Facebook’s security infrastructure, which has sometimes led to unnecessary hurdles for people who connect to Facebook using Tor.”The new .onion address –https://facebookcorewwwi.onion/– is described as an “experiment” by the social network, which it hopes to learn from over time, and improve by also providing a .onion address for Facebook’s mobile website. “In the meantime we expect the service to be of an evolutionary and slightly flaky nature,” wrote Muffett.Runa Sandvik, a security researcher who was consulted by Facebook on the project and previously worked at the Tor Project, said the announcement marked a “very positive step for anyone who wants to access Facebook in a secure way”“This hidden service will provide Tor users with end-to-end encryption whenever they visit Facebook, from the Tor Browser and directly into a Facebook data centre,” Sandvik told the Guardian.Facebook has been pushing its privacy friendly message in earnest since it wasimplicated in assisting NSA surveillance programmes, which it denied knowledge of. A number ofprivacy complaints have also been made against the firm.•What is Tor? A beginner’s guide to the privacy tool
It’s time for this week’s roundup of the best new iPhone and iPad apps and games released on Apple’s App Store.As ever, the prices provided in brackets are for the initial download only: when an app uses in-app purchases, this will be listed as (Free + IAP).More interested in Android apps? They’re covered in a separate weeklyBest Android Apps roundup. But if it’s iOS you’re after, read on for this week’s selection.APPSAuxy (Free)Reviewed at greater lengthearlier in the week, Auxy is an accessible but deceptively powerful music-making app, where you create beats, bass lines and melodies then string them together into tracks to share online. It’s stylish, fun and has plenty of flexibility.iPadMakies Fashion (£1.99)British startup MakieLab started off as a way to customise then order 3D-printed dolls, but has since diversified into mobile games and apps. Makies Fashion is a well-crafted dress-up app for children, getting them to create outfits for their own virtual doll, then send them down the catwalk. Creative and fun.iPadTidal (Free + subscription)Tidal is a streaming music service with a couple of differences to the likes of Spotify and Deezer. First, audio quality: its streams (which can be cached for offline listening) are lossless FLAC-quality. Second, the way it mixes videos and articles – interviews and features – with the basic music. For now, it’s US and UK only, costing $19.99 / £19.99 a month.iPhone / iPadCode School (Free)One of a growing number of apps aiming to teach programming skills, this one skewed more towards professionals (or at least experienced amateurs) rather than complete novices. It serves up videos for courses in JavaScript, HTML and CSS, Ruby and iOS, among other topics.iPhone / iPadBlloon - Read for free (Free)Blloon is an interesting take on e-reading: a catalogue of nearly one million books to read for free, with a system that includes earning more pages by inviting friends, reviewing books and giving feedback. But it plans to also offer a £3.99 in-app upgrade to “read anything you like”. Most importantly, there are books you’d actually want to read, from large and indie publishers alike.iPhone / iPadIntro by about.me (Free)A few startups have come and gone trying to replace the traditional business card with a mobile app. Intro is one of the more convincing attempts yet though: you enter someone’s email address who you’ve just met, then decide which contact details to send them. It ties in to the about.me site for profiles, if people have them.iPhoneBitmoji - Avatar Emoji Keyboard (Free)Bitstrips were huge on Facebook last year, for a while, as everyone and their aunt rushed to turn themselves into a cartoon avatar. Now the company behind that craze is back with an emoji keyboard, still featuring the avatar you’ve created to look like yourself. Will it be as viral as the last time, though?iPhoneCityMatchDay (Free)This is an interesting app for Manchester City fans, promising to be “the ultimate companion” for matches this season. No, that doesn’t mean it’ll buy you a pie at half-time. Instead, it offers a mix of video interviews; a live “tactical cam” and highlights videos (these two only if you’re at the match); and audio and text commentary for everyone else.iPhoneEllentube (Free)This is a brand new thing from US chat-show host Ellen DeGeneres, who’s building her own online video community outside YouTube (although certainly not abandoning the latter). It’s a mixture of videos “curated” by Ellen – expect plenty of cats, apparently – and a way for fans to share their own clips.iPhoneFrankenstein at the National Theatre (Free + IAP)If you like your theatre, this is an intriguing example of how companion apps for plays might work. Accompanying the broadcast version of the National Theatre’s 2011 production of Frankenstein, it offers interviews, photos, artwork and videos as a “digital programme”.iPadAudio Defence: Zombie Arena is an audio-only game for iOS.Photograph: PRGAMESAudio Defence: Zombie Arena (£2.99)If you’ve not played developer Somethin’ Else’s Papa Sangre audio games, they’re brilliant: capable of spooking you through sound alone. This is their latest effort using similar technology: a zombie battler where you can’t see anything, so have to rely on sound to know where to hit. Technically inventive, yes, but also enjoyable to play.iPhone / iPadRival Stars Basketball (Free + IAP)Developer PikPok’s Flick Kick Football Legends was a marvellous blend of flicky football and card-collecting. Now it’s trying a similar blend for basketball. Your job is to build a team by collecting cards and plotting your strategy, before getting your fingers involved to shoot the hoops.iPhone / iPadWarhammer 40,000: Space Wolf (Free + IAP)Having grown up with Warhammer 40k, I’m always a bit cautious about games promising to bring the roleplaying game’s sprawling universe to digital life. This game has made a promising start though, with its blend of tactical battles and card collecting, and plenty of atmosphere.iPhone / iPadFootball Chairman (£2.99 + IAP)I lost dozens of hours to the free version of Football Chairman when it first came out: an addictive game that sees you playing chairman rather than manager, developing your club from minnow to might. This is the full version, with more features, tournaments and in-game achievements to track your progress.iPhone / iPadBoogie Woogie (£0.69)In theory, this is a game for children. I think plenty of parents will have fun with it though. It’s part memory game and part rhythm-action music game, with some wonderfully cheeky monsters responsible for the dancing. The key feature for kids, though, will be the ability to fart and burp. In the game, I mean: they’re more than capable of it in real life.iPhone / iPadStar Wars: Galactic Defense (Free + IAP)Disney’s recent Star Wars: Commander was a Clash of Clans-style take on the galactic battle. This new game from DeNA takes a more traditional tower defence approach, as you marshall the likes of Luke Skywalker and Yoda to fend off the hordes. Although as with Disney’s game, you can choose to play as the Dark or Light side, according to your mood.iPhone / iPadWoah Dave! (£1.49)Nothing to do with the TV channel, this: it’s less about “witty banter” and more about pleasingly-retro platform gaming, as you steer the hero (yes, Dave) through an alien invasion. It’s quirky, humorous and very, very playable.iPhone / iPadHaunt the House: Terrortown (£0.69)Originally a PC game, Haunt the House: Terrortown has made its way to mobile devices just in time for Halloween. It’s really good fun: a game where you have to haunt a variety of locations, scaring the willies out of anyone you meet. The illustration and animation style mean it’s full of character.iPhone / iPadUnderworld: Sugar Wars (Free + IAP)This game has an infamous past, having been originally focused on drug dealing before Apple nixed the idea. Cue a rebrand to focus on a sugar black market instead, as you push sweets and soda. But there’s an interesting game here too, with location-based elements to pit you against other players in your area.iPhone / iPadTwisty Hollow (£1.99)Finally, Twisty Hollow: another game with a papercrafty visual style that’s all its own, and 50 levels of puzzling. The gameplay is a breath of fresh air too, as you match characters and objects on spinning wheels to create items to feed customers. If you’ve reached gem/sweet-matching overload on iOS, give this a try.iPhone / iPadThat’s my choice, but what iOS apps and games have you been using recently? Make your recommendations – or give your views on the picks above – in the comments section.•40 best iPhone and iPad games of 2014 (so far)
Gottfrid Svartholm Warg, founder of the file sharing site and peer-to-peer networkThe Pirate Bay, has been convicted on hacking charges and illegal downloading in a Denmark court.Warg, who is Swedish, was found guilty of hacking into the US technology service firm, CSC, in February 2012, alongside a 21-year-old Danish accomplice.The pair remained inside CSC’s system for four to six months, altering data and downloading social security files. The co-defendant walked free, having been detained for 17 months in pre-trial.Warg argued that he was not responsible for the hack, but that he had been framed, despite documents belonging to CSC being found on his computer and IRC logs between two people using the handles “Advanced Persistent Terrorist Threat” and “My Evil Twin”.The Pirate Bay file-sharing site was set up in 2003.Photograph: The Pirate BayWarg denied being behind the “My Evil Twin” alias. The unidentified co-defendant, who refused to hand over his encryption key to authorities, testified that Warg was not “My Evil Twin”, having met in person with the individual behind the online identity.The judge and jury dismissed these claims, asserting that it was unlikely Warg was not behind the hack.Warg will be sentenced on 30 October and could face a sentence of six years.It is not the first time he has fallen foul of the law – in September 2013 Warg wasdeportedfrom Cambodia to Sweden after being convicted of copyright charges in relation to the Pirate Bay site.In June of the same year, he wassentencedto two years, also in Sweden, for hacking into Nordea bank’s computing system and the UK services firm, Logica.•Pirate Bay founder will be deported from Cambodia, police say
The Edward Snowden documentary Citizenfour opens in UK cinemas on Friday, putting the dangers of surveillance squarely in the public eye. But Laura Poitras’ film isn’t the first time that an artist has explored the threat that technology poses to privacy. John Cheever did it, too, in 1947.Everybody knows that privacy is in trouble. We know that we are being monitored, we agree that it is disturbing – and yet we continue with our online lives regardless. Why are we so nonchalant, so blithe? Why don’t we care?We need a fable about privacy. A gothic tale, preferably: a story to make us feel the threat, rather than merely acknowledge it. And we have one. It’s the 1947 short story by John Cheever, calledThe Enormous Radio.Jim and Irene Westcott are happily married, with two children. They live in a New York City apartment block, and they love listening to music.One day, Jim surprises Irene with a brand-new radio. Irene is dismayed: it is massive, ugly, and far too expensive. Its dials are “flooded with a malevolent green light”, and it comes to life with a roar so thunderous that an ornament is knocked to the floor.But there is something even more unsettling about this new radio. Irene discovers that it doesn’t just broadcast music. It broadcasts the voices of the neighbours, too.Irene hears everything. She hears endearments, obscenities, sighs of despair. She hears conspiracies and lies. She hears a husband beating his wife – and Irene’s initial voyeuristic excitement quickly turns to dread. She becomes depressed, obsessively fixating on the inadequacies of her own marriage, and she is terrified to leave the radio on – perhaps because her neighbours can hear her, too.The internet is the Enormous Radio. And we are the unwitting neighbours, spied upon in our most vulnerable moments.But there are important differences. Though Irene can switch off the radio, the internet is always on. The radio can only spy on the adjacent apartments – but the internet is not so confined.The internet has ears in our bags, in our cars, in the back pockets of our jeans. With the advent of wearables, the ears of the internet are on, and in, our very bodies. It’s not just in our homes that we are being watched, and eavesdropped upon. It’s everywhere.Irene is the one listening inIf we are the neighbours, and the internet is the Enormous Radio, then Irene is the one listening in. Irene is every app, every social network, every website that we use. She is Facebook, she’s Dropbox, she’s Whisper. She’s Instagram and Twitter. She’s Google. She’s the government, as Snowden famously, or infamously, revealed.But their knowledge doesn’t depress these internet Irenes. They don’t weep for us as our marriages break up, feeling our misery from a distance. Far from it. Our Irenes sit back, put ads for dating sites in our sidebars, and then watch for us to do something ill-advised in our grief. They rub their hands together as they wait for the cash – and the evidence – to roll in.We argue and conspire - because we think nobody’s listeningAt first pass, there seems to be a disanalogy. In Cheever’s story, the neighbours bicker, argue and conspire – but only because they think that nobody is listening. And we’re just not like that, one might object.We are careful, in our online behaviour, because we are well aware that we’re being watched. We don’t just put any old thing on Facebook. We’re not that naive.After all, we tell ourselves, the internet only tracks our public personas, not our private ones. We control what it sees. And what does it matter, if somebody sees these carefully assembled, artificial versions of ourselves? Who cares?The thing is, the internet doesn’t just see what we want it to see. Its gaze is not limited to the airbrushed facades of our digital profiles. It peers around the corner, and it sees the tangled mess behind the scenes.Think of all those outpourings of emotion that you’ve emailed to family, friends, lovers. Those are all on servers somewhere. Even if you trust your email provider, scandal after scandal teaches us that there are other enterprising third parties out there who might not be so scrupulous – folk with a knack for hacking and an eye on the bottom line.Even the search engines know more than you think. Those inane questions you ask the internet, late at night, when you’ve had too much wine? They see those. That status that you almost posted last week, but didn’t, to your subsequent relief? They saw that. Those photos you thought you deleted, the ethnic or sexual biases you didn’t even know you had? They see those, too.The internet is accountable to nobodySo far, for most of us, the radio has been on mute. It has kept its knowledge of us to itself. But what would happen if the dial were turned up?Imagine the internet broadcasting your emails. Imagine it bellowing your search queries for everyone to hear. “Tim wants to know about cures for erectile dysfunction,” it might roar. “Jess is looking up abortion clinics.”Make no mistake: our internet Irenes can speak. They have resonant, powerful voices, and at the moment, they are accountable to nobody. And if we don’t do something now – something to safeguard all of the information that they already control – they may well choose to use them.Or, worse still, we might just give in. Our future online interactions might be stilted, guarded, fearful. We might be forced to show only our false, public personas to each other, so terrified are we to reveal our true selves.Have we reached the peak of the privacy debate?The digital privacy debate seems to have come to a climax. The release ofCitizenfour, the new Snowden documentary, comes on the back of a steady stream of hacking scandals, trolling outrages, and heated debates about the “right to be forgotten” ruling.Privacy concerns tend to follow mainstream technological advances, after a slight delay. And privacy was also at a tipping point when Cheever’s story was published. In 1947, when Cheever wrote the Enormous Radio, commercial radio entertainment was around 25 years old, and 82% of Americans were regular listeners.What about today? Well, the web is 25 years old, and 84% of Americans are regular internet users. The rise of radio use had Cheever worried about privacy in 1947. And we should be worried now.We have a choiceThe unsettling tale of the Enormous Radio is at an end, but the story of the internet is not. And there is one more disanalogy to flag.The radio was an inanimate object: an ugly, gumwood monstrosity, blinking at Irene with its ghoulish lights as it sat, hunched, in her living room. It relied on some occult power, rather than design, in order to spy.But the internet is not magical, nor is it made of gumwood. The internet is not even an object.The internet is just a big group of people, connected over protocols, sharing ideas. Since its inception, it has had a profound impact on the way we communicate. Like it or not, it will continue to shape our future.As for the way we choose to communicate online in the future, however – we have a choice. We can continue to treat each other as mines of information to be bought and sold, as objects to be watched and censored. Or we can decide to treat each other as human beings. It’s up to us.Jenny Judge is a researcher at Cambridge, writing on the intersections between technology, philosophy and the arts
It’s time for our latest roundup of the latest, greatest Android apps and games, this time from the last two weeks’ worth of releases on the Google Play store.As ever, the prices provided in brackets are for the initial download only: when an app uses in-app purchases, this will be listed as (Free + IAP). Something to look for: a new section of each app’s Google Play store listing, which explains the full range of IAP.More interested in iOS apps? They’re covered in a separate weeklyBest iPhone and iPad Appsroundup, with the latest instalment due to be published later today.APPSdjay 2 (£1.99)iPad has tended to get the lion’s share of DJing apps, with the honourable exception ofedjing. Now developer Algoriddim has brought the second version of its djay app to Android, with the ability to mix songs from your own collection or – if you’re a subscriber – from Spotify’s wider catalogue. The app is fun for novices and more experienced DJs alike.Google Fit (Free)Announced earlier in the year, Google Fit is now here as an activity and fitness-tracking app, tying in to the wider Google Fit platform. It’ll measure your walking, running and cycling and show you the data in clear graphs, while also linking up to a growing number of other fitness and health apps.More on Google’s plans here.Microsoft Health (Free)You wait ages for one technology giant to launch a fitness-tracking app for Android, and then two jog along at once. This Microsoft app ties in to itsMicrosoft Bandwearable device, but will also work with other apps. Expect a similar mix of measurement and graphs, with heart rate and sleep quality part of the mix too, with the necessary hardware.Makies Fashion (£1.99)British startup MakieLab started off as a way to customise then order 3D-printed dolls, but has since diversified into mobile games and apps. Makies Fashion is a well-crafted dress-up app for children, getting them to create outfits for their own virtual doll, then send them down the catwalk. Creative and fun.Hype Machine (£2.50)The second music app in this week’s roundup comes from what’s still one of the best sites for discovering new music: Hype Machine. Its official Android app has been a long time coming, but is worth the wait: it lets you quickly browse trending tracks from the music blogosphere, as well as seeing what friends are listening to.Tidal (Free + subscription)And more music: Tidal is a streaming music service with a couple of differences to the likes of Spotify and Deezer. First, audio quality: its streams (which can be cached for offline listening) are lossless FLAC-quality. Second, the way it mixes videos and articles – interviews and features – with the basic music. For now, it’s US and UK only, costing $19.99 / £19.99 a month.Bitmoji - Emoji by Bitstrips (Free)Remember Bitstrips? The personalised cartoons were all over Facebook last year, but then the mania died down. Could Bitmoji spark another craze? It’s a collection of emoji based on your own avatar, which can be pasted into your chats, text messages and social networking updates.Movie Edit Touch (Free + IAP)I remember Magix for its range of music-editing software back in the day, but in 2014 it’s also handling video editing. This new app aims to make it quick and easy to turn your clips into shareable videos, complete with background music and transition effects. Premium features, including the ability to export at HD quality, are sold in-app.PCMark for Android Benchmark (Free)One for anyone who likes to boast about exactly how nippy their Android device is: a benchmarking tool that promises to give you an accurate guide to the performance of your device as you’d actually use it, rather than the maximum stats in its tech specs. Also useful when mulling an upgrade, to compare to newer models.CityMatchday (Free)Finally, an interesting app for Manchester City fans, promising to be “the ultimate companion” for matches this season. No, that doesn’t mean it’ll buy you a pie at half-time. Instead, it offers a mix of video interviews; a live “tactical cam” and highlights videos (these two only if you’re at the match); and audio and text commentary for everyone else.The Wolf Among Us for Android.GAMESThe Wolf Among Us (Free + IAP)For its The Walking Dead adventure games alone, Telltale Games is a developer to cherish. The Wolf Among Us is just as good though: a no-holds-barred adventure based on the Fables comic books (which I’d thoroughly recommend too). The storyline unfolds over five episodes, with all bar the first bought through in-app purchases.Angry Birds Transformers (Free + IAP)The latest branded Angry Birds game is actually one of the most innovative in terms of its gameplay: bird-slinging is out, and stompy robots shooting and transforming into cars is very much in. It’s freemium, so expect timers and energy bars, but the game itself is fun.Read our full reviewfor more details on that.Rival Stars Basketball (Free + IAP)Developer PikPok’s Flick Kick Football Legends was a marvellous blend of flicky football and card-collecting. Now it’s trying a similar blend for basketball. Your job is to build a team by collecting cards and plotting your strategy, before getting your fingers involved to shoot the hoops.Football Chairman (£2.99 + IAP)I lost dozens of hours to the free version of Football Chairman when it first came out: an addictive game that sees you playing chairman rather than manager, developing your club from minnow to might. This is the full version, with more features, tournaments and in-game achievements to track your progress.Star Wars: Galactic Defense (Free + IAP)Disney’s recent Star Wars: Commander was a Clash of Clans-style take on the galactic battle. This new game from DeNA takes a more traditional tower defence approach, as you marshall the likes of Luke Skywalker and Yoda to fend off the hordes. Although as with Disney’s game, you can choose to play as the Dark or Light side, according to your mood.Battleheart Legacy (£3.12)Developer Mika Mobile’s Battleheart Legacy was a polished roleplaying game when it came out for iOS earlier in the year, and it’s made the leap to Android well. Expect questing, looting and lots of character customisation: the latter being the element most likely to keep you playing.Haunt the House: Terrortown (£0.59)Originally a PC game, Haunt the House: Terrortown has made its way to mobile devices just in time for Halloween. It’s really good fun: a game where you have to haunt a variety of locations, scaring the willies out of anyone you meet. The illustration and animation style mean it’s full of character.Icewind Dale: Enhanced Edition (£6.99)It’s a strong week on Android if you like your RPGs. This is another remake – this time of a PC game released back in 2000 – using the Advanced Dungeons &amp; Dragons system. It’s an engrossing tale well worth sinking your teeth (well, touchscreen fingers) into.Secret of Mana (£6)2000? Pfft. Secret of Mana is an even more venerable game, having first been released by Square Enix in 1993. This action RPG sees you exploring a colourful world, and while the graphics date it, the gameplay remains very moreish – whether you have fond memories of the original or not.NHL 2K (£5.89 + IAP)NHL 2K is 2K Games’ ice hockey simulation, converted with aplomb from console for touchscreen devices. It’s hard to make these kinds of sports games work well without buttons, but so far this one seems to have navigated the change well, with a choice of career, shootout and mini rink modes for variety.That’s my choice, but what Android apps and games have you been using recently? Make your recommendations – or give your views on the picks above – in the comments section.•40 best Android games of 2014 (so far)
Reddit has entered the crowdfunding arena with Redditmade, a new competitor to the likes of Kickstarter and Indiegogo.But unlike those sites, Redditmade is targeting a particular user with a laser focus: the existing moderators of Reddit communities, called subreddits.“One of the biggest reasons we created redditmade was to allow subreddits an easy way to create official subreddit merch for their communities,”the site explains in its launch announcement. “Whatever you want to make, we’ll connect you to our network of quality sourcing partners for a variety of products and walk you through every step of the process so your community can celebrate your connection and show off your pride without all the work.The social news site is massive, with 175 million unique visitors in the last month spread over more than 8,000 active subreddits. But as a business, it’s comparatively small, with just two major sources of income: display advertising, and sales of its premium membership service Reddit Gold.The latter represents an effort to monetize the community aspects of Reddit, but can only reach as deep as the overarching Reddit community. But while there is a sense of belonging amongst many Redditors, much of that communal sentiment belongs to the subreddits, rather than the site as a whole.Redditmade lets those subreddits, which unite communities as diverse and specific asmixologists,supporters of charity Medecins Sans Frontieres, andmembers of Reddit’s clan for videogame Modern Warfare 3, create and sell merchandise to their members. In exchange, of course, Reddit takes a cut.Unlike full-blown crowdfunding sites, however, Reddit also takes a strong hand in creating the product. The majority of the site is focused around t-shirt sales, where the designer submits the artwork and sets a price but Reddit handles manufacturing and shipping.For other goods, Reddit requires “rough examples of artwork”, and then “connects you with sourcing partners, work with you to finalise designs, and help you step through all the other creative, legal, logistical, promotional, and financial hoops to make your campaign happen, but we can only help you as much as you’ll let us”.•Reddit launches ‘pressiquette’ guidelines for journalists
Google’s new version of its tablet and smartphone operating system “Lollipop” is the fifth version of Android, introducing new features and tweaks that collectively give the user the feeling that quite a lot has been improved.Unveiled as “L” at Google’s developer conference I/O in June to replaceAndroid 4.4 “KitKat,Android 5 Lollipopwas revealed alongside Google’s new design ethos called “Material”.Material Design is a new consistent look for Google’s apps, products and services, which stretches beyond Android to Google’s Chrome browser and Chrome OS software for low-cost laptops. The basic premise is a bolder, more colourful and flat look to icons, notifications and other interface elements.This review is based on a very near final version of Lollipop released by Google for testing. Small things may change before release.Smooth slidingFor Lollipop that means the use of much brighter, fuller colours than the previous version of Android and a more consistent look. Menu bars are one solid block of colour, icons are highly stylised and flat, while interface “cards” first introduced with Google Now are used throughout, floating and sliding over the top of each other adding depth.Every bit of the interface looks different, including the background which now changes colour depending on the time of day in some apps, and some slick new sliding animations which add motion to many of Android’s responses.The lockscreen smoothly slides up and down, with button taps pulsing with white circles. Apps now slide up from the bottom, while the notification shade is pulled down in two stages, one for notifications and a second for quick settings. The second stage has a particularly pleasing animation that reveals battery and settings icons, sliding out from the user profile icon.Lollipop’s animations.All the animations are fast and fluid, giving Android a sense of urgency and stopping them from getting in the way of getting things done.More than just one userMore than one user can have an account on devices.Photograph: ScreengrabBeyond the obvious colourful difference, Lollipop introduces a couple of important features into the core Android experience.The first is multiple user accounts on one device. Some Android tablets have had support for more than one user, but smartphones and other devices have been limited to a single user account.Now multiple user accounts can be set up straight from the quick settings screen, including temporary guest accounts, making sharing a device within a family much easier. The user accounts are very basic at the moment – there are no parental control settings beyond restricted accounts that can limit for instance – but each user will have their own accounts and data inside their profile, which can be password protected.Restricted profiles can block access to certain apps and functions.Photograph: ScreengrabSetting up a new device is now a lot easier for owners of older Android smartphones and tablets. Simply tapping another Android device on the back will transfer settings, apps and accounts as long as both support near field communication (NFC), which almost every Android device will.It is a one-touch procedure, which works well and takeaway much of the headache of swapping to a new smartphone or tablet.Notification filtersEach app can be blocked from displaying notifications, or added to the priority list.Photograph: ScreengrabMultitasking has also been enhanced with a new card system. Each app can show more than one card allowing users to switch to an open message or back to the inbox, for example – not just to one view in the app.Notifications from any number of apps can now be filtered by priority on an app-by-app basis. Instead of letting any notification through, users can choose to let only important messages from favourite contacts to show or prevent any notifications from showing.Users can set up quiet periods through the day or week, or activate the feature on an ad hoc basis – not something that is new to Android devices, but the first time it has been integrated into the core Android experience.Longer battery lifeThe power saving mode turns the status bar orange to indicate it’s active, inhibiting some apps while the screen is off.Photograph: ScreengrabLollipop also promises to help prolong smartphone and tablet battery life by being more efficient and tougher on battery-draining apps. It uses a new version of the underlying software calledArtthat powers apps, which is both faster and lighter on resources.A pre-release version of Lollipop installed on a Nexus 5 smartphone made the battery last around a quarter longer, with others finding even longer gainsof over 35%or two hours in tests. Users should see their smartphones and tablets lasting significantly longer after being updated.A built-in “battery saver” mode aims to help the device last as long as possible by reducing processor performance and disabling use of data in the background; email and messaging apps will still update when opened, but may not while not active. It can be enabled manually or automatically at 15% battery remaining.Battery saving modes are not new, as many smartphone manufacturers including Samsung, Sony and LG have built their own systems for reducing battery consumption, but now it is baked directly into the unmodified Android experience.Better unlockingGoogle has added new ways users can login to devices. Face unlock, which uses the front-facing camera of the smartphone or tablet to recognise the users face to unlock the device, has been altered so it runs in the background. As the user looks through notifications on the lockscreen, the device attempts to recognise the face, but if it can’t it will prompt for a pin or password when the user tries to go past the the lock screen.Bluetooth devices such as headphones, speakers and smartwatches, as well as NFC tags, can be used to unlock the device automatically. When leaving the range of the trusted device the smartphone or tablet will re-lock, requiring a passcode.Both login methods work well and can alleviate some of the irritations of keeping a device secure.Where and when will it be available?Google’s latest Nexus smartphone is a 6in phablet made by Motorola.Photograph: GoogleThe first devices to run Lollipop will be Google’s Nexus 6 smartphone and Nexus 9 tablet, which will be available in the next few weeks. Google’s Nexus 7 tablet and Nexus 5 smartphone will also be updated in the next month.After Google’s release of Lollipop, other manufacturers will have to make the updated software available for their devices on a case-by-case basis, likely a couple of months later. Motorola has pledged an upgrade for its Moto G, X and E, HTC for its One M8 and older M7, while Samsung is expected to update the Galaxy S5 and Note 4 and LG the G3.VerdictLollipop is a complete visual overhaul of the standard Android look, making it a much smoother, more coherent and connected experience – a big step up compared to previous iterations of Google’s software.It is also faster, lighter on battery and adds a lot of what third-party manufacturers have had to manually bolt on to their customised versions of Android.There are still a few areas that could be improved, mainly around app permissions and user privacy control, but overall Lollipop is a solid upgrade and keeps Android on-par with competitors.•Google launches Fit app to take on Apple’s Heath and Samsung’s S Health•Google has a Lollipop for Android and shows off giant 6in Nexus 6 smartphone
Microsoft has been winning generally approving headlines for its Microsoft Band fitness tracker and accompanying Microsoft Health platform, since both were revealed –seemingly unintentionally at first– on Wednesday.One of the key points about both hardware and software is their cross-platform nature: they won’t just be restricted to people with a Windows Phone smartphone and/or a computer running the Windows OS. They’ll also support Android, iOS and Mac.Microsoft Health is also open to other devices and apps, with Jawbone’s Up and the apps MapMyFitness, MyFitnessPal and RunKeeper the first to be announced.“We plan to have a regular cadence of Microsoft Health announcements including additional device and service partnerships, SDK availability and additional cross-platform applications and services,”blogged Microsoft’s Todd Holmdahl.Integrating other fitness apps isn’t unusual: it’s an approach also being taken by Apple’s Health app and HealthKit API, as well as Google Fit, whichalso launched this week. Meanwhile, hardware makers including Fitbit, Withings and Jawbone have built a network of data-sharing deals to work with apps beyond their own.Even so, Microsoft Health’s commitment to cross-platform is notable, if perhaps essential given the relatively small market share of Windows Phone. Do you think it gives the company’s new venture a healthy chance of attracting people? The comments section is open for your views.Some other food for tech thought and discussion this morning:Former Android boss Andy Rubin is leaving Google, but his plans sound pretty interesting:according to the Wall Street Journalhe’ll be “starting an incubator for startups interested in building technology hardware products”. It stresses that Rubin’s departure doesn’t mean Google is cooling on the robotics space. Probably a good thing, givenall those acquisitions...Talking of robots, here’s a new study from scientists at Oregon State University, the Royal Veterinary College and others suggesting thatroboticists can learn a lot from running birds. “We should ultimately be able to encode this understanding into legged robots so the robots can run with more speed and agility in rugged terrain.”More birds:Warblr is an intriguing Kickstarter crowdfunding campaignfor “an audio recognition app for birdsong”. Basically it’s Shazam for your garden: trained on recordings of more than 80 British species, it enables you to record a bird’s song and then identify it.Music industry blog China Music Business hasa good interview about intellectual property rights in China. “As China inevitably moves from a manufacturing economy to an innovation economy – meaning that companies need to innovate to stay ahead of competitors – you will see domestic companies that onceinfringedIP start to use the laws toprotecttheir IP...”Finally,CNN has been talking to Humanetics, which makes crash test dummies, about its work on a new obese model. “Obese people are 78% more likely to die in a crash. The reason is the way we get fat. We get fat in our middle range. And we get out of position in a typical seat.” The company is also working on a model that can reflect age as well as size.What do you think of these stories, and what else have you seen today that you think fellow Guardian Tech readers would enjoy chatting about? The discussion is open.
Oooh, it's spooooooky Halloween!
Mental health among Britain’s youth is shockingly concerning. Suicide is theleading cause of deathin men under the age of 35 in the UK, while it isestimatedthat 9.6% of young people aged 5-16 have a clinically recognised mental health condition.Anything that helps to better this situation is great, and particularly as it is crucial to catch mental ill health early on. Struggling with a serious mental health condition as a young person can seriously impact a person’s future – I speak from experience.Perhaps if Samaritans Radar had been around when I was 16, I wouldn’t have spent the next two years in a hellish fug of depression.Released this week,Samaritans Radaris a web app which monitorsTwitteraccounts for tweets indicative of possible depression or suicidal thoughts. Launched by the suicide prevention charity the Samaritans, the app scans tweets for specific keywords and phrases including: “tired of being alone”, “hate myself”, “depressed”, “help me” and “need someone to talk to.”A concerned friend or family member can sign up to Samaritans Radar, which will then monitor the tweets of a person they are worried about, and alert them by email if the content of tweets suggests that they are vulnerable.Are you tracking me?But the app, which utilises Twitter’s API and was developed by digital agency Jam, has met with resistance over privacy concerns, with many pointing out that the Samaritans are surveilling people’s tweets without their permission.Some have also raised concerns that the app breaches theData Protection Act 1998(DPA), as Jon Bainesexplainson his information rights blog.As@susanhallukpoints out#SamaritansRadartakes automated decisions by processing personal data. So I&#39;ve sent thishttps://t.co/x9ArIfZaGR&mdash; Jon Baines (@bainesy1969)October 30, 2014The Samaritans preempted this objection in its ownFAQwhich states that “All the data used in the app is public, so user privacy is not an issue”, but have since released astatementdefending the app, addressing concerns and clarifying how it works.However, despite legitimate privacy arguments and other ways in which the app falls short (discussed below), Samaritans Radar is a good thing.The app’s main target audience is 18 to 35-year-olds, or the so-called “millennial” generation. This demographic – annoyingly known as “digital natives” – live their lives on social media, and this often includes updates on mood and emotional state.Facebook even prompts status updates with “What’s on your mind?” as the placeholder text in the input box, and asks users how they are feeling.Facebook encourages users to share feelings.Photograph: FacebookThere’s no doubt that young people can struggle to communicate effectively, caught in a centrifuge of hormones, identity crises, peer pressure and angst.Judgement calls are the basis of friendshipsThe truth is, most of the complaints about Radar do not stand up. People sign up to the service, and the charity will privately email whoever has signed up to the app with tweets of concern.It is then up to that person to judge for themselves whether the tweet is worrying. Some people have said it puts pressure on that individual to act or reach out to a friend. But those are decisions that we all faceIRL, judgement calls which are the base of friendships.Samaritans’ promotional video for #SamaritansRadar.Plus Samaritans offerplenty of advicein their general literature on how to talk to friends and family one is concerned about.The main issue is that the Samaritans Radar app’s success relies on the accounts one follows as being mostly friends and family, or people interacted with offline as well as online.This might be true of Facebook, but is less true of Twitter. Samaritans has established a “white list” to filter out accounts which might use the keywords but wouldn’t be of concern: mental health charities for instance, company accounts.Sarcasm failsBut there is also the issue of individuals often using terminology similar to the keywords and phrases Samaritans cite – indeed, the charity has acknowledged this as an issue, stating:“Samaritans Radar is in its infancy and won’t get it right every time – it’s not good at sarcasm or jokes yet!”I know that after seeing something truly cringe-worthy, I will colloquially tweet, for instance, “Can I die?” Or “kill me now”. Which would not be a true indication of my mental health – but any friends who had signed up to Radar would be able to make that judgement for themselves.There is a concern that the app could be abused by cyber-bullies and trolls. Again, people Twitters users follow are not just friends and family. We also follow people we dislike, or whose views we disagree with (I follow David Cameron and the Conservative Party, for example).It’s feasible that a truly heinous person out there might sign up to Radar just to be alerted to when an enemy was feeling down, and act to exacerbate the situation.Unfortunately people who are twats are out there, and it will ever be thus. Especially on social media.The real work takes place offlineThe privacy concerns are understandable. But tracking tweets is nothing new. I can easily set up a detailed search onHootsuiteorTweetDeckfor keywords and mentions, surveilling accounts – without the permission or knowledge of those users.And Samaritans has pointed out in its new statement that individuals can now request to be added to the “white list”, therefore opting out of being tracked.When we&#39;ve received your DM we will add you to our whitelist and your Tweets will no longer trigger#SamaritansRadaralerts.&mdash; Samaritans (@samaritans)October 30, 2014Mental ill health is a truly devastating concern. Conditions ruin, and end, lives. Anything which aims to prevent suicide should be applauded and not instantly willed to fail.Of course the service will be tweaked, the algorithm improved and feedback collated to improve it.The true work, however, will take place offline. It’s one thing being armed with information to reach out or offer help to an individual; it’s quite another for that individual to acknowledge a problem or accept help – whether this be due to stigma, fear of medical practitioners or the stubbornness of mental illness.The point of Radar, however, is to catch people on the edge of the cliff face who would be truly grateful of a helping hand to pull them back up, but for whatever reason, didn’t feel they could say this outright. And that’s a very good thing indeed.•Samaritans Radar analyses Twitter to identify users at risk for suicide
The CEO of defunct bitcoin exchange Moolah insists he is working on returning money to customers, and that he has already processed almost $900,000 in refunds.Ryan Kennedy, who ran Moolah under the name Alex Green until the firm declared bankruptcy in mid-October, argues that he is not being given a fair hearing by former customers and investors.“The majority of Moolah customers were able to successfully withdraw their money from the platform,” he told the Guardian. “There is one major third-party creditor, Syscoin, that we are currently unable to process a transaction for.“I am still working on processing withdrawals, auditing the platform, and trying to figure out what has happened in full, and where funds have gone. Contrary to popular belief, I am not missing.“If I was going to run, I would not still be processing refunds (and the altcoin withdrawals are something I can easily prove on the blockchain). As I have not committed any act of fraud, I have no intention of going anywhere. My business has collapsed, and I now need to deal with shutting it down in as clean a fashion as possible.”Moolah dominated the dogecoin memeUntil it collapsed, Moolah was a comparatively large Bitcoin exchange, letting users convert the cryptocurrency into conventional money and vice versa. What’s more, it dominated the niche, meme-based cryptocurrency Dogecoin through publicity stunts such as sponsoring a Nascar driver and charity donations garneringa thank you video from Will Ferrell.But questions had been raised about Moolah. In July, the Daily Dotreportedthat the firm had shifted headquarters multiple times in less than six months, before launching a questionable fundraising effort which one expert said “may not be in technical compliance” with US securities law.Kennedy says the company operated based on legal advice in Switzerland where it was based at the time, which told him the company was “in the clear”. “I worked damn hard to get the company to where it was before it collapsed, and until it did, we have a solid consumer/merchant platform that was very well used,” he said.Alex Green’s mysterious online personaGreen also had an unusual online persona. The Daily Dot reported that he boasted of having “zero online footprint”, shared no photos of himself, and hadn’t met the majority of his own employees.In the world of cryptocurrencies, pseudonyms and mysterious identities are common; bitcoin creator Satoshi Nakamoto himself had “zero online footprint” before publishing the Bitcoin proposal.In mid-October,Green came clean: the reason for his lack of online footprint was because he had changed his name, “in an attempt to start my life over and have some peace”.“My identity was kept secret as I had a valid business idea and I didn’t want my reputation to impact upon it,” he says. That reputation manifests in the form of crowdsourced investigations into Kennedy’s past, such as his entry in Encyclopedia Dramatica (essentially, Wikipedia for 4Chan), which documents everything from allegations of “stealing linen” at an anime convention in 2005 to his failed web-hosting venture Flirble.me in 2013. But he maintains that the vast majority of the claims are baseless.‘I maintain my innocence’“I have been accused of many things over the years, and whether you believe them to be true or not, I believe in innocent until proven guilty (and I maintain my innocence) … There are a lot of people claiming things in regards to former companies, including one particularly vocal user who has changed the amount he has apparently lost on four separate occasions.“At this stage, there is nothing that I am aware of that I actually need to work through. There are plenty of people jumping on the bandwagon and making accusations/claims, but there are very few people who have a real and valid issue.”Kennedy blames this latest collapse on a hacking attack which stole around 1000 bitcoins from the wallet of MintPal, a separate bitcoin firm which Moolah had acquired over the summer.But while Moolah is by no means his first failed venture, it may be his last. The scale of the collapse dwarves those of previous companies, and has attracted legal attention; Kennedy and Moolah are now the subject of a high court injunction brought on behalf of Syscoin, the last major creditor of the firm, which prevents him selling bitcoins that he doesn’t have legal control over.“I plan to follow the injunction in full”, he says, adding that “their lawyers seem to be trying to use this partially as a publicity stunt, we have been told to mostly keep quiet by our own”.British serial entrepreneur missing as $1.4m bitcoin is apparently stolen
Chinese manufacturer Xiaomi has leapfrogged Lenovo and LG to become the third-largest smartphone manufacturer in the world behind Samsung and Apple.Xiaomi is commonly described as “China’s Apple” and founder Lei Jun as “the Chinese Steve Jobs”, yet the company is only four years old and did not release its own smartphone until 2011.Research firms IDC and Strategy analytics both now place Xiaomi in overall third place for smartphone shipments in the third quarter of 2014, more than tripling shipments year-on-year overtaking South Korea’s LG by between 0.4m and 1.2m smartphones.‘Star performer’“Xiaomi was the star performer in the quarter, capturing a record 6% marketshare and rising into third place in the global smartphone rankings for the first time ever,” said Neil Mawston, executive director of Strategy Analytics.“Xiaomi’s Android smartphone models are wildly popular in the Chinese market and it shifts millions of them every quarter through its extensive online and operator channels.”“Xiaomi’s next step is to target the international market in Asia and Europe, where it may face stronger headwinds of low brand awareness and technology-patent challenges next year,” explained Mawston.Xiaomi shipped 17.3m smartphones in the third quarter, 5.3% of the 327.6m total global shipments,according to data from IDC. In the same period, Samsung shipped 78.1m smartphones and Apple 39.3m, while Lenovo shipped 16.9m and LG 16.8m, which IDC describes as a tie due to the variability in the data.Strategy Analytics places Samsung first with 79.2m smartphones, Apple in second with 39.3m, Xiaomi in third with 18m and LG in fourth 16.8m out of a total 320.4m smartphones sold in the third quarter.‘Still room to compete’“Xiaomi, Lenovo, and LG Electronics – all posted market-beating growth and with markedly different strategies,” said Ramon Llamas from IDC’s mobile phone research group. “This shows that there is still room to compete in this market, whether it be in the low end as Lenovo has done, at the high end where Xiaomi competes, or in both as LG Electronics has shown.”Shipments of smartphones are slowing to single-digit growth in developed markets, such as the UK and US, where smartphone penetration is reaching around 80%. The majority of smartphone sales in the UK arecustomers replacing an existing smartphonerather than picking one up for the first time.However, global smartphone shipments are still increasing thanks to developing markets such as India and China, which are still growing at 30% collectively according to IDC’s data.‘Challenge has now become how to make money’“In these markets, smartphone price points are making mobile computing possible where we once expected feature phones to remain dominant.” explained Ryan Reith, program director of IDC’s Worldwide Quarterly Mobile Phone Tracker.“This is great news for overall volumes, but the challenge has now become how to make money on devices that are quickly becoming commodity products. Outside of Apple, many are struggling to do this.”Samsung announced itslowest quarterly profit in more than three yearsdue to poor performance from its smartphone division despite being the world’s largest smartphone manufacturer. Samsung Mobile is the company’s biggest business, but it has seen stiff competition from Apple, LG, HTC and Sony at the high end and Chinese manufacturers at the low end.Xiaomi has found success in China, but its expansion into markets outside its home country has seen issues around privacy.India recently warned its military not to use the Chinese smartphones over fears of data snooping, which prompted Xiaomi to state that it never collects user data without permission and to set up an Indian data centre.The company has also begun moving non-Chinese data out of Beijing and onto data centres run by Amazon.The Chinese smartphone company has also faced criticism with a reputation for copying the designs of other companies. Apple’s chief designer Jony Ive recently hit out at Xiaomi’s alleged copying dismissing suggestions of flattery saying “I think it is really straightforward. It is theft and it is lazy. I don’t think it is OK at all.”But Xiaomi has made efforts to be more appealing to the west, hiring key executives from Google, including the outspoken Brazilian vice president of Android Hugo Barra, who became Xiaomi’s head of international sales.Xiaomi has announced plans to expand this year to more than a dozen fast growing markets, including Malaysia, Indonesia, India Thailand, Russia, Turkey, Brazil and Mexico.•Xiaomi: Aiming to be the Apple - and Google - of China•China’s Xiaomi quadruples smartphone shipments in a year•Xiaomi to export cheap smartphones to emerging markets
Nintendo is no stranger to activity-tracking software, thanks to its series of Wii Fit games. Now the company is planning to move into the hardware market, with a specific focus on sleep-tracking.Nintendo has teamed up with US company ResMed to work on a handheld-device that will track sleep and fatigue, with plans to launch it during the company’s next financial year, which ends in March 2016.“By using our know-how in gaming... to analyse sleep and fatigue, we can create something fun,” Nintendo president Satoru Iwata told a press conference in Japan,according to Reuters.The new device will be the first product from Nintendo’s healthcare division, although Iwata declined to reveal more details of its cost and exact launch date, beyond the fact that it might involve a recurring subscription.“We only start something new if we think we will be able to create a big market, but as I’m not able to discuss pricing plans and other details today I don’t think there’s much point in giving a figure for our projected scale,” he said.Nintendo’s move into healthcare was announced in January 2014, withIwata saying at the timethat its first “quality of life” product would not be a wearable gadget or be used in the living room.He was telling the truth: the new gadget is designed to sit on a bedside table while its owner sleeps. It will compete with more general activity-tracking devices made by companies including Fitbit and Withings, which include sleep-tracking features.Nintendo’s plans also mean it will be competing with Microsoft in a new market beyond games consoles. The latter company hasjust unveiled its Microsoft Band gadget, which will track sleep quality as well as daytime activity.Nintendo’s announcement came as the company revealedimproved financial results, including a return to profit after a period of heavy losses.For the six months to 30 September 2014, Nintendo reported net sales of ¥171.4bn (£983.3m) and a net profit of ¥14.3bn (£82m). 3.2m sales of theSuper Smash Bros 3DS gamecontributed to the upswing, as did growing sales of Nintendo’s Wii U console.That’s likely to dampen down – for now at least – questions from journalists and analysts about whether Nintendo will start making some of its games available for smartphones and tablets.As its healthcare plans show, for now the company remains focused on its own hardware, even as it expands its operations beyond games.•Nintendo is back: why summer 2014 belongs to the Wii U
Microsoft has officially unveiled a new fitness smartwatch and Health service after accidentally leaking it through smartphone app stores hours earlier.The band was first revealed by mistake through Microsoft’s supporting apps for the iPhone, Android and Mac computers, which allow the Microsoft Band to connect to smartphones, tablets and computers beyond Windows.The new fitness gadget is a Bluetooth band that records the number of steps the wearer takes in a day, the intensity of her sleep, exercise performance and calories burned. It also tracks heart rate, location via GPS, skin temperature, perspiration and UV exposure making it one of the most complete fitness trackers available.The Band has more sensors than almost any other fitness tracking band.Photograph: MicrosoftIt will last around two days on a charge with 24-hour heart rate monitoring, although use of the GPS during runs will reduce the battery life, according to Microsoft.‘Combine health and fitness data to create powerful insights’Four years in the making, the Band also has a microphone and connects to a smartphone to display notifications and activate voice assistants such as Windows Phone’s Cortana, in a similar fashion to Google’s Android Wear smartwatches.The Band will connect to Windows Phones, iPhones, Android devices and Windows and Mac computers to sync data. Fitness tracking is powered by Microsoft’s new Health service, which like Google’s Fit and Apple’s Health aims to collate fitness and health data from third-party apps and services as well as the Microsoft Band.“The Microsoft Health platform includes a cloud service for consumers and the industry to store and combine health and fitness data to create powerful insights,” said Todd Holmdahl, corporate vice president at Microsoftin a blog post.Microsoft’s “Intelligence Engine” will process data from different sources combining fitness information with data from a user’s calendar, email and location to build a more detailed picture of their health.“Nobody else has the big data or machine learning to attack fitness and productivity challenges in this way,” said Zulfi Alam, Microsoft’s general manager of personal devices.The Band will connect via Bluetooth to Windows Phones, iPhones and Android phones, as well as Windows and Mac computers.Photograph: MicrosoftThe company said that the data would be securely stored in its cloud service, and that users will be able to actively share that data with medical providers using Microsoft’s HealthVault.Jawbone, MapMyFitness, MyFitnessPal and RunKeeper will be some of the first apps to connect to the new health platform, with more added later.Lucrative health marketMicrosoft is the last of the big three traditional technology companies to enter the medical market with a new health service. Apple released itsHealth appand service with the iPhone 6 and iOS 8.1 whileGoogle released Fit Wednesday– each of these apps and services are designed to both monitor fitness directly and the allow third-party apps and service to connect and share data.Many in the technology sector are vying for a slice of the healthcare industry, which is a potentially lucrative market worth about 10% of the economy of developed nations. In Britain, more than £100bn a year is spent on the NHS, according to the Department of Health.Fitness trackers and the “quantified self” movement represent a small proportion of that market. But the personal data trackers offer potential for setting baseline measurements against which changes caused by disease could be measured providing better, more personalised diagnoses from medical professionals.The explosion in the market has been fuelled by the intersection of biometric sensor cost and capability, which has made devices such as heart rate monitors a viable addition to consumer gadgets costing under £200.A similar revolution is underway in the medical field, where new sensors and ways of detecting disease away from laborious and time-consuming diagnostics are proving effective for certain diseases such as HIV.The Microsoft Band is available exclusively in the US for $199.•Google launches Fit app to take on Apple’s Heath and Samsung’s S Health•WWDC 2014: Apple reveals ‘Health’, its new app for tracking fitness and wellbeing•Nike and Apple working on ‘stylish’ new wearable technology•Misfit Shine fitness tracker review: small and perfectly formed•Motorola Moto 360 review: beautiful smartwatch spoiled by average battery life•Google smartwatches review: LG G Watch, Samsung Gear Live and Android Wear•Samsung Gear 2 and Gear Fit review: smartwatches on the up
Border control simulation Papers, Please has won the fourth annual GameCity prize. Jurors from outside of the games industry, including the musician Peter Gabriel and the film director Darren Aronofsky, spent the summer playing and discussing six games from a varied shortlist, and their winner was announced on Wednesday night during the ongoing GameCity festival in Nottingham.The game, which puts players into the role of an immigration officer in a fictitious eastern European country, beat the Nintendo 3DS life simulation Animal Crossing: New Leaf, puzzle-platformer Brothers: A Tale of Two Sons, first-person story exploration game Gone Home, the infamous big-budget open-world shooter Grand Theft Auto V, and episodic point and click adventure game Kentucky Route Zero.“Unlike previous years there wasn’t a clear critical consensus,” said the journalist Samira Ahmed, who led the jury. “Some jurors found games that felt like interactive movies or impressionistic models, while others found liberating creative worlds in which you could do anything.”According to Ahmed, Gabriel “liked being mayor” in Animal Crossing: New Leaf, while Aronofsky “said he had never been so terrified by a video game and even admitted to screaming” while playing Gone Home. Jeremy Farrar, director of the Wellcome Trust, apparently felt “really conflicted about the amount of violence” in Grand Theft Auto V but still chose it as his favourite, which may surprise those who are familiar with GameCity’s focus on smaller indie games.“I would have been surprised if Grand Theft Auto had won,” said Henry Smith, creator of last year’s GameCity prize winner Spaceteam, “I think everyone knows how important it is and how successful it’s been, and I think festivals like this are all about bringing exposure to people who might not otherwise have it. It was a toss-up between Papers, Please and Gone Home for me personally.”Of Papers, Please, Ahmed said, “The jury found this an excellent example of a game with the power to affect people and the way they think about contemporary issues of identity in a subtle but powerful way, and all while effectively holding down a desk job.”Gone Home, which has already won several awards, seems to have been a close contender for the prize. “I think there was a huge amount of admiration in the room for it as storytelling,” Ahmed said. “We all really enjoyed it. It was on everyone’s list.” In the end, however, Ahmed felt that Gone Home “lacked a compelling conclusion”, which is especially interesting given that game critics have almost universally praised the plot.Culture v criticsOne intriguing outcome of the GameCity prize is to see where the views of the jurors differ from those more familiar with games and where they converge. For example, some jurors found it difficult to control Brothers: A Tale of Two Sons, which assigns each analogue stick to a different brother, while experienced games critics found the mechanic novel and interesting. However, one of the jury’s criticisms of Kentucky Route Zero – that dialogue options don’t lead to different outcomes – has been similarly noted by game reviewers.“I think it’s good that the judges are non games players,” said Ian Livingstone CBE, co-founder of Games Workshop and member of GameCity’s advisory board. “They’re putting their take on what they see as their favourite games.”Iain Simons, director of GameCity, agreed: “For me, it’s not about which is the best game at all. It’s sort of incidental, really, that there even is a winner. It’s about the fact that you can get curious and supportive voices from different cultures who are interested and who are being invited into that conversation.”“Who owns what we think about games?” Simons asked. Hopefully, GameCity’s recently announced cultural centre for gaming, the National Videogame Arcade, will help to demonstrate the answer: no one, and everyone.GameCity returns with new homeBritish gaming to get its own ‘national galler’ in Nottingham
Right now, my workroom sounds like Kraftwerk falling down a flight of stairs, albeit only after their roadies had de-tuned a couple of their keyboards first. And it’s all the fault of a new tablet app called Auxy.Released for iPadtoday, it’s the work of a Swedish startup of the same name, which is aiming to give “spreadsheet music making” the boot. By which it means over-complex music creation tools that are about as fun to work with as an Excel doc.Auxy isn’t an entirely new approach to music-making, though. If you’ve ever used a sequencer app – professional or amateur – you’ll feel at home, as you paint beats, bass lines and melodies onto grids to create loops.It’s beautifully designed, though, from a step-by-step tutorial that doesn’t outstay its welcome, to the stripped-down neon graphics and logical use of multi-touch gestures to switch or copy loops, drag sounds around and flick between different instruments.Auxy is very much a tool for making electronic music – no synthesised guitar riffs here – but the more you explore it, the more flexibility you’ll find, from expanding your loops from one to four bars, and playing around with the sounds to find the squonk or wub you’ve been looking for.One thing I didn’t spot at first in the tutorial is recording. Accessed by a button at the top-left, you can start recording and trigger your various loops to construct a song, then share it via email; export it using the AudioCopy technology and on to SoundCloud; or transfer it to iTunes or other apps like Dropbox.Here’s an example of the sounds I was making after a few days:Other requests? An Android version would be nice, obviously, and there’s also scope to add more instruments and features in future updates.The latter is how Auxy is planning to make its money – from in-app purchases – since the app is free at launch. That should at least ensure plenty of people get to play with it and provide their feedback on how they’d like to see it evolve.Who is Auxy for, though? Clearly there are more powerful creation tools out there for professional musicians, but that’s not really the point about Auxy – or indeed, about similar apps includingFigureandMusycor DJ apps likePacemaker(which shares a design aesthetic with Auxy).The thing about these apps is not that they’re some kind of shortcut to the talent and experience of professional musicians, in the same way that Instagram doesn’t turn you into a pro photographer.Instead, it’s that they open out electronic music-making to a wider audience: the chance to enjoy the experience – and when things click in Auxy, which they do quickly, it’s hugely enjoyable – and perhaps even enhance your appreciation for the craft of people who actually do this for a living.Actually, my opening paragraph undersold Auxy. The ease with which you can drag notes and beats around means that now, I’m making music that may still sound like Kraftwerk falling down the stairs, but at least the keyboards are back in tune, and hitting each step in the right rhythm.Ralf Hütter isn’t going to be giving me a call next time he boots out a band member, then. But Auxy is putting such a goofy smile on my face from the sounds it’s helping me make, I probably wouldn’t fit in.•The Guardian’s weekly best iOS apps column•The Guardian’s weekly best Android apps column
Sadly, my wife passed away in April. Since then, I have made several requests to have her Facebook account turned into a memorial page. I would prefer this to deleting her account as it will provide a place for people to leave messages and memories – and especially for my sons, aged nine and 13.Whenever I fill out theFacebook form, it advises me that someone will be in touch with me soon, but I have never heard anything from them. I can’t see anywhere where I can get any help from Facebook with this problem.I have tried contacting Facebook via their feedback form, and on Twitter. Do you know of any way I can get Facebook to respond to my request?SimonPerhaps having their lack-of-service highlighted by the Guardian will prompt somebody at Facebook to respond, but I wouldn’t bet on it. Either way, you’re right: there is no way for the average user – or even the average journalist – to talk to Facebook. The only thing you can do is repeat the process, as you have done, until it eventually gets through the system.Web-based companies with more than a billion users, such as Facebook and Google, rely on machines, and sometimes on cheap labour in places like the Philippines, as described ina recent article in Wired. Facebook has a “team that reviews memorialisation requests,” so I would assume this is similarly outsourced.Facebook suggests that you provide “a link to an obituary or other documentation about the death”. The form says this is optional but I would strongly recommend providing convincing evidence. If you don’t, Facebook will tend to err on the side of caution, because of the risk that a request could be malign, a juvenile prank or simply mistaken.Dealing with requests may be a significant problem for Facebook, and one that will grow rapidly as more older users sign up. Based on calculations byNathan Lustigof Entrustet (taken over by SecureSafe), more than 3 million Facebook users will die this year, which is about 60,000 a week. If it really takes Facebook more than six months to “memorialise” one account, then its process is not up to the task.If no one contacts Facebook, or if Facebook fails to respond, the account will remain active indefinitely. The main risk is that it might be hacked and used to send spam, or worse.Delete or memorialiseThere are two options: you can get Facebook to delete your late wife’s account or to memorialise it.If you choose to delete the account, then all the comments, photos etc will also be deleted, unless you take legal steps to preserve them. This is a privacy issue.Facebook says: “The application to obtain account content is a lengthy process and will require you to obtain a court order.”If you choose memorialisation, Facebookchanges a number of things:• No one is allowed to log in to the account• You can’t change, add to or delete existing content, which includes adding or removing friends• Automated activities, such as daily quotes or horoscopes, are stopped• Memorialised accounts don’t appear in “public spaces” such as birthday reminders, People You May Know, or searches• Memorialised accounts can only be accessed by the user’s confirmed friendsHowever, the original content stays in place. Also, Facebook adds, “depending on the privacy settings of the deceased person’s account, friends can share memories on the memorialised Timeline”.If you have access to your late wife’s account, you could hide or remove some content, including any inappropriate posts that might have appeared on her wall. But this is risky. First, Facebook says: “it is always a violation of our policies to log into another person’s account”. Second, Facebook will not delete active accounts. Any account activity after the reported date of death will obviously look suspicious.Although you could set up a separate memorial page, you would have to spend time managing it. Memorialisation removes that burden. However, to be effective, the memorialisation process has to be quick. In that context, a six-month wait looks unacceptable.Thinking aheadIt’s presumably not just Facebook: most people have several personal accounts of various sorts, and some people have dozens. The most common ones are email services such asGmailand Hotmail/Outlook, messaging services such as WhatsApp and Skype, and shopping services such as Amazon and eBay. There are many others, including Instagram,Twitter, Tumblr, Flickr, Pinterest, Snapchat, and Dropbox. PCs and smartphones may also be protected with passwords.It could take a lot of time to deal with all of these accounts, especially as most of them don’t seem to have a process like Facebook’s.If you want your spouse or other family members to deal with your digital stuff after you’ve gone, it’s a good idea to make a list of the log-on names, passwords, and associated email addresses. You could put the details in a letter, but it would be better to use an encrypted file and leave the password with someone you trust. Conversely, there may be sites and/or services that you don’t want family members to access. In which case, don’t store the details in an accessible web browser, but use a secure password manager instead.There are a number of online companies that will store this kind of information. These includeLegacy Locker/Password Box, Securesafe’sData Inheritance,Asset Lock, andCirrus Legacy, but I’m not sure they are necessary. Otherwise, a blog post by US-based Anderson Elder Law,Don’t Forget to Include Your Digital Assets in Your Estate Planning, provides some useful advice.You can leave instructions with an executor, but don’t put password details in a traditional British will. When a will goes to probate, it becomes a public record.
Games publisher Take-Two Interactive made $22m from its stake in video livestreaming service Twitch, when the company wasbought by Amazonfor $970m this year.The publisher revealed the windfall while announcingits latest quarterly results, while also hailing the impact of Grand Theft Auto Online, the online mode for its Grand Theft Auto V console game.The latter was released in September 2013, so year-on-year, Take-Two’s revenues for the third quarter of the year unsurprisingly plunged: from $1.27bn in Q3 2013 to $135.4m in Q3 2014.Take-Two also swung from a net profit of $325.6m in GTA V’s launch quarter to a net loss of $34.4m a year later, based on the non-GAAP figures (generally accepted accounting principles) declared in its quarterly financials.Digital sales of games and in-game content accounted for $89.8m of Take-Two’s revenues in the third quarter of 2014, with 58% of that coming from “recurrent consumer spending” on virtual currencies, downloadable content and online games.“We continue to see strong consumer engagement with Grand Theft Auto Online, which has both exceeded our expectations and has been the single largest contributor to digitally-delivered revenue in every quarter since its launch,” Take-Two’s chairman and chief executive Strauss H. Zelnicktold analysts in the company’s earnings call.The last quarter included two new updates for GTA Online: The San Andreas Flight School and The Last Team Standing, which Zelnick said had fuelled its success, as Take-Two and developer Rockstar Games prepares for the upcoming launches of GTA V on PlayStation 4, Xbox One and PC.“The ongoing release of new content for Grand Theft Auto Online keeps consumers immersed in the game’s vast open world, and we remain optimistic about its future,” he said.Take-Two also had some mobile games success in its last quarter, with 3.5m downloads of the WWE Supercard mobile game, which according to Zelnick “has quickly become 2K’s most financially successful free-to-play mobile offering”.The company did not break out its mobile revenues from other platforms, though: 74% of its income in the third quarter came from console, while 26% came from “PC and other” platforms.•What is Twitch and why do internet giants want to buy it?
If you’ve sold a BlackBerry Bold smartphone on eBay recently, it might be to Kim Kardashian. “They don’t even have them in stores anymore. I buy them on eBay,” shetold a conference earlier this week, explaining her love for the venerable keyboard phone.No wonder she hasn’t unboxed her new BlackBerry Passport smartphone yet. But Kardashian isn’t alone in sticking to the Bold-era device, and the company is well aware of that trend. Here’s CEO John Chen,blogging yesterday about the next new BlackBerry smartphone.It’s tempting in a rapidly changing, rapidly growing mobile market to change for the sake of change – to mimic what’s trendy and match the industry-standard, kitchen-sink approach of trying to be all things to all people.But there’s also something to be said for the classic adage, if it ain’t broke don’t fix it.BlackBerry Classic reflects that. It is classic BlackBerry – complete with a top row of navigation keys and a trackpad. It’s the device that has always felt right in your hands and always felt right in your busy day.Yes, the BlackBerry Classic aims to tempt BlackBerry loyalists away from eBay and towards a brand new handset. Is the company onto something here? And is there a wider opportunity being missed by Android smartphone makers, if there are still people out there craving physical QWERTY keyboards on their devices?Also on the radar today:Film director James Cameronisn’t sold on Oculus Rift and VR headsets yet. “There seems to be a lot of excitement around something that is… a yawn to me,” he told the WSJD conference. “You want to move through a virtual reality? It’s called video game.”The CEO of Cambrian Genomicssounds a bit like a sci-fi supervillain. “We want to make everything that is alive on the planet... We want to make totally new organisms that have never existed, and replace every existing organism with a better one.”Messaging app WhatsApp won’t be introducing voice calling until 2015,according to CEO Jan Koum. “He noted that WhatsApp is working through several technical issues related to the launch, including the fact that the app does not have access to certain phone microphones, which makes noise cancellation more difficult.”Apple is exploring the potential to sell iPhones in Iran,claims the Wall Street Journal. “In the conversations, the Cupertino, Calif., company explored the possibility of having Iranian partners sell Apple products at so-called premium resellers.”Startup MegaBots has raised $1.8m to buildwhat Engadget describesas “15-foot-tall, 15,000-pound piloted robots” who’ll battle one another with “high-powered paint guns” for our amusement. This surely won’t end well for humanity.What do you make of these stories, and what else in the tech world is interesting you today? The comments section is open for your views.
Thursday!
More people in the UK are going to get mobile internet speeds comparable with South Korea and US with the launch of EE’s next generation 4G+ network.The new technology, called carrier aggregation or LTE-Advanced (LTE-A) allows devices to connect to two different 4G mobile signals at the same time, doubling the capacity in the densest populated areas.It will ensure that even on packed trains the data network remains strong, removing frustrating overcapacity issues as commuters all attempt to access the internet at the same time.Vodafone announced the start of its LTE-A rollout on 15 October, in Birmingham, Manchester and London, doubling capacity for its users.‘UK is now back to being a world leader’“The UK is now back to being a world leader in mobile networks,” said EE’s chief executive, Olaf Swantee. “Just two years since we were behind every developed market from the US to Japan, we’ve invested in innovation, driven competition and given people in London a mobile network that’s as faster than almost any other in the world, and even faster than most fibre broadband available here.”EE had beentrialling the technology in London’s Tech Cityas a replacement for fixed-line broadband for startups in the area. The new network is capable of delivering theoretical data speeds of up to 300Mbps, although real-world speeds will peak at approximately 150Mbps.Regular speeds will be around 90Mbps, five times faster the average UK broadband speed, which is 17.8Mbps according to data from Ofcom.“While the faster the peak speeds the better the experience on the network, what we’re doing is doubling the capacity of our network so that every customer can watch video streaming at 5Mbps no matter how busy it gets,” Tom Bennett, EE’s director of network services explained to the Guardian. “Only those with compatible devices, including the Samsung Galaxy Note 4 and Galaxy Alpha, will be able to use 4G+, but every customer will benefit from the doubling of capacity and will see their average speeds increase.”EE has the largest 4G network in the UK covering 300 towns and cities and 75% of the population and with six million subscribers. O2 and Three have yet to confirm plans to follow EE and Vodafone.There are 83.1 million mobile phone subscribers in the UK, according to data from Ofcom, while 61% of adults have a smartphone.Up to speedThe new LTE-Advanced technology brings the UK up to speed with some of the fastest and most connected countries in the world, including South Korea, Japan and the US, leapfrogging most of the mobile networks in Europe. Vodafone Spain rolled out LTE-A in three cities this year, while Swisscom is preparing to launch LTE-A using a similar strategy to EE next year.Only 4G+ compatible devices on the company’s more expensive 4GEE Extra plans will see the top speeds. But EE said that almost all the smartphones and tablets sold on its network since the iPhone 5 in September 2012 were capable of connecting to the new 4G mobile signal on the 2.6GHz frequency to take advantage of the increased capacity.•EE launches rural phase of 4G rollout
With its sportscar cockpit and dragonfly wings that fold in neatly behind the cabin, it looks like something straight out of the Batcave or Q’s secret laboratory. But the creators of AeroMobil’s Flying Roadster insist their innovation is more than just a boy’s toy dreamt up by science fiction fans. The time of the flying car, they announced at Wednesday’s unveiling of their most advanced prototype, has come.Speaking at Pioneers festival, a two-day entrepreneurship and digital technology conference in Vienna, AeroMobil’s chief designer, Stefan Klein, and CEO, Juraj Vaculik, said their innovation could “change personal transport on a global scale”. Their flying car, Vaculik said, could eventually become a regular mode of transport for commuters and middle-distance travellers, especially in countries with underdeveloped road infrastructure.The Flying Roadster 3.0 prototype has a top groundspeed of 124mph and a flight travel range of 430 miles or up to four hours – enough to reach Aberdeen from London.Juraj Vaculik and Stefan Klein. Pioneers/JFDI GmbHPhotograph: Pioneers/JFDI GmbHThe length of a luxury saloon car, the vehicle can be parked in regular parking slots and fuelled at normal petrol stations – though once in gliding flight mode it is more energy-efficient than road cars.AeroMobil admitted the vehicle was unlikely to live up to the flying car’s ultimate sci-fi promise. With at least a 50m strip of land required for landing and 200m for take-off, even flying cars can get stuck in traffic. A vertical take-off, even if physically possible, would instantly use up half the fuel.But Klein insisted that his invention did not require an airport or even a concrete runway. In spite of the car’s low centre of gravity, he said, the Flying Roadster could land on stretches of lawn or even farmland.If scepticism about AeroMobil’s vision persists, it is partly because the flying car has been part of visions of the future for so long that it almost feels retro. A first patent was registered in 1903, and Waldo Waterman’s “aerobile” went on its maiden flight in 1937. In 1940, Henry Ford prophesied that “a combination of airplane and motorcar is coming. You may smile, but it will come”.Rapid advances in modern technology and relaxation of regulations in the sport aeroplane aviation industry have recently given the idea a new lease of life. US companyTerrafugia has had a flying prototype of a “roadable plane” for five years, yet the wait has continued. Terrafugia CEO, Carl Dietrich, told the Guardian that it would be “probably another two to three years” until there was a controlled launch, with a ballpark price tag of $279,000 (£172,000). AeroMobil, likewise, remain vague on when the car will be production-ready.The European version of the flying car does have an added emotional value. Former sculptor Klein started experimenting with his father on a prototype in their garage in communist Czechoslovakia more than 25 years ago – an undertaking which, as he later found out, had been monitored by the state intelligence service.In 2010, he teamed up with entrepreneur Vaculik, a former theatre director and student leader in Czecheslovakia’s Velvet Revolution, in order to find ways to commercialise the concept. The current prototype was built over ten months, with a team of 12 people, including Klein’s 20-year-old son.The dream of overcoming borders, said Klein, had always motivated his work on the vehicle: “In the Czechoslovakia, we got very good training as pilots, but we didn’t have the freedom to go anywhere. Nowadays I can use an app to check in my flight on the way to the airfield and I’m in Croatia in ten minutes. For me the freedom to move is really in the DNA of this project.”The dream of door-to-door travel by flying car, he said, also hinged on Europe sticking to the principle of free movement. The reintroduction of border checks in the Schengen area would route all inter-state flights via airports.In the long term, Europe’s first flying car may have a better chance of success outside Europe. While building roads remains expensive and air is still free, countries with less developed infrastructure but less tightly regulated airspace, such as Africa, China or Russia, are more likely to take a punt.The flying car in action. Pioneers/JFDI GmbHPhotograph: Pioneers / JFDI GmbH
Cyber attacks on countries and corporations are likely to increase in the next decade, according to a majority of internet expertssurveyed for a new reportby the US-based Pew Research Center.As part of its Digital Life in 2025 research project, the organisation canvassed 1,642 experts on the question of whether by 2025, a major cyber attack will have “caused widespread harm to a nation’s security and capacity to defend itself and its people”.Pew defined widespread harm as significant loss of life, or property losses, damage and/or theft at the level of tens of billions of dollars. It found 61% of respondents agreeing with the question, while 39% disagreed.Among those who agreed, there were four themes. First, that internet-connected systems – from defence, energy, banking and finance to transportation – are “inviting targets” for cybercriminals.“Current threats include economic transactions, power grid, and air traffic control. This will expand to include others such as self-driving cars, unmanned aerial vehicles, and building infrastructure,” said Mark Nall, program manager for Nasa.“We are already witnessing the theft of trade secrets, with impact well worth tens of billions of dollars,” added Christian Huitema, distinguished engineer at Microsoft.“We are also seeing active development of cyber weapons by many world powers. Historically, such new weapons are always used at least once or twice before nations realise it is too dangerous and start relying on diplomacy.”Stewart Baker, partner at Washington law firm Steptoe &amp; Johnson, expressed similar views more colourfully. “Cyberwar just plain makes sense. Attacking the power grid or other industrial control systems is asymmetrical and deniable and devilishly effective,” he said.“Plus, it gets easier every year. We used to worry about Russia and China taking down our infrastructure. Now we have to worry about Iran and Syria and North Korea. Next up: Hezbollah and Anonymous.”Some experts pointed to theStuxnet worm, a cyber attack on Iran’s nuclear facilities that was disclosed in 2010, as a prior example of the kind of attacks we can expect to see in the next decade, potentially at an even larger scale.“Israel and the United States have already created the Stuxnet computer worm to damage Iran’s nuclear refinement centrifuges,” said Stowe Boyd, lead researcher for GigaOm Research.“Imagine a world dependent on robotic farm vehicles, delivery drones, and AI-managed transport, and how one country might opt to disrupt the spring harvest as a means to damage a neighbouring opponent.”What about the 39% of respondents who didn’t agree that a major cyber attack is inevitable by 2025? Pew’s report covers their views too, including the belief that “steady progress” in security fixes and the internet’s distributed network structure are reason for optimism.Some also suggested that the threat of retaliation will keep “bad actors” in check. “Harm to an enemy is only a desire of less-sophisticated individuals. Anyone who amasses the ability to mount a major cyber attack, better than their opponent, also doesn’t want to lose their position of advantage,” said Bob Briscoe, chief researcher in networking and infrastructure for British Telecom.“They are likely to shift to strategies of gain for their own position, rather than explicit harm to their victim, which would alert their victim and close off their channels of attack, and set back their advantageous position.”Others claimed that fears around cyber attacks are being stoked up by companies who stand to benefit from greater investment in trying to stop them. “A boondoggle invented by military-industrial contractors to bilk governments out of billions of dollars,” as software engineer Mike Caprio put it.Other respondents suggested that comparing cyber attacks with natural disasters should put them into proper perspective.“Katrina was the costliest US hurricane and it did about $100 billion of damages. Most hurricanes have been in the $20 billion range,” said Hal Varian, chief economist at Google. “I don’t see cyber attacks coming anywhere close to hurricanes in terms of the associated property losses.”•20 ways gigabit internet might change our lives by 2025•Online harassment experienced by 40% of US internet users
In an Edwardian home in San Francisco’s Haight-Ashbury district, close to a dozen people gathered for a political fundraiser with a dirty little secret. The neighbourhood was the site of the Summer of Love in 1967 and retains a Bohemian vibe, so the house seemed a natural venue for permissive types from the Democratic party. The attendees were in fact Republicans.In San Francisco and Silicon Valley, the technology hub of America, liberal viewpoints reign and the Democrats dominate politics. The Republican brand is tainted there, in part because of the positions of high-profile politicians on climate change and social issues like gay marriage.But with the midterm elections approaching, and local and congressional seats up for grabs, Republicans from across the country have been visiting the Valley to drum up money, if not votes, and are playing to the libertarian sentiment that drifts through the ether. The Democratic hegemony is being tested – a little.The candidate, who is standing for a non-partisan position in the city, said by the drinks table that he did not want his identity to be divulged. He feared that if voters made a connection between him and the Republican party, he would be sunk. “It’s a dirty word,” he said.Another guest was more blunt about Republican prospects in the city. In San Francisco, “if you run for office with an ‘R’ after your name you may as well be accused of baking and roasting and eating children,” said Michael Gallardo, a shop manager, as he prepared a mushroom-and-truffle pizza for the oven. There are, however, signs of change.Earlier this month Larry Ellison, the billionaire co-founder of Oracle and one of the original kings of Silicon Valley, held a Republican fundraiser at his home. Tickets started at $1,500, and the headliners included libertarian-leaning Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky. Paul said he thought the event, hosted by Cisco CEO John Chambers and others, netted over $800,000.“I’ve met with most of the big players, I’ve met with some of the smaller startup folks, and to a person I find that that they think this president sold them a bill of goods,” he said. Paul has been looking into opening an office in Silicon Valley and regularly meets with Peter Thiel, the PayPal billionaire and anti-regulation libertarian who has funded plans to create offshore communities beyond the control of governments.Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg with Priscilla Chan; Zuckerberg hosted a fundraiser for Republican Chris Christie last year.Photograph: Julie Jacobson/APAlso present was Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah. He has been to Silicon Valley almost a dozen times in recent years, and touts his support for increasing the number of visas available to high-skilled workers. It’s a pet issue for the tech industry, which hires numerous foreign boffins. “The technology community and the Republicans should be natural allies,” Hatch said. “I think the more the technology community becomes involved in Washington, the more they see the Republicans are on their side on most of the issues they care about.”While Republicans have visited the Valley before, lately their visibility has increased. “These events are now more public, they used to be very quiet,” said Larry Gerston, a political science professor at San Jose State University. “They would come in quietly, have a little meeting with a few people who appreciated them, and leave.”Indeed the publicity may be a cause for regret, as when Mark Zuckerberg hosted a fundraiser for New Jersey governor Chris Christie last year, prompting protests outside his suburban home over Christie’s defunding of women’s health services. Zuckerberg had previously donated $100m to schools in the New Jersey city of Newark.‘California is the country’s largest ATM’At least in electoral terms, the Republicans are hardly contenders in the region. In some districts in Santa Clara County, at the heart of Silicon Valley, there aren’t even any Republicans in the running for seats in the House of Representatives. In the politics of larger California, Democrats have mostly controlled the state legislature for decades. But even if California Republicans can’t expect to sweep the ballot in the midterms, money raised in the state can help the party win battles elsewhere (“California is the country’s largest ATM,” noted Gerston), and for visiting politicians there is a chance to connect with tech constituents on topics that are dear to them and develop a base.In the summer, a Republican congressman from Pennsylvania, Tom Marino, spoke at the San Jose Silicon Valley chamber of commerce and stopped by companies including eBay and Microsoft. Some of the interest he presents to technologists is as a member of congressional subcommittees on cybersecurity and intellectual property. “It really isn’t a Republican or Democrat thing at all,” said Jim Reed, of the chamber. “It’s about people who get it, who understand what Silicon Valley needs.” Marino said he may return. “Everyone is very kind to me, very accommodating.”A few in Silicon Valley have also begun taking their message to Republicans in Washington, where their cultivation of well-placed leaders on both sides of the aisle has led them in surprising directions. Last year Zuckerberg and other entrepreneurs launched Fwd.Us, a lobbying group that focuses on immigration reform. To support a Republican lawmaker involved in the debate, its subsidiary ran an ad promoting an oil pipeline and criticising Obamacare, drawing the ire of various progressive organizations and probably many Bay Area liberals. Elon Musk, the manufacturer of eco-friendly Tesla cars, subsequently quit the organisation.Tesla CEO Elon Musk quit an organisation run by entrepreneurs after its subsidiary ran an ad promoting an oil pipeline.Photograph: Paul Sakuma/APFor now, there are sizeable obstacles to Republican efforts in the Valley. Even those with conservative or libertarian views say the party creates problems for itself. There are “some really embarrassing issues”, said entrepreneur Ivan Kirigin. For instance, “I know zero conservative people who think gay marriage should be illegal.”Hatch, the senator from Utah, acknowledged that social issues such as abortion rights could be sticking points. “That’s what generally causes come of these Silicon Valley people to think that they’re Democrats,” he said. But he proposes that entrepreneurs consider how Republican policies would help their businesses. “When you start talking about what they need, the protections they need, the legislation that they need to make their community really successful, it’s mostly led by us Republicans.”Alternatively they might look to a strain of the Republican Party exemplified by Neel Kashkari, a former Treasury official who is running for governor in California and is pro-choice and in favour of gay marriage. “I think for lot of folks in the Valley that is a disqualification, if you’re not with them on social issues,” he said in the lobby of a Marriott hotel near the San Francisco airport. He had a fundraiser that evening in the same upscale town where Oracle’s Ellison lives. “But if you’re with them on social issues then they’re very open to your economic ideas.” His include axing California’s high-speed rail project, though polls indicate he has little chance of winning against the popular Democratic incumbent, Jerry Brown.Neel Kashkari: ‘If you’re with them on social issues then they’re very open to your economic ideas’Photograph: Mario Tama/Getty ImagesAccording to one observer from the GOP, Kashkari and others might be better off campaigning and fundraising outside Silicon Valley, because its denizens are unlikely to embrace Republicanism and do not share Republican values. “Techies aren’t the libertarian heroes of Ayn Rand’s dreams,” wrote Shawn Steel, a California representative on the Republican National Committee, in an editorial for the San Jose Mercury News. “Contrary to the myth, the Silicon Valley isn’t full of individualistic free-market capitalists. Tech companies are largely building wealth from government contracts.”In an interview he suggested that IT workers were out of touch. “Silicon Valley has become a bubble of gated communities,” he said. “We’re creating a new feudal system in Silicon Valley, where the 1% is isolated, self-isolated.”At the fundraiser in San Francisco, the anonymity-seeking candidate stood in a living room with Turkish and Persian rugs on the wall and floor, gave a speech to a polite audience, and took questions.“Do they know you’re a Republican when you campaign?” someone asked. “Some do,” he said. “Some think I’m a Democrat. I’m not going to tell them otherwise.”
