More spamI received an email from AOL (not my service provider) returning an email which supposedly I had sent the day before. I deleted the message together with the unopened attachment. Whatever it was, it wasn't something I had sent. I am not using a spam filter because most of my emails are electronic circulars from the various societies to which I belong, and I might inadvertently block the mass mailings I currently welcome. Incidentally, I am one of your silver surfers, a woman in my 70s.Rosemary NaylorJack Schofield replies:People sending spam usually fake the addresses, and if they are selected at random, there is a chance that some spams will be sent under your name. If they are rejected or bounced, they will arrive in your in-box. There is not much you can do except delete them, as you very sensibly did. However, filters can reduce the burden by eliminating most junk mail. Many filters divert suspected spam into a separate folder so that you can make sure you are not losing anything you want. In some cases, you can add specific addresses to a "white list" to make sure mail is let through.One caveat: if your PC is hacked, a spammer could run a mail server remotely on your machine. In that case, you would be sending or relaying spam from your unique IP (Internet Protocol) address, even though it would not appear in your own mail software. It is therefore wise to run a firewall such as Sygate Personal Firewall or Zone Alarm - both free for    home users - and pay attention to things like traffic indicators (real or virtual blinking lights). This scenario may sound unlikely, but the problem has become so bad that America's federal trade commission has just launcheda campaignabout it. However, most victims are companies and educational institutions that have good broadband connections and unattended computers, not home users, and especially not home users with dial-up internet access.UpgradeI would like to update the 400MHz AMD processor in my IBM Aptiva, so I can move up from Windows 98 to Windows XP.John WhiteheadJS:The motherboard manual will tell you which processors it will support. If yours is a Slot 1 design, the fastest upgrade is likely to be a 433MHz Intel Celeron. Companies such asEvergreen Technologiessupply faster chips to preserve old machines. However, even if you upgrade the processor, you will still have a PC with a slow bus, a slow graphics card, and not enough memory to run XP. (You don't mention that, but I'd guess you have 64MB and need at least 128MB.) You could, of course, buy a new motherboard, a new processor, and new memory, but I suspect it would be cheaper and easier just to buy a secondhand PC.Add/RemoveOne of my grandsons has left a lot of old games etc on the Add/Remove folder. Can you help me get rid of them? Does it mean that I have to go into the Registry, which frightens me?Bill FrostJS:These obsolete entries are completely harmless, so you could simply ignore them. But yes, you can get rid of them by editing the Registry. Go to Start|Run and type regedit in the box. Go to:    HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE|SOFTWARE|Microsoft|Windows|CurrentVersion|Uninstall and delete any unwanted keys. You can probably avoid the manual process by using a free Microsoft utility called TweakUI, if you have it. If not, try Add/Remove Pro v2.08, which you can download free fromhttp://superwin.com/freeware.htm.Well PolishedIs there anywhere I can download a Polish character set for my iMac running OS X? There is no Polish listing in System preferences| International.Jo DuddyJS:You need to install the Central European character set, and there is a paid-for version atwww.fontmenu.com/site/_CE_Mac.html. However, if you install the OS 9 language kit then OS X will pick it up. Seewww.alanwood.netBackchat&#183;Brian Kelsey asked about using the keyboard to control Windows, to minimise the use of a mouse. Chris Martin and Mike Swan both suggest using a Wacom tablet instead. "I switched to aWacom Graphire 2 tablet penand find it much more comfortable to use," writes Chris. "I would not consider going back to the rodent ever again!"Oded Szpiro reminds us that some speech recognition packages allow a PC to be operated using spoken commands. Finally, I did not have space to mention Apple's version of Mouse Keys, which is part of theEasy Access extensionsto Mac OS. For universal access features in Mac OS X (Unix), seewww.apple.com/macosx.
In a move that the CEO of SuSE compares to the fall of the Berlin Wall, the city of Munich has decided to switch to Linux rather than upgrade to Windows XP. It wasn't the cheapest option, because Microsoft was willing to deal on price. It was a "strategic decision [that] makes Munich less dependent on one IT supplier and sets a trend toward more competition," according to Munich's mayor. Christian Ude. According to theReutersstory: "Linux is considered by many to be the only big rival to Microsoft's Windows and can already be found on 15 percent of all computers sold in Western Europe."The Munich deal follows on from an agreement between the German government and IBM, the world's biggest computer company, whereby "federal, state and local governments will receive discounts on IBM hardware and software products that support Linux".Computerworldreported earlier: "In addition to supplying hardware and software, IBM will provide technical support to government officials deploying Linux and other open-source software products."
Sony has revealed details of the PSX "entertainment device". It seems to be a PS2 that follows the Microsoft Xbox in including a hard drive and broadband, then throws in a few extras, such as a TV tuner. The PS2's original i.Link (Firewire) port seems to have given way to a USB 2.0 port.Exteme Techhas details and photos. Sorry, no prices. Note: this is not the PlayStation 3.
A man has been jailed for selling bogus goods on eBay and other websites, just over a year after he was released from prison for precisely the same crime.Aun Sayal, 21, from Ilford, east London, offered fake goods for sale online and arranged for money to be transferred to him. The purchasers never received the goods, and when they attempted to trace him through email, telephone numbers and addresses left on the websites, they received no response.Yesterday he was sentenced at Guildford crown court to two years in prison, after earlier pleading guilty to eight charges of obtaining money transfer by deception, with 21 other offences taken into consideration.Surrey police began investigating Sayal in July 2002, after a local man bought a washing machine from him on eBay and never received it. He contacted police after getting no response from Sayal. Officers identified another 38 victims across Britain, the US and Europe. The victims were largely trying to buy electrical white goods and laptop computers.Victims also lost money to Sayal on cookingtonight.co.uk and lookatourgoods.com.Back in 2001, Sayal became one of the first people in Britain to be  prosecuted successfully for this type of internet fraud.Sayal, then just a teenager, was sentenced to nine months in a young offenders institution after police in Ilford found he was pulling a similar auction house fraud. He was released in March 2002.Police at the time believed Sayal had made up to £150,000 by convincing victims to buy high quality electrical goods from him and then failing to deliver.He pleaded guilty at London's Snaresbrook crown court to 20 counts of "obtaining a money transfer by deception" between December 2000 and July 2001. He committed seven of the offences after he was arrested.DC Tony Noble, the officer in charge of the Surrey police investigation, said: "People can be very vulnerable when purchasing goods over the internet. This result shows that internet fraud is not beyond the reach of the law but that offenders can and will be found and brought to justice."Officers recommended that anyone buying from a reputable auction site look very carefully at any links they may be led to off that site. They also cautioned online shoppers to be wary of goods sales hosted on free webspace, such as Geocities or Yahoo.
CNet has published a piece headedMicrosoft prepares reply to iTunes, which appears to have misled people who presumably couldn't be bothered to read what it actually says. It does not mean that Microsoft has launched a music service (though there is no reason why it shouldn't, one day). Microsoft does, of course, provide technologies that are used by some music services, and it was doing this long before Apple launched iTunes. Microsoft is also trying to make its offerings more powerful -- it has been doing that for years, too, and will continue to do it. How that technology is applied (if at all) is entirely up to the people who offer the various services (if any). One recent example isAmazon.comchoosing WMA9 to stream samples of songs.
Extreme Techdoes the speculating on a new ML-style language for .Net, and no, it has not been announced. If you just want to play with it,Microsoft Researchhas an F# site.
In the Merc, Mike Langberg compares Fry's Electronics' prices today with those from a1997advertisement (scroll down near the bottom).
... along with some "ATI anomalies". Either way,Extreme Techreckons it now has the first "accurate representation of relative performance between nVidia's top-of-the-line GeForceFX 5900 Ultra and ATI's Radeon 9700 Pro."
Bluetooth is a disaster and it's hard or impossible to get two devices to talk to one another (unless one is a PDA and the other is a compatible phone). ZD Net's David Berlind gives "two executives from the Bluetooth Special Interest Group" areality check.
Tom Siebel of Siebel Systems only got paid $1 but heads the list of the Valley's best paid executives: his stock options increased in value by $35 million. Carly Fiorina only just made the top 50 and two HP staff picked up more moolah than she did. SeeSilicon Valley's top 100.
The Xbox Live experience may have only been in this country for two-and-a-half months, and just over six in the US, but already Microsoft is taking the console to the next evolutionary stage: a home entertainment system. Microsoft unveiled a new package of multimedia and gaming features at this year's E3 gaming convention, which are set to be released over the coming year.Two of the most interesting additions will be XSN Sports and Music Mixer. The former will allow players to create their own teams and leagues, as well as organising schedules and training through XSNsports.com. It will run in conjunction with Microsoft's sports title line-up, which includes NFL Fever 2004, Top Spin and Amped.Music Mixer, according to J Allard, the president of Xbox, "unlocks the digital entertainment capability of the console ... It demonstrates how we can use the Xbox to access DVD playback, CD playback, photo-viewing, gaming, music storage, online gameplay, enhanced party visualisers and even karaoke."When combined with the other features of the new Xbox Live, such as file sharing between PCs and Xboxes and sending players "Xbox alerts" on their MSN messengers, PDAs and phones, Microsoft looks as though it has an incredibly comprehensive package in the works. That's even leaving aside games such as Halo 2 and Project Gotham Racing 2, both titles with strong multiplayer elements that should send player figures soaring by themselves.As well as stealing the hardware news headlines of the show with the announcement of its new handheld console, the PlayStation Portable, Sony produced a double-whammy by showing off its new Eye Toy for the PS2. The Eye Toy is, in essence, a very sophisticated camera that plugs into the PS2 and projects an image of the player on to the screen. By using motion tracking technology to record players' movements, the device allows them to interact with a game.A couple of games were used at the show to demonstrate the Eye Toy's potential. The first was a Kung Fu game where players knock away enemies with their hand. In another, the objective was to clean as many windows as possible in a "wax-on, wax-off", Karate kid-style. The Eye Toy will be retailing in the US for $39 in October (no European price has been announced as yet) and will come with 12 mini-games designed especially for use with the camera.When it comes to graphic depictions of violence, games tend to attract a lot of flack. However, Voodoo Vince, a new Xbox title from Beep Industries, might bemuse the Daily Mail reading brigade as Vince's violence is mainly directed against himself. The Voodoo doll's adventures take place around old New Orleans, where Vince must negotiate his way through the French quarter, swamps and sewers, while enlisting the local fauna, such as shrimps and rats, as transportation. In order to thwart his enemies Vince has to resort to such drastic measures as sticking pins in himself, hitting himself on the head with a hammer, setting himself on fire and lots more self-mutilation. I can see the headlines now.Top 10 games - all platforms(Compiled by the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association)1) Enter the Matrix (PS2, GC, XB, PC) Atari - £39.992) Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PS2) Take 2 - £32.993) Midnight Club II (PS2) Take 2 - £39.994) Return To Castle Wolfenstein: Tides of War(XB) Activision - £39.995) The Sims (PS2, PC, XB, GC) Electronic Arts- £37.996) The Legend of Zelda: the Wind Waker (GC) Nintendo - £39.997) Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell (PS2, Xbox PC) Ubi Soft - £37.998) Championship Manager 4 (PC) Eidos - £29.999) Burnout 2: Point of Impact (XB, GC, PS2) Acclaim - £39.9910) Fifa 2003 (PS2, XB, GBA, PL)) Electronic Arts - £34.99
There has only really been one topic of conversation at Guardian Online this week - the sudden surge in the number of Wi-Fi hot spots. In case you've missed the hype, Wi-Fi hot spots are wireless LAN networks set up in public places like caf¿s, restaurants and airport lounges. Provided their laptop, or PDA has Wi-Fi facilities (either built in or added via card) geeks can pop in for a brew and surf the web and send and receive e-mail at very high speeds.Up until this week the number of hot spots was limited to about a hundred Internet caf¿s and coffee shops in London, several upmarket hotels and a few  airports. Now BT, in conjunction with Toshiba, has unveiled a £300 'hot spot in a box' kit that will enable pub landlords and small hotel owners to create their own Wi-Fi networks. Even more significantly a group called The Cloud this week delivered Wi-Fi facilities to over 200 pubs dotted around the country. It hopes that over a thousand locals will be offering fast wireless web access by the end of the year.Hot spots are great news for business travellers. Not only do they offer much faster Internet access than they could acheive via mobile phone networks, they also give them a legitimate excuse to spend an hour or so in the pub. The fees charged to use hot spots are small (around £5 for half an hour's surfing), and as setting up and maintaining hot spots is cheap, the days when your pint comes with free fast internet access probably isn't far away. Basically everyone's a winner from the equipment providers to the caf¿/pub owners to the would-be net surfers.It is a little ironic then that a technology that was such a failure over a decade ago should bounce back in such a spectacular style. Hot spots, or location-based network access services, were big news in the late 80s and nearly 90s when mobile phone network coverage was rather piecemeal. Only they were used for voice calls rather than accessing data. Four services were launched; Phonepoint, Mercury Callpoint, Zonephone, and, by far the most famous, Hutchison's Rabbit system. They worked by enabling a subscriber to make and receive phone calls as long as they were within 100 metres of a transmitter. These were sited at train stations, airports and garage forecourts.Sadly for Hutchison and its rivals, users found having to visit a certain point to use their phones very inconvenient. As soon as wider coverage became available they deserted the location-specific service in their thousands.Curious then that Wi-Fi, a location based service, might help kill off the prospects of 3G phone systems that offer universal coverage, as pioneered in the UK by - you guessed it - Hutchison.The history of consumer electronics is littered with examples of technologies that failed, only to rise phoenix-like from the ashes years later.During the 70s, serious hi-fi buffs aspired to owning multi-channel Quadraphonic sound systems. Those same rock fans are a older and wiser now, but chances are they have once again embraced a multi-channel sound format in either DVD-Audio or Super Audio CD, and are thrilling to Pink Floyd's Dark Side of the Moon caressing their ears from six speakers.It's also amazing to think that interactive TV, so commonplace now, has its roots in a failed experiment conducted by Warner Communications in the mid 1970s. The company kitted out an entire town of Columbus, Ohio, with special boxes that delivered thirty channels, game shows the viewer could play along with, shopping stations and video on demand. The system, know as Qube, ran for six years before Warner's reluctantly pulled the plug.Later this year Microsoft, via its Media2go technology, is attempting reinvent video on the move. The theory is that users will record video from their TV or PC that they can store on a hard disk-based device and view later on the bus or train.The company will hope to avoid the pitfalls experienced by Sony in the early 90s, when it launched the Watchman personal handheld LCD TV. In spite of encouraging initial sales, users soon tired of a screen whose pictures couldn't be seen in sunlight and a battery life of minutes rather than hours.One last example is the recent rush of tiny Windows-based laptops whose form factor owes a great deal to Psion and its once hugely popular Series 5 and 7 PDAs.So, perhaps budding entrepreneurs should be combing consumer electronics history books looking for other technologies to revive. Any takers for a souped-up version of the eight track cartridge? Or maybe there's a killer application just waiting to be discovered for the BSB Squarial.
It should gladden the hearts of everyone who has had their fill of spam - "unsolicited commercial email" to give it its official title: the Californian senate has passed a bill outlawing it.The toughest anti-spam legislation adopted or introduced anywhere in the US, it provides for any recipient to sue the sender for $500 (&#163;300).Whether it offers the chance to enlarge or reduce parts of the body in improbable ways or amazing opportunities to make money without doing any work, spam is now part of a computer user's daily life. It is thought to account for about half of all emails.Just dealing with it costs US businesses $10bn a year, the bill's author, Senator Debra Bowen, says. She quoted research indicating that the amount of spam rose by 86% between 2001 and 2002, to an estimated 260bn emails. By 2007, she said, the research suggested that every user would be receiving 10-plus emails a day.The bill, which the senate passed by 21 votes to 12, applies to anyone sending span to or from a Californian address.It requires advertisers to get the agreement of a recipient before an email is sent, putting the onus for the first time on the advertiser.The recipient of unauthorised span will get state backing to sue for $500 for "each slice of spam", in the words of Ms Bowen.The litigant will be entitled to legal costs and the judge may add a $250 fine to pay for the enforcement of the law.The judge can also triple the penalty if it is shown that the sender wilfully continued to send spam.Ms Bowen said Californians are very privacy conscious, as borne out by the fact that half the people in the state had ex-directory telephone numbers to shield them from telemarketers, another bane of daily life.The bill is opposed by a variety of groups representing online advertisers and marketers who say that legal action could bankrupt legitimate companies.Many internet service providers offer services to thwart spam, but as EarthLink, which gives its users a free "spaminator" service, says: "There is no way to eliminate spam entirely."EarthLink is due to introduce a new service next month which it hopes will curb spammers' enthusiasm by sending them   confusing automatic responses, taking spam wars to a new level.One of the problems is tracing the origin of spam. According to AOL nearly 250,000 computers around the world have been hacked into so that spammers can cover their tracks by sending emails from someone else's address.Last week the federal trade commission issued a warning which detailed the ways in which spammers are using unwitting third parties to send unwanted emails.Even if the bill is passed by the lower house enforcement, will remain a problem, particularly in respect of spammers living outside California.But Ms Bowen said the justice department was experienced in tracking down out-of-state offenders. And there is almost certain to be a company offering to do the tracking-down for a fee - via spam, of course.
"Once again the University of Calgary's Department of Computer Science explores new territory as it becomes the first institution in Canada to offer a course in Computer Viruses and Malware as part of its undergraduate program. This course is unique; along with covering legal, ethical and computer security issues, it will focus on developing malicious software such as computer viruses, worms and Trojan horses that are known to wreak havoc to the tune of billions of dollars world-wide on an annual basis," says theUniversity of Calgary press release. Sophos is hopping mad. "Should we teach kids how to break into cars if they're interested in becoming a policeman one day? It is simply not necessary to write new viruses to understand how they work and how they can be prevented," says Graham Cluley.
Steve Boxer, a freelance whoreported E3 for Guardian Online, says some British journalists got the same treatment (below). I didn't see this reported anywhere. Did I just miss it?ReasonOnlinehas a report on the French case: Homeland Security saved from insidious European tech reporters.
Millions of men in Britain are getting private email messages suggesting they might want to have their penises enlarged. "How did they know?" they are thinking. "Who told them? Was it Janice in accounts after last year's Christmas party? That's not fair, I was drunk and it was cold on that fire escape ... "Of course part of them suspects this is just another bit of "spam"; the unsolicited junk email that is swamping the net, but they're not going to shout about it just in case.Perpetrators of these scams must depend on this sort of embarrassment. If the operation went horribly wrong, you're not going to go on BBC's Watchdog and say "OK, it used to be small but at least it worked. But now, Kate, just look at what a botch job they made of it ... " And so unscrupulous businesses have continued to bombard our electronic inboxes with offers of Viagra, free passwords to internet porn sites and the offer of tickets for the new Cliff Richard musical.Spam is the small ads section of the global village newspaper. And yesterday Yahoo predicted that soon it will overtake the number of normal emails flying around cyberspace. Just as the small ads of a local rag reveal what its readership is really thinking about (answer: sex and money) so the most common junk email messages offer hardcore pornography and confidential money transfers out of Nigeria. It's hard to know which is more depressing - the baseness of human nature that this reveals or the stupidity of all the greedy people who fall for these scams. "Wow, what a fantastic offer! I transfer $200 to this overseas bank account and they pay off all my credit card debts! I can't see how this could possibly go wrong!" If I want to spend hundreds of pounds for absolutely nothing in return, I'll stick to holistic healing, thank you very much.Of course the problem of unsolicited mail is nothing new. When the penny post started in 1840, masked highwaymen would hold up the mail coach and go through all the letters to see what goodies they might steal. "Ha-harrr! What do we have here, Black Bess? Hmm, offers to apply for a new type of credit card and 47 Boden catalogues. Damn!" And now in the 21st century, electronic mail involves so many hours sorting through all the junk that frankly you'd be better off popping that letter into a pillar box.Computer programmes have been designed to randomly mix letters and numbers which are then combined with internet service providers. For example, there's bound to be a billgates1@hotmail.com; in fact I think this was the very first email account ever set up. And then Bill just sat at his computer for a few weeks feeling vaguely disappointed every time he checked his inbox.It's estimated that spam currently costs businesses &#163;9bn a year, although I can never quite understand how they work these figures out. The presumption is that if people weren't wasting their time deleting emails, they'd be hard at work increasing company profits. In fact they'd only be wasting their time with some other mindless computer diversion, like playing Minesweeper or entering their own name on Google and then being slightly indignant that there were lots of other David Smiths around the world.However, not content with being at war with drugs and terrorism, America has now declared war on spam as well. Last month the state of Virginia (home of America Online) outlawed the sending of unsolicited emails, making it a class 6 felony carrying a five-year prison term (or 10 years for anyone who on hearing the word "spam" starts to recite the Monty Python sketch). The law also gives the state the right to seize the assets of these companies, which is how the governor explained all those boxes of Viagra that his secretary found in the filing cabinet. There remains the slight problem that the internet is no respecter of national borders or regional laws, but if those Russian gangsters did ever decide to move to Virginia and go public about their business practices they could be in serious trouble.Opponents claim that this law is in breach of America's sacred First Amendment: "Congress shall make no law abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people to send out thousands of emails an hour offering live web-cams of group sex featuring pre-op transsexuals." But other US states and EU governments look set to follow, and then they will tell all the computer users of the world about their new legal rights and these new protections. And we'll see this historic message in our inbox and think: "Well that looks dodgy, I'm deleting that one for starters."comment@guardian.co.uk
If you are a journalist, you are supposed to get a special 5-year visa before visiting the USA. I have no problem with that: it's what I do, and it's what I urge all my colleagues to do. However, a lot of journalists travel on tourist visas, and usually they have been able to get away with it. Following the increase in Homeland Security efforts, that is now a very bad idea -- and don't try it if you are French. Reporters Without Borders complains that six French journalists trying to attend the recent E3 games trade show "were treated like criminals -- subjected to several body searches, handcuffed, locked up and fingerprinted." They were held overnight in cells and deported. A bit of a shock if your big ambition was to play Half-Life 2. [Thanks to Slashdot for the link.]* Steve Boxer's report on E3 is in today's Online, andhere
AOL has only just released v8 of its client software so most people are probably still using v6 or v7. Beta testers, however, can already move to v9, reportseWeek.
I've only just discovered that a British company is a rival to Blogger: if you want to start a blog, have a look atwww.blog-city.com. The prices may be in $$$ but the company is based in Dumfries. Also, if you start a new blog atBlogger.com, you will now be directed to its new version of Blogger. According to Ev, "It's basically the same as the old one but should work better."
The notebook that thinks it's a desktopAcer says its new Aspire 1700 is "the first portable with a true 17in screen", as distinct from the Apple PowerBook's widescreen. But in Acer's case, we might quibble about "portable". The screen is big, but so is the rest of it. This is a 7.2kg portable built mainly from desktop PC parts, except for the 90-minute battery. It has big feet to lift it off the table, and a big down-facing fan. Still, the case does allow room for a proper keyboard and numeric keypad, DVD/CD-RW, floppy, 80GB hard drive, stereo speakers and a sub-woofer. You can play CDs without opening the case, and if you need an even bigger screen, it has a VGA monitor port, and S-Video to connect to a TV set - plus four USB 2.0, two Firewire and other ports. But much the biggest thing about this boxy beast is the smallest thing: the price. A low-end model with half a gig of memory and a 2.66GHz Pentium 4 will cost only &#163;1,291. No road warrior would aspire to a battleship like this, but as a multimedia desktop replacement, it could be a big winner.WirelessMonk in the CloudDrinkers at the Old Monk in Leman Street, London, might notice more business types toting laptops than usual today. For the Old Monk has become one of over 200 pubs dotted throughout the UK, (interestingly there are only two so far in London) that, via a service called The Cloud, are offering wireless internet connections alongside beer and peanuts.Access to The Cloud's wireless system is free until July 1, after which would-be surfers will either buy pay-as-you-go vouchers or be billed by a network provider such as BT OpenZone.In a bid to tempt corporate users, the company promises that its Wi-Fi system will offer a secure connection to company VPNs (virtual private networks) as it has run a private DSL line to each pub.The Cloud hopes to cover 600 pubs by the end of June, and 3,000 by the end of 2003.www.mycloud.netFaster wirefreeIntel is bringing forward the launch of Centrino processors that feature 802.11g Wi-Fi compatibility to the fourth quarter of 2003. Their planned debut was not intended until the second quarter of 2004.While the 802.11b format, as used by existing Centrino notebook PCs, offers speeds of 11mbps, 802.11g, which works on the same wavelength as 802.11b (2.4Ghz) has much quicker theoretical download speeds of 54mbps. The new format is also backwards compatible with 802.11b. Although 802.11g has yet to be formally ratified, 802.11g products from companies like Linksys and Apple have sold well.www.intel.co.ukWi-Fi mobilesComing soon are mobile phones that can switch between Wi-Fi and existing phone networks. Handset manufacturer Motorola is reported to be nearing completion of its first Wi-Fi phone, while another US company, Calypso, claims to have a model ready to launch in the US very shortly. The C1250i uses 802.11b technology to connect to Wi-Fi networks at speeds of 11mbps and is compatible with existing hotspots. Calypso says the handset will harness the fast download speeds to offer real-time video conferencing at far superior levels than even 3G networks.www.calypsowireless.comBroadbandX-systems is hoping to throw a lifeline to rural communities desperate for fast internet connections. It has launched a Wi-Fi service that uses 802.11b technology to deliver internet speeds of between 1mbps to 4mbps to both businesses and consumers.The company is inviting countryside dwellers to register their interest in wireless broadband via its website. It claims it requires only 50 users to sign up to enable a cost-effective system   to be installed. The initial broadband connection will be provided either by a leased line or via satellite.&lt;A HREF="http://www.x-broadband.co.uk"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.x-broadband.co.ukMobileCookies for mobilesA UK firm is marketing a system that acts in a similar way to a cookie - but for mobile phones. Bango's Fingerprint system allows pseudonymous authentication of mobile phones, meaning firms can track their customers for marketing purposes without knowing their full details. The system is already being used by a ringtones vendor. Rob Bamforth at IT analysis firm Bloor Research says the service is like those that process credit card payments for ecommerce sites, but covers marketing as well. "It's essentially third-party verification of who you are, but without disclosing all the information about yourself," he says.www.it-analysis.comBluetooth screenUS company MicroOptical looks set to become the first to market an LCD screen that connects wirelessly via   Bluetooth to mobile phones and PDAs. The DV-1 viewer, a 12bit QVGA display, clips on to eyeglasses and delivers images significantly larger than those seen on the phone or PDA's screen. The company claims the battery-powered viewer is, unlike many LCD devices, readable in all lighting conditions. MicroOptical hopes to launch a version of the DV-1 later this year.www.microopticalcorp.comHardwareHyper-IntelligentUntil now, you had to buy Intel's most expensive 3GHz Pentium 4 or a Xeon processor in order to get hyperthreading (HT), which in some cases provides a dramatic increase in processing power   for no extra cost. This week, however, Intel announced HT in three slower Pentiums running at 2.4, 2.6 and 2.8GHz. There are also new ancillary chip-sets numbered 865G and 865PE, formerly code-named Springdale, which support HT and the faster 800MHz system bus. HT enables a single processor to work as two. This can mean heavyweight background tasks run much more smoothly. But if you only run one program at once, it doesn't help, and may even reduce performance slightly.www.intel.com/info/hyperthreadingThink againIBM has renamed and redesigned its PC line so that what used to be NetVista desktops are now ThinkCentres. (IBM's corporate slogan is Think, and it has long used the name for ThinkPad note book PCs.) The ThinkCentre S50, M50 and A50p models are designed to reduce the cost of ownership for corporate buyers. All can be opened easily without tools, the hard disk is mounted in a caddy, and Rapid Restore Ultra software provides one-button backup and recovery. The ThinkCentre S50 is the space-saving model, and measures just 309 x 359 x 85 mm - less than half the size of the NetVista. The ThinkCentre M50 is certified to support Red Hat and SuSE Linux. A "value priced" ThinkCentre A30 will appear later this yearMultimediaIt is difficult to describe onedotzero to the initiated. Is it a film festival? An exploration of the art of computer graphics? A club night showcasing cutting-edge visuals? For the past seven years the east London-based festival has travelled the world capturing the best in digital moving image.This year's festival is now on at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, but if you can't make it before Monday, onedotzero_select is the first of a series of DVD releases allowing you to experience the best in digital moving image in the comfort of your home.A mixture of new material and highlights from the past seven years, the disc features graphic design collectives such as Tomato and Shynola as well as footage from an excellent live performance of The Light Surgeons, considered by many to be the finest purveyors of club visuals in the world.www.onedotzero.com
Emerging, coughing, from the smoke-filled rooms of the a-list weblogger cabal, Ben Hammersley catches enough breath to announce hisBook of Blog, a subscription-funded weekly email of weblog tricks and news. Should make useful reading for those of us hacking these weblogs together, as well as an interesting case study in paid-for content. Each weekly email will be available for free in an archive one month after it has been sent out.
Ghost MasterPC, &#163;29.99 Empire Interactive/Sick Puppies, &#42;&#42;***If you don't fancy babysitting the sanitary needs of warbling Sims and would rather scare them out of their three-piece-suite-loving minds, then you need a dose of Ghost Master. This innovative title is a mix of strategy, puzzler and role-playing game (RPG), where you assume the role of an undead civil servant who is sent, with a team of ghosts, to the town of Gravenville to sort out some otherworldly problems.Gravenville is one of those little American towns always suffering from gremlins, ghoulies and things that go bump in the night, only this time you're responsible for most of it. The idea is to take your team, and there are 47 ghosts in all, into different locations and solve problems using your various haunting powers, which range from simply making spooky whispers, to causing the walls to gush blood.Scaring causes fear, fear in turn generates plasm, which is what fuels the powers of your ghosts. Of course, it's not all about just scaring, because a lot of the problems you'll need to solve (most of which surround helping free local ghosts to boost your team) will involve a subtle blend of deviousness, manipulation and general Machiavellian behaviour.It is rare these days to find a game that feels genuinely fresh as well as fun, but Ghost Master is truly one of the most original games around. And, as with many innovations, the game requires patience to get the best playing experience. But it is   definitely worth it because, certain adult-interest downloads aside, Ghost Master is the most fun you can have on your computer.Rhianna Pratchett&#183;Rhianna Pratchett's in-depth review of Ghost Master is in the latest issue of PC Zone magazineRygar: The Legendary AdventurerPlayStation 2, &#163;39.99 Wanadoo, ***Forget large swords, big guns and other weapons, souped-up yo-yos are the way to go when it comes to dispatching baddies. Rygar certainly thinks so.The hero of this latest third-person slash-'em-up may call his weapon a Diskarmor but that's only because he is a tough guy rather than a schoolgirl. Luckily, his weapon is extremely adaptable, with more than 30 moves available. These range from basic shielding to skilful decapitation. Yes, Rygar is a game that glories in gore. Taking elements of ancient mythology, from Rome to Greece, the plot is nonsense. Suffice to say your character is the only person who can save the world. Thankfully, this is achieved by hacking monsters and solving the odd puzzle rather than tact and diplomacy.The graphics have graduated with honours from the Resident Evil school of flawed camera angles. Fairly gorgeous most of the time - particularly if you appreciate overgrown ancient temples   - they are spoilt by a semi-fixed camera. Battling off-screen enemies and missing crucial puzzle elements are just two of the annoyances.Then there is the unrelenting combat. Sure, battling the armies of classical Greece is a challenge, but variety is needed to stop RSI setting in. However, the end of level "boss" characters do actually engage the brain. Sussing out their weaknesses is tougher than solving the simplistic "puzzles" in the game. These conundrums usually involve little more than knocking down some scenery, and it isn't long before the fighting starts up again. Upgrading your weapon adds some depth but this is primarily about combat. Polished and enjoyable, Rygar is a solid adventure.Greg HowsonX-Men 2: Wolverine's RevengeXbox, PS2, GameCube, PC, &#163;39.99 Activision, ***As is typical for a game designed to accompany a film release, X-Men 2: Wolverine's Revenge does not break much new ground. Nevertheless, it is a pretty sound effort and will satisfy fans of the comic-book and movies. As the title suggests, you play Wolverine, the X-Men character with retractable claws. The resulting third-person adventure consists of shepherding Wolverine to the ends of levels - there are no ways of saving mid-level.A few useful devices spice up the gameplay: Wolverine's mutant senses allow him to sniff out enemies, see mines and creep around stealthily - this is one of those games in which you choose whether to employ stealth or aggression, and, for once, the stealth element proves uniformly enjoyable. Beyond that, Wolverine has some useful beat-'em-up moves and, occasionally, gets to launch a special mutant strike, which can take down several enemies at once.Plus there are a few buttons to press and puzzles to solve - none of which, luckily, are at all cryptic. Wolverine's Revenge is hard enough to keep you interested, and remains pretty absorbing, as it gets more difficult as it progresses. Graphically, it impresses without ever astonishing you. While it is not quite original enough to have you in raptures, it will keep you happy if you are keen on the X-Men franchise.Steve Boxer
Christopher has been killed in action many times: 305 to be exact. But his most recent death was the last straw. Defending an Alaskan pipeline from terrorist attack, he and his nine-man squad came under fire from a sniper who picked them off, one by one, in just under a minute."We were lying on the ground, prone, in thick fog," he says. "There's no way he should have been able to shoot us, let alone see us. He must've been cheating."Christopher, 24, is an avid player ofAmerica's Army, a violent online PC game created by the US Army to give the video-gaming generation a realistic taste of modern warfare. The soldier-simulator is free to download for any gamers interested in exploring "the adventures and opportunities" of a military career. Players handle realistic weapons, train as "advanced marksmen" snipers, rescue prisoners of war and engage in fire fights with enemies of freedom in virtual swamps, valleys and blasted villages all around the world.Christopher plays for around two hours a day. In three months of playing, he has notched up 437 kills. He has also earned 30 honour points for internalising noble army traits such as teamwork, courage and integrity - and, of course, blowing the hell out of terrorists with his M203 grenade launching rifle.The game has been a massive success. In the year since its launch, more than 1 million players have played more than 100m missions. Glowing reviews adorn the video games press. Expansion packs are planned. It has been a successful and innovative experiment by the world's "premier land force".However, Christopher, like many others, is unhappy and frustrated. He is on the verge of giving up the game he loves for good. "There's almost no point in playing any more," he says. "Cheaters are ruining the game."Online gaming is suffering from an epidemic of cheating. America's Army is just the latest in a long line of major titles - Quake III, Diablo II, Warcraft III and Battlefield 1942 - to be infested by dishonest players using "hacks", little programs that secrete themselves like parasites in the host game, and powerfully and invisibly enhance the player's ability."Evilhack", the main cheat for America's Army, for example, is freely available on the web. It makes all hostiles bright red, while computer-controlled "aimbots" ensure the player's gun never misses its targets. The undetectable program will even throw your M67 frag grenade for you if you accidentally hold it too long.For the hundreds of thousands of gamers like Christopher who consider these games to be a sport - a test of mouse-marksmanship, reflexes and cunning - the rise of cheats has been devastating."It's akin to being burgled and having your most treasured possessions stolen," says veteran player Rob Miles.Gaming communities, once celebrations of skill, have descended into bitching and ill-feeling. Paranoia reigns. Players no longer know whether their opponents are genuine or cheats. Games are ill-tempered. Accusations fly faster than bullets. Online leagues have folded. Players are deserting games in droves."Nobody trusts nobody," says Christopher. "If you play honestly and well, you run the risk of being accused of cheating and kicked out of the game." He has decided to quit for   a while. "Until they do something about cheating, there's just no point playing any more."Others feel the same. Angry soldiers have flooded America's Army forums demanding action. "For this not to be addressed is a slap in the face to all of us who are busting our humps to get honour points," said "Sloppy", one poster.The army has been quick to respond and has pledged to engage the enemy. After all, using an aimbot is not among their stated values. Undercover operatives, or "admins", disguised as normal players have been deployed on all 140 official servers to hunt out cheaters."Players who act up, violate the rules of military contact and land warfare are banned from the game," says their spokesman, Paul Boyce Jnr.An external security company, Even Balance, has been hired to deploy Punkbuster, its state-of-the-art, anti-cheat technology, to protect its players. Like a virus-checker, Punkbuster scans players' computers for illegal   hacks. Those who are caught face lifetime bans. Its creator, Tony Ray, is a passionate anti-cheat crusader with a single message: "Cheating destroys." He has no truck with cheaters, or "punks" as he calls them. For him, they are the same as criminals."The worst cheaters are the evil people who are only happy when they cause ruin for others - like the punks who commit crimes under cover of darkness, from knocking over mailboxes to setting fires. It is far easier to break the work of another than to build something that enhances the lives of others in a positive way."The only thing he hates more than a cheater is a cheater-coder (or "hax0r" as they are known in gaming patois). Hax0rs are almost universally maligned. Most are young kids, around 12 to 14 years old, although some are as young as nine. Ruinously bright, they hunger for the pure intellectual buzz they get from hacking a protection system. They know they are bringing online gaming to its knees, but don't seem to care."I'm famous," says Joolz, a well-known cheat coder from the south of England. By day, he's a corporate software engineer, by night the famed creator of Joolz Cheatz, arch-hack for the most popular action game on the net, Half-Life: CounterStrike. Of an evening, Joolz likes nothing better than taking on the "gits" who create anti-cheats. He loves the challenge. "I've used my skills to beat the game," he says.He's clearly proud of his work. His cheats are lovingly created, almost hilariously multi-featured. One version allows you to simultaneously cheat, play your favourite MP3s, and run chat software - all from within the game."One of my favourite creations is called Lookaim. If you've got your back to someone and they look at you, it spins you round and shoots them. You looking at me? Bang! Not any more you're not!"Joolz's hack is popular. Well over 50,000 people have downloaded it. He gets fanmail. It's given   him a name and a Wild West notoriety. When Joolz walks into certain online chatrooms, a reverent quiet falls.Perversely, though, he has a low opinion of those who use his cheats. "I've sat there for hours on end, writing the thing. They've just downloaded it from a website."He's even built hidden backdoor features into his cheats to allow him to spot when other people are using his code and disable it. "I don't like being beaten by people using my cheat," he says. He secretly gathers information from his users. "Did you know most cheaters come from France?"Honest gamers despair over remorseless hackers like Joolz. Threats of physical violence abound. Many have petitioned the publishers of their favourite games to do something - anything - about the problem. However, unlike the ideologically motivated US Army, commercial publishers seem reluctant to deploy expensive anti-cheat software, especially for older games nearing the end of their shelf lives.As Punkbuster's Tony Ray says: "One vice-president of a top publisher told me that they believe it is in their best interests to let the cheating destroy a game so the players will get mad and move on to their next title."Those companies who do take on the cheater-kiddies suffer the consequences. Two years ago, Valve, the creators of Half-Life: CounterStrike, vowed to protect their million or so players from cheaters. Today, they are still fighting a losing battle against prolific hackers like Joolz. "What takes me five hours to code takes them two weeks to counteract," he laughs.Many gamers have given up on the authorities and decided to take matters into their own hands. Rob Miles, for example, has set up Cheat-police.com, a 7,000-strong constabulary of players who make citizens' arrests of cheaters, naming and shaming them online."I feel I have a highly developed sense of right and wrong," he explains. "Although most cheaters laugh at us and what we do, there appears to be emerging a grudging respect from their memberships."Another player police force, United Admins, has established itself as a sort of gaming CIA, coordinating anti-cheat activity across the globe. For the sake of the community, they preach conciliation with cheaters, not punishment. Their anti-cheat software, Cheating Death, which copies many of its techniques from the cheats themselves, is proving highly effective.The US army has all this to look forward to. By releasing America's Army, they may have been drawn into a battle they have no chance of winning, since there is one thing the cheaters and the anti-cheaters agree on. "Games will be cheat-free the same day society is crime-free," says Punkbuster's Tony Ray. "As long as bad people think they can get away with doing bad things, they will try and some will succeed."Joolz agrees. Cheating will never be stamped out. He accepts he is partly to blame, but remains unapologetic. "I don't see cheating as wholly right. But why do people cheat at anything? Whether it's athletics or any sort of sport, they cheat because they can."Linkswww.americasarmy.comwww.cheat-police.comwww.counter-strike.netwww.unitedadmins.com&#183;Send comments to:online.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Fizzer attackFor the past week, we have been getting the Fizzer virus on my colleague's PC. Is there a way we can stop it? A firewall hasn't been able to help.Simon FisherJack Schofield replies:Fizzer (or Sparky) is a Windows worm that appeared on May 8. It is spreading quickly. It can be transmitted by KaZaA file sharing, or email ("I thought this was interesting..." etc). It includes an IRC (Internet Relay Chat) backdoor, an AOL Instant Messenger (AIM) backdoor, a tool for mounting DoS (Denial of Service) attacks, a Trojan and an HTTP server. The aim is to take over and use your PC for nefarious purposes, rather than damage it. If a PC is infected, you should disconnect it and remove the worm, or at least use a firewall to block all outgoing traffic from IRC, AIM and KaZaA. (Since KaZaA can use a range of ports, it may be more convenient to uninstall it.)The firewall should obviously block unwanted incoming traffic, but watch out for the IRC backdoor using ports 2018-2021, since this allows your PC to be controlled remotely. The worm's main component is the ISERVC.EXE file. A quick check for infection is to go to C: in Windows Explorer, press F3 and search for this name. There is good information on removing W32/Fizzer@MM atF-SecureandMcAfee. F-Secure provides a free disinfection tool.More KakWhenever I open an email from a certain friend, I get a message asking if I want to allow an ActiveX control to run. To be on the safe side, I always click No, which doesn't seem to affect the message.Alistair ScottJS: Your friend's PC has a virus infection, which I suspect isKakWorm. It uses a security hole your friend should have patched in 1999. Seewww.microsoft.com/technetfor the fix, but Microsoft rolled it into later security updates. Without the fix, the worm can infect a PC without you running the attachment, so your friend is a hazard to less careful users. Symantec has a tutorial that takes you through removing this and other worms, includingKlez.MouseKeysI have developed RSI and would like to do away with the mouse, or at least restrict its use to the minimum. How do I move the cursor using the keyboard only?Brian KelseyJS:Look at Microsoft's built-in accessibility features, which are designed to help the disabled. To use the keyboard instead of the mouse, go to Start|Settings|Control Panel|Accessibility Options, click the Mouse tab, and tick the box for Use MouseKeys. As part of the certification process for Windows desktop applications, Microsoft requires that software publishers "provide documented keyboard access to all features," so you could consider switching to Certified for Windows programs.StuckI backed up my photos, saved in MGI PhotoSuite III, onto CD. When I tried to open them, I found they'd   all been saved as .pza files and there is no way can I get into them. I discovered that MGI had been taken over by Roxio, so I bought the latest Roxio PhotoSuite 5 Platinum Edition but it won't open the files. I contacted their support site but they seem unable or unwilling to help.Name withheldJS:The .pza extension indicates an MGI PhotoSuite Album file, which is only supported in versions II, III and 4. Ask your friends to search their old computer magazine cover CDs as you may well find a free copy that way. MGI PhotoSuite III was also given away with some Packard-Bell PCs, Samsung and Vivitar digital cameras, Logitech webcams and other products so there should be unwanted copies around.Backchat&#183;David Wood asked about sending SMS messages by email. He reports that he has found a better way than the ones we suggested: "Tiscali allows 10 free texts-via-email per day if you are registered, even if it is their pay-as-you-go service."&#183;Is dust a problem? Steve Downing, a systems admin at the University of Liverpool, says that in his experience with hundreds of PCs, "both CPU fan failure and dust build-up are problems that need attention. To clear dust, I just use a brush on the boards and vacuum around the power fans, case and airways."&#183;Last week, I published Smiling Crow's correction of the prices I gave for hard disk space. In doing so, I inadvertently passed on his mistake, which was to give the price per MB (megabyte) instead of per GB (gigabyte). At least it gave a few people a laugh...
Children's hypermedia at the Online Writing Centretrace.ntu.ac.uk/Opinion/index. cfm?article=66World's worst website?www.nvidia.com/nzoneA vote for street fashionwww.japanesestreets.com
In the great days of the mainframe, users were given things called "dumb terminals" or "slaves". This summed up not only the devices but also the typical IT department's attitude to its users.Some people would like to see those days return. They imagine a world where centralised computer power is supplied "on tap" like water or electricity. This is benevolent despotism: the system does what people want, and it never fails - two things that distinguish it from every other computer in the known universe.Reality, however, is heading rapidly in the opposite direction. Google and other giant websites are not run on mainframes but on clusters or networks of PC-type servers running Linux/Unix or a variant of Windows NT, and the   future is something like grid computing.Also, hardly anybody still uses dumb terminals. Most have been replaced by "thin clients" or "network computers", and these undoubtedly have important uses. I'm not against them. But as a matter of observation, thin clients are getting fatter all the time. Even the classical thin client, the old black Bakelite phone, has largely given way to mobile models that often have microprocessors, screens and operating systems. If phones and TV sets are still "thin", they are fatter than they used to be.There's a network side to this story. More than a decade ago, futurist George Gilder wrote in Forbes ASAP magazine: "In a world of dumb terminals and telephones, networks had to be smart. But in a world of smart terminals,   networks have to be dumb."Phone companies like smart networks, partly because they can charge high prices for them. Unfortunately, they are expensive to build, inflexible, hard to run and take five or 10 years to upgrade. What we really need are stupid networks, like the internet.This idea has been expounded for the past five years by David Isenberg, who wrote a paper, The Rise of the Stupid Network, while still a researcher at AT&amp;T Labs. Now he's an independent consultant, and he spoke at last month's O'Reilly Emerging Technologies conference in Santa Clara.In Isenberg's view, a smart network controls everything, and tells data where to go. In a dumb network, the data tells the network where it is going. All the network has to do is deliver it.With a dumb network like the internet, you can send low quality voice, high quality voice, streaming video or whatever you like. You don't have to get the phone company's permission, and it does not need to upgrade its switches.With a dumb network and smart clients, anybody can offer a new service, basically by putting the software on their server for everyone to download. Examples include ICQ instant messaging, Hotmail, Real Audio and Napster.Smart clients/dumb networks are the key to rapid progress. And if you think users are too dumb to use smart terminals, tough. Most "user errors" are the result of badly designed systems with poor user interfaces, and inadequate training.Links  David Eisenbergwww.isen.comwww.isen.com&lt;A HREF="http://www.hyperorg.com/misc/stupidnet.html"&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@ guardian.co.uk
Luckily, a British prime minister has recognised IT's importance to our future. I refer, of course, to Margaret Thatcher. IT Year 1982, one of her government's rare forays into creative industrial policy, introduced a generation of Britons to IT by putting microcomputers into schools and doctors' surgeries.Of course in its original purpose, which was to nurture British computer makers, IT Year 1982 failed dismally. However, the initiative had unforeseen benefits. It created a legion of clever games programmers and (believe it or not) relativelycomputer-literate doctors.A generation on, another national IT initiative is approaching its climax. UK Online, launched by   Tony Blair in September 2000, aims not so much to boost the hardware industry - thanks partly to Lady Thatcher, there isn't one much of one - but to create what other EU countries call the information society.Its central target is to ensure that everyone who wants it has access to an internet connection by 2005. In theory, this box could have been ticked by putting a terminal in every public library. To the credit of the UK Online team, this was never seen as enough: hence the 6,000 UK Online centres set up in colleges, council offices, youth clubs and clinics to offer computer time and basic tuition to all comers.They are badly needed. Although about 45% of households now have the internet at home, the rate of increase is stalling. Official statistics published this week showed   that only 3% more homes were connected than at this time last year. Worse, the digital divide is becoming set in stone. Only 10% of households in the lowest income group are online, compared with 82% in the highest. And only 15% of people over 65 have used the internet.This month, UK Online began its last heave towards getting Britain connected. A "get started" campaign offering free internet starter sessions is running until the end of June. Andrew Pinder, the e-envoy, calls it a "focused push" to attack the stubborn groups who are afraid or too shy to give the internet a try. The publicity machine is in full swing: the campaign has featured on Coronation Street and computers are having a suspiciously high profile on The Archers.Time will slowly close the old-young divide: the internet is the   perfect Meldrew medium. But so long as household access requires a telephone line and a credit card, UK Online centres will be needed.On present plans, many centres will not be around after 2005, even if they last that long. The centre chosen for the launch of Get Started, in Bethnal Green, east London, has already run out of money. According to the manager, Evelyn Murray Smith, it is existing hand-to-mouth since funding from the DFES ran out in March. It needs around &#163;60,000 a year.IT 1982 sputtered out after just a year: Margaret Thatcher was never  that committed. UK Online's sponsor has already shown more consistency. But if UK Online is to achieve its real aims, it may have to become a permanent institution.&#183;www.letsallgeton.gov.uk
All aboardNail fungus growing on pony dung, a shiny black bog ant, a natterjack toad... These are all examples of endangered species in the UK, and images of them and almost a thousand other creatures have been herded aboard the ARKive website, launched this week by HP and the Wildscreen Trust. As well as preserving and disseminating information about endangered species, both local and global, the site also provides a memorial to the late Christopher Parsons, founder of The Wildscreen Trust and former head of the BBC's Natural History Unit, whose idea it was. The site has a Most Wanted section for people who want to contribute images and recordings of many species.www.arkive.orgNews UKGoogle has launched international versions of its automated news service. The UK site now gives more prominence to important stories from the BBC and similar sources: Girls Aloud kept off top spot, Brown's Budget "over-optimistic", and so on. If your local interests are elsewhere, there are similar offerings on Google's sites in Australia, Canada, India, New Zealand and, of course, the USA. Also, Google Alert (which is not affiliated with Google) has upgraded to version 2. It is a tracking service: it will run a daily search and email you any new results.http://news.google.co.ukhttp://news.google.com.auhttp://news.google.com/indiawww.googlealert.comDisinfoIt is said that truth is the first casualty of war, and there is nothing new about propaganda. However, misleading stories can be debunked, and   Disinfopedia, the encyclopaedia of propaganda, is there to do it. The site is a Wiki so any reader can edit its pages.www.disinfopedia.orgYo ho hoPirates of the Caribbean has been one of Disneyland's most popular features since it opened in 1966, when it was a technological marvel. Chef Mayhem, a graphic designer based in Silicon Valley, has provided a great unofficial guide to the ride, complete with multimedia. You can also read the message board, sign up for a newsletter, and buy merchandise, including a share in Disney. The same author has also been running an unofficial guide to Disney's Haunted Mansion since 1997.www.tellnotales.comwww.doombuggies.comLand of GnodAmazon users may not remember that, long ago and far away, Firefly Networks showed just how effective Automated Collaborative Filtering (ACF) could be. Tell Firefly the names of some bands you liked and, using what it had learned from other visitors, it would tell you about others you might like. GroupLens, a research project at the University of Minnesota, is a current example of the genre, and MovieLens is its online recommender. Gnod is another effort, and covers movies, music, books, and websites. It's not very useful for music, but type in the name of one or two favourite authors and you could be impressed by its floating displays.www.intranetjournal.com/idmwww.cs.umn.edu/Research/GroupLensmovielens.umn.eduwww.gnod.netFishTankedWeb comicstrip artist Joe Angerson, formerly of Angerson.com, has launched a new site for a weekly strip that follows the lives of Gill and Steve, two slightly neurotic fish. Now you have something to bring a smile to your face on Monday mornings.www.fishtanked.comNew &amp; notedChildren's hypermedia at the Online Writing Centretrace.ntu.ac.ukWorld's worst website?www.nvidia.com/nzoneA vote for street fashionwww.japanesestreets.comSix of the best:Revision breaksTop stripswww.comics.comGame on - old and new favouriteswww.coffeebreakarcade.comHit US comedieswww.comedycentral.comTeen entertainmentwww.bbc.co.uk/teensInternet adventureswww.josietrue.comThe online kissing resourcewww.virtualkiss.com
Web cloggingRe: the blog clog myth (Online on the web, May 19) on what Google prioritises. I have noticed the reverse behaviour, with Google showing too few hits. Specifically, I was looking for details on a slightly out-of-date bit of Microsoft technology, (version 1.0 of their Visual Basic XML parser). If you type "IXMLElement2" into Google you get precisely 12 hits.This seems impossible to me - it was a significant part of a major Microsoft technology a couple of years back. So there would have been hundreds of references to it at the time. A few would have been tidied up, but many more than 12 will still be there. So how come Google isn't showing them? Which then leads on to what else are they not showing...Jonathan Clarkejonathan.clarke@whitespace.co.ukScandalBen Hammersley (Magnetic Attraction, May 15) supplicates himself to the press releases of Ameriscan and says of their $1,000 for a full-body MRI scan, that "for peace of mind alone, it could be well worth the price".Unfortunately, the unintended consequences of scanning are somewhat different to those of the techno-gadgetary that you more commonly promote in your pages. Much screening leads to "false positive" outcomes in which patients are told they are ill when they are not.  Instead of "peace of mind" they get unnecessary, futile and invasive diagnostic intervention.The British Medical Journal April 26 issue had a number of papers on    the detrimental effects of scanning and screening.The editorialthat introduces them comes out cautiously against the screening industry: "It simply isn't sensible to try to know everything. Ignorance can be bliss."While that may be good advice for prospective patients and their bodies, surely your correspondents should not adopt a similar strategy with their stories.Adam Wishartaw@liketv.comBT trialsFed up with the increase in BT Openworld's monthly subscription for unlimited internet access of &#163;15.99 a month, and having worked out that it would cost me less to return to pay-as-you-go, I changed my account. I then discovered that although I could send email I could not receive email from my BT Openworld account using Outlook Express.I eventually succumbed to calling their technical support line at 50p a minute. The first piece of advice I received didn't cure the problem, and neither did the second, third or fourth. So I sent an email requesting help. In reply I was told that as I was registered for BT Openworld Direct package, I was no longer entitled to receive email using Outlook Express: if I wanted that service I had to subscribe to the Premium mail service.But no mention was made of this during the changeover process from monthly to PAYG internet access and none of the technical support advisers knew about it, or if they did, then they had forgotten the information.So thinking that if I'd bought a item in a shop that turned out to be faulty I'd be entitled to a replacement or my money back under the sale of goods act, I wrote again to BT Openworld and requested that I be reimbursed for the four calls to its technical support desk. BT has informed me support calls are non-refundable.So it appears that BT can take your money, give you four sets of incorrect advice and then refuse to give you a   refund when they get it wrong. Does this service not come with in the remit of the sale of goods act? It can't fail to make money running a scam like that!Ian Cookian@ihcook.demon.co.ukOur tuneVictor Keegan (Second Sight, May 15) talks about "the legions of competitors" who will undercut Apple's music service, "particularly for back catalogues". There's already one such, and has been for ages -EMusic. It contains vast swaths of back catalogue - eg Miles Davis, Thelonius Monk, the Carter Family, Sarah Vaughan, the Kinks, John Lee Hooker, Isaac Hayes, even Flanagan &amp; Allen if you're that way inclined - plus thousands of people you've never heard of, in any genre you can think of, for a subscription of $9.99 a month (if you sign up for a year).The service is available worldwide, comes with its own download manager for PCs, Macs and Linux, and is completely free of boy bands and bellowing pop divas. I don't begin to understand the economics of it all, but from where I sit $9.99 a month looks like a better deal than 99 cents a track.Mike Pettypetty@blueyonder.co.ukTwitchingRe: Webwatch, May 1: If people would like to see some SENSIBLE pictures of what goes on inside a bird's nestbox, they should go to:www.biggonline.co.uk.This has two webcams, and the diary gives details and pictures of all the events, from the first nesting materials being brought in, until (yesterday) eggs hatching in one of the boxes.Our site has links to several other boxes around the UK, France, Germany and Finland, as well as an American site which has a long list of "birdy" sites around the world.Elizabeth Biggelizabeth@biggonline.co.uk
Any rogue state that killed 7,000 Americans a year would soon be on the sharp end of some Pentagon ordnance. Doctors, it seems, get away with it. The figure is an official estimate of the death toll each year from "adverse drug events" - what happens when patients receive the wrong drug or the wrong dose.No figures are available for Britons killed by incompetent prescribing. However, experts say that the US experience suggests 180,000 British hospital patients a year are subjected to "unnecessary mistakes in medication". According to government auditors, the number of deaths attributed to medication errors is rising. These mistakes already cost the NHS &#163;500 million a year, the Audit Commission reported in 2001.Children are at particular risk. Their drug doses are calculated by body weight, and doctors not used to procedures can get it wrong. A decimal point in the wrong place can multiply a drug dose by 10, 100 or even 1,000 times.There is a proven better way. Rather than relying on hospital doctors to write by hand on paper, the NHS could require them to do prescribe electronically. Apart from reducing errors - doctors' handwriting is no joke when it kills people - IT systems can be set up to warn doctors that they are writing a recipe for a lethal dose.Trials of such systems have shown they cut the number of prescribing errors by more than half.In the US, concerns about the cost of error - one doctor has already been sued for $450,000 after his bad handwriting caused a death - have   encouraged some states to ban handwritten prescriptions. Washington State is planning such a ban by 2005.What of the NHS? Remarkably, British hospitals have been testing electronic prescribing for more than 10 years. Three trusts - Wirral, Winchester and Burton - pioneered the technology in the mid-1990s.In 1998, the NHS set a target for every hospital to prescribe electronically by 2005. Since then, however, progress has been dismal. According to a report in the current edition of the specialist British Journal of Healthcare Computing more than 20 hospital trusts have piloted electronic prescribing, but "none has proceeded to full implementation".Hospital IT specialist Sean Brennan, one of the report's authors, says that the usual problem is lack of money to move beyond a pilot. An electronic prescribing system isn't much use unless it is part of a comprehensive "electronic patient record" with enough terminals to make it convenient. All this costs money. "The problem with pilots is that they don't have the resources to roll out, and so everyone considers them a failure," Brennan says.In the NHS, there is usually a vested interest in preserving the status quo. "Sometimes, exposing existing flaws results in criticism of the modernisers," comment Brennan and co-author Alan Spours. Logging in to a terminal, even a hand-held Tablet device, takes longer than dashing off a scrip on a piece of paper. Overworked doctors resent the effort. Others are suspicious of electronic protocols telling them what they can and cannot prescribe.There is some light at the end of the tunnel.Electronic prescribing is part of the &#163;2.3bn National Programme, a centrally directed effort to modernise the NHS's IT. However it is focusing mainly on electronic transmission of prescriptions between GPs (who unlike their hospital colleagues do usually work on computers) and pharmacies. Here, the aim is to cut fraud and the cost of handling half a billion paper prescriptions every year.Electronic processes have been tested in three pilot schemes. A spokesperson for the National Programme said this week: "An evaluation of technical, patient, GP and pharmacy issues has been carried out. Armed with this information we can now consider the next steps." The project is also awaiting policy decisions on issues ranging from confidentiality to the business implications for independent chemists' shops.E-prescribing in hospitals may be further down the track. Under the National Programme, it will be a component of a system called the Integrated Care Records Service, which will begin to go live by geographic region from next year. Electronic prescribing will not be possible in every hospital until perhaps 2007: no date has even been considered for making it compulsory. In the meantime, hospitals that want to duck the issue have an excuse to do nothing.All this is frustrating for enthusiasts. "We know that electronic prescribing works," says Brennan, "We shouldn't be piloting, we should be implementing." But the whole story is a reminder that, although computerising the NHS will cost money, doing nothing will in the long run cost more.http://bjhc.co.uk
BA purgeBritish Airways has chosen the consolidation route to slash its IT costs by &#163;50m per year. Consolidation (moving, to a single server, several applications that formerly ran as discrete services on separate servers) has allowed BA to remove 100 file and print servers, cut its printer count from 800 to 70 and reduce its contractor base. The company's IT21 programme was initiated following the September 11 attack on New York and other conflicts. BA purged its IT infrastructure and found 40 redundant systems and 550 desktop applications. The IT21 team is now considering further cost-cutting projects such as voice/data consolidation and moving away from its Sun Solaris (Unix) servers to Linux and Microsoft.Free speechFree calls between company branch offices and teleworkers is promised by a new service from UK telco Inclarity. The managed service converts voice calls into data and sends them over the company Lan and out through an ADSL broadband connection. This eliminates the cost of calls because data is carried free on broadband. International calls or calls to national non-ADSL phones can also be made at reduced costs, the company claims. The system requires VOIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) phones or standard phones connected to the network through a special voice-to-data converter.www.broadbandtelephony.co.ukBlade partnersSun Microsystems and Oracle have announced a partnership aimed at promoting cost cutting through the use    of blade servers, which can be racked together in higher densities than conventional standalone servers. A powerful system can be created using Oracle's Real Application Clusters software, which can allow several blades to act together as a single virtual server. To mark the start of the initiative, Sun launched two Sun Fireblades based on Intel Xeon chips, marking another step in the company's move towards lower cost chips rather than the UltraSparc processors it currently uses.www.sun.com/lowcost/feature/index.htmlDefra defersThe Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) is planning a &#163;850m outsourcing project. The move forms part of the e-nabling Defra programme that started in 2001, and   suppliers are now being invited to tender for the contracts by June 9. In a written statement, Alun Michael, the minister for rural affairs, admitted that the cost of the outsourcing has leapt by &#163;500m over the past year, but claims that this reflects the "transformation of the department". The move is expected to meet resistance from the Public and Commercial Services Union representing Defra's 600-strong IT staff.www.defra.gov.uk/ebus/enablingState supportThe Office of Government Commerce (OGC) has finalised a framework for broadband that should make it easier and cheaper for any organisation funded by the state sector to buy broadband. The framework avoids the need for a time-consuming formal tender process and uses nationally negotiated rates.   OGC says these will be an average of up to 20% lower than standard rates."The idea was to get a broad spectrum of suppliers," says the OGC, which says the suppliers should be able to connect any UK location.www.ogcbuyingsolutions.gov.uk/Very high Wi-FiEverest's 17,388ft-high base camp now has a Wi-Fi internet cafe. It has been established by Tsering Gyaltsen, grandson of one of the sherpas on the first ascent of Everest, 50 years ago next week. Climbers can rent a Wi-Fi PC card to connect to the internet.In an email from Everest base camp to Online, Tsering Gyaltsen explains that Sagarmatha Pollution Control Committee (SPCC), an environmental   organisation for the Khumbu region of Nepal, needed income following the end of government and WWF funding."Realising the importance of such an organisation in an area like the Khumbu, which entirely depends on tourism and being a local inhabitant, I felt obligated to help SPCC," Gyaltsen writes. His firm, Namche Technical Services, is training SPCC staff to run the cafe. The organisation will receive a large portion of profits for three years, then take ownership of the cafe.The wireless technology, donated by Cisco, is working in temperatures as low as -17C. "We planned for the cold weather, so it did not create problems. For the Cisco radios, we designed thermocol enclosures to keep them warm," says Dileep Agrawal, managing director of Nepali ISP Worldlink.The internet connection is provided by satellite. "Unfortunately, the base camp is a glacier that is constantly moving, inappropriate for a satellite dish pointed at a geostationary satellite," says Agrawal."So, we installed the dish a few kilometres away on a stationary hill called Kalapatthar." Cisco Aironet radios link the base camp and Kalapatthar.The news of Everest's first ascent by Sir Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay was relayed by means of a coded weather report radioed from an army station to Kathmandu. In 1990, Sir Edmund's son Peter phoned his father in Auckland from the summit of the mountain, using a walkie-talkie connected to a satellite phone.www.linkingeverest.com
Word has it you're a Wi-Fi fan?I have four computers at home all linked with theApple AirPort. Apple makes computers for people who don't want to worry about the minutiae. I'm not a systems administrator and they make it easy. Wireless also works well with my DSL. I download some settings, turn it on and it's there. I like this future I'm living in!Is security an issue with your wireless network?Luckily, the router I use has a built-in firewall and there are also firewalls built into OS X, so I'm not really afraid of someone cracking into my system. There really isn't very much to steal ...some interesting porn and incriminating photos of myself.How are you finding OS X?I did have a kernel problem with it initially and had to take it back and get it fixed. They just released OS X.2 and my software update is always telling me to install the security upgrades. It seems to crash a fraction of the times my OS 9 does - I don't have to trick it into doing things by changing the sample-rate or the buffer-size. If they could just get me a music program I can actually use in OS X, I'd be happy _ and I do a good happy.Is the mobile essential kit for the modern DJ?I have aBluetooth headsetfor my Sony-Ericsson T68i phone, which makes me look like I'm from outer space, which I kind of like. I like the gimmicky-ness of Bluetooth but don't really see where it could be useful for me. I can wait to check my email when I get home.What about text messaging?Only when I'm in England. In the States, I just call people if I have something to ask or tell them - I prefer to talk. All of this typing with special codes and without vowels seems kind of stupid. I understand it works well for kiddies in school but come on... it's so impersonal.Favourite sites?The only site I use a lot is theWorld Lingotranslation site. It's mainlyhotmail.com,www.ameritech.netandwww.mac.com. However, I'll always remain aneBayjunkie.Why no Derrick Carter website?I'm not that bothered. I can see the point to it, but there's only this one Derrick and he's got more than enough on his plate without administering a website. If you could put it up and leave it, that would be fine but you have to   update it and refresh the content and I don't have the wherewithal to look after all that.File-sharing?I used to rockwww.audiogalaxy.coma bit and would look for weird things I couldn't find in stores anymore. I still keepLimewireon my computer just in case, but I don't really have any use for file sharing in that sense. A friend set up aKDX network, which acts as our file-sharing system, only it's more about lockers and uploads to a central server, not trying to get the new Eminem MP3!
Political divisions between the US and Europe may have emerged during the war in Iraq, but a transatlantic technological division is also emerging in global communications.Next year, the European Space Agency, with funding from the European Commission, will launch the first step towards Galileo, Europe's civilian satellite navigation system. The European Geostationary Navigation and Overlay Service (Egnos) will augment signals from the American Global Positioning System (GPS) and the Russian Global Navigation Satellite System (Glonass).GPS currently relies on signals transmitted from 28 US military satellites 20,000km above earth. The success of Egnos is vital in proving that Galileo's constellation of 30 satellites will be viable technically and economically. Galileo is due to be deployed in 2008. Until then, Egnos will improve the accuracy of GPS from 20 metres to two metres using four master control centres across Europe, including one at Gatwick.Part of international plans for an integrated global network, Galileo will be interoperable with GPS and Glonass. But if you buy a satnav system for your car now, you won't be able to use it on the Galileo network.When Galileo is fully deployed, the Americans will lose their monopoly in satellite navigation - a position they have enjoyed since the mid-1990s.It was reported last year that the US administration was not happy about this European independence. The US deputy secretary of defence, Paul Wolfowitz, wrote to European   defence ministers asking them to ditch Galileo."The Americans were not pleased," says Gilles Gantelet, transport spokesman at the European Commission. "GPS was developed for the military and they will lose their monopoly. And second, more importantly maybe, they consider there is a risk that some enemies could try to use Galileo. With GPS they dominate the sky, so during the war &#91;in Iraq&#93;, they did what they wanted. The Iraqis were using GPS, but the Americans were able to jam it."The US has curbed its resistance to Galileo amid assurances that system security would be of paramount importance. Yet until recently, the Americans may not have needed to pressure the Europeans into sticking with GPS - lack of funding could have done the job for them. But in March last year, the European Union agreed to a budget of &euro;550m. The European Space Agency, dominated by France, will match this figure.The planning and deployment period (1998-2008) is expected to cost &euro;3.6bn. But would it not be simpler and cheaper to extend the GPS system?Gantelet says control is a big issue. "If you always use your parents' car," he says, "maybe the day you need it, you won't be able to use it."And apart from issues of sovereignty and strategy, commercial interests and building technical expertise in Europe are also important.An independent study carried out by PricewaterhouseCoopers in 2001 found that the economic impact of Galileo would yield &euro;17.8bn from 2008 through to 2020. Urban traffic   management, fleet management, position tracking, emergency services, theft protection and passenger information are just some examples of anticipated revenue streams.Galileo will also offer an improved search and rescue capability and encrypted services to the police and other emergency services.Such guarantees will never be made by GPS because its priority is the US military. In the run up to the   war, for example, the German national motoring association warned that signals may be skewed so that Iraqi forces would be less likely to determine the position of US forces.GPS works best in wide open spaces - buildings and other large obstacles can cut out the signal. But Egnos plans to get round this by using its Signal-in-Space through Internet service which enables satellite navigation through the internet.   ESA, together with Spanish company, GMV Sistemas, is developing handheld guidance systems to guide blind pedestrians through busy city streets via a wireless internet connection.The real key to Egnos's success, however, will be the 30 ranging and integrity monitoring stations (Rims) across Europe, which will take measurements of GPS satellites over Europe and send this data to a master control centre. The master control centre calculates GPS signal and positional accuracy and inaccuracies, ionospheric delay information and integrity signal (a measure of accuracy given to the corrections which are essential for safety critical applications). All the data is sent back to Egnos geostationary satellites which then broadcast it to users of Egnos. Users will have a guaranteed accuracy of 1-2 metres versus a non-guaranteed accuracy of 10-15metres for GPS on its own. This makes Egnos capabable of safer helicopter navigation during rescue operations in bad weather .But the Americans may take some convincing that any other system will beat GPS. Ed Parsons, at the Schriever Air Force Base in Colorado - one of the control centres for GPS -remains circumspect: "You have to have something that is a 30% improvement on GPS. We're talking about things that move at a fair clip in aviation - we don't need that level of accuracy in aircraft at speed."None the less, the Americans are working on their own Wide Area Augmentation System and modernising GPS. But who will win this particular race into space?Glenn Gibbons, who runs the US-based Galileo's World website, says: "It's a little hard to compare the systems, because GPS has been fully operational since the mid-1990s. So, we won't know how Galileo's actual performance compares with GPS's until five or six years from now."Even with such high stakes to play for, there's still a chance that the European project might not really take off next year. But if it does, whatever gets sent into space from Europe should make travel around the continent a lot safer.
There's a rhythm to the release of new versions of office suite software. It is not so much a natural rhythm as the echo of Microsoft's development cycle; everyone else wants to be ready to compete with the latest version or to take advantage of customers who are thinking about upgrading and might be persuaded to convert instead. You can't look at the competing products in isolation: new features can reflect Microsoft's latest focus, or they can be ideas whose time has come.One of Microsoft's key messages for Office 2003 is how the power and flexibility of XML documents can make information more accessible within a business. But now there are rumours of a new beta release delaying the final release until autumn, and Microsoft has decided not to include the tools for using your own XML schemas and the InfoPath application, which turns structured XML documents into something anyone can use, in all versions of the suite. There's also some resistance to the fact that Office 2003 will only run on Windows 2000 and XP.Does this leave an opportunity forOpenOffice.org, the free open-source office suite project that prides itself on using standardised and truly open XML for file formats and component APIs? The first major update of the OpenOffice.org software - version 1.1 - is in beta at the moment, with the final version promised in a couple of months.Oracle boss, Larry Ellison, calls OpenOffice.org 1.1 "almost usable". More fervent supporters hope the combination of the open and documented file format, the range of platforms supported (Windows, Mac OS X, Linux, Solaris and FreeBSD) and new features such as saving to PDF and more sophisticated macro support will make it a winner. However, it is not the only Office challenger hoping to wrongfoot Microsoft.Corel's WordPerfect Office 11 (already available in the US and due out in the UK soon) has some similar features, including saving to PDF from WordPerfect and Presentations, publishing to XML from all the applications, and support for the Open Document Management API.There's also an update for StarOffice - the commercial office suite from Sun that OpenOffice.org is based on - in development, with a second beta promised for early May. This is aimed particularly at the enterprise market rather than the enthusiasts, who have been the main audience for earlier versions, and those are the features arousing interest in OpenOffice.org 1.1, too.StarOffice and OpenOffice.org aren't the same product, but they are closely linked. OpenOffice.org project members (including Sun) develop software based on Sun's source code, which is available under the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL) and Sun's own Industry Standards Source License (SISSL). The SISSL is there for companies that can't use the LGPL because they don't want to distribute the source code for changes they make and contribute those changes back to the project.StarOffice includes code that Sun licenses from other companies which isn't available to OpenOffice.org, so there are features in StarOffice you won't see here: some file filters and templates, some of the sorting functionality in the Asian versions, the clip art gallery, various fonts (again, especially Asian fonts) and the database program, Adabas D. And, of   course, while OpenOffice.org is available as source code or an application suite you can download, StarOffice will come in a box with a printed manual and support.Like most office "suites", OpenOffice.org 1.1 is a collection of separate applications, including a word processor (Writer), spreadsheet (Calc) and presentation package (Impress). Other components include the drawing package, charting tools, formula editing, and file conversion tools supporting plenty of formats including Microsoft Office, but there is no email application and no calendar. That doesn't mean the applications don't integrate with email - you can send documents from within applications using Outlook, Eudora, Mozilla and most other email packages.As well as sending in OpenOffice. org's own XML-based file format, you can send a file by email as a PDF (or   save it locally as a PDF), if it is a presentation, you can export it as a Macromedia Flash file. With the free viewers, you don't need to worry about whether your mail recipients have the right software to open them.OpenOffice.org supports such a wide range of file formats that some people use it purely as a file converter. The formatting isn't identical to what you'd see in Microsoft Office and fonts are still something of a weakness, but most features, like spreadsheet filters, comments and tracked changes, transfer correctly.The interface is sparser than Office, and individual tools don't have quite the same finesse or range of options. However, you will find Office XP features here, although the drawing application has neither the simplicity of Word's drawing tools, nor the power of a standalone graphics package.Features and options aren't always where an Office user would expect to find them but many tools - like charting, slide design, table formatting and the macro recorder - are very familiar. There are more friendly features than you might expect.The software attempts to automatically correct, reformat and complete your typing. AutoPilots are similar to wizards for creating letters, forms and other documents, and there's even a pop-up tip tool similar to the Office Assistant.Just as Sun's deals to distribute StarOffice with PCs have been at the budget end of the market (replacing Microsoft Works on Sony PCs in Europe, for example), some companies want OpenOffice.org to save the cost of Office (or the cost of Office and Windows). If you are standardising on XML or have documents from a range of applications to work with, the file compatibility is useful; until recently, Microsoft hadn't documented the proprietary XML file format it offers for Office applications and the OpenOffice.org XML format uses standard Oasis-approved tags for formatting.Linux distributors such as Red Hat and SuSE have switched from StarOffice to OpenOffice.org, not just because Sun charges for StarOffice, but because they want to distribute open source applications that their customers can develop and customise. OpenOffice.org is also a platform you can extend via the OpenOffice API and the new OpenOffice.org Software Development kit; if you need that kind of control, it can be more important than the state of the interface or the current checklist of features. The development tools now support more languages, including right-to-left and bottom-to-top text. That, and the new accessibility tools, should appeal to government and university customers.But if you just need budget office software, remember that OpenOffice.org doesn't include formal support and few office workers are familiar with it yet, so it may not be the ideal solution.
It's Monday afternoon and I'm in a Bentley car dealership. I've already been to a Soho gentlemen's club, several upmarket antique shops and the Victoria and Albert Museum. Not that I'm whiling away my working day. Nor am I on an extravagant shopping spree. After all,Gameking.tvpurports to be a savvy dotcom. I peer inside an Azure convertible, scrutinise the polished walnut veneer dash and whip out my digital camera: a fine example of the wood grain I need for our website design.We've assembled our team and we are ready to start building our online games system. The first step? Plan the production. This time-consuming stage involves the research and writing of a lot of documents. Design briefs, database definitions, business models and market analyses; these detailed specifications define the business. As we develop our ideas, they will be refined. It's an ongoing process that helps us all to understand and communicate what we are doing.To create our site, we decided to behave like a rock band that dumps the demo tapes and gigs its way to success instead. We had the expertise to create our product first, prove it will work, gather a following and then show it to potential backers.To do this, we needed to keep our costs down and Open Source allowed us to do just that, while also providing us with the best tools. This global community of millions of programmers lets anyone use, redistribute, and modify the source code for its software. The software evolves rapidly as people re-upload it -  adapted, improved and bug-free.For our "back end" software - the code on our Serverstream servers that runs our web site - we opted for the powerful combination of the Linux operating system, Apache web server, mySQL database and PHP / Perl/ Python scripting languages collectively known asLamp. We chose to substitute Linux with its more stripped-down and secure cousin, FreeBSD, and choose PHP, now used by Yahoo, as the fastest and most flexible of the scripting languages. We also needed software to handle all of the real-time communications that will be happening in our games, and Open Source provided us with the lot.For our "front end" software - what users see in their browsers when they visit our site - the decision was less complex.Solaris Media, the digital media company I founded, has worked with Macromedia Flash for five years to build websites, online games and digital art installations. We already have a library of game engines and proprietary code that we have used for clients such as Dotmusic, the ICA and the BBC. We are experienced in pushing the boundaries with Flash and making it communicate with all the other software it needs to in the web environment.Our core application will be a dynamic, colourful front-end client built with Flash MX, but making the programme do all we require of it has been no trivial task. We need to move bits of data between browsers on different users' computers and several servers simultaneously, whilst handling timing, security and authentication. Our skills with ActionScript, the programming language for Flash, have been tested to the maximum as we build an application consisting of 50 interconnected code "objects" and over 15,000 lines of code.After some R&amp;D, our first test of multiplayer action was to control the movement of blocks of colour on the screens of remote computers connected via the internet. Then we built our first multiplayer test game, Tic Tac Toe. Very simple in terms of gameplay, it is a gentle introduction to online gaming and will appear free on Gameking.tv as a practice game.Meanwhile, we are developing game ideas and creating sample graphics and design specs. A visit to the GameOn exhibition at the Barbican gave us the opportunity to spend a slightly guilty few days "researching" more than 50 classic arcade games. We plan to launch the beta site with seven games, varying from familiar favourites to fresh innovations. All of the games will be easy to use, with clear instructions and in-game help. We are getting ready for our first beta tests, where the entire site will be subjected to rigorous testing and a merciless pounding by our beta team andUserface, our usability analysts.The pressure is on now to iron out software glitches, make the site user friendly and optimise game playability. The cafe in our east London building has become an impromptu testing area, with diners being loaned laptops to play as they eat. We discovered that some games are immediately addictive, making Gameking.tv a regular feature of Aldgate lunchtimes. Others will need more work before they become popular, and we will develop them further before testing again.&#183;Rob Davis is founder of Solaris Media and founder and director of Gameking.tv
Philip Greenspunwrites: "After two days of touring Wales, a country that apparently has yet to discover the mixing faucet, it has become apparent that there is better mobile phone coverage in the remotest sheep pasture or coastal outcrop than in downtown Boston. How can such an otherwise backward place be so far ahead of the U.S. technologically?" (viaScripting News)
The adverts may be everywhere but customers of 3, the UK's newest mobile phone company, seem unsure whether the business will still be around in a few years.According to figures released yesterday, 60% of 3's customers have opted to pay for the company's services on a pay-as-you-go basis through its 3ToGo tariff, rather than taking out an annual contract.Just 3% of the customers signed up since the company's launch in late-February have opted for its premium Caboodle service, which costs £99.99 a month and requires a year-long contract.The figures are in contrast with the rest of the mobile phone industry, which has been trying hard over the past three years to persuade customers to move off pre-pay tariffs as contract customers tend to be more lucrative.Speaking at the sidelines of yesterday's FT World Mobile Communications conference in London, Colin Tucker, deputy chairman of 3 in Britain and Europe, said the preponderance of pre-pay users was not a concern."All the early evidence is that the average revenue per user we are getting from these customers is fine," he said.Analysts estimate that only 40,000 people have signed up for the service in the UK while more than 70,000 subscribers have joined in Italy, but Mr Tucker would not comment. He did indicate, however, that the company may only get "close" to its target of 1m UK customers by the end of the year.
Napster will be relaunched as a legitimate online music service after the company that bought the trademark yesterday agreed to acquire Pressplay, the joint venture between Universal Music and Sony Corporation.Roxio, a Silicon Valley-based software company, is paying $39.5m (&#163;24.3m) for Pressplay and will rebrand the service as Napster after buying the name and assets last November from the bankruptcy court.Pressplay users pay membership fees allowing them to download music from all of the five big recording companies as well as independent labels.The deal is a reflection of Universal and Sony's failure to make serious inroads in controlling the distribution of online music.Pressplay was launched in   December 2001 as a means of grappling with the explosion of pirate internet services.Napster was the original and the biggest of the rogue services and the rebranding will be viewed by the industry as an ironic fate for both ventures.Pressplay, with the backing of the powerful music majors has, according to analysts, attracted fewer than 50,000 subscribers paying at least $9.95 a month.MusicNet, a similar service run by BMG, EMI and Warner Music, is not thought to have done much better. Critics have complained about restrictions on the service designed to prevent piracy.Napster, run by a college drop out from his bedroom, attracted 80m users before the file sharing service was forced to shut down in July 2001.
Sorry for the brief outage... there we see a perfect case study in the dangers of tinkering with live templates...
The Wall Street Journal[paid sub required] reports that Microsoft has bought a Unix license from SCO. "A Microsoft spokeswoman ... said it opted to buy a license from SCO to make sure its products can exchange data with Unix software without violating any patents." SCO has sued IBM for $1 billion and last week (below) dropped Linux on the grounds that it infringes Unix intellectual property rights. Comment: Microsoft and SCO go back a long way, and Microsoft used to have a shareholding in the company, so it probably got a good deal. Almost 20 years ago, Microsoft sold its own version of Unix, called Xenix, under license from AT&amp;T. But Unix was seen as too hard to use, and too insecure, for serious commercial use. SCO licensed and sold it as SCO Xenix. Eventually,SCO got hold of the original Unix, which came from AT&amp;T via Novell. That's why SCO is now based in Utah instead of Santa Cruz, California. Trivia point: Back in 1984, when I was editor of Practical Computing magazine, we had to upgrade our office IBM PC/XT to get Xenix to run. The 10 megabyte hard drive was OK but I added half a megabyte of memory. This came from IBM as 18 chips at a cost of £999.
Guardian Online's Neil McIntosh has devoted his Monday online column today to theGooglewash(Orlowski/Register) story and the appearance of blogs in Google search results. I found it well worth the read and I'll bet you will too :-)
When the BBC producer Stuart Hughes began documenting his journey into Iraq in his weblog, he had little idea of what was going to happen to him."My website was set up on the spur of the moment," says 29-year-old Hughes, from Cardiff. "I knew when I went it was going to be difficult to keep in touch with friends and family, so before I left I spent 10 minutes setting up the site. It was only ever intended to be read by a closed circle of people, but once I was there it got picked up, and people thought it was refreshing. I wasn't trying to say anything particular in my writing, I just sat down at the end of each day and typed out my thoughts."Within hours of crossing into the north of Iraq, Hughes had begun detailing his experiences online. Within weeks, his life, and his weblog, changed forever. After mistakenly driving into a minefield with his crew, he was injured in a landmine blast that eventually claimed his right leg. His friend and colleague, cameraman Kaveh Golestan, was less fortunate - he lost his life.Suddenly Hughes' weblog became much more than a place to keep in touch with friends and family; it became a way to deal with the trauma of amputation; a sounding board, counselling service and a link with the world.Hughes is far from alone in discovering the therapeutic potential of the internet. Whether it is through talking about experiences in an online diary, or using web-based support groups or trauma resources, people are increasingly turning to the net to help them handle their experiences.Of course, writing about suffering is nothing new - one need only think of the touching newspaper columns written by John Diamond as he struggled against cancer - but the access and interactivity offered by the internet helps to bring the experience to a whole new level. Now ordinary people can use public spaces as part of their own coping mechanism.BBC Online correspondent Ivan Noble has been keeping a diary since he was diagnosed with a brain tumour last year. The response to the recent news that his treatments have been working has been tremendous - proof of the depth of feeling engendered by following someone's story online."You have touched my heart with your courage and determination," said one well-wisher."It should be us who are thanking you," wrote another.And it is not only individuals who have recognised the power of the internet - many traditional groups have also come to understand the value of the web. The Samaritans, one of Britain's largest support organisations, have been running an email version of their confidential phoneline since 1994. They now receive around 300 messages a day via the web."A lot of people find it hard to talk about their feelings in confidence," says Samaritans spokeswoman Sarah Nelson. "Many of them find it easier to write it down. "The majority of our mail seems to be from younger people - perhaps because email offers a space that's not available on the phone. They can say words which they may never have spoken out loud, and email really allows them to express their feelings. People seem to be able to speak about more severe problems more openly."For many who contact the Samaritans, it even appears that the experience of writing down their problems in an email is an end in itself."Some have even said that the act of writing the email is so cathartic that they don't really need a response. That's something we didn't expect at all."Tiana, who started survive.org.uk after she was raped in January 1998, agrees that writing about trauma - either publicly or privately - is one way in which many people choose to deal with their suffering."I was totally unprepared for the devastating way in which it affected me, my family and my life," she says. "I started to write about what happened to me and how I was learning to cope with things."Spurred on by what she perceived as diminishing official support networks for people in her position, she quickly built a series of resources and services. Five years on, her site is visited by everyone from victims and their friends to lawyers, counsellors and even MPs.Dan Bammes, who hosts a show on a public service radio station in Utah, has been keeping track of his battle with cancer on his own website,  but thinks that the best thing the internet offers is the vast store of knowledge and advice held within mailing lists. To many, these are the online equivalent of support groups."On one list I subscribe to, some of the people were diagnosed 10 years ago," he says."These people know more than their doctors. It's both reassuring and frightening. When a new study comes out, the list reviews, compares and discusses it. It's really enlightening."And for those too shy to talk, or too affected by their own experiences to use traditional support methods, the anonymity and 24-hour nature of the internet have opened up a new world."It is very hard to pick up a phone and make a call," says Tiana. "It is much easier to log on and look for resources that will help."The combination of access, distance and anonymity has made the web the easiest port of call for those who are undergoing trauma themselves. For those who might have suffered alone, there is suddenly a point of contact."Since the accident, a lot people have emailed me," says Hughes. "I have had contact with some amputees, sending messages of support. And I've also had some really touching messages from people facing amputation, who say I've really helped them."But for all of the help they offer others, most trauma sufferers admit that, first and foremost, they are trying to come to terms with their own experiences. Helping others is a happy by-product of their own healing process."To be honest," Hughes says, "I'm writing more for me than anyone else, but if people take comfort from it, then that's great."Stuart Hughes supports the Rory Peck Trust (rorypecktrust.org), a charity promoting safety and security for freelance media workers, and the Mines Advisory Group (mag.org.uk)
Salma, a British-born Pakistani, is 30. Smart, funny and ambitious with a steady job and a busy social life, she likes contemporary art and current affairs. But for all her modern ways and independence she wants to have an arranged marriage - a decision that has delighted her parents. Her family can't find a suitable boy, however, and time is ticking away; to be unmarried at 30 is frowned upon in Pakistani culture. She hopes to marry this year but conventional methods - networking and personal ads - have been unsuccessful. So she is using the internet to find a husband.Salma is one of the hundreds of Muslim women in the UK to exploit modern technology to fulfil the traditional demands of their culture. Sites specifically designed for Muslims have mushroomed recently - young Muslims can't date or cohabit before marriage, but they can browse through potential partners online without breaking any rules.Muslimmatch.com is one of the websites set up for just this purpose. It has been running since January 2002 and now has 15,000 members worldwide. Joining costs &#163;14.99 for three months, which allows members to send and receive messages from interested parties.Waleed Saeed, one of its founders, believes that the internet has given Muslims greater control over the selection and introduction process. "Previously we offered a postal-based marriage service. Our members enjoyed sitting back and waiting for the post to come through their doors. But this approach made matchmaking a slow and cumbersome process."We developed a site that is updated in real time and available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. This fits in with our members' lifestyles. We even get members logging into their accounts at 4am."Such sites also offer young Muslims more time to assess a potential spouse. The traditional way of finding a partner is to enlist the help of friends and relatives or to place an advertisement in an Asian-language newspaper, such as the Daily Jang or Eastern Eye. If a search is successful, the boy and his family will visit the girl's parents. The two will be introduced and left alone. This brief encounter provides what Salma describes as a "limited window of opportunity" to find out as much as possible about the other. Typical questions cover employment, education, the marital status of siblings, current living arrangements and likes and dislikes. After the chat, the parents re-enter. There is more conversation and the family leaves.The initial meeting is "excruciating", she says, because there is so much pressure for things to work out. "I feel emotionally drained if I've met a guy. I'm not thinking about whether I like him or not. I'm seized with panic the whole time. Sometimes I've half an hour to talk to someone and I'll be thinking that I spend more time choosing a moisturiser, so how can I decide whether I want to see him again, let alone marry him?"Ali Hassan, half of the husband-and-wife team behind another site, muslim-marriages.co.uk, understands why younger people want to do things differently. Like Saeed, Hassan initially offered a postal marriage service but realised that people wanted to view potential partners without committing to a match."If a boy is found in the traditional way - through friends or family - and a meeting is arranged, then there is more pressure for the match to work because the meeting indicates a level of commitment from both sides. You can learn about a potential match by going online. You can look at more than one match at a time, something you can't do in real life."The site, which is based in Manchester, has been running for two years and charges &#163;30 for three months' membership. It has two sections: one for UK members and one for international members. The service also goes one step further than other sites, by checking its members' credentials.While going online seems acceptable to young professional Muslims, the internet revolution has yet to win over parents. There are success stories; but you won't hear about them. "There's a stigma attached to finding a partner through a website because it's seen as a sign of failure - that you couldn't find someone among your friends or family. People don't want others to know that their daughter's husband was found online. And I've yet to be invited to a wedding, although I can understand why," says Hassan.He thinks that parents should be less suspicious of the process. "It's encouraging parents to listen to their children and take their requirements into account. This site isn't for dating, it's purely for marriage and it's purely for Muslims. We are not a lonely hearts service."Where Muslim sites differ from their non-Asian counterparts is the emphasis on religion and culture. A Muslim website can ask users what branch of Islam they follow, how often they pray, or ask for a description of the user's relationship with Allah. A site for Hindus will have a drop-down menu for caste and there are also sites for Bengalis and Arabs.Most sites do not give out personal contact details, so a member will receive a message asking if they will accept a message from another one. There is also a mailbox system that is used to protect identities. But the elements that make the internet online appealing - anonymity and control - can also cause problems.Leylah is 24 and has been using the internet for six months to find a perfect match, but she has had a few false starts. "Online a guy can be as funny or as clever as he likes. Emails aren't spontaneous like conversation and you can take as much time as you need to reply to messages. Like so many other things you can browse but you never know what you're getting until it's there in front of you."She was drawn to a man in his late 30s, who ran his own business in central London. Leylah accepted his request for her contact details and they began emailing. The correspondence   became more frequent and photographs and phone numbers were exchanged. On the phone he was charming, talkative and kind. They arranged to meet. "I wanted to meet him because he seemed intelligent and curious. I also liked the fact that he wasn't like the other guys I had been introduced to."During their meeting Leylah was "gutted and horrified". He was older than he looked, three years older than he had said he was. Also, he didn't want to start a family straight away, which she did. She also discovered that he had radical views about Islam that she didn't share. "There was nothing I could do. I just had to sit there and listen to his opinions. I asked if his wife would have to agree with him and he said he expected his wife to have a similar take on Islam and politics. I muttered something about being a liberal."As her parents didn't know about the meeting she never mentioned him but now she makes sure she tells them when she finds a man she thinks might make a suitable husband before she makes contact.Leylah's brother, Ahmed, would prefer her to find a husband by conventional means. "I don't think people should be going online to find a partner because, from a religious point of view, it's not the done thing. OK, so the internet wasn't around during the Prophet Mohammed's time but the principle is the same. A man and a woman shouldn't have any kind of relationship before marriage. It doesn't matter that they haven't met, it's what going on in their heads and hearts while they're emailing each other that is the problem. Just because marriage sites are becoming popular and socially acceptable, it doesn't make it right," he says.It is difficult to tell how widespread this view is but some Muslims think that finding a husband via the web is no more than online dating. Leylah has to reassure her family that she won't get emotionally involved with anyone she meets online."I understand why my family are wary about the internet but all I want to do is help. It's not easy finding someone to marry, especially if you don't know many people. My parents would love to find a boy for me - it's one of the most important things they will ever do for me. They have tried and they are still trying. I just want to make it a bit easier for them by using what's available."
Picture messaging was meant to save the mobile phone industry from drowning in a sea of unsustainable bank debt. But it's pretty obvious it won't. Even sex is hard to sell on these new picture-enabled devices. What could really be the saviour of the telecom sector is new technology that enables users to send and receive emails anytime and anywhere.Telecom executives and battered shareholders are hoping this roaming technology will be the killer application that saves their bacon.Merging computers and mobiles to allow us to send more gossip to each other sounds horrendous. But most analysts expect email-ready mobiles to take off. Already retailers report that personal digital assistant (PDA) phone devices that include small keyboards suitable for the task are 'flying off the shelves'. The next generation of devices could well reinvigorate previously flagging phone sales.'This is a definite growth area. The technology fulfils the basic human instincts of communication and self-expression,' said Stephen Pentland, partner with Spectrum, a leading technology consultancy. 'It meshes information, entertainment and communication in one device.'It is expected that the business world will eventually seize on this new breakthrough, which will combine email, phone, calendar and sales inventory in one PDA. T-mobile estimates an average of 53 minutes of every working day could be freed up handling emails on the train or while waiting for meetings. There soon won't be any excuses left.Already such diverse organisations as WPP, the advertising giant, Viacom, the media conglomerate and Rotherham Council have signed up for a large section of their workforces to use such services. More come online every day.Pretty soon, workers will always be contactable. Spectrum expects text messaging to grow from 15 per cent of average revenue per unit to 25 per cent within 18 months. Instead of lugging a laptop and finding a phone socket to get access to a company, a simple sim card plugged into a PDA or laptop will mean sales staff are always connected. This will have serious commercial benefits. Imagine you need your washing machine fixed. The repairer will know straight away whether there are spare parts by being able to access an inventory using what's known as a BlackBerry device - a small machine similar to a PDA.A report last year by Deloitte Consulting Research found that mobile data was already delivering productivity gains, cost savings and was boosting revenues. An overwhelming 85 per cent of the UK's 50 largest companies now believe they have a real need for mobile data. All the major telecoms now sell email-on-the-move devices and services, although prices vary considerably. Mobile operators have traditionally applied a cost per megabyte model, which in a sense is a barrier to use the service because much business information is byte-hungry. For instance, Vodafone, which some analysts consider to have the best overall service, charges &#163;149 for a mobile email connect card, then &#163;5 per month for line rental and &#163;2 per megabyte after that.'Pricing of GPRS is currently a major issue for business solutions,' says Lars Vestergaard, research manager at IDC Mobile and Wireless Communications. 'Even with the advantages of GPRS, we have seen clear evidence that high pricing of business data services has been a major barrier for a more rapid uptake of obvious enterprise applications such as email.'But earlier this year, Orange launched the first flat-rate GPRS pricing tariff. This pricing works across all email and access services for &#163;30 per month, which seems a tad pricey, although this makes sense if you're a frequent user. 'Flat-rate pricing is the critical driver of mobile data uptake in the business market, in the same way that pay-as-you-go phones contributed to the growth in the con sumer market. Business customers can now budget for data solutions with clear cost savings,' explains Cynthia Gordon, marketing director at Orange Business Solutions.The BlackBerry device available through Orange, Vodafone and others appears to be the gadget of choice. It is handheld and offers a permanent connection to your office computer system. Sending and receiving email using the BlackBerry keyboard is effortless and there is no need for dial-up or a complicated log-in. It works by linking a BlackBerry Enterprise Server to a user's current IT systems. Meanwhile Orange is selling what is known as SPV - a pocket PC from Microsoft - for &#163;100. It signals a move away from the faithful laptop.Vodafone Mail is like an answering service. It lets you receive and respond to email, voicemail and fax. Once you are set up you get an alert on your mobile whenever there is a message. You have the ability to forward messages so vital sales information can be transmitted to your workforce within seconds. Vodafone also offers a mobile alert service giving the first 190 characters of an email straight onto your phone. And most firms now offer a message centre service allowing you to dictate an email. Vodafone Office gives workers access to email, address lists and diary details using either Microsoft Outlook or Lotus Notes. But this has serious security implications. Imagine if these devices fell into the wrong hands.
Remote access to your office PC -- eg from a handheld in the coffee shop -- and similar facilities can enable office workers to pretend to be working when they are slacking.The Wall Street Journalhas a big piece about things like printing documents remotely, changing what's on your desktop screen, using timers to send e-mail while you are asleep, and forwarding phone calls -- effectively a How To :-) [Thanks to Newsscan for the link.]
"As of May 7, 2003, Windows XP had a global Web usage share of nearly 35 percent, about 10 percentage points higher than the next most popular version, Windows® 98, according to WebSideStory's HitBox StatMarket (www.StatMarket.com), a leading source of data on global Internet user trends. Global usage share is the percentage of Internet visitors who are using a particular operating system." (Stat of the week) XP was launched in October 2001. StatMarket says Windows 98 got to a third of the market in a third of the time, and still has about 25% of the Web-user base.
Our old friend and sometime colleague Bill Thompson has hada whinge about blogging and ETCon, the O'Reilly Emerging Technologies Conference. The gist of the complaint is that a bunch of bloggers are just inflating themsleves by linking to one another's blogs, and that the scene should be "commented on by those who haven't bought into the worldview". Presumably the real journalists who attended in 2003 are just not up to snuff -- people like Dan Gillmor (Mercury News), Jack Schofield (The Guardian), and Chris Anderson (ex-Economist, now Wired). However, the diatribe would have carried a bit more weight if Bill had actually gone to the conference (unless he spent a week avoiding me -- which I hope is unlikely, since I helped him get started, writing for Computer Guardian in the 1980s) and if his opinions were not so widely linked to by blogs, including this one.
The Registerspeculates that NTL might be going soft on its 1Gb a day bandwidth cap. It looks like the company was maybe using the limit as a way to weed out its heaviest users - that top few percent that always use a disproportionately large amount of the bandwidth.
There are &#163;22.5 billion reasons why mobile phone companies want you to be excited about third generation technology. That was the figure coughed up in the UK alone by Vodafone, Orange, O2, T-Mobile and new entrant 3 at the high peak of irrational exuberance in April 2000.Appropriately enough, it has taken three long years to get 3G phones into the shops. The promise is compelling enough - the ability to transfer data at speeds 15 to 30 times greater than those possible with an existing mobile. In the jargon, the bandwidth will increase from 9 kilobytes per second to at least 144, and as much as 384 kbps.This quantum leap opens up an array of services and functions that are impossible or too slow on existing phones. Mobile video conferencing is the most obvious application, and there are clear business applications for this in certain industries that benefit from 'face-time'.The question is, in these parsimonious times where every polystyrene cup needs to be logged, can a huge investment in 3G be justified across a business?The best way to think of the technology is like an 'always-on' broadband network to your hand. For information-intensive industries that require a combination of mobility within a city and access to large data files, 3G will be heaven sent. For sales teams, emergency services, transport logistics, pensions salesmen and accountants, the benefits are clear.The data speeds available for third generation technology can enable a genuine separation of worker from office. As an integral part of a change in office culture, 3G could help businesses save money by greatly reducing office space requirements.So for employees, 3G enables more convenient working and full access to databases and spreadsheets. It is the difference between using the pared-down mobile versions of Excel and using the full software on the move. Employees could benefit from a genuine flexibility in working arrangements. In many office environments it will liberate workers from their desks.Likewise, the videophone function can potentially save money on travelling costs and time. But both these business benefits are difficult to quantify and require a more general shift in working practices to realise.Outside of information-intensive mobile industries, the benefits depend on the cost of the service. If 3's launch tariffs are a guide, then businesses should expect to pay for their privileged access to bandwidth (though it is rumoured handset prices are to fall because of poor sales). Calls to existing networks start at 10p per minute, video calls will be 50p per minute, but monthly line rental is free. Packages bundled with 1,000 free voice minutes and 100 minutes of video calls will cost &#163;60 per month. The networks expect and need an average monthly bill of at least &#163;50 per month.The Work Foundation's iSociety think-tank says that this price is too high and such a 'misunderstanding of British attitudes to phone use threatens to delay the uptake of third generation mobile technology, or make 3G attractive to only a small number of consumers'.Its report, MobileUK: Mobile Phones and Everyday Life, argues that high phone charges remain the overwhelming concern of mobile users. 3G phones - whose running costs for consumers could reach more than &#163;600 a year - are too expensive to attract most Britons. The average mobile phone user currently spends well under half that sum. The Work Foundation's Max Nathan said: 'There is a myth that talk is cheap. In fact, for most people, talk remains an expensive worry that needs to be kept under control. Our research suggests that the mobile industry must remember how important cost is to most people who buy and use mobile phones. The industry is aware of this, but it doesn't change the fact that until 3G becomes better value most consumers will find it an expensive worry too far.'Cost is of particular relevance because of the emergence of an array of competing technologies. At the time of the 3G licence auction, its promise of science fiction-style picture and video communication was a revolution. The subsequent release of intermediate technologies, or '2.5G', has made 3G more of an incremental evolution. Picture messaging and mid-speed internet access is available with GPRS technology.The waters have been further muddied by Japanese and US networks branding as 3G technologies that are really only 2.5G. So you can get multimedia messaging, but it takes a bit of time. 3G should make these functions seamless and fast to use.So far, however, 3G is a technology still in its infancy. Most phones are bulky, partly due to the fact that they are effectively two phones in one. They have to be, because 3G networks have poor coverage outside urban areas. The phones actually need to be switched off and rebooted as standard (GSM) phones, with virtually no data services. The rollout of a nationwide 'footprint' will be costly and slow because the network requires many more masts than the existing network.Then there are international problems over competing 3G standards. A UK phone will work throughout Europe, but as yet will not function in the US or Asia. The fantastic array of dual-screened, stereo 3G phones sold in Japan will not work in Britain yet. But work is under way to merge the standards.'Third generation is a blanket term that covers several different technical standards. The European standard is called UMTS or wideband (CDMA). The other flavour in the US and Korea is CDMA2000. And then there is a separate Japanese version,' says Jeremy Green, wireless analyst at Ovum, a technology consultancy.In the US, 3G has been packaged as a business tool where contracts are sold with PC datacards and unlimited time tariffs. So far in Britain, at least, tariffs, marketing and the functions of 3's service seem more geared to the entertainment market.And then there is Wi-Fi, the nightmare technology which has cast a long shadow over 3G. Wi-Fi offers higher data speeds, but at fixed hotspots such as train stations, airports and increasingly, coffee bars. For workers that are not constantly on the move, Wi-Fi offers a reasonable alternative for out-of-office access to corporate networks.But 3G will also allow you to walk and drive around while maintaining a high-speed connection. 3G technology is being used extensively in cars. 'Ultimately 3G is more workhorse than racehorse. It's a technology which increases the capacity of operators to do things which are   already possible with other technologies,' says Green.Third generation will enable you to do what you already do, but a lot more quickly. It will also open up a new world of new technologies such as video calls. At the moment, such functions are not essential business productivity tools.But then again, a decade ago most people thought the basic mobile was only for City slickers. Now nine in 10 of us own one. It will take a little time before 3G's limits are really tested.
How secure are mobile phones? It is a question that will become ever more pressing as the new 2.5G and 3G phones take over in the next few years, providing their owners with powerful internet facilities and full access to their corporate intranets while out of the office. But there is also the risk that they will be vulnerable to attack from hackers.More and more businesses, especially those with itinerant sales forces, such as insurance companies, have 'virtual private networks' (VPNs), allowing employees to view their corporate intranets from anywhere.But the new mobile phones will multiply the number of people logging on. And with so much sensitive commercial information suddenly hurtling through cyberspace, a big concern will be to keep it out of the hands of saboteurs and corporate spies.Security breaches are already thought to cost US businesses $500m a year, and safeguarding sensitive information is at the top of many 'to-do' lists in the IT departments of large companies.'The true potential for generating revenue from mobile data services will only be realised if network operators guarantee delivery of the level of security their customers demand,' said a recent study by Lucent Technologies.But Mark Blowers, an analyst at the Butler Group, fears that an industry-wide accepted strategy to combat security breaches is many years away.'The new phones from Nokia, Siemens and others are basically little PCs. They are based on Java, or on the Symbian operating system, and they transport data around in "packets". So they're vulnerable to hackers or viruses in a way that phones never were previously,' he said.Of course, internet technologies have their own security features, many with a good record. Secure socket layer (SSL), the encryption facility originally designed by Netscape, allows surfers to make credit card payments over the net. But it doesn't always work. And with new mobile technology bringing large volumes of sensitive corporate information on to the web, even one major leakage could be disastrous.As it happens, the new mobile phones will use not SSL but newer security standards such as IPsec (short for IP security), which provide easy access to a greater variety of applications and folders on the corporate server and also transmit data faster.But however effectively confidential information is encrypted, there is still no guarantee that the right person is receiving or sending it. Sometimes all a hacker has to do is get hold of the right password.'Authentication is the biggest problem,' says Blowers. 'How do you really know who's logging on to your corporate system? Are passwords really the way forward? Maybe we should be focusing more on authentica tion technology. There are sophisticated voice-recognition and biometric identification systems out there, but the mobile industry hasn't shown much interest.'At least mobile phone users are usually more easily identified than PC users, because of the SIM cards in the handsets. But there are still a thousand ways in which a phone and its Pin number could fall into the wrong hands.In the absence of any more futuristic alternatives, businesses are being urged not to forget an old-fashioned system of passwords and usernames to give added layers of protection to their VPNs.The likes of McAfee and Texas Instruments are busy developing security-enhancement products for mobile operators and the manufacturers of mobile phone devices, as well as large businesses with highly developed remote access systems.But ultimately, the next generation of mobiles will offer no absolute guarantees of security from hackers, and it will remain the responsibility of companies to decide how much money they want to spend on keeping their systems secure.Mike Gerdes, research director for the security firm Red Siren, has expressed a fear that unwise skimping might even extend to certain network operators reluctant to pay for the extra servers required to safeguard their clients' security.On the other hand, the added security benefits of 3G and 2.5G phones are designed not only for phone users, but for the mobile phone companies themselves. Second-generation mobiles have always been vulnerable to hackers who set up their own transmitters, known in the trade as 'rogue base stations', to intercept or misdirect traffic or hop on to a carrier network for free.Few, if any, mobile phone operators admit how much money they are losing through this practice, but many experts estimate that 'piracy' is costing them more than 10 per cent of total revenues. The new technology is designed to thwart it.With encryption becoming ever cheaper, more powerful and more difficult to crack, a halt to progress may come from an unlikely source: our intelligence agencies. Correspondence between the British and US governments, obtained recently by the Guardian under America's freedom of information laws, reveals concern about encryption at the highest levels.In May 1999, Janet Reno, then US Attorney General, wrote to Jack Straw, then Home Secretary, saying: 'I believe that the difficulties that encryption will pose for law enforcement are among the greatest challenges we will face in the coming years.' Straw replied: 'I fully share your concern at the threat posed by criminal use of encryption.'Since then, the 11 September attacks have added urgency to official eavesdrop ping, and new laws make it easier for law enforcement agencies to confiscate encryption codes. They are unlikely to countenance any technology that makes it more difficult to catch terrorists.
