Microsoft UK is not holding a launch party for the latest version of Windows, which goes on sale today. It isn't even holding a wake, though Windows Millennium Edition - Me for short - is the last of the line. After this, Microsoft hopes everyone will move on to the more powerful, more reliable, and more expensive New Technology of Windows NT/2000, leaving the old world of Microsoft MS-Dos computing behind.Of course, that was supposed to happen after Windows 98, which was quickly followed by Windows 98 Second Edition, and Me is basically Windows 98 Third Edition. It hasn't changed much, which is why Microsoft is offering Windows 98 and SE users a half price upgrade - about &#163;40. Whether it is worth it is another matter.Me is also the first version of Windows designed specially for home users. The most obvious signs are the multimedia elements. Me includes the all-purpose Windows Media Player 7, Movie Maker video editing software, and Windows Image Acquisition software to grab pictures from digital cameras.Windows Explorer has also been given an extra View menu option, Thumbnails, which shows what files look like. Indeed, when you first save an image, it opens automatically in the Thumbnails view in the My Pictures folder inside My Documents. This is one of many cute tricks that Me pulls. They are great if they do what you want, and very annoying if they don't.Another factor is that home users rarely follow the rules of "safe hex". They promiscuously load all sorts of rubbish from computer magazine cover discs, and they tend to delete or update vital files without doing proper back-ups or testing. Windows Me tries to solve these problems by protecting about 80 of its files: it will restore and replace them if they are tampered with. Me can also download its own updates from the web.If the worst happens, Me offers System Restore, a sort of snapshot facility. If your PC doesn't work as well as it used to, Me lets you revert to an earlier state.Me also makes home networking and internet   sharing easier - a big thing in the US, now so many homes have multiple PCs. My Network Places (formerly called Network Neighborhood) includes a Home Networking Wizard to take you through the process. Connect the Me machine to the net and the Wizard will create floppy disks to set up other Me, Windows 98 and Windows 95 PCs.The networking theme continues with five new games - backgammon, checkers, hearts, spades and reversi - that let you play against other people atMicrosoft's Gaming Zone. There is also a good patience game, Spider Solitaire, to join Solitaire and Freecell.But Me is not all good news. The main drawbacks? It is slower and perhaps slightly less solid than 98SE, which is the best of the 9x line. The speed loss is presumably due to the molly-coddling file tracking, and to the inclusion of Internet Explorer 5.5 and Windows Media Player 7: both are big.To be fair, my home PC, used for testing, is only a 200MHz Pentium MMX with 64 megabytes of memory. This is more powerful than Microsoft's suggested minimum for running Me, but frankly, a 350MHz Pentium II is a more appropriate beast. If your PC   is faster than that, you may not notice the loss of speed.Me may also duplicate software that you already have installed and c lash with it. For example, you may be running ConfigSafe or GoBack to provide a "system restore" function, or ACDSee 32 or Thumbs Plus as a graphical viewer with thumbnails.To improve stability, Microsoft has tried to get rid of some of the long-standing problems caused by antique programs and peripherals that use the Disk Operating System launched with the IBM PC in 1981. Me therefore blocks access to "real mode" MS-Dos, though you can still run DOS programs in Windows, and you don't have to be very geeky to figure out how to get back to it.Support for old networking systems has been dumped too, though Microsoft brought back Novell support following an outcry during Me's beta testing phase.So is Me for you?If you are still running Windows 95, forget it. Me would be a big improvement, but your PC is probably not   powerful enough to run it comfortably.If you are running Windows 98 or 98SE and already have accessory programs such as ConfigSafe, GoBack, ACDSee and so on, then Me does not add much. If you want newer versions of Internet Explorer, Outlook Express and Windows Media Player, they are available, free, on the Microsoft website.However, if you don't have any accessory programs, or you are particularly accident prone, then Windows Me is a cheap upgrade for as long as the half-price offer lasts.The upgrade may also be worthwhile if your PC has problems running 98/98SE, especially if it slows to a crawl and crashes when it runs out of resources (see Start|Programs|Accessories|System Tools|Resource Meter). Me handles low resources better. However, if 98/98SE runs well then it is probably not worth the effort.But if you are buying a new PC, then Me does provide some improvements, and there is no obvious reason to avoid it. In fact, most copies of Me will undoubtedly be sold with new PCs, rather than as upgrade packages, and that is the way to go.&#149; The US launch party for Windows ME is being webcast today at 10am PDT atwww.microsoft.com/windowsme
End in sight for DVD-R waitPhilips has finally committed to a launch date for its debut DVD recorder - the DVDR-1000. However don't chuck out your VCR just yet as it is not due until 2001, a mere two and half years after Philips first paraded the model at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.The recorder uses the DVD+RW format, also favoured by Sony and Thomson, and is capable of archiving up to two hours of DVD quality video on to 4.7 gigabyte discs.Philips reckons that the format's trump card is its compatibility. Apparently DVD+RW discs can be read by most current DVD players, unlike rival recordable discs, the Panasonic-backed DVD-RAM and Pioneer supported DVD-RW.Philips has also stressed its commitment to the beleaguered Wap mobile phone format by unveiling a pair of new models. Due on sale in October are the Az@lis and Xenium Wap models. Both sport voice activated dialling, a carousel user interface and emotional icons (thumbs up, smiley faces) that can be sent as SMS messages. A new facility is voice Wap: users can shout "internet!" at the phone and its Wap browser automatically kicks in. The smaller of the pair, the Xenium Wap, is targeted at business users and boasts an impressive seven hours talk time. It will retail for around &#163;100. The Az@lis is a pay as you go phone available from BT Cellnet.The company is also launching its first ever MP3 music products. Due in stores now is the tiny &#163;250 Rush personal player which comes with a 64MB SmartMedia card capable of archiving around an hour's worth of CD-ish quality tunes. Philips is also touting a CD personal, the &#163;230 eXpanium, and a CD home deck, the &#163;280 FW-M55, which will play back CD-ROMs that hold MP3 files. An audio unit with hard disk storage could be on the cards for   2002. Also coming soon are the ToUcams, a series of web cameras that look like a bird and are designed to nest on the top of your PC.TiVo - old hat?The UK launch of the TiVo personal video recorder system might only be weeks away. But it's already starting look like old hat compared to what's on sale in the United States. Across the pond, TiVo's great rival Replay has just started shipping a new PVR with a capacity of 60 hours - more that twice the storage of both other US systems and the Sky/Thomson unit. The 60 gigabyte Replay unit goes on sale in October priced at $799.Meanwhile Philips has confirmed that it is eager to launch a personal video recorder in the UK, but not this side of Christmas. At a briefing in Holland, the company hinted that it was likely to launch a TiVo system some time next year, probably integrated into a digital TV set-top box.Box of tricksNext year Nokia will be gunning for that space under your television with an all-in-one box that offers digital TV, internet access and personal video recording on to a 20 gigabyte hard disk. The Media Terminal, expected next summer, uses the Linux operating system, the Mozilla web browser and Intel's x86 computer architecture.It will be available in two incarnations: one designed for Digital TV networks and another that's compatible with ADSL broadband services.Like the Sky/TiVo box, it will allow viewers to pause and replay live broadcasts and make timed recordings: in this instance, via the Nokia Navibars user interface.Nokia is unwilling to confirm a price for the Media Terminal largely because it hasn't signed a deal with a digital TV network. An agreement with ONdigital, BSkyB, or NTL could see the product subsidised and on sale for around &#163;200. Without a deal, the unit will deliver free-to-air digital programmes, not subscription ones like Film Four and Sky Sports. And it could retail for as much as &#163;600.
The 1999 US Anticybersquatting act provides protection to the owner of a US registered trade mark. However, to invoke the act the plaintiff has to prove that the "squatter" is acting in bad faith. This means that they intend to profit from the site or are simply sitting on a name, which is also deemed to be an act of bad faith.Ravi Azim-Khan, head of the e-commerce group at McDermot, Will and Emery, thinks that a Scottish company like Planet Scotland would probably win a counter-suit against the IOC class action in Scotland. Azim-Khan cites the precedent of a UK clothing company French Connection, which tried to retrieve the domain nameFCUK.com, which belonged to an IT consultancy. In this case a judge ruled against French Connection because the FCUK.com was not trying to "pass off" as a clothing company and therefore was not acting in bad faith.However, Azim-Khan thinks it might not be as easy as all that. He says: "If a US court makes a decision then that is a matter for the US courts. But what it seems like is the IOC has told its lawyers to go after the registrars, in Planet Scotland's case Network Solutions." Azim-Khan thinks that this is an attempt to enforce US legislation through "the back door".He also suggests that the IOC might have been better to use theWorld Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO) system, instead of the US act.ICAAN, the body that governs the whole internet domain name system, has recently introduced something called the Uniform Dispute Policy, of which WIPO is the most popular arbitrator. In another high-profile case the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) applied to WIPO over the domain name www.WorldWrestlingFederation.com. They managed to have the disputed domain transferred to them within a month. Azim-Khab thinks a similar attempt through the courts would take at least a year.
No revolutionI was pleased to note your inclusion of World Online in your table of internet access providers a couple of weeks ago (Online, September). I recently signed up to their excellent Freedom 24 programme after giving up on BT's risible Surftime deal - which was still not available in my area months after the heavily-hyped - June 1 start-date. Numerous encounters with BT's "customer service" department only confirmed my suspicions that its inefficiency and smugness are boundless.Alas, World Online has now contacted its customers to say that they might have to reconsider their pricing structure due to the non-appearance of Friaco."Internet revolution"? Not if BT can hold everyone else to ransom whilst still being utterly unable to deliver a credible alternative.P Gorepenny@penmart.worldonline.co.ukCD pricesI think Tom Parish (Feedback, September) is rather missing the point about the prices charged for CD-RWs in the shops. It may well be "commonplace" to pay &#163;10 per disk, and I have even seen some hopefuls selling them at &#163;14.99 each. However, my brother, who sells both CD-Rs and CD-RWs on the web, tells me that his highest cost price for a single CD-RW is currently &#163;1.12 excluding VAT. No, that's not a typing error - and that's for a Kodak product, not Brand X. Other name brands are even cheaper.Even allowing for the addition of VAT, the reseller's legitimate profit margin, and first class carriage if purchased by mail order, I would still have to say that any high street retailer selling a single CD-RW for more than &#163;5 is   trading on consumer ignorance and is guilty of profiteering. I would strongly suggest that readers who need CD-RW but have been paying these ripoff prices should cast their net a little wider.Paul BowesPBowes9116@aol.comUnlike Tom Parish (Feedback, September 7) I do not believe that Anthoy Bullock is confused at all. I certainly am not, and I do not have to pay "upwards of &#163;10 per disc". Good brand (Memorex) re-writable CDs can be bought mail order for &#163;1.45 each, with slightly lower rates for 10 or 20. At only 50 pence less, it hardly seems worth bothering to buy CD-Rs any more.George Kitchingeorge@gkphoto.freeserve.co.ukI think Tom Parish's response only goes to prove the point that shopping around pays. I have on my desk a Lead Data 74min/ 650MB Silver Blue Professional CD-RW. The price: &#163;1.99 inc VAThe CD-R versions were a little cheaper. I purchased this locally, in Cardiff.Mike Hayesmike.hayes@libertysurf.co.ukWord patchReferring to recent correspondence on this subject, a "patch" downloadable from the Microsoft website will enable Word 6.0 or Word 7.0 (Word 95) to open Word 97 files. The address is: http://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/q162/2/14.asp There are of course some limitations where features unique to Word 97 are concerned. These are covered in the readme document that comes with the patch.Robert Clarkrobert.clark@btinternet.comMac firstI'm not sure thatidrive.comis as pioneering as suggested in Web Watch (Sepember 7). Mac OS 9 users have had this facility for many months. Whilst we're on the subject of 'other' OSs, perhaps Ask Jack could be made a little less constantly Windows specific.Paul Arnoldpd2@bigfoot.comOnline replies:It appears our Mac-using readers simply have fewer problems...
Internet service providers were today warned they should not advertise services as "free" if they charge for any part of their online package.The Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) took action after upholding a complaint from 167 consumers about ntl's failure to provide the free internet access promised in its advertising.An ASA spokesman said: "The advertisers said they experienced such a significant demand for the service that it resulted in an overload of their capacity to provide telephone and internet services."They explained that improvements to their service capacity were made immediately, but to maintain services at optimal quality levels they had opted to phase the distribution of the CD-rom that was required to access the free internet service."But the ASA said it was concerned that ntl had continued to advertise the free service,  knowing it could not satisfy demands.The spokesman added: "We have asked the advertisers not to advertise free internet access through ntlworld until they could supply the service to all applicants within a reasonable time."Useful linksntlAdvertising Standards Authority
At the end of 1998, two FT.com executives were having a drink at the bar of the Pudong Shangri-La hotel in Shanghai, lamenting the difficulties of doing business far from home.Almost two years later, Donal Smith and Jonathan Schmidt are about to launch eCountries (due September 28), an internet business designed to address those complaints. As media executives wrack their brains at trying to turn their content-rich sites into money-makers, eCountries may have outfoxed the opposition with its admirably direct premise.Sometimes described as an online version of the Economist Intelligence Unit, which also churns out country analyses, eCountries is a site that provides news and analysis for 150 countries. As with most publishers, the information comes free of charge. The site consists of profiles on countries from Austria to Venezuela and up-to-date news feeds.eCountries is hoping to attract traffic by being listed on various news sites such as ABC.com and would eventually like to license its content to news outlets that have trimmed their foreign coverage. But the ace up the company's sleeve is its Marketplace matchmaking service for companies wishing to do business on foreign turf.Marketplace seeks to take the hassle out of international transactions, sparing companies the trials and tribulations that afflicted Smith, 38, and Schmidt, 36, during their dealmaking for FT.com years ago. Matchmaking has proved to be a successful formula for technology and internet networking group First Tuesday and eCountries has taken the concept further by adding a global twist."There is a large volume of international professional services that gets traded," Mr Smith said from eCountries's headquarters in Clerkenwell, the area of London where internet companies are proliferate as fast as the trendy cafes and restaurants in the neighbourhood. "But the market is very disaggregated. The internet is a fantastic way of introducing buyers and sellers to each other."Say a British company needs a translation of Bulgarian telecommunications legislation in a hurry - an actual request that came to eCountries recently. The company then fills in a form at the eCountries site and eCountries will try and come up with matches for appropriate services; at least two or three.If the transaction is completed, eCountries takes a cut of up to 10% of the fees. Transactions are expected to range from £5,000 to £100,000, with eCountries counting on commissions to make up at least half of revenues.Other companies have spotted the potential for business matchmaking via the net. Business.com and Work.com are doing something similar for firms in the US. The two American companies have constructed big directories organised around business topics and plan to place partners' services and news feeds around these databases. But shrewdly, eCountries has its eye on the global market.With cross-border trade growing, eCountries believes there is plenty of scope for its venture as companies seek out reliable lawyers, accountants and other professionals in the countries in which they are doing business.Building up a database of service providers from accountancy firms to law firms was tough at first. It took six months to sign up the first supplier, but then momentum built up and eCountries now has about 400 service providers in its database, which covers four areas: legal translation and market research; recruitment; property services and insurance; and financial services. When a client posts a request on the site, it will get, at the very least, a global and a regional player in the specified sector.Great care is taken to vet the companies for marketplace. Of the 400 Russian companies suggested for eCountries's marketplace, only 50 survived the cull. In the most important part of the vetting process, a candidate who wishes to be included has to provide references from three companies with which it has done business.Clients "are entering a walled garden for vetted suppliers," said Smith, who sold a broadcast monitoring business to Pearson in 1995 for £4m and then went on to run the company's FT.com subsidiary. Schmidt, meanwhile, founded Asia Intelligence Wire and ran the Asian division of the Financial Times.eCountries expects to break even by 2002. Investors like the look of the top team, which includes Michael Elliott, the editor-in-chief, who jumped ship as international editor of Newsweek to get involved. He had no qualms about joining the new venture."I'd become more and more thrilled by the possibilities of the net," he said, "Especially by its ability to be a global distribution mechanism for international news and information and I thought, 'If I don't make the leap into something new now, I never will.' I'm having a blast."eCountries has undoubtedly hit upon a good idea. The dual keys to success will be the thoroughness of its vetting process to keep out less-than-reputable companies and of course, whether people use the service.It could be cheaper and easier to conduct searches on the net and call up a few local companies, though there is no guaranteed safety net like with eCountries. If companies want their hand held as they strike out into new markets, eCountries could be their guide.Useful linkseCountries
An irreverent US website set up to chart the demise of cash strapped internet start-ups has received a $10m (£7m) takeover offer. Fuckedcompany.com - which was founded, owned and run by an industry pundit known as "Pud" - has become the must-visit website for gossip about dot.com failures.Anyone working in the internet industry is encouraged to post rumours anonymously about what is going on in the industry and each week vote on the five web firms they think most likely to go bust.Among the 27,950 subscribers to its daily email newsletter are journalists, venture capitalists, entrepreneurs, investment bankers and recruiters keen to keep abreast of the latest gossip. Fuckedcompany.com receives 2.6m page views a week, according to PC Data.Yesterday Pud, whose real name is Philip Kaplan, put the site up for auction - online, of course. "I was bored this morning so I put FC on eBay," he said, explaining that he had   always viewed the venture as a side issue to his other business interests and could not devote time to its development.Last night the highest bid stood at $3.3m (£2.3m), although according to some reports Pud had been contacted by someone prepared to pay as much as $10m for the site.Fuckedcompany.com has received glowing endorsements from industry experts. Ken Cassar, senior analyst at renowned internet research firm Jupiter Communications, says he checks the site before making positive comments about any company.Michael Wolff, author of the seminal Silicon Valley novel Burn Rate, said recently: "I wish I'd though of it".The site has attracted unspecified advertising and sponsorship revenues. User features include an archive that allows you to search for "all the bad news your little heart desires". Its main rival is dotcomfailures.com, whose motto is "kick 'em while they're down".The auction ends on September 20.
Investors looking for exposure to the telecoms and internet sectors could do well to take a look at EasyNet.The pan-European telco and internet service provider has grown organically with limited investment to compete with bigger players including BT and Colt Telecom. It has previously used footballing terms to characterise itself as the Wimbledon of the sector, a plucky underdog snapping at the heels of the Manchester Uniteds.But unlike the relegated south London club, EasyNet is on the up. Yesterday it reported a 53% jump in revenues to &#163;19m for the six months to June 30. Net assets quadrupled and gross margins came in at 61%.However, the company slipped into the red to record losses of &#163;3.5m against a profit of &#163;132,000 last time. Chief executive David Rowe, who has guided the share price from &#163;2 to &#163;11.50 in two years, says this is part of a deliberate investment programme.He plans to spend the bulk of the &#163;52m the company raised in April on new services that come with the unbundling of the local loop - like broadband internet lines - and building data centres across Europe.Analysts at ABN Amro and   Old Mutual had expected the losses to be greater and rate the shares highly. They say EasyNet is entering high-growth markets and forecast revenues of around &#163;42m for the full year and losses of &#163;9m-12m.Much of EasyNet's success will depend on how BT unbundles its local loop and the rate at which competition is introduced.Last night the shares slipped 1% to &#163;11.30p. Old Mutual has a 12 month target on the stock of &#163;15; house broker ABN Amro believes they could go as high as &#163;22, having traded at &#163;29 at the peak of the hi-tech frenzy.Acquisition-hungry US telecommunications carriers may even see EasyNet as a useful way of gaining a European footprint.Buy.
Dennis Roach, the leading football agent whose recent player transfer dealings are being investigated by the game's governing body, is to remain a consultant for InterClubNet, the newly floated web-based transfer company.Finance director Gregory Puchert said last night that the position of Mr Roach, a 17.5% shareholder in the firm and father of InterclubNet's chief executive Nick Roach, was unchanged by the investigation."Dennis is a consultant to InterClubNet who introduces us to clubs and gives us knowledge about the football club market, but he is not a director   or involved in the day to day running of the company," Mr Puchert said.Following a complaint about his conduct, the Football Association is investigating two recent high-profile transfer deals conducted by Mr Roach that resulted in public slanging matches between the agent and Newcastle United and Manchester City. The FA confirmed the inquiry was going ahead but could not say what action might be taken as a result of it.Mr Roach, 60, is one of the most powerful agents in world football and counts former England manager Glenn Hoddle among his clients.He has a &#163;100,000 per year   consultancy contract with InterClubNet to introduce the firm's technology to top football clubs.Manchester United and Real Madrid are among more than a dozen blue-chip clients now subscribing to the service.In the offer document for its AIM flotation last month InterClubNet said it believed clubs would buy its service because characteristics of the player transfer market include susceptibility to abuse and a lack of transparency."The company's success to date, in terms of winning contracts with clubs, has been founded on its use of the reputation and ability of its consultants," it added.
The World Economic Forum's star turn, Bill Gates, criticised the anti-capitalist demonstrators who clashed with police during a second day of violence outside the Melbourne conference yesterday.As 500 protesters continued their blockade of the Crown casino, the Microsoft founder warned delegates at the Asia-Pacific regional meeting that "the big losers" in any curbing of global trade "will be the poor people of the world"."Living standards have risen around the world," he said. "World trade is the mechanism that's allowing these poor countries to get enough wealth to start taking care of very basic human needs."Mr Gates also rallied support for the battered internet sector. "People ask where do we go from here ... and say 'okay, is this finally the end of technology doing miracle things?'," he told delegates. "My answer is ... absolutely not." Mr Gates said new applications would drive further growth."If we can bring exciting new applications that make those knowledge workers more effective, the continued benefits we have - the PC, the software revolution, the internet - those will continue to grow very strongly," he said.Despite his bullish views, continuing blockades by protesters forced Mr Gates to cancel two engagements outside the casino later in the day.In a change of tactic that was criticised by activists, police baton-charged the blockades in the early morning and evening, allowing seven buses of delegates in and out of the building.Organisers said a dozen demonstrators were hospitalised and 50 injured were treated at the scene. They included two New Zealand Green MPs, who said they would raise the issue in parliament.The protesters' legal team has lodged a complaint with the state ombudsman alleging "brutal, highly dangerous and provocative" police tactics, said spokesman Damien Lawson.Police violenceAnti-capitalist activists claimed that police violence worsened when TV cameras departed after the evening news. They also complained about the removal of badges from police uniforms, preventing the identification of officers.Police reported just one arrest and said they had used the appropriate force necessary to prevent a repeat of yesterday, when blockades confined 200 delegates to their hotel rooms."The precision used this morning made our operation very successful and the majority of the delegates arrived in the forum at the designated time," said Victoria police's deputy commissioner of operations Neil O'Loughlin.Andre Haermeyer, Victoria's police   minister, told reporters that the police had been targeted with ball bearings, marbles, screws, glass and urine thrown by protesters.Victoria's prime minister, Steve Bracks, condemned the demonstration as un-Australian."Trying to restrain people from getting into the venue is effectively a form of violence which they've pursued which I absolutely deplore and is not acceptable in the way we operate in Australia," he told radio 3AW.More than 5,000 trade unionists later staged a peaceful rally outside the privately funded forum.The next fixture in the autumn season of global protest could be the Olympic Games in Sydney, which opens in three   days. More definite targets are the annual meetings of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund in Prague later this month.Klaus Schwab, president of the Swiss-based WEF, condemned the violence."Peaceful protest is an inalienable right in a democracy. But what has happened today in Melbourne is unjust, undemocratic and uncivilised," he said.Mr Schwab defended the WEF: "No other organisation brings together the leaders of business, government and civil society in an open dialogue about the big   issues facing the world the way the forum does," he said.Delegates also heard the views of the protesters, represented by Indian eco-feminist Vandana Shiva."We are blockading the Crown casino today to use one of the tools that we as community groups and individuals have -civil disobedience," Ms Shiva said. "People across the world are suffering under corporate defined globalisation."We have both the right and the responsibility to take action in the face of corporate disregard for human rights, environmental protection, public health and labour regulation," she went on.Protesters say they will maintain their blockade for the third and final day of the conference today.Useful linkMicrosoft
SalvageSale.com seems to be the model of what a business to business enterprise should be. The Texas-based company uses the internet to bring together buyers and sellers from all over the world. They salvage everything from unwanted church pews and two-year-old canned cherries to a burned-out vessel in Louisiana and paper rolls from a large British paper mill.Matching customers to commodities is by now a well worn theme in cyberspace, but the firm's management remains bullish on the issue. "SalvageSale.com will survive because we are first to the market, in a fragmented market, we have the right partners and an experienced team. This is not an MBA experiment," insists Dan Parsley, the company's 37-year-old president and chief executive.When business to consumer internet companies - known as B2C - started to look vulnerable, B2B - business to business - companies were where investors headed. These businesses, selling to each other products and services over the internet, saving money in marketing and communication costs, were seen as the next logical step.Unlike B2C, the new mantra went, B2B was not flaky.The sector was also encouraged this week when five big motor manufacturers won approval in the US to set up an online exchange where they plan to conduct nearly all their $300bn of annual business with suppliers and with each other.The US federal trade commission's review of the exchange, named Covisint, was the first given to an industry-wide, B2B operation. The FTC said it was giving Covisint permission to go ahead, but cautioned that the venture might still   raise competition concerns once it is up and running.Covisint comprises General Motors, Ford, DaimlerChrysler, Renault and Nissan. "B2Bs have a great potential to benefit both businesses and consumers through increased productivity and lower prices," said the the US regulator's chairman, Robert Pitofsky.Covisint has set a goal of eventually including 30,000 suppliers, but so far only 25 have agreed to be part of the exchange. Some suppliers have expressed worries that manufacturers would use Covisint to slash their profit margins.However, the decision by the US regulators to approve the deal just weeks after the European Union had given the green light to an airplane parts B2B venture, Myaircraft.com, has given a much needed fillip to the sector.The first casualties have appeared. Efdex, the electronic exchange for food   and drink, was supposed to pull together the fragmented food industry in an exchange for buyers and sellers; this month they called in the receivers.Founded in 1995 with $65m (&#163;46.3m) of funding it was supposed to offer an exchange facility where food buyers, such as restaurants, could ask for a price on a foodstuff and have suppliers bidding for the contract. Efdex would take a sale commission: it did not work. Efdex only managed to sign up about 2,000 clients.It seems the existing retailers were too strong in the market, and it has been reported that the company had no real business plan with which to work.Stefan Burgstaller, European business to business analyst at Schroders Salomon Smith Barney, says firms can be successful if they are "focused and you select one particular functionality and you bring this at a timely fashion to the market, then this is a good ingredient to success".Mr Parsley, who used to be with consultant Arthur Andersen, understands the risks. "There will be a tremendous amount of fallout because too many companies are pursuing the same thing. The survivors will be the ones who are first to market, have adequate funding and the right strategic partners."Despite this there are many who remain upbeat about the sector. A recently launched venture, Just-sites.com, backed by venture capital group 3i, believes it, too, will avoid such a fate.The Evesham-based company, which hopes to be in profit within 18 months, provides what it calls "industry knowledge sites" for the motor manufacturing, food, drinks and clothing sectors.It saves money by cutting out printing and distribution costs, and because it is industry-specific the company does not have to spend large sums on marketing - the bane of the B2C sector. Just-sites has established links with big players in its industries, and visits to its sites are increasing by 50% a month and revenues are over target.'You can't fool business'Allan Davies, the chief executive of Just-sites.com, says difficulties arise on the internet when people try to offer B2B services for an industry of which they are not already a part and have no real links with.Mr Davies believes the people who will win are those who combine a good understanding of how the internet works with an understanding of their own industrial sector. "You can't fool the business to business industry like you can the consumers," he says.Meanwhile, back at SalvageSale.com, Mr Parsley is hard at work trying to develop links with online transportation companies in order to continue pursuing the business to business holy grail - thereby creating a global marketplace for buyers and sellers."I love the job because every transaction is different. I call them salvage tales. Every deal is different", he says.He believes, however, that despite its apparently unglamorous nature, SalvageSale.com is a solid B2B internet venture.The site is achieving levels of more than 65,000 hits a day, and merchandise - unless it is too obscure to be sold at all - goes within an average of 14 days.SalvageSale takes a commission of between 10% and 12.5% on transactions, which typically have a value of $50,000.But although SalvageSale believes it will make a success of its venture, the salvage market also demonstrates many of the difficulties the business to business sector is beginning to encounter.Useful linkSalvageSale
Scoot is understood to be preparing to hand over to regulators a legal dossier containing allegations of a long-running smear campaign.The document, which has been prepared by City law firm Charles Russell over the past five months, is believed to have identified a disgruntled former employee as the source of negative stories that have dogged the internet directory firm since the start of the year.Many of the reports stemmed from a file that contains allegations about the company and was circulated anonymously to newspapers. When the allegations first surfaced, Scoot chief executive Robert Bonnier said they would be investigated fully and, although he was not interested in a "witch-hunt", the authorities would be informed of the result.It is thought that the document is likely to be passed to the serious fraud office and financial services authority, and could result in a criminal investigation.The Guardian has learned   that lawyers from Charles Russell were in the high court last Monday on behalf of Scoot, attempting to extract information from potential witnesses to the smear campaign.During those proceedings the law firm told the court that its client was in "advanced takeover talks", just hours before Scoot issued a stock exchange statement denying reports of a takeover bid.Charles Russell said yesterday that the information was wrong and issued in error."An incorrect statement was made in court proceedings," a   spokesman said. "The court has been informed and the statement corrected. The UK listing authorities have been informed accordingly."Scoot last night denied reports that the FSA planned to investigate the circumstances surrounding the takeover story and the legal mix-up, although Charles Russell said it would cooperate fully if asked to take part in any further inquiries.Mr Bonnier said: "This has been a major embarrassment on Charles Russell's behalf and they have tried to rectify it as   soon as possible. We just want to get on with building this business, which goes from strength to strength."People are going to see some incredible things in the future which will be value-creating."Dealers have complained that last week's rumours that a French conglomerate was about to take over Scoot and the subsequent 60% jump in the company's share price created a false market before the story was denied.Mr Bonnier insisted that Scoot and its advisers had   done their best to clarify the situation as soon as possible. "If anyone adheres to regulatory and fiduciary duties it's Scoot." Mr Bonnier had hired private detectives to track down the source of a series of price-sensitive leaks.Shares in Scoot fell 12.25p to 148p yesterday after a weekend of negative press reports. There were claims that some investors have been aggressively selling the stock short and that individuals offshore have been conducting a campaign against Scoot.A spokesman for the FSA   confirmed it had received a complaint about the events surrounding last week's share price movement."We have received a letter and, in general, if there's evidence of a breach of the listing rules we would look into it," he said.When asked if the allegations against Scoot had been dismissed by the FSA, he said: "We have not discussed in public whether we are reviewing the circumstances surrounding Scoot and therefore can't comment on any action we might be taking."
Steve Case may have built the most successful internet business in the world through his stewardship of America Online, but it took good old-fashioned media glamour for him to gain genuine acceptance.After a slow climb in the New Establishment rankings of glossy magazine   Vanity Fair, Mr Case has finally reached top spot after agreeing to merge AOL with Time Warner.This year's survey, published in the current edition, lifts him from sixth to overtake Microsoft founder Bill Gates, still hanging on in second despite his bruising encounter with the US justice department.Gerald Levin, 18 years the senior of Mr Case and chief   executive-designate of the combined group, is stuck at number four. Ted Turner, vice-chairman-designate, is at number 14.Mr Case, 42, started his career in the marketing department of Procter &amp; Gamble. He stumbled across the net while in charge of development for Pizza Hut.AOL was established in 1985 via a company run ning an online service for users of Atari computer games but it was 1997's takeover of Netscape which cemented Mr Case's reputation. Vanity Fair waxes lyrical: "Once obscure, he's become a celebrity: Hollywood legend Tony Curtis recently interrupted Case and his second wife, Jean, at a Washington DC restaurant to have his picture taken with them."Third is Sumner Redstone, chief executive of Viacom, and fifth is Rupert Murdoch, whose attempts to play catch-up in new media failed to prevent him losing second place.The highest-ranked woman, at 40, is chat show host Oprah Winfrey, whose interests range from a cable TV channel to TV production and magazines.
Sony has come up with an answer for those infuriating moments when you hear a song on the radio that you like, but wait in vain for the DJ to name the band.The eMarker is a tiny electronic device wrapped in an orange plastic oval and designed to hang from a keyring.When its owner hears a mystery tune, he or she clicks a button and the eMarker notes the time, just like a stop watch. When the device is plugged into a PC, it launches the  eMarker website, and all that remains to do is to key in the name of the radio station, and up comes the title of the tune.The website also offers information about the song, audio clips, and samples of other songs from the album. There are also links to retailers to buy the album, with the site receiving a commission for every sale. Up to 10 songs from a variety of stations can be stored by the eMarker to be looked up at leisure.It is the first product of a new Sony subsidiary, eMarker.com, whose purpose   is to create products that link the old media with the new. Future versions will work with music video channels, and advertisements.However, British music fans will have to wait to get their hands on the new toy. It is at present only available in the US (at $19.99), where the eMarker website obtains playlist information from Broadcast Data Systems, the company that supplies radio airplay data to Billboard magazine for its charts.No decision has been taken on offering it in Britain.
Shares in online retailer Lastminute.com went into reverse yesterday as the six-month lock-up period, in which management and certain institutional investors were not allowed to sell their shares, came to an end.The shares, which closed 9p, or 4.89%, lower at 175p could mount a recovery today.A statement released after the market closed dislcosed that co-founders Brent Hoberman and Martha Lane Fox and   certain institutional investors have voluntarily agreed to extend their lock-up agreements with the company's broker, Morgan Stanley.Together with the holdings of Mr Hoberman and Ms Lane Fox, this represents around 90% of the shares that were locked-up at the time of Lastminute's initial public offering back in March.Investors should note that the extension to the lock-up period is only a further three months.
High-flying Israeli technology firm Geo Interactive Media yesterday unnerved its legions of private investors by announcing that its chief executive, Shai Schiller, had quit.The Tel Aviv-based firm strongly denied reports that Mr Schiller had been forced out as part of a shake-up of senior managers or that it was shifting strategy to concentrate on wireless technologies."Schiller was not pushed out, he did a very huge job for us and is retiring," said the chairman, Naftali Shani. "This was not a sudden decision to leave, he told us a long time ago. He will continue to support and advise Geo as a non-executive director."Shares in Geo were suspended at the company's request late yesterday morning after rumours of Mr Schiller's resignation spread and the price fell by 8% to &#163;13.40.A statement was issued shortly before 3pm confirming his retirement and replacement by co-founder Eli Reifman. Unusually, it included ringing endorsements from Geo's senior non-executive director, Mike Grabiner - the chief executive of Energis - and a senior banker from adviser Lehman Brothers."We wanted to demonstrate that the board unanimously supports Eli's appointment," Mr Shani said.Shares in Geo were relisted in the afternoon and fell further to close down 16% at &#163;12.15.Mr Schiller had been chief executive for two years, during which time Geo grew into an international business worth &#163;1.9bn. He retains 1.9m shares in the company, worth &#163;23m, but cannot sell any for another 14 months."The past two years have been a tremendously demanding and exhilarating time," Mr Schiller said. "Inevitably the personal demands on me have been very great. I feel that now is the right time to take a break. For the benefit of any doubters out there, I have no intention of setting up a rival software company or to be employed in one."Mr Reifman is well known to Geo shareholders, having previously co-ordinated investor relations and much of the day-to-day running of the business.Mr Shani insisted that Geo would maintain its level of investment in broadcasting and messaging.
&#149; Digital download Record label Warner Music Group and media company RealNetworks are to distribute music from Warner for downloading from the net. Warner is the last of the big five labels to set up a deal in the midst of a court battle over piracy against California-based firm Napster.&#149; Sales hit US carrier Southwest Airlines 's website has generated $1bn in passenger revenues this year. From January to August reservations rose 96.2%; site revenue rose 111% year on year.&#149; Mobile email Telecoms firm Ericsson and Microsoft have launched a mobile e-mail services venture, Ericsson Microsoft Mobile Venture AB, 70% owned by Ericsson and 30% by Microsoft.
Tony Blair yesterday extended his campaign to make Britain a leader in the internet revolution by promising a further &#163;1bn to ensure all government services are online by 2005, and 6,000 online centres by 2002, to be placed in shopping centres, libraries, community centres and places of entertainment.There will be an effort to put the centres in areas of economic deprivation to forestall the so-called digital divide, and they will have extended opening hours to enable people to learn IT skills or pursue interests and hobbies.Speaking in Loughborough on a tour through the Midlands, the prime minister also announced a brand name - UK On-line - for the campaign.
Tony Blair launched a £1bn drive to get the government wired today, putting services online, promising to help businesses benefit from the internet and bring the web to poorer communities around the country.Nobody could ever accuse the prime minister of not being able to talk the connected talk. He enthusiastically proclaimed that the rise of the internet was no dot.com fad but a "profound economic revolution". He said Britain could reverse its decades of decline in the 20th century by embracing the net, transforming itself into one of the world's most successful economies.And, just like any good e-vangelist, he even made sure to dismiss a well-worn internet age cliché by adding: "There is no new economy." Instead: "There is one economy, all of it being transformed by information technology".All rousing stuff, and much of it is much needed too. This kind of investment is just the thing to start closing a rapidly growing "digital divide", illustrated by a recent Guardian/ICM poll which found 59% of the most affluent AB demographic have access to the internet, against only 14% of the poorest DE group. The costs of getting online - a computer, modem, telephone bills - have threatened to leave the internet the preserve of the white, middle class and well-off.Yet, for all the good sense and swagger of today's announcement, you could be forgiven if you had a few nagging doubts about all this. For a start, there's a sense ofdéjà vu- haven't you heard much of this before? Don't worry - a trawl through the government's own website shows all this is recycled stuff.Stretch your memory back to March 30 of this year, and you might recall a "special information-age cabinet meeting" at which the prime minister made a similar commitment, promising to get all government services online by 2005, pulling forward an earlier target date of 2008. Similarly, at the start of last March, Blair made a commitment to ensure that everyone who wants internet access would get it - again, by 2005.But if a week is a long time in politics, five years is generations on the web. The commitment to universal internet access, in particular, looks a tad disingenuous when one considers the number of ways we will have by then to get on to the web.Analysts like Forrester Research predict that internet-equipped PCs, digital television, games consoles, mobile telephones, and other devices will serve a hefty chunk of the population by 2005. A greater need exists now, when PCs are still expensive and alternative means of proper access (digital TV "walled gardens" and Wap text services don't really count) are still some way off.Worse is Blair's lauding of the best off-peak rates for connection to the internet in the world. Were he really in tune with online realities, praising the existing telecoms arrangements would not have crossed his mind.Blair was overhasty in applauding AltaVista UK's now-discredited unmetered internet service offer back in March. Since then, net users have been left frustrated by continued per-minute access costs and assorted unmetered access fiascos. Even BT's SurfTime package, which we assume must be what Blair was praising (it offers unmetered access and evenings and weekends for a flat monthly fee), has raised the ire of British net users, because it is not available in many areas.The digital divide feels very real indeed to those who can't get cheap access like their friends because of BT, or who can't get online at all because their ISP has gone to the wall thanks to AltaVista's empty hype.So, while any effort to narrow the digital divide and promote e-commerce is to be welcomed, you could be forgiven for saying that you've heard it all before - and refusing to believe any of it until results, rather than rhetoric, hit your screen.neil.mcintosh@guardian.co.ukUseful linksopen.gov.ukForrester Research
If you don't really know what kind of car you want, this could be the one for you. You quite like 4x4s, but then they're a bit tacky and showy aren't they, especially on the school run? You've got a kid, or two, but you haven't quite surrendered your youth and secretly you'd like to be driving around in something fun, probably with no seats in the back. You're definitely not quite ready to go down the Volvo estate route anyway. You probably have some sort of outdoor pursuit you like to pursue at weekends. And there could be a cottage, possibly in Wales. Oh, and you've got &#163;36,630 to spend on a car.If you do have &#163;36,630 to spend on a car you could do a lot worse than spend it on this one. It is killer. First of all it looks great doesn't it? Underneath it's an Audi A6 estate - or Avant as they insist on calling it (the word estate seems to have been dropped by   carmakers as a turn off, but Avant is a lot more embarrassing). Anyway, the A6 Avant has been sent to the gym. It's higher, wider and chunkier. Toned in fact, but not too much. The Audi allroad is Pitt, not Schwarzenegger.It's good inside too. The posher the car, the more cut off you feel from the outside world, and when the door of this one clunks classily shut you feel totally cocooned in your own smug leathery little world. Nice. Mine had a modern dark green interior, which was almost successful but spoilt by the obligatory strip of walnut veneer. It seems that if you spend a lot of money on a car you expect to see the evidence that a tree has died in its making, even if it looks all wrong. But you are rich, and this is your right. Otherwise it's comfortable and elegant, with all the seat positions, lumber support options, cupholders and mapflaps you'd expect for your 30 grand.We went to Shropshire - which is almost Wales - to a cottage. It was bank holiday, and the roads were chocker. But this car is even fun in a traffic jam. Small cars look up at you enviously. And the big Shoguns and Landcruisers look down jealously too, because they know you've got something altogether more desirable. Once you've basked in that for a bit you can make the GPS navigation map zoom right in so it even tells you the names of all the canals you're crossing - quite educational, no? OK, how about this? Practise your Spanish by switching the navigation language: "Siga por la caraterra hasta nuevo aviso." And then forget how to turn it back to English so it only speaks Spanish, for ever. The real fun begins when the traffic grinds completely to a halt, as then it allows you to switch on the telly. Big Brother on the M6, how about that?Off the motorway at last, and it all kicks in: 2.7 litres, V6, 250bhp, permanent all-wheel drive. The allroad drives more like a sports car than an estate - I mean Avant. Big 4x4s feel uncomfortable on fast A roads; not this one. If you want to take part in the experience a bit more, you can switch from automatic to Tiptronic so you can flip through the gears   yourself. Wey-hey. Sorry if this is all getting a bit boysy, but it felt boysy. In this car you really do feel like you could take on the world. And win.So it's great on the road, but what about off it? We tried to find some steps to drive up, like in the advert, but there aren't any like that in Oswestry. But we did find a muddy track that disappeared ominously into a forest. This car has four different height settings, ranging from low for cruising fast along motorways to high for steps and muddy tracks. You just press the button on the dashboard and up you rise, as silently as a souffl&eacute; - and if you forget, it will change automatically of course, to suit the road.There's something not quite right about getting this car all dirty. Not that it doesn't cope well - it took mud, rocks, steep sideways slopes all in its stride, much more capably then any of those so-called sports utility vehicles. But when we emerged on the other side of the forest looking bloodied and muddied with twigs and leaves hanging off all over the place, it seemed a terrible shame: we'd been so shiny and elegant half an hour before. Like playing rugby in an Armani suit. Except that an Armani suit isn't great to play rugby in, whereas this car is great to drive along muddy tracks in. In a Land Rover you want to get all messy, but in this one you're probably better off in the knowledge that you can, rather than actually doing it.Another small moan. The navigation system had no idea where it was in the lanes of Shropshire, and kept on telling us so, still in Spanish of course. And on the way back to London it went into a complete sulk and absolutely refused to tell us where to go. Also the TV reception wasn't so great up there... But that - and the walnut - aside, this car is gorgeous, and you should get one. If you've got &#163;36,630 to spend on a car of course.The lowdownAudi allroad quattroPrice:&#163;36,630. (The turbodiesel is &#163;32,550 but it only does 129mph)Top speed:147mph0-60mph:7.4 secondsConsumption:15.7mpg (urban)On the stereo:Ride of the ValkyriesAt the wheel:You - in your dreamsWhere to go:Anywhere
With the nation fixated on television's parody of George Orwell's dystopic vision of the future, most of us have failed to notice the real Big Brother sneaking through the floorboards into the back of our screens. On July 28, while many of us were settling down with a bag of crisps to see whether Nasty Nick had been rumbled, the Regulation of Investigatory Powers (RIP) Act was passed.In response to growing hysteria about "cybercrime" such as child pornography on the net and hacking, it gives the government, police, security services and lesser public authorities such as your local council, benefits office, even the Eggs Inspectorate,   the power to intercept anyone's emails and demand decryption keys or passwords.There was an outcry at the time: internet thinktank FIPR, the Foundation for Information Policy Research, has declared the bill "a grevious affront on our civil liberties", while Liberty, the human rights group called it "repugnant" and the Conservatives snapped up the opportunity to wheel out the "Blair's demon eyes watching you" campaign again.A couple of the broadsheets - and Roy Greenslade in Media Guardian - nobly attempted to explain the implications for people who didn't understand the significance of the clauses in part III pertaining to cryptography, which mean that if you forget   your pin number for your cashpoint card or mobile and are therefore unable to hand over the key to the authorities who have issued a warrant, you could be banged up for up to two years.The main complaint, according to the FIPR, is that it is "a superbly effective machine for keeping tabs on law abiding citizens &#91;such as journalists, who, for example, might find it very difficult to investigate a public authority and protect their sources&#93; and of no use against criminals who can easily circumvent the proceedures."But anti-RIP feeling is just one aspect of the growing international protest against the infringement of data protection and escalating surveillance. In July it emerged that the   FBI had been using Carnivore, a black box internet wire-tapping machine, for almost a year; in New Zealand it's the fight against the Echelon surveillance system; in Holland it's against the OCI (operational crypto interception) project.But even without the spectre of the "technologies of political control", we are entering an era of hyper-connectivity and data surveillance which would be beyond even Orwell's wildest imaginings. In terms of sheer penetration of "smart screens", reality has far outstripped fiction. Most households in Britain by 2004 will have at least two internet-enabled devices - most likely digital TV with broadband internet conection, home computer or mobile, while some of us will have gone the whole hog, with wired cars and kitchen appliances all "talking" to each other using Blue Tooth technology and co-ordinating our schedule for the day.Already people talk about how impossible it is to switch off. With ADSL "always on" phonelines, there is no escaping the network - unless you unplug every night. Connection speeds will be 20 times faster but that means the computer will be 20 times more susceptible to hacking and data leaks. Barclays bank had a bit of a shock in July when customer data had escaped onto the website. But corporates have the resources to counter these security risks and ultimately it is the average PC owner who should worrying."It is almost impossible for the man in the street to be sure that their computer is safe from a break in," says Caspar Bowden, spokesperson for FIPR. "If there is data that you care about, just don't keep it on the machine". People with broadband connections, he predicts, will feel   obliged to fit personal firewalls to stop the threat of unsolicited visits and hacking and there will be a massive boost in sales of piracy tools designed to run rings around the RIP Act.With RIP, we can only trust that the authorities won't abuse their position, but can we trust the advertisers to do the same? The practice of web-tracking is already common amongst some new media agencies. Through a simple combination of cookies which attach themselves to the user when they visit a site, they can already, without their consent, build up profiles of users and follow them several other sites afterwards. Meanwhile, with third generation mobile phones that can pinpoint the user's location to a matter of metres, the central computer can doctor advertising promotions accordingly and in seconds.When consumers sign an online consent form to give up personal details and address information in exchange for offers and promotions - be it an ice lolly or a ticket to Steps - they are giving away precious data which could end up in the hands of third party advertisers or agencies who will pay handsomely for the information. "It's a trade off - you buy privacy with hard cash. Something could cost you &#163;20 less if you agree to pass on your data," says Bowden.Privacy is becoming a privilege we have to pay for. In America, backlash is already happening. The White Dot anti-TV campaign has just launched a controversial book, Spy TV, which exposes the methods by which digital interactive television will observe viewers and build up geographic, demographic and psychographic profiles of individuals which can then be used to "modify their behaviour".Motorola Broadband, ACTV and OpenTV have all invested in a company called digital ADCO which is designed to profile over 7m viewers without their knowledge. ACTV promises to deliver commercials based on "the specific profile of an individual household which is generated by ACTV's software within the digital set-top in the home." Every time we change channels, select a certain programme, browse or buy through an interactive site, every click can be tracked. In other words, our TV sets will know us better than we know ourselves."People should express concerns about privacy to the data protection commission", says Bowden, as a last recommendation to any paranoid consumers out there, "and beware of phrases like 'personalisation' and 'tailor-made'".New applications and technologies are sold to time-strapped and increasingly technophilic citizens, as a means to introduce more control and convenience into our lives; but ultimately, who is control of our personal details? Answer: the advertisers, marketeers, public authorities, data analysts and even that producer sitting behind the screen in the Big Brother interview room handing out tasks to the guinea pigs and offering kind words of advice.
Tony Blair today launched a £1bn drive to get all government services online by 2005.The prime minister also said that £15m would be allocated to help businesses benefit from the internet and announced the first raft of 600 online centres to give hi-tech access to poorer communities.Mr Blair, speaking in Loughborough, Leicestershire, said that the UK Online initiatives were designed to get business, people and government hooked up to the internet. "My argument is simple. There is no new economy. There is one economy, all of it being transformed by information technology."What is happening is no dot.com fad that will come and go - it is a profound economic revolution. Business and government must now be in a constant process of adapting to change."The key to success is knowledge - and the key to government is investment in education and skills."Mr Blair also disclosed details of the first annual report produced by the government's "e-envoy", Alex Allan.The prime minister said Britain now had the best off-peak rates for connection to the internet in the world. He said the UK peak access prices had fallen by 30% to 40% since last year and he expected the country to go "shooting up the league table".Mr Blair said that 90% of workers were now employed in businesses connected to the internet and that a third of the UK population was now online, with the country boasting Europe's largest e-commerce market with £2bn spending last year.He said a new campaign would be launched to make Britain the best place in the world for e-commerce, with universal access to the internet and all government services on the net.Mr Blair added: "I am determined that by 2005 at the latest all government services will be online, so we are today announcing that our recent spending review earmarked £1bn for investment in electronic service delivery over the next three years."He said that from next year unemployed people would be able to search job vacancies from home or in a Job Centre kiosk, place job adverts online or register for VAT online."The whole shape of our economy will be changed by this new technology - that's why UK Online is so vital. If we live up to the challenge of the knowledge economy, we can reverse the decades of decline we suffered in the 20th century and become one of the world's most successful economies in the 21st century."
Back in the days when TVs were for watching and PCs were for surfing, things seemed so much simpler. Boundaries were well defined and even though some pundits enjoyed upsetting the apple cart by throwing in that fear-of-death word: "convergence", we always knew that whatever the future had in store for us, we could handle it. Only we didn't quite expect it to be so darned confusing.If, like me, you've lost count of the number of different products providing internet access, prepare to get your thinking cap around the untamed world of the internet on your TV. Granted that this is not especially a new thing - NTL has been offering it for almost two years - but the ballpark is starting to get so much more complex.ONdigital last week joined the party when it revealed details of ONnet, its TV internet offering that hits the market next week, while Bush Internet is gearing up to bolster sales in the pre-Christmas rush. As if that wasn't enough to satisfy latent demand, Granada is preparing to launch Powerchannel, its very own TV internet product, in just over a month's time.All parties say there is a market for TV internet, but many a pundit has already put the dampener on the hype by questioning their sustainability and market positioning. The main gripes are 1) that the revenue model isn't strong enough to support heavily subsidised set-top boxes; 2) demand for internet on the TV is still unproved and 3) the products are aimed at a difficult market segment (ie people that never or rarely use the internet).I may be vilified for saying this, but at the moment, TV internet services are nothing more than gimmicks or, at best, expensive experiments that make unfounded presumptions about revenue streams. The TV internet providers may be able to sell tons of ad space across their default portals, or sell anchor tenancies to third parties (such as retailers) and take commission on sales, but they can't bank on users staying within the confines of their "walled gardens" and spending their cash.It's one of the many quirks of the TV internet model - provide them with a free rein but hope they'll not wander off too far - and why the likes of BSkyB are loath to go down this route. Of course, the other quirk is that the providers may not be able to sign up enough users in the first place to justify taking advertisers' money.No one has yet made a success of  offering the internet via TV to a mass audience. NTL may have been one of the first into the UK market, but strangely the company stopped pushing its TV internet service a long time ago.Quiz NTL about figures and you'll get the response "sorry, don't release them", which, if glossed rather cynically, could suggest the service has not been a rip-roaring success. Talk to Sega Dreamcast, another company with a box that provides TV internet, and you'll hear much of the same. Further afield, Microsoft has had three years to make an impact on the US market with WebTV, but has struggled to pass the 1m mark, and this in a country with 100m households.The logical conclusion is that the average consumer not only doesn't want to sit directly in front of their precious TV but, and most surveys support this, most people who don't already have internet access (two-thirds of UK households) are quite happy with their lot and see no reason to get connected.Given this fact, it seems incomprehensible that the TV internet providers are not pitching their services at the higher end of the scale - at early adopters and those people with internet access already. Surely that's a more viable market segment, and one that likes to spend money on new gadgets?Of course, the reason why these services aren't aimed at existing users is that they are frustrating to use when you're accustomed to being able to get everything you want from a website. All of the providers have opted out of the costly option of pre-installing RealPlayer (around &#163;700,000), and because there is no facility to download software onto the boxes, this is not likely to change in the near future. What this means is that all the cool broadcasting stuff, increasingly becoming the mainstay of the internet, will just not work on TV internet services. Forgive me if I'm missing something, but wasn't that what the TV was designed for?One aspect of TV internet that often tends to be overlooked is that surfing the internet is, by and large, a very solitary personal experience. If you've ever tried it with someone hovering over your shoulder grabbing the mouse, you'll know what I mean.With mobile internet technology becoming mainstream, broadband just around the corner and cable and satellite operators offering interactive services as part of their digital packages, it does seem that the market for stand-alone TV internet products is somewhat limited. To say it's a gamble is a huge understatement, but without companies taking these type of risks where would we be today?A few years from now, we will know conclusively whether consumers will buy into this dream, but until then there's going to be a lot of money spent finding out.
The failure ofPop.com, the much-heralded site from Dreamworks and Ron Howard's Imagination Entertainment, may just be to Hollywood whatBoo.comwas to the fashion industry.After the 11-month old firm was gutted of employees last week, details began to emerge of mismanagement and overambitious designs to rival that of its fashion counterpart. Pop did not burn through quite as much money (most supplied by Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen) as Boo, but it suffered the indignity of never actually launching at all.The idea behind the company - to broadcast a mix of animated and live-action short films on the internet - was greeted with much excitement last October, before the dot.com shake-out took hold. Founders Howard, Steven Spielberg and Jeffrey Katzenberg trumpeted their new venture as one of the firms that would revolutionise the way films were made and distributed. As soon as the technology allowed, they believed, Pop.com would transform from showcase for talented young film makers into fully fledged production and distribution company.Announcing the new company, Katzenberg said: 'Just as MTV introduced a new entertainment forum for music videos, we think this new enterprise will offer a new form of entertainment for the rapidly growing population of internet users. Pop.com has the capability   not only to offer a variety of entertainment options, but to tap into an as yet undiscovered talent pool that is as global as the internet itself.'Pop was supposed to act as a platform for experienced movie makers to experiment with the emerging medium and, when it was launched last autumn, its founders spoke of using the web as a seed bed for new projects for film and television. However, despite agreements with Mike Myers, Will Smith, Julia Roberts, Eddie Murphy, Steve Martin and others to create programming, nothing ever appeared on Pop.com besides press releases. Instead, it became a place for DreamWorks to store its talent when the studio had nothing else for staff to work on.Then, on 1 August, the  Los Angeles Times ran a story questioning the site's finances, the commitment of its backers and its prospects for success. Rumours circulated that Allen had grown tired of funding it: the daily frustrations stemmed 'from too many egos in the kitchen', according to one employee.Insiders pointed to Pop CEO Ken Wong's lack of experience either as a manager or in the internet world: 'We needed someone with film or dotcom experience, not someone with neither.' Before Pop, Wong was in semi-retirement, and before that he was president of Disney's Imagineering division. Moreover, observers said that of all online entertainment sites, Pop was the most bureaucratic and disorganised.'It was put together in the days when people thought if you put enough big names and big money together, things will work themselves out,' says Sanjay Malhorta of BandWidth Capital. 'As the market caught up with the expectations of business plans and good management, those weaknesses became glaringly evident.'None of Pop's high-profile principals were present at last week's meeting to all but shut the company. When asked why neither Katzenberg, Spielberg nor Howard had attended, Wong had no real answer: 'We believe this space is not yet a business. We're not clairvoyants or geniuses, but we think it's going to take years.'Pop's first major acquisition, last autumn, was an acclaimed short film called  The Dancing Cow. It sat on the shelves waiting for the site's launch. Excerpts from DreamWorks'  Chicken Run  were also scheduled to be released but never materialised. 'It's sad that all these filmmakers got tied up for so long with nothing to show for it,' said Randy Greenberg, vice president of independent film company Always.But the closure of the firm is more than just the failure of yet another web company without a viable business model. It has shown how hard it is for even the biggest names in entertainment to make sense of the web at a time when the medium itself is rocking the industry's foundations. Not only is the music business fighting for what may turn out to be a Pyrrhic victory against copyright troublemakers such as Napster and Gnutella; there are also signs that mass piracy is about to afflict the movie industry as well.Since the demise of the Digital Entertainment Network last spring, problems with the internet have scared away investors. The decision to fold Pop was related to failed merger talks with iFilm, which were terminated 10 days ago. Sources say iFilm had balked at Pop's valuation, which is said to have been $200 million.Others have suffered, too. 'Digital entertainment universe' Scour.com has laid off 56 of 62 employees, saying it ran out of money. A dozen employees were laid off at Shockwave.com, the entertainment site from Flash technology maker Macromedia in San Francisco. That site carries between 700 and 1,000 pieces of content and relies on banner advertising for income. Shockwave is believed to have made expensive deals with the likes of South Park creators Matt Stone and Trey Parker and director David Lynch, but the shows have failed to materialise. The company's planned IPO for late this year now looks doubtful.Efforts by Microsoft and America Online, among others, to translate TV-style shows to the internet foundered a couple of years ago. Neither have multi-media websites devoted to   women fared well. The much trumpeted Oxygen site has experienced an exodus of key editors and staff; and shares in iVillage have plummeted from $95.88 to around $7. Several executives have left during this year, and in late July Candace Carpenter stepped down as CEO.Despite all this gloom, webcasters are planning to roll out dozens of new online entertainment programs as the new television season starts this autumn.The subject matter, aimed largely at university students with access to high-speed campus internet connections, pushes the limits of taste. The offerings still have to overcome technical limitations and the fact that the audience for online entertainment is still tiny. Romp.com is launching a new game called 'Avoid Commitment', where players have to hurl a martini at a temptress and then   seduce her; another, called 'Panty Raid,' involves retrieving underwear from a girl's dormitory.'This is like the 1940s in television,' David Wertheimer, chairman of WireBreak Networks, a firm that creates and syndicates web programmes for other sites, told the  Wall Street Journal . 'There's no standard for what works and doesn't work.'And viewers are growing. Despite its problems, Shockwave.com drew 5.7 million users in July, up from 207,000 a year ago, while AtomFilms had 749,000, up from 247,000 a year ago.But the technical limitations of broadcasting over the web remain the biggest problem for most users. 'People don't think of the internet yet as entertaining them the way television or a movie does,' says Kristen Harmeling of Yankelovich Partners, a US marketing research firm.Whatever the future of internet broadcasting, Pop.com is unlikely to play a part. Howard said setting up Pop had been a 'tricky, sometimes frustrating' process and although the partners still had 'a lot of enthusiasm for the future of the medium' they wished to wait for the technology that would make entertainment on the web a more rewarding experience. Pop would wind up 'back where we started', he added.
The claim that nobody makes serious money from the Internet is not strictly true. The exception is the legal profession, which is rapidly discovering that cyberspace is almost as profitable an arena as corporate mergers and acquisitions.The latest episode in this '$600-an-hour-plus-expenses' farce closed last week with a US Federal judge orderingMP3.comto pay crippling damages to Universal, a record company that is part of the Seagram group, for alleged infringement of copyright on compact discs manufactured by the company.Judge Jed S Rakoff (sic) ruled that MP3.com had to pay $25,000 for each of the Universal compact discs included in its My.MP3.com service, which lets users listen to a CD over the internet after indicating that they possess the disc in question or have purchased it through an online vendor associated with the company.Universal had demanded   $45,000 a disc but, even so, its lawyers emerged beaming and went off to order another five Lexus 400s apiece.There were similar scenes a few weeks ago when a troop of attorneys won an interim victory over Napster, a company that allows Internet users to share MP3 files over the net. Napster is appealing against the decision, as is MP3.com, so there are oodles more legal fees in the pipeline. Trebles all round for m'learned friends.Where will it all end? The possibilities for litigation are endless. Will we get to the point where the first appointee at every internet start-up is an in-house lawyer? Will governments eventually wake up to the fact that the unprecedented   economic potential of the net is being choked by legal wrangling? Will the EU challenge the US patent laws that allow the patenting of 'business processes' such as Amazon's 1-Click ordering system? Will the Norwegian government see the absurdity of arresting a teenager on the grounds that he has violated the (US) Digital Millennium Copyright Act? And so on ad infinitum.Most media coverage of the MP3 and Napster cases fails to make a distinction between the companies on the one hand, and the technologies they seek to exploit on the other. Both MP3 and Napster are traditional start-ups, funded by large amounts of venture capital subscribed by very classy firms. These backers are not charitable institutions: they clearly saw a way of making money from their prot&eacute;g&eacute;s. (In Napster's case, Hummer Winblad saw the economic potential of the 20 million users the company had acquired  in less than a year .) If the interim judgments of the US courts stand,   these venture capitalists will take a bath. Cue violins.But even if MP3.com and Napster are crippled or wiped out by litigation, the technologies on which they are based will continue to flourish. MP3 is now the global standard for compressing audio signals. It's free, public and universally available.Most 10-year-olds know how to 'rip' an audio CD into MP3 format. Similarly, the technology underlying Napster - software enabling peer-to-peer file-sharing - is out of the bottle, and new variants such as Gnutella, Freenet and AT&amp;T's Publius are up and running. (They are also technically impossible to police - though with Publius file sizes are limited to 100k, which makes it unusable for MP3 but perfectly good for text.)This is the reality that recording industry executives apparently cannot see. The logical conclusion of their current strategy is effectively to define every teenager on the planet as a criminal or a potential lawbreaker.Given that teenagers represent the prime market for recorded music, this looks like a lousy business strategy. But it looks just great to their lawyers.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
Ennui sets in as text type goes off messageAn incredible 6 million text messages were sent on A-level results day last month, says Vodafone. However, @large is worried about phones which speed up message writing by guessing which word you are trying to type. If you type in the word 'footie' on some phones it spits out 'ennui'. Is Nokia trying to tell us something about the beautiful game?What's in a hyphen?A punch-up over punctuation is emerging between the Beeb and wannabe media mogul Jon Danzig of Look Hear, a multimedia movie-making business (look-hear.com), who has been embroiled in a custody battle over lookhear.com, registered by Oscar Music &amp; Media.Last month, Danzig explained his plight on the Stephen Rhodes consumer show on BBC Three Counties radio. Rhodes queried Danzig's view that the hyphen was irrelevant and the names were equivalent for trademark purposes.Given the stance, Danzig proposed that the BBC would not mind if he registered the BBC-Three-Counties-Radio website with the appropriate hyphens. A letter from the BBC legal department suggested that, on the contrary, the move would invite the attention of the BBC brand enforcement unit.It's a jungle out thereWe were sorry to hear about the failure ofjungle.comto reach the dizzy heights of billion pound flotation and was instead swallowed whole by Argos.At Jungle's launch at London's Tiger Tiger bar, @large did its best to persuade Steve Bennett not to use  The Lion Sleeps Tonight as its signature tune, because it was too cheesy. Instead we suggested M-beat's seminal jungle music classic,  Incredible. It features the famous chorus chant: 'Wicket. Wicket. Jungle Is Massive.' It truly could have been.
A tiny Pacific island state has exploited a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity provided by the world wide web to fund its newly acquired membership of the United Nations. Tuvalu has sold an American firm the rights to use its internet domain address.Last week Tuvalu was admitted to the UN in advance of the world leaders' Millennium summit.The former British colony of the Ellice Islands is a string of coral atolls with a population of 10,000, situated about half-way between Hawaii and Australia. Fish and coconut butter were its only exports until a $50m deal earlier this year which sold off 10-year rights to its '.tv' domain name.The deal with a US firm called DotTV effectively trebled Tuvalu's national   income. Part of these receipts will be used to pay annual UN subscriptions, a move that would place the country ahead of the US, which is massively in arrears. The government has spent some of the $18m downpayment on infrastructure, internet connections and scholarships.Names such as 'zee.tv' and 'soccer.tv' are being sold on by DotTV to companies setting up internet television stations. China.tv and net.tv recently sold for $100,000 a year. This is in anticipation of high-speed connections that will soon allow broadcast-quality television channels over the internet.'The agreement with DotTV has given our nation a sense of economic independence. Our membership of the United Nations signals to the world that Tuvalu has joined the international community,' said Prime Minister Ionatana Ionatana.'Rarely does the internet have such a direct economic impact on developing nations,' said Lou Kerner, chief executive of DotTV.Tuvalu became the 189th member of the UN during last week's 55th General Assembly, and its prime minister featured in the world leaders' photocall. Only four countries have applied and been admitted to the UN in the past six years; Tuvalu is the only admission this year. The country was also recently admitted to the Commonwealth to reflect its growing involvement in world affairs.In his maiden UN speech, Ionatana raised fears about the effect of globalisation on culture, and rising sea levels, which threaten parts of his country.
Domain names are seen as the new real estate. A strong one helps to guide internet users to a company's website, which is why they can sell for the sort of fortunes made when the property market is soaring.The domain name year2000 fetched $10 million recently, while business.com went for $7m. The UK owner of ebuy.com claims he turned down a similar sum for his domain name. The owner of America.com is offering it to anyone prepared to pay $30m.But experts are warning that many punters shelling out for names they believe will bring them riches are facing nothing but embarrassment and disappointment. The problem is that an increasing number of so-called domain names are not what they seem. Wily internet companies have started selling what are known as 'sub-domain' names, which cannot be registered and are largely worthless.The sharp practice has been given impetus by Icann, the Internet Corporation for Assigned News and Numbers, the world body which oversees the allocation of domain names on a not-for-profit basis. It is poised at its current meeting in Japan to ratify a new batch of domain name identities, known as 'Top Level Domains' (TLDs) because they are recognised globally. Typically, these include names ending in either .com, signifying a commercial web address, or .org, signifying a public organisation. Most of these have been   bought up, and there is still huge untapped demand. Hence the batch of new names.These will eventually include the suffix '.eu', an important signifier for companies wishing to show customers that they have a European presence.However, the suffix has created confusion, - and internet firms have cashed in. One, CentralNic.com, bought 'www.eu.com' for an undisclosed sum, and is selling two-year licences to 'own' names such as Harrods.eu.com and Microsoft.eu.com at &#163;80 each. Yet the addresses offered are not acknowledged as true domain names by the internet's official registration agencies. These agencies will recognise only those TLD names that end in '.eu' - for instance www.Microsoft.eu, rather than '.eu.com'.All of the names for sale are registered with CentralNic's important-sounding 'Global domain names registry'. However, it has no official standing as a registry. Buyers of the subdomains simply have their names entered in its database. CentralNic is lobbying to have subdomain names recognised by Icann, for obvious commercial reasons, but for now this remains only a remote possibility.Other names that have been offered for sale by CentralNic include those with Ford, Ferrari, Marks &amp; Spencer and Barclays before the eu.com suffix. The company also owns 16 other TLD names, including us.com, uk.com and gb.com, allowing it to rent out further sets of sub-domain names.Another company which acts as an agent for CentralNic, named 123.com, is also selling addresses ending in '.eu.com' for &#163;69 each. Those for sale on its website include the titles of large companies, such as Hilton Hotels, Pepsi-Cola, Microsoft and Virgin, as well as the Nationwide building society.CentralNic claims to have a network of 300 dealers licensed to sell its wares.Many subdomain names have already been bought up, some by CentralNic's staff. But any punters looking to buy names and sit on them in in the hope that the firms involved will agree to   buy them - a practice known as 'cyber-squatting' - are likely to end up out of pocket. Marks &amp; Spencer, for example, says it will take legal action if the name Marks&amp;Spencer.eu.com is sold or used for a website.CentralNic's own site claims it is 'fulfilling pent up demand' and helping com panies 'seeking a European identity' during a 'shortage of domain names &#91;which&#93; has concerned internet authorities'.Some people may agree that a .eu.com subdomain name helps achieve this. But don't buy one expecting to make millions. They are the fool's gold of the internet.
Electrical retail giant Dixons has held informal talks exploring options to link Freeserve, its internet subsidiary, with World Online, the Dutch company which last week announced a &#163;3.4 billion merger with Italian rival Tiscali.The fact that Dixons and World Online have held exploratory discussions in recent months heightens expectations that Freeserve may end up part of the combined company. Another option would involve swapping equity stakes. A City source said: 'It would be na&iuml;ve to think the two companies haven't talked. When World Online announced it was talking to Tiscali, it said it was also talking to several other companies.'It is understood that nothing came of the talks, but further discussions are considered likely. However, the source suggested any deal would not be imminent: 'The Tiscali-World Online merger will take time to go through. They won't finish due diligence until December.'The World Online-Tiscali deal is seen as a watershed deal which will prompt further consolidation in the internet access sector. The combined company will have a network of internet service   providers spanning 15 countries and will be the market leader in Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Italy and the Netherlands.The company will have 6.1 million internet subscribers; Deutsche Telekom's T-Online ISP has just 3.5 million. The new company will also have a &#163;1bn cash pile to help finance further acquisitions.However, T-Online has a market capitalisation of around &#163;7.5bn, and analysts believe it is in a strong position to consolidate its position in the market place.The German firm held takeover talks with Freeserve earlier this year, but the deal fell through after the two sides failed to agree a price. Analysts are speculating that the Tiscali-World Online deal will put greater pressure on Freeserve to find a partner.The Tiscali deal closes a chapter on one of the internet sector's most controversial companies. World Online's share price haemorrhaged after it floated in March.At one stage earlier this year World Online was valued at more than &#163;35bn. But investors panicked when they discovered that the company's founder and chairwoman, Nina Brink, had sold most of her shareholding before the company floated.
An increasing number of websites are being aimed at "silver surfers", the fast-growing band of older people who are discovering the power of the internet."It's very easy to write older people off when it comes to new technology," says a spokesperson forAge Concern, the UK's largest charitable operation, which   celebrates its 60th birthday this week. "But the reality is that one in four people aged 50 plus uses a computer in their spare time, some 2.2m older people already use the internet and even more email their friends and family."Recognising the internet as a valuable information and communication tool for older people, particularly the isolated, Age Concern, in partnership with Microsoft, is piloting Mobile IT Training Sessions (MITS) around the UK to introduce the new   technology to older people.This week has also seen the launchHelp the aged's website, which aims to provide 10.8m older people, their relatives and carers with information on all aspects relating to the older population. It allows visitors   with poor vision to enlarge text on screen or change colours.Help the Aged director general Michael Lake says: "The sheer power of the internet to inform and empower older people has the potential to change the way everyone lives their lives. For too long retired people have been excluded from the routes to political and social influence. This will now change as the silver surfers access services, consumer goods and government from the comfort of their own homes."So where do novice silver surfers start? If you can't afford your own computer, many public libraries and local colleges offer cheap access to PCs and hundreds of day centres are also connecting up to give thousands of low-income pensioners ready access to internet sites.There is a growing wealth of websites aimed at those in their middle to older years. Here is a taster of some worth visiting.http://www.helptheaged.org.ukThis user-friendly site lets you access the charity's range of advice leaflets on subjects including pensions, residential care and welfare support as well as background briefings on the older population and government policy. You can also get information on events and campaigns, make donations online and register to receive emailed monthly policy update bulletins.http://www.ageconcern.org.ukThis site comes with a useful guided tour with short cuts to its main sections including news, Age Concern publications, links to other useful websites and a huge range of factsheets on a range of topics for older people which you can read on screen or print.http://www.bbb.org.ukBaby Boomer Bistro is "an internet chat cafe designed for the over-50s" set up by Age Concern's sister organisation Age Resource. After registering by choosing a chat name and a password, you to join in online discussions about day-to-day events and topics by visiting different "rooms", some with specific themes and some designed for private chats. The rooms are regularly monitored to ensure they are not being abused.http://www.arp.org.ukThe website for the Association of Retired and Persons over 50, Britain's largest campaigning organisation for people over 50 with 100,000-plus members. Lots of interesting and useful information on a wide range   of topics including health, study, retirement, employment, property, caring, travel and finance, though the association is an introducer for financial products only from CGU Financial Services. Allows you to email your views on various topics.http://www.vavo.comLaunched a year ago and now with over 40,000 registered members, this is described as the market leading "portal" or "online community" for people aged 45 and over where the site contents are largely dictated by what members want.It offers access to a several channels including news, on-line shopping, health, travel, finance and dating, where you can read features and ask questions of experts.You can also access more than 100 topic areas set up and run by members, complete with chat rooms, on anything from hobbies and leisure pursuits to campaigning issues such as lobbying for better pensions and getting older people back to work.So popular is the site that more than 200 members are meeting face-to-face for a weekend in a hotel later this month to celebrate vavo.com's first birthday.http://www.seniority.co.ukDescribed as an, "informative, fun and interactive online community created by and for people aged 50(ish!)", this is a similar, but smaller, idea to vavo.com, though perhaps a bit more tricky to use.http://www.idf50.co.uk"I don't feel 50" is a lively site set up in 1998 as "the first UK site for over 50s" by   Graham Andrews, who felt that existing over-50s organisations tended to be a bit, "po-faced and institutional". The aim of the site is to give' "practical, unbiased help to people aged 50-plus" and it gives lots of information on a range of serious subjects from financing your retirement to prostate cancer as well as lighter topics such as all-time favourite music albums. Also allows exchange of views via email.http://www.hellsgeriatrics.comAn intriguing site which introduces itself by saying: "For too long the world wide web has been the domain of callow youth. Now it is time for the over-50s to fight back and claim their rightful status in cyberspace." It offers chat rooms and a small mix of both serious and fun topics including a section on alien life and a good humour section. Its irreverent tone is set by the caveat: "HG is a non-profit making organisation but not intentionally so!"http://www.saga.co.ukAs the website for Saga magazine, the UK's largest monthly magazine for people aged 50 and over, this has the current issue online plus a large amount of archived material from past issues.http://www.lifebegins.netThis is an online magazine for, "discerning 50-somethings" which offers great service for novice silver surfers because it explains the basics of website mechanics so clearly.Its forum section, for example, is,"an electronic bulletin board on which you can submit your comments and views which stay on the board for three months and to which any number of people can respond" while its chat section offers, "instantaneous, simultaneous discussions without a written record of what has been said".
With the media already settling into the Sydney saloons for saturation coverage of that glorified school sports day, turn towww.silly2000.com, a worthy and wry homegrown Australian attempt at putting the Olympics into perspective. Updated daily, in both "American and non-American", the site offers surfers a steroids race sweepstake ("bet on those most likely to take drugs"), gossip (do you know the rowing lanes apparently use oversize toilet stopcocks instead of buoys) and spoof news, including an "exclusive" on the record-breaking 100ml urine sample dash. If that doesn't make you chortle, then turn to the Manchester 2000 section which is (yep, you guessed) incomplete.Speaking of sweaty athletes, check out theStinky Feet Project, the long-awaited sequel to the incredibly popular Stinky Meat Project in which one bright spark detailed the various stages of festering meat. The mission now is to develop athlete's foot, largely by identifying ways not to develop the condition (natural fibre socks changed regularly and washed feet) and then go the opposite way. Result? Plastic bags around your feet sealed at the top with Vaseline to create "an airtight, precious greenhouse effect" and walking barefoot around a local swimming pool changing room.Another experiment, this time on a more psychological level, is theGoing Undergroundwebsite, which is devoted to unravelling the odyssey that is Tube travel. Pride of place goes to some hilarious driver announcements such as this: "Hello this is your driver speaking, I am the captain of your train, and we will be departing shortly, we will be cruising at an altitude of zero feet, and our scheduled arrival time in Morden is 3:15pm. The temperature in Morden is approximately 15 degrees celsius, and Morden is in the same time zone as Mill Hill East, so there's no need to adjust your watches."
Oxford Classical Dictionary (3rd edition)Windows CD-Rom	&#163;47 Oxford University PressTo assess the worth of a reference book, you have to live with it for a while and note how well it comes to your aid when you need it. Until then, the best you can do is a bit of random tasting, which is what I did with the third edition of the Oxford Classical Dictionary published on CD-rom by the Oxford University Press and powered by Versaware.Mostly it lived up to expectations. I took, for a start, two famous double acts, one from history and one from legend: the political rivals Marius and Scylla, and the perils to    Odysseus Scylla and Charybdis. The entries combined the scholarly with the readable. Scylla and Charybdis used often to be called into service where nowadays we would talk of being between a rock and a hard place: in other words, if one didn't get you the other one would. Charybdis is defined as whirlpool or maelstrom in a narrow channel of the sea ("later identified    with the Straits of Messina, where there is nothing of the kind": thank you for that), while Scylla is conjured out of the deeps with relish: a fantastic monster with 12 feet and six heads who lurked in a cave situated high up on a cliff opposite Charybdis, "darting her necks out like a kind of multiple Moray eel to seize dolphins, sharks and passing sailors... in art, her dogheads   are transposed to her waist, freeing her upper body to become an alluring woman, while her lower body becomes fishy." Delightful. Marius and Sulla aren't quite so much fun but have meaty, reliable entries.The real joy in each case, and where the CD scores mightily over the books, is the way each entry is peppered with cross references to which   you can switch in less time than it used to take Scylla to gobble up some poor mariner.Could it be just a touch austere? Julius Caesar is listed as Iulius Caesar. I looked up Aeschylus, but found no account of his death, which my ancient reference books say occurred when an eagle dropped a tortoise it was carrying on the poor fellow's old bald head, mistaking   it for an egg and hoping to use the tortoise to break it. Still, I learned quite a lot while looking up tortoise: that Hermes on his first day of life found one and transformed it into a lyre before going off and stealing Apollo's cattle; that the tortoise and half-tortoise were part of the Attic system of weights; and that there used to be an old joke about a scholastikos who brought a raven in the hope of testing claims that it lived to 200 years. "A very similar story" the OCD adds with the sort of quirkiness which lights up a good reference book, "is related of a modern politician who took up tortoise-keeping in retirement". But it does not say who this was. Very frustrating.Frustrating too is the way that a segment called Gallery holds out the promise of all sorts of multimedia treats, and yet there are none when you get there - presumably because the OCD has been spatchcocked into a pre-ordained Versaware formula which it does not quite fit. As the instruction book oddly says: "Gallery view allows you to view your media items - there are no media items in OCD on CD-rom." Otherwise, though, I think we have the firm expectation here of many happy hours of instruction and enjoyment.
The Amazon bandwagon rolled into Paris last week for the glittering launch of the giant net retailer's latest branch,www.Amazon.fr. Before a lavish party on the Seine, chief executive Jeff Bezos declared ambitions for the French site familiar to Amazon-watchers around the world: to become number one in the country for online sales of books, CDs, videos and DVDs.But Amazon might not find France as easy to wow as the UK or Germany, its other European beachheads.As well as fierce competition from three local incumbants, the American retailer will also be unable to use a key weapon in its armoury - price cutting.Amazon started working on its French website in secret 18 months ago. The company failed in an effort to buy an existing online bookshop, so had to build everything from scratch. "We chose France as our third European plant," says Amazon.fr managing director Georges Aoun, "because electronic sales are really taking off, with the largest growth in Europe."But other companies have bet on the same idea. "Book sales in France are valued at 14 billion francs (&#163;1.4bn), out of which only 0.5 per cent are sold on the Internet," explains Sophie Rasle of a rival,bol.fr."In comparison, in the United States, 5.4 % of books are sold on the Internet. We hope the arrival of Amazon will boost the market."Indeed, all Amazon's competitors in France remain positive, counting on enlargement of the market. The leader in online book sales is fnac.com , whose bookshops also dominate the "bricks and mortar" market for books and CDs, with a 15 billion-franc (&#163;1.5bn) turnover."We are rather surprised that Amazon did not come earlier," says Jean-Christophe Hermann, fnac.com chairman. "Isn't it risky arriving so late?"In second position comes Alapage.com, a website bought by France Telecom in October 1999. Its creator, Patrice Magnard, is confident too."We have been established since 1988 when we started online sales of books with the Minitel system. We launched our website in March 1996."Far behind Fnac and Alapage comes a CD discounter, Amazon.com and bol.fr, launched in February 1999 as a joint-venture between German publishers Bertelsmann and French counterpart Havas.With its French website, Amazon is taking aim at a worldwide market of 160-million French speakers. But the e-tailer, which has lost 70% of its market value this year, is likely to find it as difficult to turn a profit with amazon.fr as it has elsewhere. In France, most commentators think e-commerce will not be profitable for another three to five years."Our development requires lots of investment, in terms of technology as well as logistics," says Amazon's Georges Aoun. "Our advantage is being able to share these investments between several countries, as for our call centre for customers in the Netherlands."But despite its multinational approach, Amazon will still have to abide by France's block on book discounting.The bar exists because, in France, books are considered "privileged vehicles of culture", and have to be accessible to any citizen at the same price in any part of the country.But Aoun says discounting is not a vital part of the Amazon offering. "One cannot say that Amazon won the American market because we offered 30% discounts," he claims. "Prices don't determine the choice to buy online. Customers appreciate the large catalogue we offer as well as shopping at any time.""E-commerce is not alone in using price competition in the   United States and in Britain. This is linked to the structure of the market. Moreover, in Germany, where prices are regulated, Amazon.de is the market leader."That site was launched in October 1998, six months after Amazon bought up a small online bookshop, Telebuch.de. Most countries in the European Union regulate the price of books. Only Belgium, Finland, Ireland, Britain, Luxembourg and Sweden do not.To counter regulation, many readers go to Belgian websites, such as Proxis.be, which offer discounts on French books. But this importing of books is against French law, and the publishers' trade union is now suing the Belgian website."Belgium is worth it if you are here to pull it off quickly and then leave," says Aoun. "But if you want to become rooted in a market, you have to play the game.""The Belgian examples are not convincing," adds Jacques Mazel of publishers Fayard. "Our position, as French publishers, is to refuse to supply them."For him, e-commerce in books is a real opportunity, even without discounts. "It's important for us to be referenced by these websites   because it makes it easier to sell older books that one can rarely find in a bookshop."Antoine Gallimard, chairman of the eponymous publishing house, also says that "electronic technology must enable us to preserve the content of our books."But he warns: "We have to invent new solutions to stop Amazon, Alapage or Fnac   alone controlling the market. Once we are able to use the Internet to support our writers and discover others, we will have won our bet."Jean-Christophe Hermann, chairman of the online wing of giant French retailer Fnac, adds that France's restrictive laws could even be good news for Amazon, which has watched its stock plunge in   recent months in the face of market worries about when it will become profitable."The economic model of the internet does not make goods cheaper than when they are sold in traditional shops," he says."Amazon cannot afford to be a discounter anymore. Because of its terrible losses, it has to become profitable."
A senior German minister said yesterday that the government was planning a tax on the most advanced computer, internet and telecom equipment.According to a report on the proposal, the tax will hit CD "burners", hard discs, modems, ISDN lines and other equipment used to copy digitalised information. The aim is to raise funds to pay for the use of intellectual property.As such, it represents a contribution to the debate sparked off by attempts in the US to curb MP3 sites like Napster.But it will also revive the debate on Germany's will to modernise, and it raises more questions than it answered.Representatives of the information technology industry in Germany said it would be a tax on progress.J&ouml;rg Menno Harms, of Bitkom, which represents the German new media industries, told the newspaper Berliner Zeitung: "In no other country in the world would consideration be given to such a wide-ranging regulation."The paper said the industry reckoned that the tax could add up to 30% to the cost of the equipment affected.The justice minister in Gerhard Schr&ouml;der's centre-left cabinet, Herta D&auml;ubler-Gmelin, insisted in a statement that the rate would not be punitively high.But she said: "We have to find ways for authors, journalists, musicians and others engaged in creative activity to receive an appropriate return."Germany also imposes similar levies on equipment whose main function is copying, including scanners, photocopiers and fax machines. The rate varies according to the capacity of the machine, from DM75 up to DM600 (&#163;25 to &#163;90) an item.The proceeds are paid by the manufacturers to companies which specialise in collecting royalties on intellectual property, which pass the fees on to clients such as authors, composers and screenplay and software writers."Everyone who buys a tape recorder already unwittingly pays a tax which, incidentally, is low," Ms D&auml;ubler-Gmelin said."The cost of bringing modern media within the scope of the compensation act by changes to the law will not over-burden the consumer to the extent that representatives of the interest parties have claimed. The inclusion, however, is needed, to protect intellectual property."Berliner Zeitung said that since the tax would only be payable when the products were bought in Germany, there were fears that it could prompt hi-tech firms to flee the country or sell their products from abroad by mail order.
It is often said of the internet that Content is King: but it is not true. Access is king, because      without access there can no content. The growing worry is that the internet, despite genuine      government initiatives both here and in the US, will continue to be disproportionately rich, white      and middle class.The bare statistics of the digital divide are now fairly well known. In Britain, according to a      recent Guardian/ICM poll, 59% of the most affluent AB social group have internet access      compared with only 14% of the poorest DE classes, which include the unskilled. In America white      people are much more likely to have a household computer than African-Americans (44.2%      compared with 29.0%) though, interestingly, the gap at work is much less pronounced.Long before Francis Bacon coined the phrase "Knowledge is power", quick access to information      endowed the recipient with a comparative advantage. The arrival of an information society      turns it from an advantage into a necessity. Speed of access to information - whether share      prices, new scientific research or news - is more vital than ever.And in the information age you need not only knowledge of facts but also knowledge of the skills      that produce the knowledge industry, because most new jobs require them.       Within these trends, subtler changes are taking place. For instance, circles of those with      privileged knowledge are widening at the expense of those outside them. In pre-web days, for      instance, only an elite circle of people had access to insider knowledge and analysis in the City.Now, thanks to the proliferation of financial web sites with instant (and usually free) access to      share prices, charts, analysis and instant gossip, the insider circle has greatly increased. But      the gap between those in the loop and those outside it is widening, especially as knowledge      itself becomes the source of competitive advantage.The digital revolution has opened up a new divide within existing workforces. Older workers      (over 40s these days) find that, suddenly, youth is preferred over experience, and stored      knowledge is devalued, counting for nothing because of the cultural revolution within the new      companies. Suddenly, twenty-somethings are running their own companies instead of being      corporate cogs in a bigger machine.A new kind of divide is also opening up as a result of the changing relationship between capital      and labour. As Professor John Kay has pointed out, the capital market is no longer there to      provide capital for the development of the business but to enable people who dream up new      ideas for new businesses to get the benefits as quickly as possible. If this succeeds then it will      open up yet another financial divide in society.Judging by the rate at which new dot.com      companies have been falling in recent months, though, it could have the opposite effect.No one is more outside the loop than developing countries. When you read of the amazing      electronic markets that are being constructed to harness the deflationary powers of the web      and bring down the prices of raw materials and commodities, remember who is at the other end      of the chain. Almost certainly it will be a developing country which was already suffering from      the decline of its main source of income (commodities), even before the success of the      internet.There has also been a big switch of equity and investment capital from developing countries to      the hi-tech markets of the booming internet economies - though the way the market has      collapsed suggests that much of that capital may have had a higher return if it had been left in      the Third World.It is not only wrong but counter-productive to allow the Third World to fall even further behind.      As Hasso Plattner, co-chief executive of SAP AG, the German software firm, told the World      Economic Forum this year: "The more the &#91;developing nations&#93; can be members of this digital      society, it will help us to trade with them, and then live in a more prosperous world"       This is a double tragedy because, unlike previous revolutions, the internet is capable not only of      narrowing the gap between the knowledge-rich and -poor but also the speed at which that      happens.The industrial revolution started 200 years ago but its ripples have yet to reach huge      areas of the world - especially in Africa. No one ever had an economic incentive to build high      capacity telephone lines to homes in remote parts of Africa because the cost of constructing      landlines is prohibitive. And the village, being its own network, had probably had no desire for      wider communications.Remember, most people in the world have yet to make a telephone call, and more than 90% of all      computers are in the developed countries. Wireless technologies are now available (the      satellites are already passing overhead) that could enable African countries to leapfrog the      industrial revolution into the information age. That ought to be the prime concern of the World      Bank. But it is not happening.The fruits of the information revolution are going disproportionately to those who are already      in the loop. A new underclass is being created in developing countries - and within developed      ones - from which it will be even more difficult to escape.       The internet started life as a mutual society, but it was a mutual society for those who could      afford to be in the know.Unlike physical wealth, units of information can be distributed without      any extra cost.       But the problem of providing affordable access to enable poor people to make use of all the      "free" knowledge has not yet been solved.
Gambling has such an immoral reputation, it's hardly surprising that online bookmakers and casinos are springing up at a furious rate.The latest Forrester Research figures show that 5% of the UK's population has already visited gambling web sites. Yahoo'sdirectory of web-based gamblinglists more than 500 online casinos. The vast majority of these, however, are based in the US and will be unfamiliar to most people in this country. You need to be sure the casino is regulated, the games are honest and your credit card details are safe.So the safest route into online gambling is to pick an established name that you already know and trust. Alternatively, the0-Casino Guideclaims to have a comprehensive directory of legal sites that have been checked for trustworthiness. Which is fine, assuming you trust the 0-Casino guide...With most online casinos, you need to download a piece of software in order to play    the games and lose your hard-earned cash. Once the software is in place, it provides a much more interesting experience than the internet alone can supply, with flashy graphics and sound that do not take an age to download. The William Hill Casinowww.williamhillcasino.comwill send you a free CD if you don't fancy waiting an hour to download the full version of the software.William Hill runs 25 different casino games, including poker, blackjack, baccarat, roulette, craps and a number of slot machines. The software is very easy to use; perhaps a little too easy, considering the minimum stake of $5 (about &#163;3) and Lady Luck's desertion of me on the blackjack table. To keep you coming back for more, William Hill also offers a free daily Break the Bank game, where you can win $100,000 if you guess the combination to the vault.One of the more interesting facets of an online casino is that it allows you to play unfamiliar games for low stakes, at your own pace. No impatient glares from the dealer, no tut-tutting from fellow players and no free brightly coloured drinks to addle the brain. My   blackjack skills have long been a source of concern for my bank manager, but a few minutes of free online practice, trying out different tactics, improved my game immensely.Despite knowing the games, most people have never been inside a casino. Bookmakers, on the other hand, are almost a national institution, with the Grand National turning thousands of otherwise normal folk into avaricious turf pundits. However, many people regard the shops as off-putting, not least because of the cigarette smoke, impenetrable jargon and the lingering stench of financial desperation.The best online bookmakers have solved the first two problems by designing their sites to be friendly, secure and a doddle to use, even for the beginner. The third problem can only be avoided by betting within your means, whether it's online or on the high street.All the big names are now online, including Ladbrokeswww.ladbrokes.comand William Hill. Ladbrokes offers straightforward tax-free betting on most sports, although the site is a little slow and uses decimal odds (such as 2.35),    which can be a bit confusing. At the moment, new customers receive a free bet of up to &#163;20 when they make their first wager on the site. William Hill beats this offer by five pounds, using the traditional method of displaying odds (for example, 13/8) and is slightly faster. Another big name to make it online is the Tote, appearing as Totalbet atwww.totalbet.com. It's a well-designed site, with plenty of different sports to choose from, but it's not quite as friendly as the other two.If traditional betting doesn't take your fancy, perhaps you should consider spread betting, where the potential winnings - and losses - are dramatically increased.Sporting Indexis the most famous name in spread betting but most of the big bookmakers also offer it. If you want something even less traditional, check outwww.flutter.com. Flutter is a new concept in organised gambling: it offers you the chance to bet directly against other individuals. To create a bet, you choose the event, set the odds and specify how much you want to wager. If the odds are attractive enough, another punter will take you up on it.Recently, the popularity of Big Brother has been reflected in a massive rise in flutters about Channel 4's hit show. It's fun, simple and the selection of bets ranges from world-shaking events such as the US Presidency race, to the ludicrously banal, such as the hair colour of the Sun's page three girl on a particular day. I'll have forty on the ginger.
Book fitsNow you can tailor a book's content to fit the jacket. Go towww.booktailor.comand you can select the contents and add a name and dedication before the book is printed and wire-bound. Booktailor provides personalised travel books based on existing contents from Lonely Planet, Insight Guides, various periodicals, websites and other sources. My 250-page guide to Paris would have cost &#163;17.99 if I'd taken it to the checkout. Next year, Booktailor plans to offer cookery and health books, too.Art decodesBBC Online has launched a populist arts site atwww.bbc.co.uk/artzone/. The four main sections are Poetry, Display (digital arts), Sonica and Takeaway. Poetry includes poet-in-residence John Hegley writing a secret diary, while Takeaway offers art works as free downloads. Artists include Gilbert and George and the Asian Dub Foundation.Think tankThree students have produced an outstanding piece of work for their ThinkQuest website competition entry,Astrobiology: The Living Universe. The site has more than 100 pages, including 13 original interviews with leading figures in the field; it can also be printed out as a 400-page illustrated text book. The entry has been created over the past year by Adrian Hon from England, and Katherine Harris and David Sewell from Canada. Hon, aged 18, also runs a weblog atwww.vavatch.co.uk.Greatest hitsThe All-Star Newspaper is a newspaper site that links to articles published on free-access sites such as the New York Times, the Washington Post and Guardian Unlimited. Although American, it has a strong international section. Articles are chosen by the editors of Brill's Content and assembled atwww.allstarnewspaper.com.Net diskThere are now lots of sites that let you store files online, using part of a web server as though it were a disk drive. Almost all of them are horrible. However, the pioneeringI-driveis claiming a leap forward in usability with downloadable software that lets users "drag and drop" files to an I-drive on their Windows 98 desktop, and even play MP3 files from it. Useful - especially if you have a fast, always-oninternet connection.Rasta tripBanja is a novel interactive game based on high-quality cartoon graphics and worth a look even if you hate Macromedia Flash animations. The game takes place in an imaginary parallel world called Itland. New episodes will be released monthly atwww.banja.com.Eddie's Emmy?Will Eddie Izzard win an Emmy for his TV programme, Dress To Kill? Find out on September 10, when the 52nd annual Primetime Emmy Awards are webcast by ABC at http://abc.com/emmys/. Variety magazine has a compilation of stories about some leading nominees atwww.variety.com/emmy2000, while the official site is atwww.emmys.tv.New and notedTaoTalk is running a joke competition with a &#163;1,000 prize for the winner, but you have to register to listen to entries atwww.taotalk.com. A site to distribute the work of top American comedians is being developed atwww.laugh.com. Fans of Icelandic films will enjoy the entertaining and well-designed website atwww.icelandicfilms.com: it is much better thanBritfilms.com.The London Free Listprovides a brief guide to free and cheap things in London, whileGo-helpis a shopping route that helps raise funds for schools. Online Originals, the world's first publisher of e-books, has announced its 12 nominations for theFrankfurt Book Fair, which offers a top prize of $100,000.Six of the bestProtecting children on the netOnline safety tipswww.safekids.comEU guidancewww.netaware.orgUK governmenthttp://vtc.ngfl.gov.uk/vtc/library/safety.htmlInternet Watchwww.iwf.org.ukAmerican CyberAngelswww.familyguidebook.comPromoting net usewww.childnet-int.org&#149; Sites suggested by What PC? magazine
Game, set and match to DreamcastVirtua TennisDreamcast	&#163;39.99 Sega ****Never mind virtual (or virtua, as Sega misspells it) - this  is real. State of the art visuals and a magical pick-up-and-play factor mark this down as a definite top seed.The first thing you'll notice is the graphics and - oh my, what a beauty. Superbly animated players compete on realistic courts that bring Wimbledon memories flooding back. Eschewing any tactics - initially at least - VT offers instant thrills as you smash some cross-court passes. Even the most cack-handed will be able to participate and doubles offers the most enjoyable four-player thrills this side of Goldeneye.The controls are two- button simplicity - shoot and lob - with the shots determined by proximity to ball, length of time button is held down, and the player   used. The player list includes Henman for the patriotic and Philippoussis for devotees of power servers, but no Kournikova. Still, the variety of courts makes up for the sexist selection policy.To counter any longevity worries, Sega has developed an extended one-player option. This takes the form of a world tour where, 300th in the world, you have to work your way to the top by a mixture of training and competitions.The training itself is a joy as you knock inflatable balls out of the court or aim for targets. It makes up for the disappointment of tournament games being restricted to one set.Yes, its marketing is invisible, and, yes, it is in danger of being swept away by the PlayStation 2 tidal wave, but the Dreamcast is a vastly underrated machine and in Virtua Tennis it has the outstanding sports game of the year.  (GH)Vengeance belongs to the hunted buckDeer AvengerPC CD-rom	&#163;24.99 (tbc) AAA Game/Simon &amp; Schuster	**Deer Avenger 2***If a friend sent you Deer Avenger as an email attachment, your response would be immediate. "Wow, this game is brilliant! They should sell it in the shops!"If, on the other hand, you bought it in the shops, you'd probably do your nut.Deer Avenger gets off to a cracking start. You play the part of a brassed-off buck   who has had enough of being a target for drunken hillbillies and decides that it's payback time. And so, with a choice of slingshot, M-16 rifle and bazooka, you take to the woods to blow nine hells out of your former tormentors.The gags in the game more than live up to the premise. If things get too quiet, you can smoke your prey out with an ear-splitting bum belch; alternatively, you can lure them into the open with a selection of hilarious hunting calls, such as "Help me, I'm naked! And I have pizza."But while the cartoony 2D graphics have no pretensions towards sophistication, there's none of the creative genius that went into, say, Sam &amp; Max seven years ago. More seriously, the replay value is next to zero: turn round in a circle (you can't move) and blow a hunter into   bloody chunks once and you've done it a thousand times. What's more, many of the references will be lost on any Brit who hasn't watched Deliverance a hundred times.Deer Avenger 2 is an altogether more polished affair, with slicker graphics, more frantic gameplay, and the revolutionary addition of power-ups and (coo!) a button that allows you to duck. It, too, however, suffers from needless gameplay flaws: many of your enemies (who can now shoot back) can move faster than you can scroll, and the devastating hardware of the original has been downgraded to tame tranquilliser guns.Not so much a game to keep you up long into the night, then, as something to show the postman while he's sheltering from the rain. (AB)
Josh Brandon has, he explains, carried out a detailed marketing analysis and chosen the perfect site for his new start-up business in the heart of the dot.com capital of the world. So far his financial returns have exceeded predictions and overheads have been kept low. He is optimistic about the future and foresees, like many others in the SoMa (south of Market Street) district of San Francisco, steady growth.But there is one crucial difference between the busy young dot.comers hurrying to work this morning with their take-away lattes in their hand and Josh Brandon. While the former will head at night for their loft homes or the Mission cocktail bars, Brandon will be spending the night on a mattress under the Bay Bridge. Brandon is a panhandler, a word with a more defiant feel to it than   the more literal beggar: he is one of a vast army who now populate the centre of San Francisco as the city experiences the boom of the dot.com world. Estimates vary on how many thousand now live rough and hustle on the street but everyone would agree that they are now as much a feature of the city as the cable car and the Golden Gate bridge."I've been drifting off shore for quite a while now," says Brandon who explains, rather chillingly, that he used to be a journalist. "But I feel as though I'm swimming towards land." Originally from Olympia in Washington state, he had worked for a while for the San Francisco community paper the Tenderloin Times and then for the department of public health. But he had been laid off, the residential hotel where he stayed had been burned out, and since last year he had been living with his   "troll-mates" under the Bay Bridge in a spot where neither the highway police nor the transit authorities could find him. Now he stands with a nearly empty cardboard coffee container hoping some of the dot.com millions will trickle down his way."A lot of the young dot.com workers are very generous and sympathetic," he says. "I never ask for money, I just greet people and I have this game I play with them where I try and guess what their occupation is." In the SoMa area, guessing that the passers-by are dot.comers is a pretty safe bet. His afternoon patch, outside the Museum of Modern Art is less productive. "The ones that come to the (e-commerce) conventions are the worst, they're not a good crowd.""I did some kind of business and marketing analysis before I moved here," says Brandon, who is 51 and dressed in battered leather    jacket, baseball cap and jeans. "It's a question of location. location, location. I make about the minimum wage of $5 an hour if I'm lucky. I've been told by other pan-handlers that I'm doing well. Occasionally you get what we call "blessed" - someone   drops a big bill, $20, $10 - but that rarely happens.""Hungry. Anything helps. Thank you," says Philip's hand-written sign. Dressed in a ripped donkey jacket and with flowing dreadlocks, Philip is also very conscious that he lives in the capital of    e-commerce. "I use e-mail all the time," he says. "A lot of people thinks it's odd that a homeless person has an e-mail address but that's how we all keep in touch with each other." He is able to use the computer at the library to receive and send his messages    before he settles down at his patch outside Borders bookshop near Union Square. Philip is a sweet-faced 20-year-old high school drop-out from Spokane, Washington, whose home is a sleeping-bag under a bridge in Portrero Hill. Kicked out of   his home, he says, by a step-father at 12 he has hitch-hiked and jumped trains across the country for the last few years. He has been on the street in San Francisco for a year but hopes that - thanks to a friendly young web site designer who took pity on him and helped him make his own site - he might find work one day in the industry that has made millionaires of young men his age."My passion is artwork and writing and now I can make a basic website. If I can get on to a multi-media studies course I might be able to find work," he said. "Nine out of 10 people ignore me completely but I'm pretty numb to it. I've only had one person kick my sign but my friend has been spat at. I don't think I'd take that."His mother was worried about him, of course, but he sent her art works and kept in touch by email. His most   generous clients? "No, it's not all the people who've made money here. It's usually people who are poor or have been in the same position." Male panhandlers heavily outnumber women, he said, although he had a woman friend who lived under the freeway. The highlight of his day, he said, would be to be able to have a coffee or tea and a read - he had a copy of Clive Barker's Weaveworld in his tattered bag - in the Baghdad Cafe. "I live on tea, and if I have enough money some granola."Playing the flute nearby and soliciting donations in a Drum tobacco tin is a musician from Atlanta who introduces himself as Sir Rico Diablo. "I went to college," he says with a smile. "I even graduated out of computer school and I look at Silicon Valley and what's happening there, but I've been a wild person all my life and I love   the streets." Now 50, he had played in a band for 15 years, he said, before hitting the streets and playing "everything from Mozart to country and western."I live everywhere now - like an angel. I know that a lot of people make a lot of money here so I call myself International Panhandling Inc. A good day for me is $15."Perhaps the most appropriate tune for Sir Rico, Philip and Josh would be one written in 1932 by Yip Harburg, called Brother, Can You Spare a Dime? Years later Harburg told the writer Studs Terkel why he wrote it: "in the song the man is really saying: 'I made an investment in this country. Where the hell are my dividends?'_ It's more than just a bit of pathos. It doesn't reduce him to a beggar, it makes him a dignified human, asking questions - and a bit outraged too. As he should be."
Soccer shootoutFergie will soon be tackling Vialli in the video games market, as well as in the dugouts in the Premiership. 3DO Europe has announced that Sir Alex has signed up to front Alex Ferguson's Player Manager 2001, previously called Player Manager 2001. Vialli's offering is Gianluca Vialli's Premiership Manager, written by Wayward XS in Italy. Fergie's game will appear on the Sony PlayStation in November and on the PS2 next year. Midas Interactive will publish Vialli's game for Windows 95/98 on November 11.The two giants follow a long line of superstar man agers fronting football management games, including Graham Souness, Graham Taylor, Brian Clough and Kevin Keegan.PSoneSony plans to launch its semi-portable mains-powered PSone games console in the UK on September 29, the fifth anniversary of the launch of the PlayStation. But whereas the PSX, as it is known, cost &#163;299.99, the PSone is expected to arrive at &#163;79.99. Meanwhile, the PS2 is still scheduled for November 24 at the original PlayStation price.Online battleTwo games giants, America's Electronic Arts and France's Ubi Soft, unveiled online gaming systems at the weekend. EA opened the beta test version ofEA.comin the US, with the "British English" and European versions due "late 2001 or early 2002". Ubi Soft's UK games portal went live atwww.GameLoft.co.uk, with 23-year-old Kornelia Takacs, women's world Quake   III champion, flying in from Los Angeles to frag the first users. GameLoft is based in Paris but operates in 11 countries, and has $50 million in backing from the Canadian government.DC downTomorrow, Sega officially cuts the UK price of the Dreamcast games console to &#163;149.99, though many retailers have long since dropped the unofficial price. In the US, Sega is cutting the price to the   traditional industry equivalent, $149.99.Advance haltThe Game Boy Advance takes handheld gaming to a new level, with colourful high-speed action and Dolby sound driven by a 16.75MHz 32-bit ARM processor. Unfortunately, British gamers will not be allowed to buy this little "SNES on steroids" until next year. However, the ancient Game Boy Color may get some competition from Bandai,   the Japanese toy giant behind Power Rangers. Bandai has just shown off a faster, cheaper, colour version of its WonderSwan handheld, which will sell for less than &#163;50 in Japan. WonderSwans can be connected to mobile phones via a WonderGate interface for multiplayer gaming, and in future will also link to Sony's PlayStation 2.Lookalikes, step forwardFirstLook.comand Square are holding a competition to find blue-eyed blondes. The point is that they are supposed to look like Aya Brea, the pistol-packing heroine of Squaresoft's Parasite Eve games. Aya has never made it into the Lara Croft or even Joanna Dark league, but a real life version would be very big in Japan. The top five entrants are invited to the Parasite Eve 2 premiere party in Hollywood. Seewww.firstlook.com/ParasiteEve.
Clie to goSony has launched its Palm-compatible Clie handheld organiser - it is pronounced KLEE-ay and stands for Communication Link for Information and Entertainment - in the US and Japan. But if Sony has a Clie, does it have a clue? The price is high at $399 for a machine that adds little to the Palm Vx except a jog-dial, and that is only useful to right-handers. It has the same limited 160 x 160 pixel mono screen, no built-in MP3 player, and no extra speed or memory. It uses Sony's proprietary Memory Stick for expansion, which is less versatile and not a standard like the CompactFlash slots used in PocketPC machines and the TRG Pro version of the Palm; it is also incompatible with the Springboard slot introduced by Visor.What will further annoy Palm fans is that the Clie connects to PCs running Microsoft Windows 98 and 2000 but not to Macs or PCs running GNU/Linux: this will limit the Clie's appeal against the better looking and more versatile Compaq iPaq, a fast PocketPC machine. Sony is selling the Clie online atwww.ita.sel.sony.com/CLIEand from today plans to offer it atwww.sonystyle.com. That looks the most likely market: Sony groupies.Ear marksYou are listening to the radio and hear a song you like. In real life there's almost no chance that the DJ will credit the track in a comprehensible manner, so you risk never hearing it again_ unless you live in the US and buy Sony'seMarker, which should be available next week. Press a button on   this tiny 26g device, which attaches to a key-chain, and the eMarker will mark it. Upload the data to a PC running Microsoft Windows 98 (no Mac users need apply) and you should be able to get the title, the name of the artist, and perhaps a preview of the song from the internet.Obviously the service depends on Sony logging your favourite broadcasters, but the company claims it already covers about a thousand US stations. And even if you miss a few, it's no big deal for a gadget that Amazon is selling for only $19.99.Get a headDigimask would like to make a 3D model of your head that you and your friends can play with: they will be able to twirl it around and make it say    whatever they like. The Digimask model is quickly generated from two digital photographs, one full face and one profile, uploaded to its websitewww.digimask.com. Gary Bracey, the British start-up's chief executive, says the virtual heads can be used with computer games, on internet chat sites, and on mobile phones, as long as they have been written to work with Digimask's system.Users will also be able to have three free Digimasks, protected by PINs, for different purposes : for example, you might not want to use a wholly realistic avatar in a fantasy game. Bracey is still negotiating with third parties to support the system - three have just been announced - and hopes to hold a consumer launch later this year.
What was your first computer?In 1985, when I was working on Tomorrow's World, we used Apples - little stand-up boxy things. The first computer I owned was a BBC Micro, then I sold it and bought a Toshiba laptop. I was very proud of it!How did you get involved with the net?In 1987, I made a series of drama documentaries about advances in computing called Welcome to My World. We did it on a string of knicker elastic, but got most of the predictions right. My boss at the time used email and newsgroups - the web didn't exist. Later, a friend who worked at the National Physical Laboratory showed me an early web browser, hypertext and hyperlinking. It was a magic moment.How will broadband and ADSL lines affect BBC Online?We'll be able to integrate different elements - video, sound, graphics simulations, text and interactivity - much more fully to create the best possible experience. We're working on formats for a broadband environment in every sphere: drama, entertainment, information and news. For example, we're getting ready to back up the National Curriculum with virtual reality, 3D and avatars, so a student can enter a Yanamani village in Brazil and move around it.If you were emperor of cyberspace, what rules would you make?I would ensure that no one received junk email and that no one would be able to promote violence. I would then revoke my title because the whole point of cyberspace is, of course, that there should be no emperor!What is your recipe for successful online interactive content?First, the experience should be clearly definable so people can comprehend what it is and describe it easily to others. Second, it should be fresh, should startle, amaze and amuse .The experience should also be consistently accessible so the user can get what he wants, without glitches. A great experience also needs to be immersive, like playing computer games or talking to a lover over dinner.What are your favourite sites?The Smithsonian Institutionhas found a special way of ordering an online exhibition and of enabling visitors to find new routes. The navigation mechanism was a real "a-ha" experience for me.I'm also very impressed by the START Natural Language Question Answering System atMIT MediaLab. I think that Amazon is still pretty wonderful. You order books. They arrive. But have a look at theAmerican site, to see how they're enabling users to add value in simpler ways than just submitting reviews. This passes my 'coral reef' test - allowing tiny amounts of added value to accrete into  something very impressive.What would you do if you could do anything?As long as I can carry on learning and doing something I believe to be worthwhile, I'm happy to be where I am. But I do find the commercial world rather tempting.
Phone emailIt would seem that most people who have Wap phones use them primarily for email, if they can. There is a service run atwww.excell.toand lets you send SMS messages to an Italian number where they will be converted to email and sent on. Of course, you have to be able to SMS internationally. Some can and some can't.There is a UK service athttp://aa.nu/faxtextwhich is simpler than the Italian counterpart. Neither have the facility to reply to your emails, but if you can subscribe to BT's Genie service you can setup an email account that mails direct to your phone.Both systems are limited to the number of characters allowed over SMS (about 160), but even so, they serve as a very convenient way of sending emails if you have to send an urgent message.John Haywardjohn.hayward@traffic.co.ukOld trick?Regarding the appearance of ADSL, it would appear that BT are yet again offering a cut-down internet service at an excessive cost. Forty pounds a month, and a &#163;150 installation charge? Come off it! At the moment (for where I live at least) Telewest sounds like a much better option, provided they can live up to it when it finally arrives. Their Blue Yonder ADSL service is &#163;7 a month cheaper than BT's, and offers connection through a 10Mb/s network interface card, rather than the slower USB offered by BT. I certainly wouldn't pay &#163;100 a month for that service but &#163;34 for what sounds like the same service sounds fairly reasonable to me.David Pearced.h.pearce@bham.ac.ukSo slowIt's difficult to beat BT for sluggishness but Telewest's roll-out of broadband access is running close. An added mystery is that Telewest's service is not available for Macs. Many phone calls to Telewest   eventually produced an admission that there was no technical reason for this but that it was a marketing decision. Yet unlike BT, the cable companies do not even have the threat of a regulator enforcing access and competition from other providers.Roger Houghtonmail@rogerhoughton.comBanks' battleIn Is Europe moving too fast? (Online, August 31), Huw van Steenis states that American consumers who bank and pay bills online are 2.5 times more likely to stay with their bank, and claims that this is because "direct debit and standing orders don't exist in the US". This is a European myth I regularly encounter. In fact, similar services do exist in the US, and have for years, although it is true that they are not as popular there. I live in the UK, but pay many of my US bills via direct debit mandate through a US bank.As an e-commerce consultant, I have been telling my banking clients for years that increased competition and diminished customer loyalty are natural consequences of online financial services. The goals of speed and convenience contribute much to the value proposition of online banking.When the industry makes it easy for me to review new services, and open and fund new accounts from any remote location, I am likely to change banks more frequently. The financial services industry in Europe will struggle to address this issue, just as it has in the US.Gregory Boudreauxgreg@hexadecimal.comIn the scanYour article on the ADSL experience makes no mention of the security risks associated with being permanently connected.I recently installed a personal firewall on my home PC and, while doing some internet banking, my PC was probed by hackers some 45 times in 20 minutes. This was using a reputable ISP and a modem connection and is an oft repeated experience.I wouldn't have believed this amount of scanning goes on, but seeing is believing.For a permanent connection, a personal firewall is surely an necessity. They are readily available and in some cases free. Seewww.zonelabs.com.Andy Jonesandy.j.jones@talk21.com.doc-teredThere is another way to overcome problems with Word files (AskJack, August 31).Recently I received a copy of Quick View Plus free with a purchase from Software Warehouse. It displays the dreaded .doc attachments from which I also suffered and enables me read it, print it or to mark, save and export the content to a non-Microsoft document. It will also handle Lotus and Adobe formats. It is a cheaper solution than upgrading Word.Harold Smithharoldsmithbhs@hotmail.comThankyou!I recently asked Jack for help with unscrambling attachments. I have since received several email replies from readers adding to (and occasionally questioning) Jack's advice.Everyone has been extremely helpful, and it was interesting to discover that I am not alone with the scrambling problem.A solution (short of buying Word 2000) is to download Word Viewer 97-2000 (as Jack suggested), and then whenever I need to open a Word attachment I save it to the desktop and then right click on it to use Word Viewer to open it. You can't edit in Word Viewer, but you can save - so just select all, then copy, and you can then paste it into Word in your usual version. Easy really!Thanks to everyone for their helpful suggestions.Melanie Henwoodmelanieh@msn.comCD pricesWith regards to Mr Bullock's pricing of CD-RW disks (Feedback August 31), I feel I should point out his confusion of CDR and CD-RW.CD-RW disks are re-writeable and incur a far greater cost. Paying upwards of &#163;10 per CD-RW disk is commonplace.  Prices for the CDR variety - writeable only once and more susceptible to "coastering" - are far lower.Tom ParishTJParish@baldmosher.demon.co.ukCorrectionThe address given last week for the new CD-rom magazine about London should have beenwww.listlondon.comand not www.londonlist.com.
The games industry is in a slump, and the European Computer Trade Show, held at Olympia over the weekend, was the dullest event for years. But the future looks good. Nintendo sent Shigeru Miyamoto, its Japanese superstar game designer, to show off its next generation Gamecube, Sony mounted a huge display around the PlayStation 2, and Microsoft had its two top games gurus rounding up developers to work for the forthcoming Xbox games console.The games console business is cyclical, and everyone expects a boom to follow the bust. In fact, Ray Maguire, UK managing director of Sony Computer Entertainment, says he expects the business to come back bigger than ever, as it has following previous turns of the technology wheel.Gaming is evolving from a niche market to a mainstream activity, "blending computer technology, DVD and music into one experience," he explains. "That's where we're going with the PlayStation 2."David Gardner, managing director of Electronic Arts Europe, agrees that the PS2's ability to deliver close-to-TV-quality graphics should make the games industry "bigger than it has ever been, because you don't have to imagine it, you can see it. That's the big   win we've been waiting 20 years for, and it's finally coming this Christmas."The problem is that it's not here yet, so gamers are less keen to buy current machines that may have a limited life-span, and they want to pay lower prices for the games that run on them. This has reduced the games industry's income, and led to the current trough.But while owners of next-generation consoles will no doubt be prepared to pay high prices for great new games, it will take years before there are enough of them to replace more than 70 million Play-Station owners, and more than 100 million Game Boy owners. Transitions take time.Things will start to change on November 24, when Sony ships the PS2 in the UK, but Microsoft's Xbox is not due for another year, even if it arrives on schedule. (Both console hardware and Microsoft software are usually late, so I wouldn't bet on Microsoft shipping a console on time.)Nintendo's Gamecube, code-named Dolphin, may be even later. It is expected to go on sale in Japan in March, and in the US in October 2001, but UK buyers will probably have to wait until 2002.Worse, even the arrival of the PlayStation 2 may not give the software business the fillip it needs. Reports from   Japan suggest that sales of PS2 games are relatively low, either because Japanese buyers are using their consoles as DVD movie players, or because the first games have been lacklustre. It normally takes at least 18 months to develop a great game, and the PS2 is reputedly very hard to program, so some software houses may have cut corners in the rush to market.Either way, the PS2's problems have given Sony's rivals angles for attack.In London on Saturday, Nintendo's Miyamoto - the creator of Mario, Zelda and other characters - argued that the Gamecube was a better platform. "We software people have been fooled in the past by claims from the hardware people" who don't deliver what they promise, he said.The Gamecube, however, "is compatible with creating games: it's close to be being the ideal piece of hardware." Microsoft's primary strategy is to beat the PS2 with better technology, and Peter Molyneux, Britain's leading games designer, says: "the Xbox is unquestionably the most powerful of the next generation machines." But Microsoft is also stressing that it is by far the easiest to program, because the base technology - 733MHz Intel processor, Nvidia NV20-equivalent graphics chip, a stripped down version of   Microsoft Windows 2000, DirectX 8 multimedia interface, hard drive, DVD player is already familiar.Ed Fries, vice president in charge of Microsoft's games software division in Seattle, tells programmers: "You don't have to wait for an Xbox, you can start on a PC today."Also, unlike their PS2 equivalents, PC programming tools are very highly developed, and millions of programmers already know how to use them.Both Sony and Microsoft recognise that they are on a collision course, but neither seems too concerned, and Molyneux says the competition will be good for consumers. Separately both Sony and Microsoft seem to agree.Maguire says that Microsoft and Nintendo putting "more energy into the marketplace" will increase interest in gaming, "so in one way they'll take market share, but they'll help grow a bigger market overall."J Allard, general manager in charge of the Xbox project in Seattle, says: "We're going after the same market &#91;as the PS2&#93;, and we're going to spend a ton of money, and we're going to have games that nobody's ever seen before, and raise the bar in the industry. Collectively we're going to grow this category significantly," he says, "as every generation of   new consoles has done."I ask Allard if the success of the Xbox will undermine the market for PC games. This is important, because the PC leisure software market in Europe is bigger than the games console software market - by $3,067m to $2,708m last year, according to research just published by Screen Digest and the European Leisure Software Association (Elspa)."I think there are fundamental differences between PC games and console games," he replies. Allard says he associates words such as realism, solitary, and cerebral with PC games. "Age of Empires is much more thought-provoking than any   console game." The words he associates with console games include approachable, social, and action. "With consoles, the rapid reward system is much more critical than the depth," he continues. "Console games have been more like comic books, and PC games have been more like the Iliad. That requires a little more thought, and if you don't read the whole thing you're not going to get it."This, of course, reflects Microsoft's approach to developers. Both Allard and Fries are insisting that Xbox games must be designed for the console, not just carted over from the PC. But Allard is well aware the differences are blurred, and sees the potential benefit."We have a wonderful opportunity to take the depth of PC games and the approachability of console games and create new forms of entertainment. I think that of the bulk of Xbox games 85% will be just like other console games, but done better. But maybe 15% will have deeper content that takes us to a whole new level," he says.Others are already seeing a whole new level: it's called the internet. That's where Sega has staked its claim, by including a modem with its Dreamcast console, and by launching an online service, Dreamarena. This enables Dreamcast owners to play   online games and send electronic mail.It also allows Sega to think about changing the way it makes money from games: perhaps it could charge for online play-time instead of for disc-based software that is subject to piracy and theft.Sega's problem is that the internet has yet to arrive as a mass market for pay-to-play services, and the services that do exist are dominated by PCs. The Dreamcast may be able to get online, but it provides a relatively poor internet experience, partly because of the low resolution of TV screens that cannot display websites with anything like the quality of a computer monitor. The further worry is that some users may think Sega is deserting its core Dreamcast business - console gaming - when the online arena cannot generate equivalent revenues.Sony's ambitions for the PS2 are also well known: it is intended to become a well-connected home entertainment centre. But as Gardner points out: "Right now, the games consoles don't have the sophistication of PCs for online use, so the PC market will continue to grow."Right now, EA's most successful online gaming service,Ultima Online, is based on the PC. Even J Allard - who was the first Microsoft employee to run a server on the net, and who registeredMicrosoft.com-   thinks the time is not ripe. He's launching a console using the tried and trusted methods developed by Atari and other companies 20 years ago, and that have been most successfully copied by Sony. As he'd told me at the Xbox's unveiling in March: "We are not confused: this is a single-function device entirely focused on the games market. We have to focus on creating great games."In the long term, however, Allard says: "the internet is ultra-important, it's critical." He describes how frustrated he became when catching up with his email on the plane to London, because so many messages included links to websites: "it drove me crazy   that I wasn't connected."That would not have been the case four or five years ago, and Allard reckons that eventually "the same thing will be true of gaming. As soon as people subscribe to the Metal Gear Solid Mission of the Week, and everyone is talking about last night's mission, they'll never be satisfied with last year's static, standalone, disconnected game again."It's just a question of when that time will come. I think the Xbox platform is best suited to catalyse that shift, and I think we'll be instrumental in leading that charge," says Allard. "Are we pinning the success of Xbox on that? Absolutely not. Do we think gaming is going to go that way and never look back? You bet."One of the interesting things about the cycles of the console industry, with its regular peaks and troughs, is that so far every generation has brought a different company to the top. Thus Atari (VCS) was followed by Nintendo (NES), Sega (MegaDrive/Genesis) and then Sony (PlayStation).Sony must be the bookies' favourite to break the pattern and win two rounds in a row. But look ahead to the next cycle, where Microsoft's strength on the internet could tip the balance, and there might be a new champion. It's not Game Over yet.
Briand BeausoleilManaging director, Splash PlasticWe developed the card to overcome the risks of shopping online and have focused on safety, security and privacy. The card can only be used at selected websites that sell appropriate products for the teenage market such as CDs, games, research material and fashion. There are also no risks of over-spending or getting into debt. Children are already using pre-paid cards for mobile phones and are learning how to get most value out of them through text-messaging. Children can be independent from their parents because there are no risks involved.&#149; Verdict:  YesWendy ElmsMother of four children aged nine, 12, 14 and 16Children today are lazy enough already, and this will be another reason for them not to get up off their chairs and get a bit of exercise. Shopping on the net draws them in and can easily become an obsession, so I'd be very wary of anything that encourages it. Although I take the point about the credit on the card, there's still the risk they will just blow all the money at once - and because it's just a card it won't help them learn the value of real cash. It's just another pressure on parents, isn't it? Mine already go on about needing their mobile phone credits topped up.&#149; Verdict:  NoTom HadfieldStudent and net user, 17The Internet will make it easier for young people to spend money, and it will seem a much more usual place to buy things to my generation than it was to my parents'. Of course there are dangers in that, and some parents won't like the idea of a credit card for kids, or that their children can buy things on the net that they can't at the shops. But I'd say this is an opportunity - the answer isn't to restrict them, it's to teach them about responsible spending. In any case, these cards aren't strictly credit cards at all. Every teenager will want one, and I want one too.&#149; Verdict:  YesAnna BradleyDirector, National Consumer CouncilThere's no question that Splash plastic offers advantages. The fact that it is pre-paid means that teenagers can spend only the amount parents have agreed to - much like pocket money. That means parents won't end up with higher-than-expected bills and teenagers should learn to budget. The fact that you can only use the card on certain accredited sites could be an additional comfort to some parents. As with everything, less-well-off parents are likely to find themselves being pestered to take out a card or top it up, when they can ill afford to.&#149; Verdict:  Maybe
Adoption has gone straight on to the political agenda for autumn after the Conservative leader William Hague challenged the government to make legislative changes to the system or face a Tory-backed private member's bill. One way or another, a national register of approved adopters and children ready for adoption looks on the cards. But how far should this go?A new, independent, national website on adoption and fostering, launched by Derbyshire county council and the Derby Evening Telegraph newspaper, is raising many of the difficult questions that any official model will face. In particular, is it acceptable to publish on the internet photographs and details of children without restrictions on access?The precedent for the site was set last year when, amid a welter of publicity, pictures and details of six   Derbyshire children were posted on the web as an experiment. The response was overwhelming, with the site registering 19,000 visits in four days from potential and approved adopters. The council had to employ extra staff to deal with the applications. All the children found prospective parents and two are now with their new families.The permanent site launched this summer, adoption-net.co.uk, provides a comprehensive overview of adoption, fostering and child welfare across the country. It offers advice ranging from how to become an adoptive parent, to dealing with a   difficult child, to even tracing a relative lost through adoption."I would hope this is the way forward," says David Allen, who chairs Derbyshire social services. "Adoption can be a long, arduous process both for the adult and the child. Our aim is to keep bureaucracy to a minimum and so speed up that process. We can provide all the necessary information for someone wishing to adopt. Should they need to get in touch with a particular agency, we will have the contact number. In conjunction with the government, we want to see children adopted sooner rather than later, and not fostered for years."The site has recently been carrying a picture and profile of 11-year-old Heather, who has been in care for five years and is said to be seeking an adoptive family.Allen, who was criticised during last year's experiment, acknowledges the concerns of using such methods. "Obviously anyone can   access the site, and people's fears regarding paedophiles are understandable," he says. "Safeguarding children is our main priority, but in terms of potential adopters, the police conduct thorough checks &#91;as part of the vetting procedure&#93; before applications are taken any further."Allen also refutes the suggestion that the site is merely a picture gallery, promoting a "pick-your-child" ethos. "We show children as ordinary people, in need of love and stability," he insists. "They must consent to appear on the site, and no child under the age of eight is put on. We make sure they are happy to be featured."It is a view that will do little to dispel the misgivings of those who question this approach. But Mike Norton, the deputy editor of the Evening Telegraph, insists that the new website is an effective adoption tool.He says: "When the site appeared last year, we realised how many more parents there were available for adoption. The system as it is just isn't working, as not enough parents are being found."The problem lies in the fact that social services departments don't talk to each other. For instance, a parent in Derby could be perfect for a child in Nottingham, but this may not come to light. Accordingly, the site doesn't recognise any county barriers."There isn't a lot of information about adopting elsewhere on the web. So if a parent in Sussex wants more information about organisations there, we will have the details."In this respect, Norton views the site as a gate-opener, providing guidelines and up-to-the-minute information and news. "If the government announces a press release today," he says, "it goes on the site today".While welcoming any initiative that expedites the adoption process, Felicity Collier, the chief executive of British Agencies for Adopting and Fostering, remains concerned by the abuse of information that both the internet and a national register might promote."Paedophiles surfing the net and accessing kids is a worrying scenario for us all," she says. "And before we have an explosion of children on the web, we need more guidelines. A   password-encrypted site of approved carers would, to my mind, be essential. A child being recognised in the street is problematic, as it may invite advances from other people."And if the child has, say, a love of horses, a stranger could use this in conversation. The particular use of words could also be embarrassing for a child. If he or she is described as being bad-tempered or destructive, this is no help to the child at all. Whether incorporated into a website or a national register, this issue must be addressed."However, Collier does highlight an area where a national register could have a positive impact. She says: "If it provides for the matching with adopters of children in terms of a disability or their ethnicity, that would be most welcome."Her views are echoed by Sue Seabrook, adoption project leader for the Children's Society charity. "We don't know how a national register will work, but a detailed infrastructure will have to be put into place," she says."However, since local authorities looking to place children usually look within their own resources first, a national database, and possibly the internet, might facilitate the process. But webs need good security as paedophiles are very clever and devious. They will use any methods to get to children, so using photographs on a site is a worry."With figures showing more than 5,000 children in England waiting to be adopted, and 1,300 people cleared to adopt but still waiting for a child, Seabrook is keen to give technology a chance. And if it enables more people to learn about adoption, and possibly offer themselves as adopters, so much the better. But she insists that the procedures must still take time."Whatever the methods used, the vetting of families remains a difficult and sensitive process," she says. "It's a real task to look after some kids, particularly those who have had traumatic experiences."However, you have to be positive, and hope that these initiatives will help more children find loving homes."
Microsoft's attempt to build a bridgehead in the mobile phone market was strengthened yesterday after the software company announced a deal with Vodafone.The companies are collaborating on a European trial of a series of corporate mobile intranet products and services with commercial deployment expected early next year. The products will be rolled out worldwide and will have a consistent feel and look for corporate customers, whichever country they happen to be in.Users of the wireless intranet service will be able to send and receive email as well as access in real time their calendar, contacts, personalised web content and online information.The services will be based on standards including the existing Wap technology and the   forthcoming GPRS which is expected rapidly to improve wireless internet access."This is a very exciting partnership," said Paul Gross, senior vice-president of Microsoft Mobility. "Microsoft is committed to investing in relationships with leading operators, so that together we can enable users to access customised corporate services at any time, any place and from any device."The comment confirmed the change at Microsoft, outlined by founder Bill Gates, who last year placed an increasing emphasis on extending the company's reach beyond the PC and into other platforms, including mobile phones and interactive television.It has announced joint ventures with several telecoms companies and has taken stakes in a growing number of cable companies worldwide to exert influence on the choice of software used for internet access via the TV.Microsoft has made several large investments in wireless firms over the past 18 months.To gain ground, it announced a joint venture with Ericsson of Sweden last December to develop mobile technology. It also invested $5bn (£3.1bn) in AT&amp;T, America's largest telecommunications group, and announced a small-scale partnership with British Telecom.
Computer game enthusiasts may have to wait until next May to get their hands on the new PlayStation2, because only 200,000 will be available in Britain before Christmas.Some retailers will be opening their doors at midnight tonight to take orders ahead of the November 24 release date for the unit, which is priced at £299. But manufacturer Sony, which has already sold 3m since its Japanese launch in March, warned last night it will be unable immediately to match the demand.Alan Welsman, marketing director for PlayStation, said everything had been done to prepare for the launch but admitted it might not be enough: "We are all very proud of the product and wish we could make more so we could put them out in the market."Mr Welsman said final figures had not been decided but it was expected the UK would receive around 200,000 units by Christmas. Three million PlayStations will then be sent to Europe by the end of March, with around 600,000 expected to come into Britain. The UK launch of the powerful PlayStation2, which can also be used as a DVD player, was originally scheduled for October 26 but Japanese demand forced its delay.A spokeswoman for Dixons, which will open its Oxford Street store between midnight and 2am, said orders would be taken on a first come, first served basis and predicted the demand would be huge.But the Special Reserve Discount Network website, which is a big supplier of computer games and software, warned visitors of a long wait. "There will be no freely available PlayStation2s this year," it said. "The only way to get one &#91;for possible delivery in May 2001&#93; is to pre-order."Sony is still producing the original PlayStation, which retails for £79 and has sold 74m worldwide and 5.6m in Britain since its launch in September 1995. This model is still selling at a rate of between 10,000 and 15,000 units a week.
Shakespeare wrote sonnets to his love, Shelley sent lyric poetry. Now a couple of lines over the mobile will do the job just as well.The advent of text messaging is breaking down inhibitions in the dating game, a survey showed yesterday. Pollster Mori found nearly a quarter of British people (23%) have embraced the   service, with 37% of users claiming to have sent a message telling someone they love them, while 1% have used it to propose marriage. People in the 15-24 age group are most likely to use text messages for flirting, with 81% using it to make social arrangements.Mori questioned 497 people over the age of 15. A fifth (19%) of 15- to 24-year-old users had sent a text message to suggest a date, 44% to apologise after an argument and 13% to dump their partners.Women are using text messages to gossip and keep tabs on family and friends, with 60% saying they used it to chat, compared with only 34% of male users.Meanwhile, 34% of male users said they use it for work and 15% for catching up on sport results.The trend to text messaging is likely to continue, with 59% of respondents saying they use them because they are cheaper than a phone call, while 55% consider them more convenient.Users have even developed their own system of symbols and acronyms to save space, such as 8-) for "wide-eyed happiness".The survey was commissioned by internet portal Lycos UK, which has begun a free messaging service. Alex Kovach, managing director, said: "The research illustrates we are on the right track with the new services we are providing."
Sema Group, the Anglo-French computer services company, yesterday became embroiled in a row over its accounting practices after reporting first-half results boosted by booming demand for mobile phone software and e-commerce.Profits before tax and goodwill rose 23% to £47.4m in the six months to June 30, exceeding analysts' forecasts of up to £46.2m.But its share price slumped 17% as analysts questioned the company's decision to include surpluses from a pension fund in its operating profit figures.The row centred on the inclusion of a £14.3m refund from its Swedish pension fund as a non-exceptional item. Several analysts said they believed the refund should have been treated as an exceptional item and they claimed it distorted the operating profit.The company has seen its shares gain 86% since May 23, that trend being boosted last week on the back of rival software company CMG's report of higher than expected demand for software system integration services from wireless phone companies.Sema executives said the company beat analysts' forecasts despite the refund, because the money was offset by exceptional costs - redundancies and early retirement for people in Sweden - and the extra costs incurred in France because of the 35-hour working week.Chris Mutter, Sema's vice president of finance, yesterday defended the company's position, saying that the £14.3m pension return was a non-recurring item, but an ordinary and not exceptional item. It was not hidden, he added.According to Mr Mutter, the £49.3m of operating profit be fore goodwill amortisation was a true representation of the company's performance and had not been artificially inflated.Mr Mutter said the pension money featured in the right place in the report, according to the generally accepted accounting principle guidelines.After adjusting for the "exceptional credit", the operating profit before goodwill had fallen by £3.8m, from £38.8m in the first half of last year to £35m this year.Away from the accounting debate, revenues increased 13% to £720m, slightly higher than analysts had forecast, and chief financial officer William Bitan said he expected second-half growth of between 13% and 15%. "We are pretty confident for the second half of 2000."The company is also on the look-out for acquisitions in the United States, where its presence was minimal before it bought LHS Group this year for $4.7bn in stock.Tidu Maini, Sema's senior vice president for corporate development, said he was looking for another company in the US, but it would have to be the right company. Sema would not rush into a deal, he said. "We continue to look for the right bargain combined with the right technology."Demand for telecoms software, such as customer care and billing systems and text messaging, surpassed Sema's expectations. Telecoms revenues rose 28%, including a 130% increase in sales to mobile companies.Revenue from Sema's mobile phones unit more than doubled, and it more than tripled at the electronic commerce unit. Total sales rose 7.7% to £720m from £669m.Sema hired 1,800 people in the first half, taking its workforce to 19,533.
