Amazon is to go head to head with the iPad on Wednesday when it launches its own tablet device, which it hopes will loosen Apple's stranglehold on the market.The online retailer will unveil the tablet in New York, reportedly calling it Kindle Fire to tie in with its existing ebook reader.Amazon hopes its brand recognition and loyal book-buying customer base will enable it to do battle with Apple, which produced 75% of the tablets sold this year.Research firm Forrester reckons the Kindle tablet could sell between 3m and 5m units in its first year.The Kindle Fire will receive a full release in the second week of November seeking to target the important Christmas market,reports the technology website TechCrunch.The tech site, which has seen the tablet, says it sports a colour touchscreen and looks like the BlackBerry PlayBook. Like the iPad, has no physical buttons on its surface.TechCrunch says Kindle Fire will be a 7-inch tablet with a $250 price tag. The initial version will offer wireless functionality but no 3G; it will also have a USB port and speakers, but no camera. A bigger, more expensive model will launch next year.
Apple will unveil the next-generation iPhone 5 on 4 October.According to a typically cryptic invitation sent out to the media on Tuesday, Apple will host an iPhone event at its headquarters in San Francisco next week.The event is expected to be Tim Cook's first outing as chief executive since hetook over from Steve Jobs on 25 August.The unveiling is also expected by many to include a simpler version of last year's iPhone 4 – which has become the best-selling smartphone in the world since its launch in June 2010 – which will allow Apple to attack China's huge market.Cook's appearance would be his first in public since he took over from Jobs, who has been on medical leave since January but fronted three public events for the company until his resignation.Cook ran the company's day-to-day operations during Jobs's previous medical absences in 2004 and 2009, and for the first half of this year. He has been at Apple since 1998 and is credited with turning its manufacturing and supply operations around.Internet rumours have suggested that the new model will have a slightly larger screen than the existing iPhone 4, and that it may include an NFC (near field communication) chip which would enable it to be used with payment services such as Google's Wallet service, which launched in the US earlier this week.That would allow it to compete with Google's Nexus S phone, released at the end of December, which contains an NFC chip, and other forthcoming phones from handset makers.Apple's next-generation iPhone will be on public sale "within weeks" of its official announcement on 4 October,according to US technology site AllThingsD. UK availability and prices have not been announced.Apple had not returned a request for comment ahead of publication.
Disney's next big iPad app? There are toy cars for that. The entertainment company has unveiled a new range of physical toys called Appmates, which will be used to interact with apps on Apple's tablet.The first Disney brand to get the Appmates treatment is Pixar's Cars. There will be six toy cars sold in packs of one or two for £12.99 and £19.99 respectively, which go on sale in October. They will be sold in Disney's physical stores and on its website, as well as in Apple's real-world and online stores.The companion iPad app will be free to download. It includes a mode for children who don't own one of the physical toys (or at least don't have one to hand)."We've been working on this exciting new technology that really brings together the physical world and the app and tablet world," says Jeff Jones, vice president and general manager for digital games for Disney's european division. "They have a capacitive footprint, so when you put them onto the tablet, it recognises what the toy is, where it's positioned and what direction it's pointing in."Children drive the cars around the virtual Radiator Springs world by pinching the two front windows with their thumb and finger to complete the conductive circuit. They can explore, stop by characters from the Cars movies to talk and get missions, and take part in races. Buying more toy cars opens up new areas of the world, while additional levels will also be released in the coming months, bought by the parent through Apple's in-app payments system.Jones says that Disney plans to use the technology for other Appmates products and apps in the future. "The first product launch is with Cars, but this could work with a whole range of our characters and stories," he says."We will have lots more coming out. A lot of development work has gone into this, and we have patents pending on the technology behind it. From a business point of view, it has been an exciting challenge to get the physical product made in China and shipped into the UK alongside the app going live in Apple's App Store."Appmates' October launch is for North America and the UK, with other European countries to follow once the app has been fully localised.Andrew Woolnough, creative director for Disney's European boys, outdoor and consumer electronics division, says the app is deliberately more open-ended than a standard game. "It's an open environment, more like a virtual world than a linear track," he says. "Children can explore that world and then make decisions on what they want to do. It's also more like a traditional toy play-mat in that sense."Disney is not the only company exploring these kinds of peripherals. Earlier in 2011, Griffin Technologyreleased Crayola ColorStudio HD, a free iPad drawing app for children with its own £24.99 crayon-shaped accessory. As with the Appmates Cars app, ColorStudio HD could be used without buying the peripheral if parents balked at the cost.Disney's cars are likely to sell well this Christmas: think of all those iPad-owning parents milling around Apple Stores. Having a physical product from a famous film franchise on real-world retail shelves also gives Disney an advantage at a time when discovery on the App Store is a problem for many developers, and even big brands.The potential downside? The cars are necessarily small: woe betide any parent who allows them to be left at a friend's house, lost in the depths of a toy box or flung out of a car window by a mischievous toddler. Although that could be said of many toys, app-linked or not.Appmates is Disney's latest apps initiative, following the release of a succession of games, book-apps and other applications for children. Not all are based on its big brands either. Original iOS game Where's My Water? is currently topping App Store charts around the world."We have a split strategy," says Jones. "We are working with these great characters and franchises that we have, but we are also looking for apps and games to be a source of new franchises that can work across Disney. There is a two-way path from digital games to the rest of the business."
Mobile phone users in India have been banned from sending more than 100 text messages a day as part of a clampdown on nuisance telemarketing in the subcontinent.The Indian telecoms regulator said the new rules, which come into force on Tuesday, should end the dozens of unsolicited text messages received daily by Indians. India has the fastest-growing mobile market in the world, with more than 700 million subscribers.TheTelecom Regulatory Authority of India(Trai) has made several attempts to curb the burgeoning number of telemarketing firms who bombard mobile phone owners, but messages for credit cards and weight loss have not been eradicated.About 135 million mobile phone owners have signed up to the "do not call" register, introduced in 2007, which prohibits telemarketers from making spam cold calls. But as the cold calling was reduced, the volume of unsolicited text messages sent daily has risen exponentially.However, the 100-message limit is unlikely to inhibit the daily rituals of the heaviest mobile users. Pew Research found that 18- to 29-year-olds in the US send or receive a daily average of 87.7 text messages. Itsstudy of Americans' text messaging habits, released last week, found that mobile users send or receive 42 text messages, on average, a day.
A burst of five links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTumblr Is A Pageview Machine, Now Bigger Than Wikipedia &gt;&gt; TechCrunch"Tumblr taking off like a rocket ship. Richard Branson now an investor. Geddit? "If you are wondering why Tumblr just raised $85 million, all you have to do is look at its pageviews. The super-easy blogging platform saw its pageviews jump from about 2 billion a month to 13 billion since the beginning of the year. It recently passed 10 billion posts, and is adding 40 million more every day. According to Quantcast, which directly measures the site, Tumblr attracts 72 million visitors a month, more than half of those from outside the U.S.""Zynga Profits, Users Decline Ahead Of Proposed $1B IPO &gt;&gt; Gamasutra""...Ahead of an estimated $1B initial public offering (which is being delayed due to "rocky stock markets"), the company revealed its financial performance for the quarter in an SEC filing, showing that its year-on-year profits declined around 95 percent, from $27.2M to $1.3M."".london, .scot, .what? How to work out whether to seek a generic TLD &gt;&gt; Guardian.co.uk""Ultimately, it's only possible to have one owner of one string. Once the process is whittled down through a process of attrition and spending of cash the winner is put into delegation. But remember, it's only possible to put 1,000 domains into the system in a given year. Plus if Icann gets more than 500 domains it is going to process them in batches of 500. You could be in for a long wait…""India cap on text messages to deter tele-marketers &gt;&gt; BBC News""The telecoms regulator in India has put a cap on the number of text messages which can be sent from a mobile phone." Ostensibly, it's to ban unsolicited tele-marketing messages."On Wednesday, Amazon Will Unveil The "Kindle Fire" &gt;&gt; TechCrunch""On Wednesday morning in New York City, Amazon will unveil the Kindle Fire. Yes, this is the name Amazon has settled on, to help differentiate the product from the e-ink Kindles, which will still be very much alive and for sale. And while Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos will show off the Fire on stage, it won't be ready to ship until the second week of November, we've learned. Everything we've previously reported on the hardware remains the same. It will be a 7-inch backlit display tablet that looks similar to the BlackBerry PlayBook. Gdgt's Ryan Block was able to dig up a bit more about the connection. Apparently, the Kindle Fire looks like a PlayBook because it was designed and built by the same original design manufacturer (ODM), Quanta. Even though Amazon has their own team dedicated to Kindle design and development, Lab 126, they wanted to get the Fire out there in time for this holiday season so they outsourced most of it as a shortcut.""You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
A selection of 7 apps for you today:The Bippolo Seed and Other Lost StoriesThe latest Dr. Seuss book-app isn't based on a real book. Instead, The Bippolo Seed is based on seven Dr. Seuss stories originally published in magazines in the 1930s, according to publisher Oceanhouse Media, which promises they give a glimpse at characters and themes that would pop up again later in his famous books.iPhone / iPad / AndroidDisney Princess – Royal PartyDisney's latest iPad book-app focuses on Princess Rapunzel, with a storyline based around planning a right royal knees-up. That includes mini-games to bake cupcakes, create a crown and colour in various Disney princess characters.iPadEvri for iPadEvri claims to be "the world's first topic-based newsreader", letting you dig into more than 2.3 million topics from 15,000 websites to follow the latest news on whatever your interests are. The iPad app then presents the feeds that you're following, or jumbles them all together in a Now Following tab.iPadTop AppsNokia hasn't released a Windows Phone yet, but it does appear to have released a Windows Phone app. Engadget reports that Top Apps promises to help WP users "find the latest and hottest applications" - there are lots of app-aggregation apps for iOS, and a fair few for Android, but it looks like Nokia is bringing the idea to Windows Phone too.Windows PhoneChannelCaster: Social NewsChannelCaster is the latest news aggregation app, starting on Android. In some ways, it's similar to Taptu again, encouraging you to "curate, mash and share dynamically-updated Channels based on your areas of interest". It works across smartphones, tablets and the web, and includes Facebook news feed integration too.AndroidMeporter Local News DeskLocal news app Meporter has been out on iPhone for a while, but now has an Android version too. The idea: it helps citizen journalists buzz around writing, photographing and filming news in their area, then uploading it for the world (or the local world at least) to view.AndroidPlayText – PodcasterAndroid app PlayText promises to convert text content from any website into a podcast, to download or stream from within the app itself. It uses Android's Text To Speech (TTS) engine.Android
Woah, Tuesday caught us a bit by surprise there...
In June, Icann announced a program toopen up the domain name spaceso that anyone could register any top-level domain they fancy. Run an international consortium of banks? Why not buy ".bank"? Like music? Why not buy ".music"? With the deadline of 12 January approaching, more of these initiatives are starting to come out of the woodwork with one example this week being theScottish government making noises about buying ".scot"; another being thePR agency for London seeking ".london". So let's take a look at the mechanics and the costs involved in making your own gTLD happen.(For disclosure, I'm part of a project to acquire the rights to the .app gTLD next year, although this article is not about my project.)Hey, let's do the TLDright here!The idea of opening up the gTLD space has been rolling around for years within Icann, but it's only this year that it has formally approved the plan. Applications open in January 2012 and close shortly afterwards in April. From there, Icann executes its own process to evaluate each application in turn – a process we'll discuss in a moment.Current thinking is that applicants will divide themselves into three types – ".brand" (any commercial brand you can think of, e.g. Deloitte, Canon, etc), ".place" (any geographically identifiably region, e.g. ".scot", ".london", ".africa", etc) and ".group" (any other type of entity, such as a trade group like ".bank", ".money" or ".music"). The industry is expecting between 1,200 and 1,500 applications, 80% of which will be .brand, 10% .place and 10% .group."Sssh… it's a secret"There are a number of sites that maintain lists of who's looking to buy these domains –.nxtis one, run by an ex-Icann insider;newdomains.orgis another. One thing that's interesting to note about this is that although the industry is expecting some 960 to 1,200 brands, very few have declared their hands. In fact, the current thinking is that if you're looking to do a gTLD, not being too splash about it is the clever way of doing things.Depend on the final proposition, having .hotel, .bank, .london and .scot seem to offer a sensible consumer proposition by grouping together similar businesses and organisations – particularly in the case of the "dot.place" applications through the expedient of driving tourism.The reason for this is that obtaining one of these gTLDs is mind-numbingly difficult and terrifyingly expensive – even if you are doing a bid which could be partly or fully funded with public money.When you apply to Icann, you have to pay it $185,000. This is your "evaluation fee". It's not an application fee – you won't get back if you fail. (You can get some of it back if you withdraw from the process.)  This is the charge for Icann to look at your application. (Incidentally, Icann originally budgeted for 500 applications for a total fee of $92.5m. Now that it's likely to see up to 1,500 applications, this fee comes out at around $278m.)To start the process, you take the 325-page Icann gTLD Applicant Guidebook and start reading. The application process takes about nine months for an easy application. The fee implies about four full-time members of staff for each application. Each application comprises 50 questions – 25 commercial and 25 technical. The technical side is considered to be a little more difficult than the commercial, but a standard answer to the 25 technical questions is expected to run to nearly 300 pages.In order to answer the technical questions, you will need a "backend partner" lined up who will undertake this work for you. This is highly specialised IT; you will need someone to do this for you, but luckily there are a lot of people who will do this for you if you pony up the cash. To run a .place or a .group you'll then need to find $500,000 for the first year technical operations. You'll also need an additional $500,000 on marketing to sell enough of them to get to a breakeven point in 36 months or so. Depending on how attractive your domain is, you may find a provider who'll take a punt on this with you and take some equity in exchange for services. To be successful, you need to be selling around 50,000 domains a year (because of course the whole point of having a TLD is to sell domain registrations on it), but remember that the more you sell the more you pay. This also doesn't include any money you may have to find to win the rights to the domain at auction – something we'll cover shortly.But for now, let's pause and take a look at the .brands.The ".brand" propositionIf you run a .brand, this is a bit easier, as you're likely to be only charged  $25,000 to $50,000 a year by your backend provider. But that'severyyear. Forever. Also, for a .brand you're not going to be making any money out of this, though you're going to have a number of full-time staff managing this process from now until the end of 2012 at least, and then someone babysitting it ad infinitum.So let's guess at $500,000 of internal funding for the application, then $150,000 a year at least to keep it running. (Remember this is international trademark law stuff – this is going to tie up a lot of pricey lawyers for a good number of billable days.)Remember too that this is all so that rather than going to "http://www.mybrand.com/", people can go to "http://mybrand" or do things like email "customerservice@mybrand". This isn't a particularly easy sell for what over 10 years looks like $1.5m of anyone's money – until you consider a world where you wake up in January 2013 to discover that big .brands have changed the world and you are the only one in your space still using a boring old ".com", and all your competitors have .mybrand and .ladedabrand under their belts.So essentially there is a huge risk for big brands, both in going for it and innotgoing for it. At the time of the Icann announcement in June about the programme, there was quite a lot of noise from brands about the opportunity. But now – because I suspect the reality of it is not appealing – most have gone undercover. Imagine however being the only women's beauty brand with your own gTLD, or the only car company. Significant kudos. Plus the window is closed for probably five years, so you have plenty of time to make hay whilst your competitors are on the back foot. This is why the backend providers are getting so may enquiries from brands, yet so few have gone public with it.Anyway, whatever type of gTLD you are, let's imagine that you've decided to do it and got the money and completed the application. This is where things get interesting.String contention: like string theory, but harderOn 12 April 2012 Icann will publish a list of who actually put in their application. It's at this point you find out whether or not you are about to have an easy ride.Icann will reject any application that looks like it will intentionally or indirectly cause problems. For example, don't expect to get ".beeb" even if the BBC doesn't put in an application for ".bbc". This is also where the crazy ideas about gTLDs designed to ensnare users in phishing traps stops dead. First, Icann will spot them, and second it asks for masses of evidence of proper governance. Getting one of these gTLDs for nefarious purposes just isn't going to happen.If there is only one proposal for a string, things are easy from here. Work hard for nine months and you'll go into "delegation" and you can start trading. You become a "registry" and you can appoint "registrars" and start selling domains. (Plus now you can be a combined registry and registrar, something with was hitherto not possible.) For reference, you almost certainly will have to strike deals with registrars as in order to get to the 50,000 domain break-even point you're going to need an established retail channel.But if there are two applications for the same "string", those applicants go into "contention". The applications are then invited to resolve the problem among themselves, which will usually result in all but one pulling out. How well this works out for the ones that pull out is down to the inherent value in work done thus far, and how good they are at negotiating. If they can't agree and one or more of them wants in, it goes to auction.(Readers may care to note that there are currently two ".scot" proposals listed on .nxt, which raises some questions, especially as thepress release issued by the Scottish governmentisn't explicit about which one is its preferred one, if any.)The auctions are in themselves interestingly fun: the applicants have to deposit 10% of a secret "bidding limit" with Icann. So, if you give them $1m you can bid up to $10m. Or, if some real money is to be made, you can arrange to have an "unlimited fund", with Icann deciding the cost of joining that particular club at the time. A domain that could move between 50,000 and 100,000 domains a year when up and running could command auction prices upwards of £3m.Where this gets more interesting/terrifying (pick the one you prefer) is that there are a number of very large (in terms of cash-in-hand) organisations out there looking at this as a straightforward numbers game. Imagine organisations able to bid for 50, 60, even 70 gTLDs strictly as a profit-making venture, and which have hundred of millions of pounds in the bank. These organisations will make it very hard for the smaller guys to get into the market, especially as they operate in stealth mode, keeping close to the their chests exactly what domains they are looking to get. It's only when the window closes that will you know whether your little niche group bid is about to get eaten up by some vast investment fund that doesn't share the same principles as yourself. If it would seem like you could shift over the magic 50,000 domains, it's almost impossible not to end up getting subsumed into one of these domain-chewing juggernauts.Is this idea still looking attractive?Yet there is a guaranteed way to make money on this scheme. It's this: don't bid for a gTLD. Go into consultancy or service provision for the new gTLDs.ConclusionUltimately, it's only possible to have one owner of one string. Once the process is whittled down through a process of attrition and spending of cash the winner is put into delegation. But remember, it's only possible to put 1,000 domains into the system in a given year. Plus if Icann gets more than 500 domains it is going to process them in batches of 500. You could be in for a long wait…Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK.  His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
When you own a domain you're a first class citizen of the web. A householder and landowner. What you can do on your own website is only very broadly constrained by law and convention. You can post the content you like. You can run the software you want, including software you've written or customised yourself. And you can design it to look the way you want. If you're paying for a web hosting service and you don't like it (or they don't like you) you can pack up your site and move it to another host. Your URLs will stay the same and so your visitors won't notice. You get a great deal of freedom in return for the cost of running your own site. Your site could still be there in a decade's time, possibly even in a century.If you use a paid-for web service at someone else's domain you're a tenant. A second class citizen. You don't have much control. You'll probably have to live with your landlord's furniture and decoration and a restrictive set of rules. Your content will only exist at these URLs for as long as you keep paying the same people that monthly fee and for as long as your provider stays in business. Experience tells me that this isn't very long. As a paying customer you'll have a few rights under your contract, but they probably won't amount to very much. When you leave you'll probably be able to get your data back in a useful format, but when you put it back on the web somewhere else you'll lose all your inbound links, search engine rankings and many of your visitors. This kind of service seems like a good deal until the day you need to move.Welcome to the web underclassWhen you use a free web service you're the underclass. At best you're a guest. At worst you're a beggar, couchsurfing the web and scavenging for crumbs. It's a cliché but worth repeating: if you're not paying for it, you're aren't the customer, you're the product. Your individual account is probably worth very little to the service provider, so they'll have no qualms whatsoever with tinkering with the service or even making radical changes in their interests rather than yours. If you don't like it you're welcome to leave. You may well not be able to take your content and data with you, and even if you can, all your URLs will be broken.The conclusion here should be obvious: if you really care about your site you need to run it on your own domain. You need to own your URLs. You'll have total control and no-one can take it away from you. You don't need anyone else. If you put the effort in up front it'll pay off in the long run.But it's no longer that simple.Anyone who's ever run a website knows that building the site is one thing, but getting people to use it is quite another. The smaller your real-world presence the harder it is. If you're a national newspaper or a Hollywood star you probably won't have much trouble getting people to visit your website. If you're a self-employed plumber or an unknown blogger writing in your spare time, it's considerably harder.Traffic used to come from three places: the real world (print advertising, business cards, word of mouth, etc), search engines and inbound links. Whichever field you were in and at whichever level, you were competing against other similar sites on a fairly level playing field.Social networks have changed all that. Facebook and Twitter now wield enormous power over the web by giving their members ways to find and share information using tools that work in a social context. There's no obvious way to replicate this power out on the open web of independent websites tied together loosely by links and search engine results.Not so long ago you had to be on MySpace if you were an up-and-coming band. Now it's probably Facebook. Either way, your social network presence is more important than your own website.If you're an independent photographer looking to get established you probably need to get your pictures on photo sharing sites like Flickr where they can be easily found by millions.Many of the most valuable conversations around technology and many other fields happen on Twitter. If you're not there you don't really exist, especially if you're just getting started in your field.Antisocial networkingYou can turn your back on the social networks that matter in your field and be free and independent running your own site on your own domain. But increasingly that freedom is just the freedom to be ignored, the freedom to starve. We need to use social networks to get heard and this forces us into digital serfdom. We give more power to Big Web companies with every tweet and page we post to their networks while hoping to get a bit of traffic and attention back for ourselves. The open web of free and independent websites has never looked so weak.Perhaps none of this would matter very much if the biggest player of them all – Facebook – wasn't such a grotesque abuser of its position. Even before announcingOpen Graphthis week it was pretty clear that Facebook wanted to own everything everyone does online. Facebook currently has 750 million members. If it were a country it'd be the third most populous in the world, bigger than everyone except China and India. The United States has a mere 312 million people – not even half the size of Facebook.Facebook's Open Graph technology allows third-party websites to tell Facebook what people are doing. It extends Facebook's Like button to include any action that the site owners think might be interesting to Facebook. Play a song and your music streaming site tells Facebook what you've played. Read a newspaper article and Facebook knows what you've read. LOL at a lolcat and your LOL gets logged for all time on your indelible activity record. Facebook calls this "frictionless sharing", which is its euphemism forsilent total surveillance. Once you've signed up for this (and it is optional; at least for now) you don't need to do anything else to "share" your activity with Facebook. It's completely automatic.Site owners and developers are lapping it up. Hosting companyHerokupostedthis incredible tweetthe day after Open Graph was announced:Huge Open Graph momentum with social devs, we've seen more than 33,800 new Facebook apps in last 24 hours #f8Yes, that's nearly 34,000 new Facebook apps created in one day by customers of just one hosting company. Astonishing numbers.At least Facebook is upfront about Social Graph.Facebook's abuse of its Like button to invade people's privacyis much less publicised. We all think we know how it works. We're on a website reading an interesting page and we click the Like button. A link to the page gets posted to our wall for our friends to see and Facebook keeps this data and data about who clicks on it to help it to sell advertising. So far, so predictable.What most people don't know is that the Like button tracks your browsing history. Every time you visit a web page that displays the Like button, Facebook logs that data in your account. It doesn't put anything on your wall, but it knows where you've been.This happenseven if you log out of Facebook.Like buttons are pretty much ubiquitous on mainstream websites, so every time you visit one you're doing some frictionless sharing. Did you opt in to this? Only by registering your Facebook account in the first place. Can you turn it off? Only by deleting your account. (Andyou know how easy that is.)Drawing the lineThis is where I draw the line. I'm well aware that everything we do online and many of the things we do in the real world create a data shadow – a digital record of our actions. If you carry a mobile phone, your location is continually recorded by your phone company. If you're suspected of a crime or go missing then this data will be handed to the police. Most of us know this and choose to use mobile phones anyway. We know that when we buy things that transaction is recorded by our bank and the shop unless we're using cash. We know that our computers and our broadband providers record what we do online. But all these things are predictable and at least arguably necessary to provide the services we use. We might not like these intrusions into our privacy but we like the law enforcement, fraud protection and service quality that they buy us. It's a compromise that most of us are willing to make.What Facebook is doing is very different. When it records our activity away from the Facebook site it's a third party to the deal. It doesn't need this data to run its own services. Moreover, Facebook's aggregation and centralisation of data across all our disparate fields of activity is a very different thing from our phone company having our phone data and our bank having our finances. Worst of all, the way Facebook collects and uses our data is both unpredictable and opaque. Its technology and policies move so quickly you'd need to be a technical and legal specialist and spend an inordinate amount of time researching Facebook's activities on an ongoing basis to have any hope of understanding what they're doing with your data.As individualswe can opt out. It's still possible to live a full life in the developed world and not use social networks. Some people may find it harder than others – missing out on event invitations that are only sent on Facebook, for example. Not being able to see your friends' photos because they're only posted to Facebook. Not being able to join conversations on Twitter. But for now there are sufficient alternatives for most of us. As with smoking, it's easier to not start using the social web than to stop. Once you've signed up the cost of leaving increases with every "friend" you make, every photo you post, every tweet you send. That's why I'm holding out against Google+ for now.For organisations and business it's very different. We're already past the point where social networks can be ignored. If you don't have a social networking presence, your businesses is at a significant disadvantage compared with those that do. It's where the attention, the traffic and the conversations are. Even public and government services are finding their social networking activities increasingly important. How long before they're essential?The promise of theopen weblooks increasingly uncertain. The technology will continue to exist and improve. It looks like you'll be able to run your own web server on your own domain for the foreseeable future. But all the things that matter will be controlled and owned by a very small number of Big Web companies. Your identity will be your accounts at Facebook, Google and Twitter, not the domain name you own. You don't pay Big Web a single penny so it can take away your identity and all your data at any time.The things you can say and do that are likely to be seen and used by any significant number of people will be the things that Facebook, Google and Twitter are happy for you to say and do. You can do what you like on your own website but you'll probably be shouting into the void.If I find any answers I'll post them on my blog. But right now things are looking bleak. It's the end of the web as we know it; and I feel pretty far from fine.This piecefirst appeared on Adrian Short's blog. Adrian Short is a developer who has done a lot of work on open data activism, includingArmchair Auditor, locating the grit bins in Sutton, and analysing data about the London Barclays Bike ("Boris Bike") scheme.
Now officially a teenager, Google has celebrated turning 13 in its customarily simple manner with a doodle showing the six letters of the company logo sitting around a cake.With the search engine giant barely out of short trousers, the birthday celebrations come at a time when it is locked in an increasingly intense rivalry with an even younger pretender, Facebook.Amid suggestions that Facebook could become the default form of online navigation, Google recently tried to overhaul its rival with Google+.Research from Nielsen earlier this month showed that US internet users spend more time on Facebook than any other website.At the same time, Google enjoys a 90% share of the global internet search market, according to the most recent figures from metrics firm StatsCounter, although its share varies considerably by country.The doodle is in keeping with Google's low-key approach to celebrating its birthday. Unlike other doodles, it has no animated features and is based instead on a simple design.
Ubisoft has just released this intriguing remix of the Assassin's Creed: Revelations E3 trailer, adding a new voiceover by Ezio and 20 seconds of additional footage. Have a look and let us know what you think...
Samsung has asked a Dutch court to ban Apple from selling its iPhones and iPad tablet computers in the Netherlands, on the grounds that the US group does not have licences to use 3G mobile technology.The Korean electronics group is fighting back against Apple, which has already forced some Samsung products out of the shops in Australia, Germany and the Netherlands.Samsung's lawyer Bas Berghuis told a civil judge at the Hague district court that Apple "never bothered to ask about licenses" before it started selling 3G-enabled iPhones that use the Universal Mobile Telecommunications Standard (UMTS).The two groups are involved in some 20 lawsuits worldwide as they vie for domination of the smartphone market, with Samsung having already overtaken Nokia and threatening to take the number one slot from Apple later this year.Samsung's counsel argued that Apple should have asked for a licence before it launched the iPhone in the Netherlands in 2008, and globally in 2007. Berghuis claimed Apple was infringing Samsung UMTS technology licences structurally and consciously.Apple lawyer Rutger Kleemans hit back by claiming Samsung was using the patent dispute to "hold Apple hostage" because Apple had accused Samsung of copying its designs."It's a holdup," Kleemans said. "Because Apple dared to take action against Samsung's copycat tactics."Kleemans urged the court to reject the injunction request, saying the patents involved "are not designed to be used as a weapon against Apple."Apple argues that Samsung is obliged to offer licenses for UMTS technology on "fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory" terms because it has now been adopted as an industry standard.Allowing the injunction would give Samsung disproportionate power to exploit its patents across the mobile industry, according to another of Apple's lawyers, Winfred Knibbeler. Apple is prepared to pay licence fees to Samsung, but accused the Korean group of making "exorbitant" payment demands in negotiations.Earlier this month, a court in Dusseldorf, Germany, ruled that Samsung cannot sell its Galaxy Tab 10.1 in Germany because its design too closely resembled the iPad 2. The ruling only applied to direct sales from Samsung, meaning distributors who acquire the Tab 10.1 from abroad could resell them in Germany. Samsung said it would appeal that judgment.In the US, Apple has asked for an injunction which would see Samsung's Galaxy S 4G smartphone and the Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer removed from the shelves, while the Korean group is petitioning for imports of iPhones and iPads to Apple's home market to be blocked.In Australia, Apple has forced its rival to delay launching its new Galaxy tablets. Patent lawyers' fees are mounting across the globe, with the rivals also fighting court battles in France, Japan and South Korea.Samsung's head of global marketing for mobile said last week in Seoul that the company would be taking a bolder stance in battling Apple in courts: "We'll be pursuing our rights for this in a more aggressive way from now on."The battle is complicated by the fact that Apple is one of Samsung's largest customers for computer chips. The Californian group spent around $5.7bn on Samsung components last year, some 4% of its total sales.Apple and Samsung are vying for the lead position in the smartphone market, where each sells more than 20m handsets per quarter, having both overtaken the struggling Nokia.Samsung still trails in tablets, where Apple notched up 14m iPad sales in the first half, versus analysts' sales estimates of about 7.5m Samsung tablet products for all of 2011.
Ireland's reputation as the European capital for web companies and social media has been further enhanced after Twitter agreed to set up shop in Dublin.The microblogging site joins Google, Facebook, Zynga and half a dozen other online firms that have set up an international headquarters in Dublin.A spokeswoman for Twitter said: "The Twitter office in Dublin, our third location outside of the US, is a great next step in the company's global expansion."Being typically coy about its operations, it made the announcement in a tweet and refused to say how many staff it would employ or what its plans were for the Dublin office.Google set up its international HQ in Dublin in 2004 with 200 members of staff. It is now one of Dublin's biggest employers with 2,200 people working for it, including developers and sales support staff.Ireland's jobs minister Richard Bruton said it was "a great win" for Ireland and showed that the "underlying strengths" of the Irish economy were recognised internationally.Separately BioWare, the company behind the Star Wars game, is creating 200 support jobs in Galway. The new facility is BioWare's first outside of North America. The new Star Wars game will be released in the US and Europe just before Christmas.The Industrial Development Authority in Dublin has had huge success in attracting new media companies to Ireland. Facebook will employ around 300 people by the end of 2012, LinkedIn 140, while Zynga, which has just opened its European offices in Dublin, will hire about 100 by the end of the year.Other big employers in the sector include PayPal which has 1,300 staff in Dublin, and eBay, which has about 1,000. AOL and Yahoo also have operations in Dublin.Barry O'Leary, the chief executive of the IDA, said he was "thrilled" that Twitter was coming to Dublin. "Twitter is a fantastic addition to Ireland's dynamic digital media cluster," he added.Ireland is attractive to multinationals because of its 12.5% corporate tax rate – but even more so because of laws which allow the likes of Google to legally shuttle profit through subsidiaries in Ireland and onto tax havens.Google, which funnels all its European revenues through Dublin,pays 2.4% tax on operations outside the US.
One of the most enjoyable and revealing developer sessions at last week's Eurogamer Expo was given by Uncharted 3 co-lead designer Richard Lemarchand and actor Nolan North, who provides the voice and body of Nathan Drake. The duo sat on high stools and regaled us with tales from the making of the blockbusting action adventure series, occasionally showing off clips and trailers from Uncharted 3. They even revealed a brand new level, set in a crumbling desert city, filled with gun-toting mercenaries.Mostly, though, they conveyed what a joy it seems to be, to work on this hugely popular series, with its note-perfect pastiche of Indiana Jones and pulp movie serials. Afterwards, I chatted to Lemarchand about the development process, and about some of the new features of Uncharted 3. He's an engaging and thoughtful designer, and he provided some interesting insights into the success of the games...The Uncharted series has always been based around historical figures and recognisable mythologies that players can research and find out more about. How important do you think that's been to the success of the game?It's been crucially important. We call it the Google test and we've been talking about it since the pre-production days on Drake's Fortune. A bunch of us at Naughty Dog have made a study of story-telling, in particular story-telling in film. Every film students reads Christopher Vogler's book [The Writer's Journey: Mythic Structure for Writers], which outlines the conception of the hero's journey for story-tellers. And we realised fairly early on something that the writers of science fiction and fantasy always say: it's important, when you're telling a fantastical story, to ground it. Enough of the story has to be comprised of recognisable nuts and bolts reality so that the audience has something to grab on to during the tale.Uncharted 3: Drake's DeceptionAnd so when we were thinking about the contemporary reinvention of classic pulp adventure, we realised that we're in an age where genre fiction is truly in the ascendancy; we're post-fantasy, post-science fiction, and that is informing literary fiction, cinema and video games. It's very rare that a game is set in consensual reality – it's usually on the bridge of a crashing starship or within the bowels of some dragon-infested cave system.But we knew we had a great opportunity to do something that often gets overlooked; we wanted to make a game that, through the mechanism of being set in recognisable reality, could occasionally pull a mystery or some fantastical element out of the bag and it would have so much more potency as a result.But it's really hard, it's a really difficult to do. Grounding a game happens on all kinds of levels, from silly things you might not think about like stopping two 3D objects from interpenetrating with each other, all the way down to the care we have to take with sound effects and music to make sure that they frame the reality of the game world.Uncharted 3: Drake's DeceptionIt seems that quite a substantial part of Uncharted 3 will be set in a desert. Was that a challenge in game design terms?It was a challenge, although it was a challenge we ran at, we embraced it very enthusiastically. We had great fun in Uncharted 2 with the Peaceful Village section of the game, which I was lucky enough to work on – it was an unusual video game level because the only interactivity aside from walking through the town was those little spot interactions with the villagers. And it's made me very interested in what you can do by mixing and matching intense action sequences that feature complex sophisticated control systems and enemy AI with some things that are much more simple.The desert gave us a great opportunity in this regard. We just prototyped a lot, that's how we find our way through to every great sequence of gameplay. We just start building using the tools; we'd make some environments, and at first, they looked really blocky and simplistic. I'm very proud of my colleague Kurt Margenau, who took the ideas we had on the whiteboard when we started talking about the desert sequences and put together something special. I won't tell you the details for fear of spoilers…[The desert level Richard played during his Expo talk showed some amazingly detailed and atmospheric sandscapes. Grains flowed over the surfaces of dunes, almost like fluids, and Nathan's footsteps sunk into the sand only to be covered by drifting granules almost immediately. There's also an impressive haze on the horizon. For the first few minutes of the level it's just Drake trudging on through these ever-shifting sands, muttering to himself. David Lean's Lawrence of Arabia is a clear visual reference., and the game captures that sense of grandeur, but also fear and quiet desperation]Uncharted 3: Drake's DeceptionYou have said that this game may have more of an open-world feel at times – I wondered if that has been somewhat forced on you by the desert locations?Well, the desert is interesting, because it stretches out for hundreds of miles in all directions, and what does the player do when they're plonked down in the middle of all that? I'm very interested in the psychology of video game players, which is, of course just the psychology of human beings nowadays – I'm fascinated by the kinds of things people will do predictably in certain situations and the places where they'reunpredictable. It's very interesting for a game designer to see how someone responds to an environment that you've created.This is probably going to sound really weird, but the village sequence from Uncharted 2 that you mentioned, where Drake goes around and interacts with all the inhabitants – it really reminds me of the No Russian scene in Modern Warfare 2.(Pause) That's… interesting…It's all about interaction without gameplay; you sort of feel unguided, like the designers have cast you adrift… Is it important to be able to experiment like that in a big budget game? Are there expectations from Sony that you don't confuse players too much?Well there are kind of two questions there. Your comparison with the No Russian level reminds me of something my friend, the game designerEric Zimmerman, says about play, which is that there's a definition of the word that means the degree of looseness in a mechanical system; so, say, the amount of 'play' in a lever. That interaction between freedom of motion and constraint is pivotal to video game design. We find expression of it in the control mechanics: you want to give the player enough different stuff to do so the game stays interesting over time, but you don't want to give them so many abilities that the game is utterly unconstrained. You find the same sort of dynamic tension when you're designing a video game level – we have a whole bag full of tricks we use to give the player freedom while guiding them toward the implicit goals. But yes, No Russian is an interesting comparison to make.I guess the second part of your question is how important it is to have that kind of experimental freedom within the context of a big successful action adventure game, and I think it's very important. We're very lucky at Naughty Dog in that – excuse the awful pun – Sony gives us a very long leash. They let us operate as an independent studio. They trust us to do what we know how to do, and in return we have a great deal of responsibility to deliver a game that will be accessible to most comers. We want to reach as broad an audience as possible. But yes, it was important for us to seize a degree of freedom – we have to keep the experience fresh.I was interested too in the number of dynamic systems you're employing. The rolling waves on the cruise ship level in Uncharted 3 are a genuine physics model aren't they?Yes, everyone's expectation is that the motion of the ship is driven by an animation, but it's not, it's driven by a dynamic water simulation.And you have new artificial intelligence systems, too, so that the enemy behaviour is unscripted. That's quite a change from previous titles, isn't it?Yes, the enemy AIs have a set of rules that they wish to operate by. They have a hierarchical sets of goals – they'll analyse the terrain and make different choices each time about how to approach the player character. It took a lot of work, we had to disassemble the whole AI system – before, it was much more scripted, we'd tell the enemies explicitly, go over here, flank the player… now they have a choice.Uncharted 3: Drake's DeceptionBut that's quite a risk isn't it? With dynamic systems come emergent behaviours and then you're opening the door to all sorts of unexpected outcomes…Right, and that creates a lot of work and a lot of headaches! But then we're lucky, we have some of the best video game engineers in the world. It's sort of miraculous they've pulled it together.And there's something about Nathan isn't there? A sense of vulnerability that's missing from a lot of game characters – most of them are developed by 26-year-old men who want to be space marines…Well, you know, when men are young, it seems important to express that bravado – there's an expectation on men to project confidence. Maybe there's an expectation oneveryoneto project confidence. It's nice you've picked up on that – Nathan is different in that regard. He has that combination of cocksureness and willingness to take risks – he's often seized by what Neal Stephenson in the Baroque Cycle calls 'the imp of the perverse'.But the game wouldn't work if that was all he offered – it is offset by his vulnerability. There's that moment in Uncharted 2 where he suddenly meets his current crush Chloe at the same time as his former girlfriend Elena. The fact that he doesn't quite know where to put himself during this meeting is very disarming; it helps the audience connect with every character in the scene. It's a big part of the emotional magic and it's a great testament to the skill of Amy Hennig our creative director and writer, that she can draw these moments together.And you said during your talk that Amy has this huge library where she looks up real-life legends and myths that may well work in Uncharted titles. Do you think she has a list of unused examples ready for Uncharted 4, 5 and 6…(Laughs) She just has an amazing brain, she has a real thirst for knowledge and we can sit there for hours jawing about history, and geography and… yeah, there's a lot left in there!Uncharted 3 is out on PlayStation 3 on 2 November.
Formula One is the undisputed pinnacle of world motor sport, and last year's F1 2010 – Codemasters' first stab at turning the Formula One licence into a game – surpassed expectations, winning a BAFTA in the process and establishing a reputation as the fanatical petrolhead's most wanted video game.With F1 2011 ready to hit the shops,we caught up with senior producer Paul Jeal, who obligingly gave us a full, frank and fascinating insight into precisely what turning Formula One into a video game entails.What is new or improved?With an annual franchise like F1, there's always a danger of merely remaking last year's game, with this year's cars, drivers and tracks. But F1 2011 has a lot of features that didn't make it into last year's effort. What, we asked Jeal, were the main improvements over F1 2010?"Well, multiplayer is number one. Last year's game was predominantly single-player: we had to spend so long doing sessions like practice and qualifying, plus getting the rules and conditions right, that we just did a couple of game modes online, and with only 12 cars, which was not really F1. Now we've got the full grid, which has enabled us to do co-op championships, when you go through a season with a human team-mate – and you don't want to lose any of the sessions to him."We have multiplayer objectives as well. Last year, if you jumped into a lobby, the best player was in the best car. This year, the game will look at your driver rank and what car you're in, and will give you a race objective which might be to finish eighth, sixteenth, first, or whatever. So if the best player is in the best car in the best grid position, he's going to be expected to finish first."If he does, he'll only gain XP up to a certain point, then he won't gain any more. What you find is that the fields are a lot closer, and the rooms are always full. There are a lot of bragging rights now for things like finishing sixth in a Virgin."The handling is much better this year, and everyone who plays it will testify to that. On top of that, there are the new toys, KERS and DRS, so you've got much more to do. You find that, if you try to use them too early, you lose more lap-time than you gain."And the longer the races you do now, the more you feel the tyres drop off. You have to really start thinking about strategy: shall I dial my fuel up or down now, shall I jump into the pits and try to undercut, or shall I try to pass the guy on the track? It's thinking man's racing – which is what F1 is all about."AI and penaltiesThe artificial intelligence that governs how computer-controlled drivers behave is paramount in a game like F1 2011. Less obviously, Jeal explained that the rules and penalties applied when you (or the AI) go beyond accepted driving boundaries were another part of the game that required a lot of fine-tuning."I would say the two most tricky things to get right in the game were the AI and rules. Even in real-life, Schumacher, for example, at Monza thought he was alright, but others didn't – if you ask three different people, they will give you three different opinions. If you make the AI cars less aggressive, then they are inherently slower, so you try and find that balance, of giving them that ultimate pace and aggression, but at the same time, being fair across the different difficulty levels."We've got champions for all the different difficulty levels: guys who play on the lower difficulty levels versus guys who play on the hardest equipment, then feedback from those guys and those focus sessions determines the number-tweaking and balancing that takes place."In F1 2010, the application of penalties felt pretty harsh – all the more so, because the game's nature dictates that you're penalised instantly, whereas in real-life Formula One, the powers-that-be often dither over whether to penalise drivers for ages.So, is this an aspect of F1 2011 that has received attention?Jeal said: "The trouble you've got from a game development perspective is that what seems harsh in single-player seems lenient in multiplayer. It's a tricky balance to get right."One of the big improvements from last year is that the game now waits to see if you've gained an advantage. Let's say you hit someone in front of you. If he doesn't go off the track as a result, and you don't gain a position and you both settle back down into your race-rhythm, that won't be a penalty. Last year, that would have been."You've also got the ability to run full rules or reduced. We were looking into whether you did something specific into the first corner, because in the real Formula One, they are more lenient on the opening lap. But the trouble is, that's open to massive exploitation online, when someone knows they can ram others off on the first corner."Multiplayer scrutinisedSince F1 2011's multiplayer has received the attention which, Jeal admitted, its predecessor didn't, what can we expect from it?"There's two-player split-screen and co-op championship. There's a new mode called Time Attack within a thing called Proving Grounds, and that's basically locked time-trials with gold, silver and bronze challenges, and it aggregates across six challenges."Other than that, it's just the online championship. Do you want to do a full season, just one race or five together? What race distance do you want to do? You can strap qualifying on, or do sprint races over three laps."And this time around, there are full 24-carr multiplayer grids, with 16 slots taken by humans and the other eight by AI drivers.Jeal argues that due to the improved handling, plus F1's 2011 tyre rules and the presence of KERS, which gives you a power-boost and the DRS system, which gives you an aerodynamic boost down the straights, the game has acquired a new consistency and strategic aspect which will lead to players committing to longer races online."I would say that, last year, most people played 20 per cent race distance, but I'd be genuinely surprised if people aren't increasing that to at least 30%, if not 50%. I think that allows you to experience the pit-stops, the weather, the different types of compounds, the fuel mixture and the use of DRS."Last-minute tweaksHaving played F1 2011 preview code, we identified a couple of less than ideal elements, most notably fearsomely long loading times between sessions. Tackling Jeal about these, he gave us an insight into the frantic final period of developing a game, when the last bits are put in and tweaked."The way development works is that the technical director will give [memory space] budgets for everyone to work to, but everyone will go over it. At the end, he beats them with a stick until they find some compromises."So things like the polish and the loading screens always come in the last days or weeks. In the studio, in the past few weeks, it was 50% or 100% races all the way, just to get the last fine-tuning and balancing done – merely issues across things like driving aids, AI speed, or rules or penalties."Downloadable contentIn this day and age, and particularly with a game that has a healthy multiplayer component, it's de rigueur to keep people interested after launch by releasing extra downloadable content (DLC).However, F1 2011 is a special case – Jeal explained that it's such a licensing minefield (with an ever-shifting assemblage of team and track sponsors), that F1 2011 won't get any DLC."At the moment, it's a licensing challenge. We're definitely closer this year than we were last year, but there won't be any this year."If there was, what form would it take?"Ultimately, we would love to do historical tracks and drivers. Those have been in previous F1 games – Sony's one had a few historical cars, but just in Time Trial, on their own, so we wouldn't necessarily want to do that."What we would like to do is at least two or more cars so that you could compete in a race, rather than just a time-trial. But it's all about licensing: what would you do about the sponsors at the time? The further back you go, the harder it is. It's certainly something that I think is achievable – it just needs everyone to say yes."And what about getting a game out in time for the start of its corresponding season (this year's will arrive several races after Formula One's mid-season break)?"Technically, that's impossible, because the contract said that we need to model everything based on the first race. So, as things stand, September is the earliest we could get it out."I would ideally like to see it come out for the second half of the season. Literally, track sponsors are being signed up right until the day of the race, and we need to replicate that. Previously, the F1 games that have released at the beginning of the season have had the previous year's data, and that's kind of a no-no: we want to play with the latest stuff."Finally, Jeal pretty much confirmed that, from a petrol-head's perspective, he has one of the finest jobs in the games industry – he and members of his team have to attend a number of the races."We have to go to maybe up to five races a year. We went to Monza, and just listening to the headsets, you could hear the interaction between the driver and his race engineer – there was non-stop chatter, and we noted what they were doing with setup, and the language they were using."We took this massive notebook, and when we got back we were asking, 'How do we get this in the game?' In 2010, we had the fact that the track weathered in and got faster – that was all from speaking to the engineers and the tyre guys. You can't ever underestimate how much you can glean from a race weekend."
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?My favourite technology that I've encountered in the recent past has been Twitter. It has enabled me to keep track of what my colleagues and peers and other people whose opinions I respect are thinking about, reading and linking to. I've also been able to tweet out updates about the film, and people have followed my account to know more about [my documentary] Page One. It's been even more valuable to me as an ear on what others are doing and thinking.When was the last time you used it, and what for?An hour ago to hear what [New York Times media columnist] David [Carr] had done at the Guardian, because some people were tweeting about his visit there. I use it all throughout the day, sometimes without any specific objective other than to see what's going on.What additional features would you add if you could?I would add nothing. I believe that the virtue of Twitter is that it's such a lightweight and low-fi technology. It's 140 characters, its links to stories are so easily presented without requiring a ton of augmentation or commentary – and that's part of its ease of use for me, its simplicity.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I think that if it stays as simple as it is, then no. If it remains a   platform for people to present their ideas, then its ease of use will be its success.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?Certain cell phones, for sure.The [Motorola] Droid I had, I did not get on with. It was way too complicated, and I thought it was like a device for someone at Nasa to keep track of a rocket ship's trajectory or something. It was just too much. I actually have a BlackBerry Pearl, in addition to an iPhone, which I use for internet service, but I still love the double-tap function of the Pearl. Its very small, and all it really does is take calls and allow you to send emails and texts. I like the way it only has one objective in life.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Continuing with this theme of simplicity and ease of use, sometimes it's better to not try and make everything you have be the Swiss Army knife of devices and walk around with only one thing in your pocket. Sometimes it's better to have dedicated devices – for example, the Flip camera. It's incredible in its quality of image and its simplicity.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Neither, really. Is there anything in between?What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably my G5 tower. It's now has been replaced by an iMac, which can now do the same but also includes a screen. But the G5 with 2TB of hard drive space and 8GB of Ram was probably like $8,000.Mac or PC, and why?Definitely Mac, because we live in a Mac world.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download?Not so much CDs but definitely DVDs, which I think are amazing – all the DVD extras, the ability to listen to commentaries, to even in some cases see different angles on a film. I think that there's something about being able to identify with the content when you have it on the shelf that I really love.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Why not!What piece of technology would you most like to own?I'd probably love to have a big server on which I could store all of the tapes that I have shot in my 10 or 11 years of making films and shooting video. When I edited my first film, an 80GB hard drive was the size of a breadbox. Today I'd probably need like 20TB or 30TB of storage space, and I'd lvoe to have a breadbox that can hold all of that.•Page One: A Year Inside the New York Times is in UK cinemas now, and will be released on DVD on 14 November
At least one more member of the hacking group LulzSec, known online as "Neuron", may be arrested if traced by their use of a British anonymous VPN (virtual private network) proxy service, following a similar arrest last week.Hackers have already expressedalreadydismay after it emerged that thatCody Kretsinger, who was arrested by the FBI last Thursdayfor allegedly hacking into the Sony Pictures website, had been identified via his use of HideMyAss's proxy service to disguise his IP (internet protocol) address when connecting to the Sony Pictures site.Kretsinger allegedly went by the online handle "Recursion" – which crops up inchatlogs from the groupposted on the Pastebin site. "Recursion" boastedboatedof hacking into the Sony Pictures site.However the Pastebin logs also show that another LulzSec member, using the handle "Neuron", also claimed to use the HideMyAss service. Neuron and Recursion are not the same people: theLulzSec chatlog records posted by the Guardian covering a period from 31 Mayshow the two in the same chatroom at the same time, and on one occasion addressing each other directly. "Recursion" quit the group after it attacked an FBI-related site early in June, but "Neuron" remained.HideMyAss,posted a lengthy defence of its actions on its blogafter the news emerged, insisting that it had to retain logs:Being able to locate abusive users is imperative for the survival of operating a VPN service, if you can not take action to prevent abuse you risk losing server contracts with the underlying upstream providers that empower your network. Common abuse can be anything from spam to fraud, and more serious cases involve terrorism and child porn. The main type of logging is session logging – this is simply logging when a customer connects and disconnects from the server, this identifies who was connected to X IP address at X time, this is what we do and all we do. Some providers choose not to do session logging and instead try to locate the abusive customer by using the intelligence from the complaint, for example if someone hacks XYZ.com they may monitor traffic to XYZ.com and log which customers have a connection to this website. Ask yourself this: if a provider claims not to do any form of logging, but is able to locate abusive customers, how are they able to do this without any form of logging?The company added that it would only hand over logs if they were the subject of a valid UK court order: "if a request for information is sent to us from overseas, we will not accept this request unless it is sent through the appropriate UK channels and a UK judge warrants a court order or a court summons that forces us to provide this information. We are not intimidated by the US government as some are claiming. We are simply complying with our countries legal system to avoid being potentially shut down and prosecuted ourselves."Some questioned whether HideMyAss – which says that it helped people in Egypt to evade crackdowns during the Arab spring protests – would hand over details of individuals to repressive regimes such as Syria. The company says in the blogpost that it would not because "[in] UK law, there isn't a law that prohibits the use of Egyptians gaining access to blocked websites such as Twitter, even if there is one in Egypt."The revelation that the service retains some log details has caused outrage amid parts of the hacking community, with a number vowing never to use HideMyAss's service again. A rival service, AirVPN,put out a statementsaying that it does not keep logs in the way that HideMyAss does: "we would like to reassure our users and our customers that nothing like that [handover of logs] may happen with AirVPN, for a series of legislative (we are based in the EU, not in the USA, and we don't recognize USA jurisdiction, obviously) and above all technical reasons." It says it will accept payments inBitCoin, the cryptocurrency, which can be made via theTor network, for security.Four people have been arrested in the UK relating to LulzSec's activities, with three charged so far.
Rugby fans have had to suffer through quite a long drought since the last rugby video game was released. This may be down to the fact that the free-flowing, tackle-heavy game for hooligans played by gentlemen is tricky for developers to adapt to the medium, and it might be that it isn't as popular as, say, football or golf.Whatever the case, the last prominent rugby title was, prosaically enough, released to tie in with the last Rugby World Cup and was published by EA Sports, the leading buyer of sports licenses in the games industry.We only mention that last point because 505 Games, the publisher behind Rugby World Cup 2011, probably doesn't have the huge funds available to EA Sports. This may explain why only 10 of the teams in Rugby World Cup 2011 are officially licensed – and New Zealand and Australia aren't among them.This isn't exactly a reason not to buy the game – after all, the Pro Evolution Soccer franchise has always lacked the official licenses of EA's Fifa, but this didn't stop it producing some of the best football games available (at least, up until recently).However, it does speak to the sense that Rugby World Cup 2011 feels like a largely rushed affair and this is backed up by the fact that there's very little depth on offer here.Team licenses aside, this is a game with no tutorial mode, no teams outside those in the current Rugby World Cup and only a couple of modes of play outside the bog-standard head-to-head.There is no scenario mode – which proved the lifeblood of 2010 Fifa World Cup – no challenge mode, and online matches are limited to one-off contests. The game offers the tournament, international tests, warm-up tours and a place-kicking mini-game – and that's it. There's no Six Nations, no Super 15, no Tri-Nations and no domestic leagues. Its content isn't so much thin as it is anorexic.It also has to be said that Rugby World Cup 2011 isn't exactly the prettiest game on the market. While the graphics are fine at a distance, in close-up for instant replays, penalties or conversions, players tend to look like they've been moulded out of cheap plastic.In spite of all this, there's a rather fun rugby sim at the heart of the game, which is to be expected; while 505 might not be able to buy all of the official team licenses for its game, it apparently can afford to engage the services of HB Studios, the developer behind the last four rugby sims that EA Sports released.Despite the game's lack of tutorial, the controls are easy enough to master. The shoulder buttons pass the ball left and right down the line, the face buttons give players an array of kicks and the right trigger activates sprint.On defence, charging into a player initiates an auto-tackle, and the A-button can be used for a diving tackle. When the ball goes into a ruck, tapping the A-button will keep control of the ball or win it back.Players need to temper their button-bashing, however, because if they tap too much, their team will be penalised for having hands in the ruck. Scrums and mauls are played out using the analogue stick while tapping the A-button to maintain control of the ball.Even thought the audience most likely to buy this game consists of dyed-in-the-wool rugby fans, Rugby World Cup 2011 can, on its easiest setting, act as a decent gateway into the sport for the uninitiated.The game is easy to pick up and play, and once players familiarise themselves with the rules and mechanics, they'll begin to breeze past the AI, so long as they're using one of the stronger teams. Things get tricky when the difficulty setting is nudged up a notch and the game moves from rather enjoyable to horrendously frustrating.There is a fun, if lightweight, rugby sim contained in Rugby World Cup 2011 and for post-pub gaming, it should suit a lot of rugby fans right down to the ground. But for anyone in search of something deeper than a knock-around arcade-style rugby game, Rugby World Cup 2011 comes up woefully short.If this was a DLC release on XBLA or PSN or Steam for the equivalent of 10 or so quid, we wouldn't hesitate to recommend it. As it stands there's just too little on offer here to justify the cost for a full-priced, boxed retail release.Ultimately it all depends on how desperate one is to own a rugby video game. And whether one can wait until the jury is in on Jonah Lomu Rugby Challenge…• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
To someone with no interest in motor sport, this year's iteration of the officially licensed Formula One may not sound enormously enticing. But any fanatical petrol-head will tell you that credible racing games are rare these days.Although Forza 4 is imminent, you wouldn't be wise to hold your breath in anticipation of the next Gran Turismo. And last year's version of the game – the first made by Codemasters, that quintessentially British publisher – was so well received that Bafta gave it an award.Formula One's relentlessly commercial nature adds a layer of complication when you try to turn it into a game, which may explain why the official licence has pinged around the publishers – EA and Sony have owned it in the past. But F1 2010 served up an impressively convincing simulacrum of the pinnacle of motor sport, and developer Codemasters Birmingham hasn't stinted with its successor.The first thing you noticed is that the car handling has received attention. The cars feel incredibly planted and prodigiously grippy, and the superbly detailed and crisp graphics convey a startling sense of insane speed. The joy of exploring maximum mid-corner velocities along with the stability of handling and the cars' general predictability is enough to encourage even the least talented wheelmen to start turning off the driver aids.And while the traction control (of which there are two levels, neither of which robs you of cornering speed like Gran Turismo's does) makes a big difference, you don't need the talent of a Jenson Button or Lewis Hamilton to compete with all assists turned off. Although you do need to hone your throttle control.There's a pretty meaty single-player game in which you have five seasons to chisel out a drive at one of the top teams and win a world championship, and you can choose whether to participate in all the sessions, or truncate the race weekends and the races themselves.After each session, you're interviewed by a virtual version of Radio 5 Live's David Croft (looking considerably more bewildered than he does in real life), and the game's contract machinations are quite fun.Codemasters has tidied up all the game's off-track episodes. Loading times between sessions aren't great, but that's typical of a game that extracts a decent amount of the graphical juice that the current crop of consoles possesses.F1 2011 derives a lot from this year's Formula One rules, which equip cars with DRS – a switchable rear wing flap making your car more slippery on the straights – and KERS, which gives you a finite speed-boost which is regenerated every lap.KERS, in particular, adds a surprisingly strategic aspect to proceedings. You can use some of it to recover when you've made a mistake at a corner, but if you haven't said enough, you'll be vulnerable on the next straight. In qualifying, you can use the DRS wherever you want (as in the real cars, it switches off when you brake), which is a test of your bottle, as it induces a hilarious level of twitchiness.If you fancy your skills, you can head to the Proving Grounds, a driver aid-free zone where the top teams will put you through your paces.The chance for two people to play this time around with a horizontally split screen should be welcome, and the two-player co-op is interesting, as it reflects the intra-team competitive that exists in F1. But it requires a lot of co-ordination – you have to start sessions together, although you can dip out of them early.But F1 2011's standard multiplayer races are vastly improved since last year's efforts, allowing full 24-car grids for the first time (although only 16 of those cars can be piloted by humans).F1 2011 struggles manfully to avoid driving games' perennial online problem: that, after continually coming up against players who clearly spend every waking moment playing online driving games, the less committed throw in the towel. It has a sort of handicap system which gives lesser talents easier goals, which helps.And the driving ninjas can still set up private games with all driving aids banned and everyone forced to suffer the vagaries of an HRT.The end result is pretty much an essential purchase for any self-respecting petrol-head, and a lot more compelling and enticing than those who don't dream about lap times might imagine. If he played it (it's not easy to imagine him sat in front of a games console), Bernie Ecclestone would surely approve.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Twitter is to join fellow US technology companies Google and Facebook by setting up an international HQ in Dublin.The revelation of its Dublin expansion came ina tweet by Ireland's Industrial Development Authority.A spokeswoman for Twitter said: "The Twitter office in Dublin, our third location outside of the US, is a great next step in the company's global expansion."If Google is anything to go by, Twitter will start in Dublin with finance, user support and marketing skills and expand from there.Google set up its international HQ in Dublin in 2004 with 200 members of staff. Now it is one of Dublin's biggest employers with 2,200 employees.The IDA is trying to make Dublin the social media and online capital of Europe. Facebook will employ around 300 by the end of 2012, LinkedIn 140. Zynga, which has just opened its European offices in Dublin, will hire about 100; PayPal employs about 1,300; while eBay has about 1,000 staff."IDA is absolutely thrilled that Twitter has decided to establish an international office in Ireland. Twitter is a fantastic addition to Ireland's dynamic digital media cluster and we are excited to support the company's continued international growth." says Barry O'Leary, chief executive of the IDA.Ireland is attractive to multinationals because of its 12.5% corporate tax rate, but even more attractive because of "transfer pricing". This is a tax law which allow the likes of Google to legally shuttle profit into and out of subsidiaries in Ireland and on to tax havens. Google, which funnels all its European revenues through Dublin, pays 2.4% tax on operations outside the US.However, Ireland is not quite like Luxembourg. Companies have to have fully blown operations in the country to take advantage of the tax-friendly arrangements.
When some mobile games developers and publishers start making free-to-play games rather than paid titles, the suspicion is that their thinking comes less from a belief in the freemium business model, and more because their games simply didn't attract many buyers.You can't accuse NaturalMotion of that. The company has released five paid games for iOS, including Jenga, two Backbreaker Football titles and NFL Rivals. All of them made it into App Store top 10 charts around the world, and according to chief executive Torstein Reil, their revenues were on average five times the costs of development.Even so, NaturalMotion is pivoting. Its sixth game,My Horse, is free to play, with in-app payments providing the revenues. The game gets players to care for impressively realistic-looking horses, thanks to the company's background in 3D animation software for games development. And it's been a big success."My Horse has blown everything out of the water for us in terms of downloads but also revenues: Its first weekend was much bigger than anything we've done before," says Reil."We're switching almost entirely to free-to-play games now. We realised a while back that even though the paid model is attractive and you can build a business out of it, it's even more attractive to go for free-to-play. You can get to a much larger number of users, and more flexibly monetise those users."The financial success of My Horse is interesting, because Reil says NaturalMotion has deliberately held back from pushing the in-app purchases at players. Or to put it another way: the more they play without being urged to spend money, the more likely some players are to… spend money."We don't monetise very aggressively, because we want a community of people playing the game and enjoying it, without feeling that we're doing a hard sell," says Reil. "Of course, a large number of people won't spend money, but some who really value the experience become less price-sensitive in a good way. You can offer content and charge for it, and if they like it, they'll buy it."Reil says NaturalMotion is not swearing off paid games forever, but is convinced that the free-to-play model is "mathematically better", with the early performance of My Horse apparently much better than even he expected. Now the company is eagerly crunching the analytics data from the game to decide what features and content to add in the coming months.High-end graphics have been a feature in all NaturalMotion's games so far, capitalising on its Morpheme animation engine. Another common strand, though, is the way hardcore graphics have been complemented by casual gameplay mechanics: the Backbreaker games are far from full-blown simulations, for example."We want to produce really high-end games for a big mainstream audience," says Reil. "We think it's a big opportunity. There has been a belief in the industry that casual games are 2D and hardcore games are 3D, but that doesn't make any sense. The reason has been that there was no platform to deploy high-end content to casual users. Flash can't do it. But now smartphones and tablets can."Reil believes that mobile devices will overtake even Xbox 360 and PS3 for graphics quality in the next three years, based on the roadmaps of companies like Imagination Technologies and Nvidia. He has an engaging argument on why games with high-end  visuals will appeal to the widest audience of players."Look at what's happened in animated movies, from Snow White through to Toy Story and Cars," he says. "It's the most extreme visual explosion in terms of going high-end, but it's going for a mainstream audience. We're going to see the same thing on these [mobile] devices."
A burst of 15 apps for your considerationThe Magic of RealityRandom House and developer Somethin' Else collaborated on this iPad book-app with author Richard Dawkins and illustrator Dave McKean. It includes the full text of Dawkins' new book, as well as illustrations, animations and – always a bonus – the ability to create a rainbow or breed frogs.iPadJamie Oliver Food GuideCelebrity chef Jamie Oliver has released several cooking apps, but his new effort – published by Penguin Books – is as much about eating out. It offers details on more than 1,000 places to eat and buy food around the UK: "everything from great cheese shops, fishmongers, pubs and restaurants to cafes and food festivals".iPhone / iPadJourney to the ExoplanetsScientific American and Farrar, Straus and Giroux have teamed up for this scientific book-app for iPad. The focus is our Solar System, with 3D stars, timelines, audio tours and even a planet-building feature to explore.iPadShowtime SocialShowtime Social isn't available in the UK, but the US TV network's iPad app is still very interesting as an example of what's going on around social TV. It wants to get viewers of Showtime shows (including Dexter, Shameless, Weeds and The Big C) answering polls, making predictions and chatting with Facebook friends while watching, as well as watching previews, trailers and webisodes.iPadBack in TimeThe latest visually-impressive iPad science book-app comes from Landka, as Back in Time investigates the Big Bang with images, animations, videos and timelines.iPadBloomberg Radio+This iPhone app from Bloomberg offers its US-based radio station round the clock, as well as archived interviews on demand.iPhoneFanatic Sports LiveUS app Fanatic Sports Live gets people to place "picks" on sports matches while they are in progress, and compete against their friends to see who's the most accurate, with leaderboards tracking their respective performances.iPhone / iPadWatchbookBogaroo's Watchbook app is certainly ambitious, promising that it "marries the passive pleasures of watching, as in television or movie viewing, with the active processes of traditional text reading". How? By reformatting books into a single, continuously-scrolling line. The first to get the treatment is author David Lee's novel Commander Zero.iPhoneOK! MagazineCelebrity magazine OK! has been available on iPad for a while, but now there's a pint-sized iPhone version, with a £2.49 initial download and then renewable monthly subscriptions.iPhoneThe Diary of a Madman - Guy de MaupassantEnter the unsettling world of author Guy de Maupassant in this iPad book-app from Crocobee. It takes one of his short stories and adds animation to (in theory) amp up the atmosphere.iPadSuzi Perry's Around The World in 80 DaysWhat would Jules Verne's travelogue novel have been like if it had... Well, if it had a Gadget Show presenter in? This app is the answer (possibly), as Suzi Perry presents a mixture of text, imges and puzzles.iPadMediaAnywhereAndroid app MediaAnywhere wants to get people placing markers on maps and associating music, photos and weblinks with that location, as well as the ability to tie into geocaching and messaging.AndroidEurosport Live ScoreBroadcaster Eurosport has launched its Live Score app for iPhone, covering, football, tennis, rugby, and more, with live scores and alerts.iPhonePinocchio3DPinocchio3D is a book-app developed in Italy, although there's an English-language option too. It offers animation, sound and interactivity, all powered by a game-like 3D engine.iPadSpiggitSpiggit is an iPad app that shows real-time voting activity on tech news aggregation site Digg, with a whizzy visualisation to show what's bubbling up.iPadYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 24 SeptemberPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Gears Of War 3(18+)Xbox 360 (100)12 (–)F1 2011(3+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (47)PC (3)13 (1)Dead Island(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (46)PC (3)34 (6)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (87)Xbox 360 (11)PS3 (2)265 (5)Deus Ex: Human Revolution(15+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (34)PC (6)56 (4)Driver: San Francisco(12+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (47)47 (2)Warhammer 40,000: Space Marine(15+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (37)PC (12)38 (3)Resistance 3(18+)PS3 (100)39 (7)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)Wii (38)DS (31)Xbox 360 (11)PS3 (11)2010 (8)Rugby World Cup 2011(3+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (46)511 (16)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (40)PC (8)Wii (3)4312 (–)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (43)3613 (10)Cars 2(3+)Wii (41)DS (36)Xbox 360 (13)PS3 (10)1014 (15)The Sims 3(12+)PC (48)Xbox 360 (14)DS (14)Wii (10)4415 (11)Red Faction: Armageddon(15+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (44)PC (6)716 (20)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)4217 (9)Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4(7+)Wii (39)DS (29)Xbox 360 (17)PS3 (13)3018 (–)Michael Jackson: The Experience(12+)Wii (68)PS3 (23)Xbox 360 (9)DS (1)1019 (–)LA Noire(18+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (38)1520 (17)Gran Turismo 5(3+)PS3 (100)14UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWeb scraping with Google Spreadsheets and XPath &gt;&gt; Vancouver Data blog"Google Spreadsheets has a nice function called importXML which will read in a web page. You can then apply an XPath to that page, to grab various parts of it, such as one particular value, or all of the hyperlinks. This is a convenient method, as your data will be in a format that is easily downloadable in Excel."Or (grinds teeth) CSV?Cartooning vs. Technology: How Steve Jobs Ruined Comics &gt;&gt; tompappalardo.com"In many ways, technology—especially consumer-driven technology—has been striving for the same thing as cartoonists for years now. Simpler, smaller, more streamlined. Minimalist. Removing as much of the object as possible, leaving only the key components (in technology's case, the interface, the screen). Steve Jobs led the way for elegant and simple device design, and it's a beautiful thing. But a cartoonist might reach a point where representing something in a super-simplified style when the object itself is already super-simplified becomes increasingly difficult. Let's take a look at a few examples."Hilarious, and true.Lulzsec fiasco &gt;&gt; Hide My Ass! BlogOne of its users got arrested: So wait, isn't it private? "Our VPN service and VPN services in general are not designed to be used to commit illegal activity. It is very naive to think that by paying a subscription fee to a VPN service you are free to break the law without any consequences. This includes certain hardcore privacy services which claim you will never be identified, these types of services that do not cooperate are more likely to have their entire VPN network monitored and tapped by law enforcement, thus affecting all legitimate customers."OK - except it then says that its purpose is to help people in countries that are restrictive to get around censorship. So does it only cooperate with some law enforcement agencies?Anyhow, it will have the hackers thinking about where they should go...Important notice about security &gt;&gt; AirVPN Support…so perhaps they should have gone to AirVPN: "An 'HideMyAss' VPN service user identity has been compromised and as a consequence personal freedom of the customer is now at stake. &#10;"As a consequence, apparently to defend their activity by saying that they did nothing more than any other provider would have done, HideMyAss released a series of statements which are not correct. &#10;"For example, they claimed that 'all VPN providers keep logs. When there was a court order issued to them, they WILL release it'. On top of that, they released on their website a communiqué which, in our opinion, is harmful to the professional reputation and to the the status of mere conduit of a service provider.&#10;"For the aforementioned reasons, we would like to re-assure our users and our customers that nothing like that may happen with AirVPN, for a series of legislative (we are based in the EU, not in the USA, and we don't recognize USA jurisdiction, obviously) and above all technical reasons."Dear Bing &amp; Yahoo: pushing deckchairs around isn't a good plan &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandDanny Sullivan asks (as he's been asking for a while): "What's the plan, Bing? Because 'at least I'm going to do something' isn't enough.&#10;"In reality, the plan seems to be hang in there long enough until Yahoo slips away. It's probably not a bad plan. Another plan might be to stop spending all that money on advertising. That never worked long term in the past. Marketshare might not drop, but the red ink might.&#10;"And, reading from Ad Age today, it sounds like the whole Decision Engine idea might be going away period. Sounds good. How about something fun, play off that old joke everyone thought Bing stood for, 'Because it's not Google.' Give us some ads like 'Bing: We're Not Google.'"Windows 8, Amazon tablets will hurt Android more than iPad &gt;&gt; Loop InsightJim Dalrymple: "While Microsoft is clearly aiming for the iPad, I don't think Windows 8-based tablets will have much affect on Apple's popular device. Instead, Android tablets will suffer the brunt of Microsoft's market share gains when its partners release products.&#10;"The reason, I believe, is very simple. People are looking for an alternative to existing Android tablets, but nobody is looking to replace the iPad.&#10;"Microsoft will have a built-in customer base with Windows 8, but previous projects like the Kin and Courier show that you can't rely on that base to make a new product successful."Android bug lets attackers install malware without warning &gt;&gt; The Register"It's been more than a month since researchers reported two serious security vulnerabilities in Android, but so far there's no indication when they will be purged from the Google-spawned operating system that's the world's most popular smartphone platform.&#10;"The first flaw allows apps to be installed without prompting users for permission. The permission-escalation vulnerability permits attackers to surreptitiously install malware in much the way a proof-of-concept exploit researcher Jon Oberheide published last year did. In that case, an app he planted in the Android Market and disguised as an expansion pack for the Angry Birds game secretly installed three additional apps that without warning monitored a phone's contacts, location information and text messages so data could transmitted to a remote server."Lies and more lies? OTU report p 95-6 &gt;&gt; Fibre To The Home Blog"The ITU "Measuring the Information Society" report came out a week ago, and you'd think the Brits would be celebrating, but it seems to have fallen under the radar a little. &#10;"Hardly surprising when on p.95-6 comes an outright lie about broadband in Britain which can only have skewed all the results for the UK. Whoever is responsible for feeding such untruths to OECD (from whom the data appears to have been supplied to ITU) deserves never ending sleepless nights and karmic payback on a level approaching bankers' bonuses.&#10;"'While in 2010, Germany and UK had similar fixed-broadband penetration rates, 59 per cent of the United Kingdom's were above 10Mbit/s, compared with only 30% per cent in Germany. Indeed, in the United Kingdom, 99% of all subscriptions are above 2Mbps'".When you think about it, that doesn't sound likely.US users' searches being redirected before reaching search engines &gt;&gt; Electronic Frontier Foundation"Two weeks ago, EFF published an analysis with researchers at Berkeley ICSI about the redirection of search traffic at a number of US ISPs. The company involved, Paxfire, contacted us to discuss its practices, and based upon those discussions and some further analysis we have a number of clarifications and updates to report. These clarifications are of course our own, and not Paxfire's.&#10;"Overall, Paxfire admits that it sends users' searches through its proxy servers (we call this redirection; Paxfire disagrees), and that while the proxies look at the searches for specific things, Paxfire maintains that it does not retain logs of these queries unless the user is searching for specific trademark terms using the search box in the browser. In those cases, the search and IP address are logged and the user is sent to the brand's website directly, rather than to the search engine, and Paxfire and the ISP collect a fee for the referral."&#10;Has Paxfire ever heard of Phorm?The hackers are watching. And they can bring you down &gt;&gt; FT.comJoseph Menn on the tensions inside and outside Anonymous, and why it may have done more good for corporate security than any government "initiative".You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
I'm looking for a laptop that I can use in school for writing. I'd like it to be thin and portable but also quite nippy and quick. It would help if it could 3G connect, allowing me to store all my data in my Ubuntu cloud. I prefer Ubuntu to Windows and therefore the laptop doesn't need an OS installed.AlastairNot many laptops are available running the Ubuntu version of Linux, and I don't know of any laptops that are supplied in the UK without an operating system. (There may be some.) Very few laptops have built-in 3G connections, and they tend to be somewhat expensive. Worse, while there are plenty of thin netbooks and laptops around, the affordable ones tend not to be nippy. So, although your requirements sound perfectly reasonable, they're not catered for by the mainstream PC suppliers, who may still be smarting from their disastrous"smartbook"efforts. I suspect you will have to compromise on one or more areas, depending on what's important to you.Thin, portable laptops tend to have 13.3in screens, and this size is popular enough to offer plenty of choice. If you want something nippy, then a chip from the second-generation Intel Core iX range (codenamed Sandy Bridge) would be a good choice. A Core i3 is probably nippy enough, but you can pay more for a Core i5 or too much for a Core i7. In this case, the system of choice could be a Toshiba Portégé R830, which is this year's improved version of the R700.The ultraportable Portégé R830-138 has a Core i5-2520M processor and even provides a DVD SuperMulti drive along with integrated 3G. The code you want is PT321E-01F00YEN. Toshiba's price is close to £1,500 but you can buy it at a discount. There's also a Core i7 version, the R830-10Q (PT321E-00P00YEN), which costs almost £2,000. You can still pick up versions of the R700-182 (PT310E-06U02KEN) for around £1,000, but the Toshiba Satellite R830 is probably a better choice. This is a small business version of the Portégé R830 at half the price (£699), though without the 3G option.The Toshiba Portégé and similar machines come pre-installed with Microsoft Windows 7, so you would have to install Ubuntu yourself.If you want a laptop with Ubuntu already installed, the most obvious example is the Meenee (as in "miny mo") MNB737, whichAmazon.co.uk is currently selling for £225 (ie £50 off). It has a 13.3in screen and 2GB of memory, and is light at 1.3kg. However, it only has an Intel Atom N455 processor, and battery life is quoted as 3.5 hours, which is low by current netbook standards. Still, it does come with Ubuntu 10.10 Netbook edition pre-installed, and could be a good choice for some users.Alternatively, you could check the Lenovo laptops sold by Linux Emporium, which come with "Ubuntu Maverick Meerkat (10.10) by default", though other versions can be installed. Options range from the old Ideapad S10-2-3 netbook (£353 but out of stock) to the ThinkPad-style X301 (£1,907). The Lenovo X100e-2 (£485) netbook might be a reasonable option, but its 1.6GHz Athlon Neo MV-40 is far from being nippy, and the hardware doesn't look very good value at the price.One advantage of buying from Linux Emporium (and other suppliers that readers will no doubt add in comments) is that you don't have to worry about finding Linux drivers and so on, but Lenovo/IBM machines have traditionally been pretty well supported by the Linux community. Although you can install Ubuntu on anything, I'd recommend sticking to major brands such as Lenovo/IBM, Toshiba and, more recently, Samsung. Even then, you should do a few web searches before buying a particular model, to find out if other Linux users have run into problems.If you drop the built-in 3G from your wishlist, there are two other options. First, many laptops can be fitted with a 3G card, such as Dell's Wireless 5530 and 5540 mobile broadband cards. (Search the web for: 3G HSDPA card.) Second, you can take the cheap option and use a USB plug-in modem, commonly referred to as a "dongle". These are cheap and may come free with mobile broadband deals. High-street phone shops will even throw in a "free" netbook or laptop on a two-year deal. Dongles are tediously slow to connect, but a lot of people use them, including me.Bear in mind that dongles may have on-board connection software, and almost all of them are designed for Windows. Before buying one, double-check that it will work with your chosen version of Ubuntu.Of course, if you also drop the requirement for Ubuntu (or no operating system) then there are hundreds of choices, depending on how much you want to spend. You could look at something like the Lenovo Z370, which sells for£436 on Amazon.co.uk. It has a nippy spec – 2.1GHz Core i3-2310M, 4GB of memory, 500GB hard drive, DVD-RW optical drive – but it's not a lightweight at 2kg. The Acer Aspire Timeline X and Asus U ranges offer lighter options with better battery life, but without the DVD drive.Later this year, there should be some more interesting options available as part of Intel'sUltrabookproject, which is aimed at producing mass market ultraportables that cost less than a MacBook Air.Finally, you could also consider theSamsung Chromebook, which is aimed at your sort of usage. It represents Google's attempt to do everything through its own Chrome web browser, and the £399 version includes mobile broadband from 3 (at a cost, after you've used the first 3GB of data). However, it's basically just a locked-down netbook, and depends on you having either a good 3G connection or preferably free Wi-Fi available.If you are techie enough to want to install Ubuntu, you may find Chrome OS's (entirely deliberate) limitations somewhat frustrating. Also, I think there's already a more versatile alternative: a netbook or laptop that can boot either Windows or the almost-instantSplashtopversion of Linux. As I've pointed out before, this is available under various names. The Asus version is called ExpressGate, while Acer calls it InstaView, HP and Sony call it QuickWeb, and Lenovo calls it QuickStart.
The growing legal battles between Samsung Electronics and Apple could crimp growth at the fastest-growing divisions inside the Korean firm, while also worsening its business ties with its largest customer, analysts have warned.Samsung and Apple will square off in a more significant US court hearing in October about an injunction case in which Apple is trying to block imports of the Galaxy S II smartphone. Observers say the intellectual property battle with Samsung is part of Apple's broader strategy of using the courts to help cement the unassailable lead its iPad has in the tablet market.The two companies have been locked in an acrimonious global battle over smartphone and tablet patents since April, and Apple has successfullyblocked Samsung from selling its latest tablets in Germanyand some smartphone models in the Netherlands. It has also forced its rival to indefinitely delay launching its new Galaxy tablets in Australia, where a court will give its ruling this week.Apple, which alleges that Samsung has infringed a number of its designs and hardware patents, and its "trade dress" – which refers to how the allegedly infringing devices look. A key element of the "trade dress" allegations relate to the iPhone 4 and the iPad, and products from Samsung such as the Galaxy smartphones and tablets.If Samsung loses another round, that could dent its ambitious attempt to close the gap with Apple in the global tablet market. The Galaxy gadgets, powered by Google's Android operating system, are seen as the biggest challengers to Apple's mobile devices.But the head of the firm's mobile division, JK Shin, said on Monday: "We are confident of meeting our sales targets for tablets and handsets made earlier this year." Samsung plans to boost tablet sales more than fivefold this year and sell 300m handsets in all.Apple and Samsung are vying for the lead position in the smartphone market, where each sells more than 20m handsets per quarter, having both overtaken the struggling Nokia. Samsung also sells simpler "featurephones", where it has also outdistanced Nokia.Samsung still trails badly in sales of its own tablets, where Apple racked up 14m iPad sales in the first half, versus analysts' forecast sales estimates of about 7.5m Samsung tablet products for all of 2011.Industry discussion suggests that Samsung shipped many more tablets than were actually sold to end users in 2010. It shipped at least 2m; NH Investment Securities estimates that customers bought a total of 1.6m.Analysts say that Samsung could be hit if Apple decides to take its business elsewhere. "Samsung's tablet business will be most affected and its chip business will also take a hit as Apple moves to diversify away from Samsung to the likes of Toshiba," said Nho Geun-chang, an analyst at HMC Investment Securities."But taking passive steps for fear of losing its biggest customer will slow down strong growth momentum at its telecoms business, which Samsung doesn't want to see as the business is set to become the biggest earnings generator this year and make up for weakening chip profits. It'll be a costly battle for Samsung."The South Korean conglomerate supplied Apple with about $5.7bn in components last year, some 4% of Samsung's total sales. Apple's portion grew to 5.8% of Samsung's sales in the first quarter, driven by booming sales of iPads and iPhones, for which Samsung supplies chips, along with Japan's Toshiba.Analysts said that losing chip orders from Apple would be a longer-term challenge for Samsung. "For Samsung, [the] biggest concern is reduced order from Apple. Without Apple's big backing, it would be difficult for Samsung to boost its chip market share sharply," said HMC's Nho."Apple is leveraging the fact that it's got alternative suppliers. They may offer inferior or more expensive components but it's something consumers barely notice and something Apple can successfully use to pressure Samsung."Samsung's smartphone business has been growing rapidly, powered by its flagship Galaxy lineups. Some analysts expect Samsung to overtake Apple as the world's No. 1 smartphone vendor and report record profits in July-September, as it has much broader lineups than the high-end focused Apple.Samsung's smartphone sales soared more than sixfold in the second quarter, easily eclipsing Apple's 142% growth, though Apple sold about 1m more units. Nokia sales fell 30%.Samsung and Apple are suing each other in nine countries over 20 cases. Apple first fired salvo in April by suing Samsung in a California court, saying the Galaxy lineup devices infringed on its mobile technology patents and design. Samsung shot back with claims of its own.Some analysts said Samsung's aggressive stance could help it gain some support from consumers."These legal battles are raising perception among consumers that Samsung is the only one capable of competing against Apple," said Choi Do-youn, an analyst at LIG Investment &amp; Securities.Despite the global court cases, both companies could end up settling the cases, HSBC said in a note."The most likely scenario is an out-of-court settlement, after a long-drawn IP battle. As in the case of theNokia-Apple dispute, this issue too is likely to be settled out of the court, after a long drawn legal dispute," said HSBC analyst Daniel Kim.
Let's just pretend that Mondays are amazing.
I've never been a great fan of yours, Mike Tyson (@miketyson). There was the rape conviction (a low point), and that time you mistook Evander Holyfield's ear for an amuse bouche (grim) and to be honest boxing really isn't my sport (zzz). But credit where it's due: since you joined Twitter last year a more mature Mike Tyson has emerged from his laptop: "I am mastering the art of silencing my tongue. Wish I had mastered it earlier but just grateful I have the tools to do it now." Here's a few more pointers on being a Twitter knockout.Don't go on like a stuck recordThere is a limit to how many times people want to read about the new, improved Tyson ("Back then I used to tell the world 'I'm Mike, the baddest man on the planet', now I look at that Mike and say, 'Hey Mike, you're a schmuck'") without wanting to click "unfollow". I thought that you might have grasped this and were ready to inject a little variety into your timeline when you tweeted: "I understand why people have reservations about me because of my past but I'm giving up on trying to convince people on who I really am." But no, it's still going on.Don't believe the hypeTwitter can be a lovely place for a celeb, with followers, some of whom are your biggest fans, tweeting praise. It's important for the humble Mike Tyson v2.0 that you don't buy into this. Setting aside the fact that fan tweets such as "I learn more  from your tweets @miketyson than I do in a whole year of college. True philosopher," aren't true, paying too much attention to this kind of thing will turn you into a Twitter bighead. Next you'll be retweeting compliments. (Oh, you already are.)Plug your interestsSome of my favourite tweets are by people enthusing about their passions. For you they are your family ("A family that prays together, stays together"), being a brilliant vegan ("I'm really enjoying this vegan thing. Its a good example to my kids") and selling as many downloads of your mobile phone app as you can ("My iPhone App just hit 1.5 million downloads!! Thank you for the love"). Keep up the positivity.Lots of love@scouserachel
After our feature offering the50 best iPad apps, it seems only sensible to ask: what are the 50 best Android Honeycomb apps?Offers, please. Links to the Android Market are ideal for letting us (and others) check. Paid-for or free, either is good.
Price£21,355MPG33.2Top speed112mphAs every father knows, granting a&nbsp;wish to a child is one of parenting's more rewarding tasks. However the desires that spring from a young mind can be tricky to fulfil. "No, Daddy doesn't think a unicorn would like to live in our small urban garden…" But just occasionally we get the chance to be our very own Dad'll Fix It. This happened to me last week when my nine-year-old daughter said that more than anything she'd like to "go in a van, a high one with rows of seats". Misty eyed, I&nbsp;pulled my own crumpled wish list from the back of my wallet and put a&nbsp;thick line through Mercedes-Benz SLR McLaren and in its place scrawled in smudged capitals: Hyundai i800.To the untrained eye, the i800 looks like a large metal box on wheels. After spending 10 days in it and covering almost 1,000 miles across England and round the Brecon Beacons, I can tell you that it isa large metal box on wheels. But what a box! Hyundai, as you will be becoming increasingly aware, is a vast Korean automotive brand that produces cars as quickly and effortlessly as Namibian rugby players let in tries. The cars are cheap, but that in no way means they are shoddy. Last monthAuto Expressnamed it as the fourth best overall car brand in Britain. Currently there are 10 models in Hyundai's UK line-up, stretching from the feisty i10 to the gargantuan iLoad. All the vehicles carry the "i" prefix, except the off-roader which is called the Santa Fe – clearly the black sheep of the family. The "i" doesn't stand for anything, but lets you know you're in the same branding bucket as innovative, trendy, edgy products. iPad = i800, do you see? Well, that's the thinking anyway. Cool or not, don't doubt the seriousness with which the Koreans take their cars. All new models come with a full five-year unlimited mileage warranty. It's like buying a&nbsp;car from John Lewis.The i800 comes in at number two on Hyundai's size chart. It's marketed as a big car for big families. In reality it will mostly see action as a big car for mini-cab firms, and particularly for airport transfers. But for the 10 days the car was my daughter's heartfelt wish, the i800 lived the dream. It provided comfort and transport for my wife and I, our three kids, a slobbering hound, a mother-in-law, two nieces and all the clobber associated with a&nbsp;week's holiday in the wilds of Wales.Unlike most MPVs, which have room for seven and often offer very little in the way of load-lugging, the i800 seats eight in three rows and has a boot so spacious it makes a&nbsp;Manhattan loft look pokey.You couldn't call it luxurious: it's defiantly basic, but in an agreeably robust, no-nonsense way. But it's not an austerity auto – there are frills. It has privacy glass, sliding rear doors, air bags, heated front seats, aircon, parking sensors, a&nbsp;decent MP3 music system and an unexpectedly lively 2.5-litre diesel engine. It's surprisingly nimble and responsive on the road. And the cabin is exceptionally quiet. I could easily hear my two young (and very politically correct) nieces singing from the back row as we surged over one of the stunning cols of the Beacons: "Baa baa rainbow sheep, have you any wool?"Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in  one place
Just as with high-street fashion, contemporary game design has an ongoing obsession with looking backwards as well as forwards. With the increasingly wide range of distribution methods on offer, games makers are returning to the fledgling years of a still-youthful medium. Take, for example,3D&nbsp;Pixel Racing(Wii, download, out now), a new Wii motorsports release. From its kitsch visuals to the twitchy gameplay, this energetic driving title wears its retro-infatuated heart on a decidedly vintage sleeve. But while it celebrates the golden era of the console with enough style to make it eye-catching, its gameplay may feel a little too familiar to anybody with knowledge of the kart-racing genre.Those looking for a stone-cold retro hit might be better off trying a masterwork from the past. Something like the lauded 1998 2D shoot-'em-upRadiant Silvergun(Xbox 360, download, out now), which has just been re-released. The game, previously available only to collectors who paid a three-figure sum for a Sega Saturn copy or invested in the original arcade machine hardware, enjoys classic status among 2D shooter enthusiasts, and remains a highlight of the genre's 30-plus year history. Despite subscribing to the strict bullet-dodging template that defines the vintage-era shooter,Radiant Silvergunis packed with exceptional ideas, and boasts an impressively epic atmosphere. It is incredibly difficult, but that is part of the charm. Bolstered by a new game mode exclusive to the Xbox 360, this accurate port of an obscure classic makes for riveting escapism.
With UFC 138 rolling into London in just two months, 2011's various mixed martial arts game releases are well timed to build expectation, withSupremacy MMAfirst up. Bridging the gap between fight sims such as UFC'sUndisputedandTekken-style arcade beat-'em-ups,Supremacysets out its stall as an unsanctioned and unlicensed cage fight, without the power-ups and fireballs, but where leg-snapping kicks and back-breaking throws are all the rage.The graphics look great, with cuts and bruises illustrated in grisly detail to show off an impressive array of moves to suit each fighter's style. However, the simplicity of controls is often frustrating, with just one button each for punches, kicks, throws and blocks.Supremacymay work better with a retro arcade control pad, but otherwise will inevitably descend into mindless button-bashing as you attempt to string combos together or rattle the joystick to lock in, or escape from, submissions.The brutal imagery will make difficult viewing for UFC bigwigs who are embroiled in a battle to gain legitimacy for their sport, but despite this, the game remains fun for what it is: mindless violence that is a lot more martial than art.
There's a peculiar, beautiful emptiness toGears of War 3. This most unsubtle of raging, ripping shooters has been refined through two sequels and six years of development into a near-masterpiece of flexed muscle. However, in this world of perpetual explosions and impossible, bison-chested heroes, there's also a grace of movement and action that defies the game's overbearingly crass design.There is a plot, about a group of human soldiers on an Earth-like planet battling two variants of subterranean invaders (they can be divided into "original" and "exploding"), but it's paper-thin as generating emotions from these steroidal war-sacks is like sparking wet flint, and the game barely tries. Instead, there are half-hearted locker-room barbs (including an apparently obligatory cap-doff to James Cameron'sAliens) and the occasional urgent need to be somewhere else, conveyed exclusively in barks and expletives.For a game this devoid of narrative, underground enemies are a stroke of lazy genius. Encounters no longer require anything as complicated as planning and, instead, simply begin with a "surprise" eruption from the ground before feeding combatants into the killzone.Yet despite all this, the game's great trick is that once these enemies arrive, the combat itself is lean and intense enough to wash away the numbing monotony of how they got there. The moment of conception is forgotten amid the excitement of its birth – a metaphor that works right up to the point when you chainsaw your first invader "baby" in half with the game's signature lancer firearm, at which point it's probably best to think heroic thoughts about saving mankind.Actually, it's pretty hard not to – the thumping cover-to-cover shooting, with smooth transitions over walls and barricades, has not become a genre staple by accident and underpins a thunderously meaty fighting mechanic. The game's tensest battles – the desperate, retreating defence of a survivor outpost and various "David versus a self-detonating crab Goliath" boss battles – are more primally engaging than a month of cut-scenes featuring the brick-brained cast yelling at one another.All of which explains the strength ofGears' online gameplay, which dispenses with story altogether to focus on the action. Highlights include the returning co-op survival mode Horde, and a softened team death match in which teams have a pool of lives per round rather than a single one of their own to which to cling. Freed from bluster and all too visible string-pulling, multiplayer showsGears of War 3at its best – a game that excels when in action but trips over everything else.
It's easy to forget that when Apple's first iPad was unveiled in January 2010, there were plenty of cynics questioning the need for a slate-shaped device sitting somewhere between a smartphone and a laptop computer. Microsoft had pitched tablets a decade before, to little interest. So what were iPads for? Scroll on 21 months and a second-generation model later, and we have a better idea: iPads are for lounging on the sofa, browsing, emailing, tweeting and Facebooking, for sure. But they're also for playing games, reading books, discovering music, watching films and TV shows, following recipes, video-chatting with friends and much more. And if iPad has found its multiple roles, the burgeoning number of apps available for the device is a key reason.There are currently more than 100,000 native iPad apps available, although, as with the iPhone, a big chunk of those are filler. But the good apps arereallygood: creative, innovative, imaginative, useful and fun (or at least several of the above).Developers are bringing multimedia bells and whistles to poetry; splicing books and games to find new ways to educate and entertain children; tapping into social networks and filtering technology to aggregate news and recommend music; and they offer tactile touchscreen ways to explore the earth, the human body and the solar system. And, yes, you can also playAngry Birdson the iPad.Two devices loomed large when choosing the 50 apps for this feature: the iPhone and the laptop. A number of these apps are already available on iPhone or as websites, so why would you choose to use them on an iPad instead? Skype, eBay, Amazon, Twitter, Rightmove… all have been redesigned to work well on a touchscreen tablet, and in some cases it feels like the most suitable device to use them on. Context is key. Many iPad users see the device as a more relaxed device than a computer: something to be kept close at hand on the sofa or even in bed, with its instant-on nature.The iPad isn't the only tablet in town, but for now it's the only one selling in significant numbers. HP recentlymothballed its TouchPad tabletjust two months after launching it, while Research In Motion is struggling to sell many of its BlackBerry PlayBooks – it shipped just 200,000 in the last financial quarter, versus 9.3m iPads. Tablets running Google's Android software, meanwhile, have not made a big impact. This is likely to change, with Samsung and HTC releasing attractive new tablets, and Amazonrumoured to be working on its own Android devicefor a pre-Christmas launch. For now, though, the iPad remains the defining device in the tablet market. These 50 apps show why, and hint at the possibilities for devices made by Apple and its rivals in the future.OUR PICK OF THE 50 BEST IPAD APPSHOMEJAMIE'S RECIPESfree.Jamie Oliver's recipes app is at its best on iPad, with a full-screen mode ideal for propping a safe distance away from cooking mess. Ten recipes and videos are included, with additional themed packs costing £1.69 in-app.MARK ON CALL HD£2.99.  Subtitled "Home Space Planning Design Tool" this app wants to turn iPad owners into interior designers, with plans of rooms, furniture to move around them, and the ability to attach your own photos.VEGGIE LOVE COOKBOOK69p.Better Homes and Gardensmagazine has designs on making you better in the kitchen too, with its polished vegetarian recipes app. More than 50 are included, with simple step-by-step guides and a useful shopping list feature.RIGHTMOVE FOR IPADfree. The house-hunting process can be a grind, even on the best websites. Rightmove's iPad app simplifies (but improves) the interface, and like eBay and Amazon it makes a feature of larger photos as you browse.SHOPPINGAUTO TRADERfree.Auto Trader's official iPad app aims to make the grind of scanning used car listings a whole lot more visual, with grids of thumbnail photos of cars with their prices, and simple filters to make sense of them.EBAY FOR IPADfree. Why use eBay on an iPad if you have a laptop or computer nearby? The online auction service has been redesigned with a focus on bigger images and a touchscreen interface, making it the perfect way to browse from the sofa.WINDOWSHOPfree. Windowshop is Amazon's attempt to reinvent its website for tablets, and it does a great job. As with eBay, the focus is emphatically on product images and flicking between items with swipes and other gestures.SOCIAL MEDIATWITTERfree. Twitter was so pleased with the design of its iPad app, it influenced the company's relaunch of its main website. For good reason too: Twitter on iPad is quick and slick to use, and maybe even the best device for tweeting.SKYPEfree. Skype on iPad retains the features that have made the internet-calling service so popular on computers, including voice calls and instant messaging. It's the full-screen video calls that make the iPad version an essential, though.FLIPBOARDfree. Flipboard wants to be your personalised, digital magazine, and does a great job of serving up articles that your Facebook and Twitter contacts have been linking to, as well as stories from your favourite websites.WORDPRESSfree. iPad is good for tweeting and updating your Facebook status, but it supports longer-form social media too, including WordPress blogs. The official app is an elegant way to blog without a physical keyboard in sight.SCIENCEFROG DISSECTION£2.49. Slicing up a frog - even virtually - may sound gruesome, but Frog Dissection has been praised by animal rights groups. Why? Because it makes an excellent alternative to the real thing.GOOGLE EARTHfree. Google's planet-mapping service was born to be on touchscreen tablets, getting you to swipe and pinch-zoom your way around the world. It's an impressive showcase for iPad's computing power, particularly the iPad 2.SOLAR SYSTEM FOR IPAD£9.99. Think you know about the solar system? This rich iPad book-app may teach you a thing or two. It blends text, 3D planets and moons, videos, images and diagrams across more than 150 digital pages, to impressive effect.BOBO EXPLORES LIGHT£4.99. If you have an 8-10 year-old telling you science is boring, buy them this app and watch them eat their words. More than 100 digital pages explore lasers, lightning, reflection and the human eye, with beautiful production values.STAR WALK FOR IPAD£2.99. This is great for making friends' jaws drop as you show off your iPad: simply point the device at the night-time sky, and it identifies stars, constellations and satellites. A real showcase for augmented reality technology.WIRED MAGAZINE (UK)free. Technology magazineWired's US iPad app was one of the first to make heavy use of animation, video and interactivity. Happily for Brits, there is now an app for the UK edition of the magazine too.KIDSCINDERELLA£3.99. A beautifully designed book-app that will keep both children and adults spellbound. Lush graphics and sound are complemented by interactivity that always drives the story along, rather than feeling like a novelty.JACK AND THE BEANSTALK£1.99. This interactive fairy tale will sit neatly alongsideCinderellaon the homescreen of many parents, with similarly high production values. It's part book and part mini-game collection, and captivating with it.THE FANTASTIC FLYING BOOKS OF MR MORRIS LESSMORE£2.99. This iPad book-app started life as a short animated film, elements of which have made it into the app. However, this story is about storytelling itself, is aimed at children, and includes mini-games and playful interactivity.TOCA ROBOT LAB69p. It sounds simple: an app for kids where they build a robot then fly it through colourful levels, collecting stars. Yet it's a real work of craft, and one that will delight your children for weeks and possibly months.GAMESREAL RACING 2 HD£4.99There are many wonderful casual games for iPad, but this shows it has hardcore gaming capabilities too. It's a visually impressive driving game with multiplayer and a rich career mode giving it depth.Angry Birds Rio HD£1.99. The most recent of the threeAngry Birdsgames for iPad, this is a good introduction to the series that has spawned more than 350m downloads. The gameplay may now be familiar but it remains addictive.SCRABBLE FOR IPAD£4.99. Scrabble and tablets are a good fit, with plenty of screen-room to show the board and consider your strategy. The iPad version comes into its own with multiplayer mode, including the ability to use iPhones as tile racks.DEAD SPACE FOR IPAD£5.99. If you like your games to be hardcore with a sense of menace, EA'sDead Spaceis just the thing. It's a brooding adventure set in a space station, with stunning graphics optimised for the iPad 2's powerful processor.INFINITY BLADE£3.99. This hack'n'slash adventures graphics are stunning, especially in the beefed-up iPad 2 version. The gameplay is rich and rewarding too, as you refine your combat moves and level up your character.PLANTS VS. ZOMBIES HD£4.99. Available on iPhone, but benefitting from iPad's larger screen, this is supremely addictive. Fend off zombie hordes by careful placement of a growing collection of offensive and defensive plants.SID MEIER'S PIRATES!£2.99. Originally released in 1987 for the C64 computer, this piratical adventure remains fresh in its iPad update. Sail the Caribbean, looting cities, wooing governor's daughters and hunting down more famous pirates. Swashbuckling fun.CULTURETHE WASTE LAND£9.99. Faber pulled out all the stops for this iPad app of TS Eliot's famous poem, with audio and video readings, copious notes and original manuscript scans. The text, though, remains its centrepiece.BOOK CREATOR FOR IPAD£4.99. There are plenty of book-apps for the iPad, but this one is about making your own e-book. It's simple to combine your own photos and text. Fun with children, but pro features including exporting books in the ePub format.VEVOfree. MTV doesn't show music videos any more, but Vevo is the nearest we have to a successor. Its iPad app is arguably the best way to use the service, too, tapping and swiping to browse a wide collection of videos.COMICSfree. It is early days for comics on the iPad: most are simply digitised versions of their print versions. Even so,Comicshints at the potential, offering a wide catalogue including Marvel and DC Comics.IMOVIE£2.99. It's available on iPhone too, but Apple's video-editing app is at its best on the iPad's larger screen, where the process of turning your clips into short films with soundtracks is far less fiddly.BBC IPLAYERfreeAlready popular on computers, the iPlayer catch-up TV service really comes into its own on the iPad, with a slick tablet interface for browsing and searching for shows, plus full-screen viewing.IA WRITER£2.99Word processing doesn't come much more minimalist than iA Writer, but that's the point. It strips out unnecessary features and gears its entire look and feel towards helping you concentrate on your words.PAINTERLY£1.49This is one of the most creative digital artist apps for iPad, with more than 60 virtual brushes to work with. Its key feature is the ability to import your own photos and then paint with their pixels.SHAKESPEARE IN BITS: A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM£10.49As more students get their hands on iPads, so more interesting educational apps will come out. This offers the text of Shakespeare's play, with academic notes and a full animated version to watch too.GARAGEBAND£2.99Apple's own music app casts its net wide. Professional musicians can use it as a powerful on-the-go recording tool but casual music lovers can take advantage of its "smart" instruments to make a tuneful din too.MADPAD HD£1.99MadPad helps you create your own "video soundboards", shooting 12 short video clips at a time and turning them into a digital drumpad. Children, cars and household objects are all fair game, with social features to share your creations.DJAY£13.99Now anyone with an iPad and a half-decent music collection can play DJ on their tablet. djay offers a virtual pair of turntables, and it's easy to create and record your own mixes.BIOPHILIAfreeBjörk's attempt to re-imagine her new album as an app is creative, ambitious and a lot of fun. Individual songs cost £1.49 when bought inside the app, with some taking the form of games while others are musical toys.KORG IELECTRIBE GORILLAZ EDITION£13.99Korg's original "virtual analogue beatbox" was a serious music-making app in its own right, used by Damon Albarn when making a Gorillaz album. This re-release includes samples from that to play with.INSTAPAPER£2.99It's available on iPhone too, but Instapaper comes into its own on a larger screen. The app lets you save online articles and blog posts to read them later, making them available offline too. A commuter's dream.123D SCULPTfreeThis is a digital sculpting app: you pinch and rub the screen to mould virtual clay, buying in-app theme packs for 69p each including "Medieval" and "Transportation". A tactile and creative delight.THE ECONOMIST ON IPADfreeIn keeping with the magazine's brand, theEconomist's iPad app is a model of elegant understatement, offering digitised issues for £3.99 each or as part of a subscription. The option to have articles read aloud is welcome too.PAPERCUT£3.99Papercut is an innovative attempt to find a new format for books that moves away from the idea of turning pages. You scroll through three short stories, with animation, sound and interactivity triggered as you go.THE HISTORY OF JAZZ£6.99Like Papercut, The History of Jazz is a book-app that ditches the pages metaphor in favour of something more interactive. In this case, it's a timeline of jazz history, armed with biographies and song samples.KINDLEfreeAmazon's e-reader app narrowly gets the nod over Apple's own iBooks, with fewer visual frills but a large collection of ebooks, including regular discounts and offers. It also syncs your reading position across different devices.ZINIOfreeZinio is a magazine store and reader app with a wide catalogue of publications available, from sport and politics through to music and lifestyle. You can choose to buy single issues or full subscriptions.SketchBook ProSKETCHBOOK PRO£2.99Published by computer graphics veteran Autodesk, SketchBook has quickly found a wide audience of casual scribblers and professional artists alike. More than 60 digital brushes are included, plus an intuitive interface.Update: The link and icon for Cinderella were for the wrong app. This has now been changed.
Here's my problem. My password has expired and I need to set a new one. So I think of something and type it in. The system rejects it as being insecure. That's funny – it's about the same level of complexity as its expired predecessor. Then I remember – the organisation has recently acquired a new chief information officer and he's embarked on a root-and-branch overhaul of the system, which presumably includes upgrading security rules.So I think of a really secure, incomprehensible password and type it in. The system rejects it as laughably inadequate. So I try another and another and another. Same result each time. At this point, I'm getting irritated. Since it's a Microsoft network, I decide to see what advice Microsoft can give me. I go to the company's "Safety and Security Center" where's there's ahelpful pageon how to create strong passwords in four easy steps.Step 1 is: "Start with a sentence or two." OK: how about "the rain in Spain stays mainly in the drain"? Step 2: "Remove the spaces between the words in the sentence." This gives "theraininSpainstaysmainlyinthedrain". Next step: "Turn words into symbols, numbers or shorthand". OK: how about "thera1n1nSpa1nstayzma1nly1nthedra1n"? Now for the final step: "Add length with numbers. Put numbers that are meaningful to you after the sentence." Hmm... it's too obvious to add a phone number or a car registration number. How about David Cameron's postcode? (Pause for googling.) So we wind up with "thera1n1nSpa1nstayzma1nly1nthedra1nSW1A2AA".Looks good, eh? So I try it. Yippee! I'm in. Only one problem: will I be able to remember this gibberish for the next login? You know the answer as well as I do. I won't. So I will have to write it down somewhere where I can find it. How about a Post-It note that I can stick on the underside of the desk?And there, in a nutshell, is the problem. I've just checked and at the moment, I need 61 passwords for all the services and devices that I use. Maybe I'm unusual because of my line of work, but I'll bet that most people have at least a dozen. For security, they should all be different – having a single password for everything would be a disaster waiting to happen. That doesn't stop people having a single password, though. A&nbsp;colleague tells me that the three most common are "password", "arsenal" and "pussy". (Hmm... wonder how he knows that?)Twenty years ago, we could get by with fairly simple, easily memorable passwords. But Moore's law – which says that computing power doubles every 24 months – has taken care of that. There's no word or combination of letters that you can think of (let alone remember) that can't now be cracked by brute-force computing. Complicated combinations such as the one I produced under Microsoft's guidance will take longer to crack, of course, but eventually the processor will get it.Twenty years ago, the insecurity of passwords wasn't such a big deal. But it's a big deal now because so much of our lives has moved online or on to offline computerised services. As these services proliferated, the use of passwords for authentication grew to the point where we are now totally reliant on a system that is at worst broken and at best inoperable.Because humans are an adaptable and ingenious species, we have found ways of ameliorating the problem. Some people put all their passwords in a single digital file and store it somewhere. Often they assign the helpful name "passwords" to the file, thereby making it easy for hackers to locate. If they're really conscientious, they will encrypt the file (provided they know how to do that). Some keep their passwords on their mobile phones, using proprietary apps such asKeeperor1Passwordwhich encrypt the data. Laptop manufacturers provide biometric devices which check fingerprints before allowing a login.More canny users employ authentication services such asOAuth, allowing them to share private data such as photos, videos or contact lists, between one site and another without having to hand out their usernames and passwords.Researchers such as Frank Stajano of Cambridge University are hard at work on ingenious ideas like a trustworthy device (Stajano calls his aPico) that "acts as a memory prosthesis and takes on the burden of remembering authentication credentials, transforming them from 'something you know' to 'something you have'".We will doubtless find a solution to the password problem for the simple reason that if we don't we'll be overrun by cybercrime, identity theft and a host of other nasty surprises.In the meantime, we're stuck with passwords whose security is inversely related to their memorability. Which reminds me: what was all that stuff about the rain in David Cameron's postcode?
Players ofJust Cause 2will know that Avalanche Studios does some of the best explosions in the business, and the developer's flair for the combustible is again brought to the fore inRenegade&nbsp;Ops. The top-down, twin-stick shooter is not uncommon on the console download services, but what sets this apart are its heavily armoured vehicles: perfectly weighted, bouncy-tyred contraptions, just controllable enough, equally capable of tight corners, lengthy power-slides or careering off cliffs. The all-too-brief helicopter sections are equally thrilling.Players are cast as the titular operatives sent to thwart generic evil madman Inferno, a deliberately flimsy surface dressing that lends the explosive action an air of over-the-top 80s action-movie gruffness. Contrasting that is a thoroughly modern levelling system, each XP milestone rewarded with points to be spent upgrading health, firepower and each of the four playable characters' unique abilities.Renegade Ops' large maps, multiple objectives and, at times, punishing difficulty mean a welcome focus on co-operative, rather than competitive multiplayer. There's support for two players offline and four online, the extra back-up essential for success on the game's higher-difficulty settings. It's as expensive as console downloads get, but hyperactive thrills and extensive replay value more than justify the price.
Gears Of War 3, XboxHuman colony planet Sera has rich deposits of imulsion, a bio-fuel that also attracts the attention of aggressive alien species, the Locusts.Unfortunately imulsion's side effect is violent mutation of living things, with your job to shoot everything until it stops moving. Gears Of War 3 is a third-person shooter, which is to say you can see your grotesquely beefy protagonists as they lay waste to the Locust horde with chainsaw-bayonetted machine guns. Lengthy (for the genre) plot sequences are designed to demonstrate that its over-muscled troglodyte heroes are essentially decent blokes underneath the ludicrous body armour and lethal armaments. Most important, though, is that despite having nothing new to say, its frequent, noisy gunfights will plaster a big goofy grin on to your face. Gears' overabundance of firepower and supportive teammates will also provide a useful antidote for those who've spent the last few weeks in Dead Island fending off legions of zombies alone, using a kitchen knife.Microsoft, £49.99OnLive LaunchOnLiveThe promise of OnLive is intoxicating: play games without having to invest in a console or pimped-out gaming PC. You either download a free client for your PC or Mac or get a micro-console (available free at this weekend's Eurogamer Expo at Earls Court, SW5) and you're ready to play any of the system's 125 games. Because all the processing grunt work is done elsewhere with only pictures and sound sent over the internet, there's no download to wait for and you can log in and play your games from any net-connected computer. Astonishingly it works, providing an experience free from latency (so no perceptible lag between pressing a button and seeing the resulting action onscreen) in very respectable 720p with surround sound. Games already available include Deus Ex: Human Revolution, DiRT 3, Assassin's Creed Brotherhood, LEGO Pirates Of The Caribbean and FEAR 3. OnLive itself is free, with games starting at £1.99. Look out for the PlayPack bundle: £6.99 a month, with access to 100+ games.Visit onlive.co.ukGames newsSonyhas again courted gamers' ire with a new clause in its online terms of service that waives users' right to launch class action law suits against them. That should make everything better!London'sScience Museumlaunches itsPlayer Festivalthis week (Wed to 2 Oct) with activities including a giant interactive game of Pong; Games Jam, in which games inspired by the museum will be created live; and Take Me To Your Scientists, a game for 100 people played in the museum after closing time …Demonstrating conclusively that there's life outside Premier League football,Other Media, maker of apps for the Rugby Football Union, the Football League and the ECB, have announced their millionth download …To buoy sales of portable gaming device the3DS, Nintendo rolls out the big guns of its classic software repertoire withSuper Mario 3D Landarriving on 18 November, followed byMario Kart 7on 2 December.
Amazon has sent out invitations to a press conference in New York next Wednesday at which it is expected to unveil a tablet based on Google's Android operating system. Analysts say that the offering, from the company which revolutionised electronic reading with its Kindle e-reader, could provide the first serious challenge to Apple's iPad.The company declined to comment on what will be released but analysts were confident that the world's largest Internet retailer will use the tablet computer to expand in mobile commerce and sell more digital goods and services."Wednesday is tablet day," BGC partners analyst Colin Gillis told Reuters.Some details of the tablet have leaked out via suppliers and the press: it is expected to have a 7in touch screen and run Amazon's own version of Android. While there are many Android tablets on sale, none has been able to compete effectively with Apple's iPad, of which about 29m have been sold since its launch in April 2010. A report on Techcrunch earlier this month suggested that itwill also be called  Kindle."The real issue here is that, you know, it is likely going to be good for consumers; is this going to be good for shareholders?," Gillis said. He wondered whether Amazon would price the tablet below those of rivals - and thereby do little to boost margins. "Knowing Amazon, it is likely to be a very aggressive price," Gillis said.Rather as the Kindle e-reader was priced low to quickly get traction among readers, Jeff Bezos is expected to keep the price of its tablet low to attract users and sell other content and services, one analyst said."It's a marketing tool to build a relationship with customers and sell them cloud (computing) services," said James McQuivey, an analyst with Forrester Research.Techcrunch's report said the new Kindle will have be a 7in screen device with full colour and cost $250, well below the price of the least expensive iPad.Earlier this week Amazon made its own Android software store available internationally, a necessary precursor to the launch of its tablet as it would allow people to download apps and e-books for it directly. Amazon is expected to run its own "app store" separately of the one run by Google, and to maintain its own content purchasing system.Robert Baird &amp; Co analyst Colin Sebastian said in a note last month than an Amazon tablet would be a "game-changer." Sebastian forecast the device could sell 3m units in its first year.The tablet could pose a major threat to Apple because of the Kindle's popularity and the movie and music services Amazon sells.Forrester's McQuivey said the device also takes aim at Barnes &amp; Noble Inc's NookColor device, which hit the market last year and features tablet functionalities.Several technology companies like Research In Motion and Samsung have introduced tablets that have sold poorly. Hewlett Packard Co announced in August it wouldabandon its TouchPad tablet.Amazon shares finished the day up 0.2 percent at $223.61 on Friday on Nasdaq. The stock had traded as low as $219.06, but rallied as invitations to the media event began arriving.
There was a time when only fast cars could do 100mph. Now, although speed limits haven't changed, only a handful of cars can't do a ton. This is one on them; it falls short by seven. But that's still 23 above what you're allowed to do. It means there's less chance of an automatic ban. It's like removing your testicles or – less drastically – your studs before playing football. You might not perform so well, but your chances of a straight red are considerably reduced. If you haven't got 'em, you can't show 'em (I'm talking about studs now, but you could say the same about testicles).Top speed is not the only important less-than-100 figure for the Hyundai i10 Blue. This is the eco version (blue means green) of Hyundai's city car. It has a new one-litre engine which cuts out at the lights, low rolling resistance tyres and an alternator management system, whatever the hell one of them is. All of which means C02emissions fall below the magic 100g/km mark. So the tax disc is free and you don't have to pay the congestion charge in London.And just to drag out the less-than-100 thing to breaking point, this is the only sub-100g/km car that costs less than 100 x £100. It's still a&nbsp;lot more expensive than an i10 with a 1.2-litre engine (which is only £20 a year to tax), so it's probably worth getting only if you live in London, or if you want to feel a&nbsp;little&nbsp;bit smug and green (or possibly blue).The i10's main problem is its appearance. To look at it's not interesting, or cute, or quirky or anything. "It looks like a little old&nbsp;lady's car," says my girlfriend. And she's right. So I get her to drive&nbsp;it. Well, she's a lady, she's not very big, and as she's no spring chicken any more to be honest, it seems only right.And suddenly, when she's inside and she can't see it, she thinks it's brilliant – nippy round town, easy, light, precise, parks like a dream. There's room for four of us, we've got air conditioning and can plug in the iPod. And when we get to the big red C that signifies the beginning of the congestion charge, we simultaneously lower our windows (though they have to wind them down in the back) and give it the finger.For the motorway, I take over. It's&nbsp;not that little old ladies can't drive on motorways, it's just that with all that fast-moving traffic it helps to have studs, if you know what I'm saying. And you know what, it's fine – maybe not a natural motorway cruiser, but then it's not meant to be. We reach 70 without major incident, and beyond that... Well, beyond that would be illegal, so it's immaterial.Hyundai i10 Blue 1.0 PetrolPrice£9,600Top speed93mphAcceleration0-62 mph in 14.8 secondsCombined fuel consumption67.3 mpgCO2 emisssions99 g/kmEco rating8At the wheelDot Cotton(there's even a massive ashtray)
Apple will launch a single new iPhone but could sell up to 26m of the devices in the final three months of the year, according to an analyst Peter Misek at Jefferies &amp; Company.Misek forecasts that the next iPhone 5,expected to be announced on 4 October, will have a slightly larger screen than the iPhone 4, use the same processor as the iPad 2, and have a better camera and thinner profile than its predecessor.The figures would retain Apple's position as the biggest maker of smartphones and one of the five biggest makers of mobile phones in the world, a position it first achieved in the second quarter of 2011.Apple's burgeoning sales will be boosted by the completion of a deal to begin selling the iPhone through China Mobile, the world's largest mobile carrier - although that would require a version that can connect with the carrier's TD-LTE network technology. China Mobile's chairmanwas quoted by Bloombergearlier in September saying that it had "already got a positive answer from Apple".But separate reports that emerged on Friday suggested that at least one supplier for the new iPhone is having problems in manufacture. Digitimes, the Taiwanese electronics trade paper,reported on Fridaythat Wintek, which makes touch panels for the new iPhone 5, is having problems with laminating the panels, resulting in bubbles. Wintek told Digitimes that all of its products are being delivered on schedule. The company is reported to provide between 20% and 25% of the touch panels used for the iPhone 5.Sources told Digitimes that Apple is aiming to ship between 25m and 26m iPhone 5s. That chimes with Misek's figure, as he expects Apple to keep selling both the 2010 iPhone 4 and 2009 iPhone 3GS - the latter priced for prepaid and emerging markets.Misek says he expects the iPhone 5 to sell more than 100m devices in 2012. He also forecasts an iPad 3 in the first quarter of 2012, and an LTE (Long Term Evolution) phone - which would be compatible with China Mobile's network in the first half of 2012."We expect carriers (including Sprint, with about 50 million subscribers to launch the phones starting in mid-Oct. We had believed that T-Mobile  with 34 million subscribers, would also carry the iPhone 5 in the fourth quarter, but now believe this could be delayed, possibly due to the pending AT&amp;T acquisition. Finally, we also expect an iPhone launch at China Telecom (with 108 million subscribers) in the first quarter of 2012."
If you buy a refrigerator for your home, it's yours. And once installed, it's going to work the same way for the rest of its working life, letting you organise perishable food inside a cold space.But in the world of technology, once you buy something – or, even more, become a user of a web-based service – there is a very good chance that it will change. And increasingly, the changes come with a take-it-or-leave it choice – which is to say, little to no choice at all.This comes to mind this week as Facebook announces the latest array of changes and improvements to the social media platform that has become by far the biggest global network apart from the internet itself. Many of its users consider Facebook to be integral to their lives, but they will live with the new features – some of which sound quite useful – or they will leave. At leastsome of its users have already told journalists, based on some news leaks, that they are outraged.The Facebook changes come only a couple of days after Google added many new features to its much-less-developed Google+ social networking product.Google's users welcomed the additions, but who's to say that a year from now Google won't turn the product in radical new directions.But it's not just web-based products and services that change radically. The more a company has market power – that is, the more captive or happy its customers are with what they've been using – the more ability it has to shift directions in ways that make clear who is boss.Consider what Apple did this summer with its new Mac OS operating system for desktop and laptop computers. Apple has been steering its business toward the iOS ecosystem it has created around mobile devices (iPhone and iPad) – a world it utterly controls. Mac OS X "Lion", as the new operating system is called, took on more iOS-like features and gave credence to some observers' belief (including mine) that Apple's long-range plan is to converge the two ecosystems.Because I like the Mac, which gives me freedom to install what software I choose to install, and don't like the iOS restrictions on what software may run, that trend worries me. Moreover, I strongly dislike many of the new cosmetic and more structural features Apple has put into Lion. On the computer (not the one I use every day) where I've been testing Lion, I've had to do a series of tweaks to recover most – but not all – of the functionality I had with the previous OS. But if I buy a new Mac, I will have no alternative but to use Lion or its successor; Apple rigs its new hardware in ways thatprohibitthe operation of previous operating systems.But it's Apple's ecosystem, not mine. And if I want to keep being a Mac user, I'm going to have to do it Apple's way, not mine. (I am making alternate plans, about which I'll say more here soon.)The control-freak behavior by companies is worst when they change existing products that you've purchased and can't return. The latest egregious example comes from OnStar, a communications system sold with many General Motors vehicles. The GPS-based service has been marketed primarily as a way of letting others know if you've been in an accident or otherwise need help in your car.But OnStar can do a lot more than that. It records, among other things, just about everywhere a driver has gone, and at what speed. And last week, OnStar changed the terms of service to allow it to use customers' data in just about any way it chooses – including selling it to other companies. The uproar was deafening, especially when people realised that even if they stopped subscribing to the service, OnStar could (and would) continue to capture the data and do what it pleased with the information unless customers explicitly disabled the devices. Thecompany's assurances that it would not actually misuse the information fell on understandably sceptical ears.We're only at the beginning of this trend, I fear. Someday soon – count on it – governments will order car makers to install software and communications "services" that give government not just the power to know where you are, but also to govern your top speed or, should it decide it needs to do this, stop your car, dead, on the highway.The point is this: the more our products contain software – and increasingly, code is integral to the things we buy – the more likely it will be that these products are not really ours anymore. The companies that sell them (or, in the case of web services, allow us to use them) will increasingly make decisions that they can change at a whim, or a court order. Probably the most infamous example to date took place whenAmazon reached into its customers' Kindle book readers in 2009to delete copies of – irony alert – George Orwell's 1984, which, it turned out, were being sold illegally by one of its online vendors.I don't expect bad faith to rule. Most of the changes will be upgrades, no doubt. But we will have no choice but to accept them. That's the problem.
I want to take a look at an aspect of the UK software development industry that's deeply involved in arguably the most important aspect of delivering software code: recruitment agencies, and the part they play in enabling companies to employ good software engineers.Or not.Finding good peopleOver the past few months I've been helping the recruitment for a software firm. It's a small company that has produced award-winning products and is run by two smart and talented individuals. They have a decent amount of cash in the bank, a full order book, a lovely working environment, great people and are at the forefront of some very cool technology. (No, I can't name them.)By rights, whenever I turn up to do a day's work at this firm I should first have to beat off a massive horde of software developers desperate to work there. Once through the door, I should then be toasting half the working day triaging emails with lovingly crafted and thought-out CVs and cover letters attached. This gig should, truth be told, be the easiest way there is to earn a day's consultancy income.The reality is somewhat different. It's more like having your teeth pulled out while being forced to watch back-to-back episodes of The X Factor, A Clockwork Orange-style.The assumption that we make is that it's actually the fault of recruitment agents. It's pretty easy to find employers and employees that have quite vitriolic views about agencies. I would actually go further than that, and to say it's quite difficult to find people who have been customers at either end of a recruitment agent who have anything nice to say about them as a profession. (I have, to be clear, worked with a number of individual agents who have served me very well, and who I've regarded as a trusty and required supplier.) The problem lies in the current ways that agencies work. So let's look at reframing the needs of candidates, employers and the agencies.Cut to 1989Picture the scene – you're in a classroom in a fairly regular British secondary school in the late 1980s. In front of you is the headmaster, a fairly stern individual who runs this secondary modern as if it were a public school. He's taken the time out of his diary to school all of the fifth form who are about to do their GCSEs in the art of jobseeking.His role in this is to impart the importance of the covering letter and how critical it is to get your CV looking spick and span. More directly related to our discussion here is the process he outlined – which mainly centred around building a database of companies you would like to work for, writing a cover letter and hassling each of the companies in turn until one of them gave you a job.Now, by a strange quirk of fate I've never actually gone through a recruitment agent as a candidate. I landed my first job through a personal referral and started my own business as my second move. My first real dealings with agencies in the UK was when I needed to employ people for my software company. I had an idea that it was an expensive process, so I was prepared for that – and we'll talk about money in a moment. What I hadn't expected was just howuninspiringthe whole process was. What I was expecting to happen was that I'd place my job ad and people would come knocking at my door, cover letter in one hand, CV in the other.What I actually got instead was a collection of same-y CVs, most of which the author wasn't able to tabulate or present coherently. The first few agencies I worked with just seemed to be punting people over based on some vague pattern matching against keywords in my requirements. After a while, luckily, I was able to find a good candidate, but I still – I guess – fear the process because it seems so at odds with what employers actually need.The monetary cost of using agenciesIt's 20% (more or less) – that is, the bounty you pay them for finding the candidate. If you're a software company which wants to employ two people at £36k a year, that's £14,400. And the invoice lands on the first day that your new hires start, so straight off the bat you have to write that cheque. If that hire doesn't work out, you can get some of that back (called the rebate); but then you're back on the treadmill and up for another charge to the agency.Agencies will negotiate, but be careful of the mistake that I made. If you beat an agency down to 12.5% and they have other clients at 15%, which do you think they'll put the most effort into? Another problem here is that agencies will adjust their rates depending on the state of the economy and the market. The softer the economy is – ie the time when the employer needs the lower rates – the higher the agencies rates go because there are fewer employers in the mix to pay the fees. It's our old friend supply and demand.What about alternatives to agencies? Actually, there are none. Any method you might think of will end up costing more than 20% in actual cost plus hassle, and may also make you look on the crazy side of wacky.What's (generally) wrong with agenciesRecruitment should be a beauty parade. It should be a, wonderful, magical process of just having a procession of dynamic and enriched individuals parading in front of an employer blowing people away with their awesome coding skills and fascinating personalities. It's not actually like that at all. Instead it's bland and boring. It's just a batch of CVs, perhaps with a summary statement that gives some insight into the individual (but most are hackneyed and same-y), and a list of technologies that the individual can handle to an arbitrary scale.Somehow, over the past 20 years what we've all agreed to do is create this third way where employers and candidates have stuck this middleman in the way of getting employers and candidates to talk, and what the agency is adding is of dubious value.Yet really, why should the process be any different to how it is now? Agencies typically do not understand, in any important sense, anything about the job that they are trying to sell candidates into. Agents typically don't cut code, and in most cases never have. Also, the chief executives of these agencies aren't ex-chief executives of software companies. Their depth of understanding of the problem domain could be described as "shallow". I don't think this statement is unnecessarily hard. On the one hand agents are essentially salespeople who are running a numbers game. On the other hand, their job is recruitment, not software development. An agent will spend 40 hours a week trying to achieve their employer's objective – namely, earning commission through placements. The employer could direct her/him to spend 20 hours a week writing software and 20 hours a week placing candidates, but – well, that doesn't sound like a good business model to me.I think it's very easy to attack agencies and say that they are "useless" because they don't understand the industry and that they're salespeople and only in it for a quick buck. Theseare, at the heart of it, sales people who are incentivised on commission. But importantly there is a pre-existing, profitable mechanism that these companies can establish themselves in, and that's not their fault. It's the candidates' fault.Dear job candidates: you may actually be the problemTry this simple experiment. Go to your favourite search engine and key in for "c# jobs" (or whatever technology you like). Click through to any of the organic links and search the area of your choice. I challenge you to find, in the first 25 listings, a single one that has been posted directly by a software company.This isbroken. Why are they there? What, actually, are the agents doing in this instance? Any one of their clients (ie the eventual employer) can post on these boards for £80-£100 a pop. Given that "if you're not part of the solution, you're part of the problem", if you click on a listing, upload your CV and engage with an agent – what areyouactually doing to fix the problem? Your CV goes into the mix and if you get placed, they get paid. Your employer will eventually forget how irked he feels when writing the damn cheque, and replace those negative feelings with positivity and love towards you and your incredible software engineering skills. Eventually.We have all, both candidates and employers, learned to be … well, lazy, I guess, We rely on the service that the agencies provide because it generally works out as appearing to be beneficial to them; we don't tend to have a commercial understanding of the costs to the employer, and the aggregated harm that cost has on the industry.But here are the numbers. If 10,000 software engineers move in a given month, and if they earn an average of £30k, that's potentially £60m in cash taken out of the pockets of software companies. That's money that software companies in the UK desperately need, and it's hard – for me at least – to quantify exactly what we're all agreeing to spend this money on. It has to be for more than just triaging rubbish CVs that aren't appropriate to the position in question. But anyone outside of the hallowed halls of a recruitment agent would struggle to describe their services as anything more than that.What employers need is really straightforward: they just need you to start a conversation. Employers don't need agencies in their current form to do this. If a candidate is out there on Twitter, orStack Overflow, or on some open source project, that's enough for an employer to see them.Since running my own business, I've often been surprised that regular jobbing professionals don't see their engagement with employer as a contract to supply services. It is, at its basic, an agreement to provide a service of labour in exchange for money. What we need to do as candidates is engage in a proper, commercial sales cycle, and we all know that what we need to do to succeed in business is to look smarter, more effective and just plain better than the next guy.This means getting out there and making a song and dance about how singularly awesome you are. I would suggest that you can't do this while being funnelled through a middleman; you have to do it in the charming and devilishly handsome way that we all know you can.One good way to do this (to return to the example of my client at the top of this article) is to have a detailed job spec on your site, together with contact information and tons of information on the product or the company.Essentially what happens there is that the candidate searches for "c# jobs anytown", and gets back job boards. Why not search for "software companies anytown" and do some research?One important thing to note here – if you're up for a job and you go through an agency and the next guy doesn't, if there's not much in it, they'll save their 20% and hire the other guy.What employers need, and we as professionals need to agree to doI'm not going to sit here and suggest that recruitment agents are bad and that we need to put them all out to pasture. The UK's software development industry would grind to a halt. As professionals on both sides, we need to demand and exact change in the way that the agencies work so they serve us better.The economics of the market suggests that in order to change the agencies, you need to remove their profit (or shift it to some other mode of business interaction), and that the way you remove their profit is to remove their income. To reiterate, at present most candidates have ended up being lazy and just relying on the agencies.OK, so what are agencies good at? Agencies are good atbringing people together. And that's what the candidate and the employer need. They need to be brought together, but this needs to be done through a deeper understanding and a more meaningful relationship than just matching up technology tags on a CV.And it can be done; why can't agencies understand more about the technology? Why can't agents go to user groups, or even run user groups, or invest in open source projects, or set up workshops for employers? There's a million and one ways in which agencies can work to bring people together in a way that's more meaningful and more helpful than the way that they work today.ConclusionTo be honest, if someone wrote to me with a nice covering letter and spoke about open source projects that he or she liked, pointed me at a Twitter feed where they were intelligently engaged in the problem domain, and sent me some code that they'd written, they'd be more or less hired at this point. No one wants to see a list of technologies with some random skill level or years experience. It's pretty easy to get hired: you just need to talk to people. All we have to do now, collectively, is to convince the agencies to help us show each other how fascinating we all are.Matthew Baxter-Reynoldsis an independent software development consultant, trainer andauthorbased in the UK. His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
"This is the biggest Battlefield game we've ever done," assured EA Dice general manager Karl Magnus Troedsson as he addressed a packed crowd at Thursday's Eurogamer Expo. During his 40-minute developer session on Battlefield 3, he showed several familiar trailers, as well as an exclusive glimpse at the US TV advert – a hypnotic storm of jump-cut game footage, set to Jay Z's seemingly omnipresent 99 Problems.He also talked about the two-player co-op mode, admitting that Dice weren't happy with the co-op functionality in Battlefield: Bad Company 2. Here, the two-player option will feature its own unique campaign with custom-built maps. Later, while introducing a playthrough of the Operation Guillotine level he said that the studio had been keen to keep the campaign story a secret, but did mention that Sgt Blackburn is effectively the main character, and that the basic theme of the narrative is "how far are you willing to go to protect your country." Hmmm.At the end, in a Q&amp;A session he tackled the controversial removal of Battlefield 2's commander mode, which allowed one member of a multiplayer squad to hideout and call in airstrikes and other support elements. "It's a cool role, but it's strange," he said, admitting that the topic was hotly debated within the development team. "Commander means one team member spends his whole time lying in an obscure corner of the map, hoping not to be stabbed in the back. And only elite players ever got to do it."For BF 3 the designers have attempted to push the commander abilities throughout the squad, so mortar strikes are available as an unlock (probably for the engineer), while scouts get a remote control drone and can set up gadgets around the map that scan and target passing vehicles for airstrikes. In essence, the commander function has been spread throughout the whole team, with every member also taking an active role on the battlefield.Mostly though, he spoke about the studio's Frostbite 2 engine. Apparently, Dice has a team of 25-30 dedicated engine coders working continually on it. He says Dice has no interest in licensing the tech, but that it is happy to provide it to other EA studios – Need For Speed: The Run is the first title to take advantage of that, but there will be others. Finally, he highlighted the five key areas of the technology. They were:Visuals"For good and for bad we're pretty obsessed with visuals at Dice," he laughed, "Everything from the soldiers to the vehicles to the environments to the particles …" He displayed a screenshot on the big screen showing a tank commander whose face approaches photo realism  – though Troedsson did admit you'd need a "super-duper computer" to render it out at this resolution.AnimationTroedsson also explained that it wasn't enough to build visuals that look great in a screenshot – he admitted the team weren't happy with the animation in Battlefield: Bad Company 2 and addressing that was a key concern with Battlefield 3, which was already in development when BC2 shipped. "So we said, okay, what is best in class – what is the best animation engine out there?" he continued. "We were surprised and happy to discover that it was in the EA Sports games. So we worked with the sports team, we worked with a group within EA called EA Tech, and we implemented the ANT animation system into Frostbite 2 – we're the first FPS to be using this animation technology, and for us, it's a big, big difference; how the soldiers move, how they go into cover, how they look under suppressing fire … it really takes you out of the uncanny valley."Tactical destruction"We started building this into Frostbite 1 for the first Bad Company, and we're still very proud of this technology," he explained. "Destruction isn't there for eye candy, it's there to change how you play the game. We want to make sure that the sniper camping up there in the building is not feeling that he's entirely safe just because he can hide behind a static wall – the engineer can use an RPG to take out that wall." He admitted that the implementation was "rough around the edges" in BC1, but the refined version in BC2 allowed for the total destruction of buildings. "Now, with Battlefield 3, we're in urban environments and we have what we call "facade destruction". We can tear down the fronts of the buildings in Paris." He shows us a trailer of tanks doing exactly that.Sound"This is one of the key components, it completes the experience," he opined. "I'm going to be a bit cocky here and say that I believe a lot of developers overlook this area. I play games every now and then that impress the hell out of me visually, but when you fire a gun it's like, 'ping', 'pooooo'. If you've ever been to a range and fired a gun, it's one of the most visceral experiences you can have, it's so fricking loud! We see this game as a very physical experience and when you play it through your 5.1 system, I would say audio makes up 50% of that experience."We've sent our audio team to military exercises around the world to record the base data and we use that to build the sound files in the game. Frostbite 2 takes care of everything form the different reverbs to reflections filters that you put on to the sound in real-time. If you fire a gun in a forest you get reflections coming off the trees, if you fire the same gun in an urban environment it's going to sound more like the bank heist scene in Heat, where you hear gun shuts blasting off the concrete walls. Sound is important."Scale"We need huge, open environments, scale is super important," he continued. "The cool thing about Frostbite 2 is that we can have vast environments with jets flying over, but we can also do the other side of the spectrum – tight, urban, gritty, infantry-focused maps. We'll ship the game with an infantry only check box, so if you want to play without vehicles, you can."Battlefield 3 is released on 28 October for PC, PS3 and Xbox 360
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHow journalists are using the iPad to enhance their reporting &gt;&gt; Poynter."I've found mobile devices to be especially effective for on-the-street interviews. When New York City brought in a new system of letter grades for restaurant health inspections last year, the WNYC newsroom asked me to get reaction from New Yorkers. Using my iPad, I asked people on the street where they liked to eat and then looked up the restaurant's inspection report online. I was able to capture their reactions when they heard the details — things like evidence of live vermin at their favorite restaurants. It was tape I could not have gotten in the moment without an iPad."Teach our kids to code e-petition &gt;&gt; Emma Mulqueeny"So after declaring that this would not become a personal mission for me in my post: year 8 is too late it has become a personal mission.&#10;"The petition is appallingly written. In my defence it was a brutal, and random, word count; I had to keep removing chunks of copy and keep trying to submit it, until suddenly it worked (no the word count that it eventually allowed through bore no relation to the word count originally stated… bug?). Anyhow, this terrible prose means that many have tried to explain it through writing their own explanatory blog posts and I thought I had better have a bash at explaining the background better myself.&#10;"What do I mean by code?"She explains. Meanwhile, go and sign the petition (linked from her page).Travel time maps &gt;&gt; MapumentalNot time travel, please note.How Ice Cream Sandwich will work with Honeycomb apps &gt;&gt; Android Developers Blog"Early this year, Honeycomb (Android 3.0) launched for tablets. Although Honeycomb remains tablets-only, the upcoming Ice Cream Sandwich (ICS) release will support big screens, small screens, and everything in between. This is the way Android will stay from now on: the same version runs on all screen sizes.&#10;"Some Honeycomb apps assume that they'll run only on a large screen, and have baked that into their designs. This assumption is currently true, but will become false with the arrival of ICS, because Android apps are forward-compatible — an app developed for Honeycomb is compatible with a device running ICS, which could be a tablet, a phone, or something else.&#10;"So, if you've developed a tablet app on Honeycomb, it's important that your app do one of two things: prevent installation on smaller screens or (preferably) support smaller screens with the same APK."With details.So, Mila Kunis, if it wasn't your phone that was hacked.. &gt;&gt; Naked Security"The kerfuffle about the slew of celebrities who have had their phones apparently hacked and naked photos exposed on the internet continues.&#10;"But now one of the celebrities denies that her phone was hacked at all. But that doesn't mean that they were a shining example of computer security.."Instead - as we suspect with all these celebrity hacking stories - it's their email accounts and cloud storage services which are hacked, not their physical phones.A quick fact-check on some of Eric Schmidt's testimony before the Senate Antitrust Sub-Committee &gt;&gt; Search NeutralityFrom Foundem, which has complained about - and demonstrated - Google's bias towards its own products in search.Massachusetts Attorney General, victim of an iTunes scam, says she'll demand answers &gt;&gt; threatpost"Massachusetts Attorney General Martha Coakley said on Tuesday that her office would be inquiring into long-standing complaints about fraudulent purchases that leverage Apple's popular online music store.&#10;"In a lunchtime address to business and technology leaders in Massachusetts, Coakley said she was a victim of identity theft in recent months, and that her stolen credit card information was used to make fraudulent iTunes purchases. When asked (by Threatpost) about whether such fraud constitutes a reportable event under the Bay State's strict data breach notification law, Coakley said that her office would be looking into that question and demanding answers from Cupertino, California based Apple, which has steadfastly refused to comment, or report the breaches to Massachusetts regulators."Why is the identity theft Apple's fault?Here is how you can game Klout &gt;&gt; ElevateLocalSurprisingly easily, it turns out.Exclusive: four pages from The Zen Of Steve Jobs &gt;&gt; Forbes"Here are four more pages from the upcoming graphic novel, "The Zen of Steve Jobs." The Forbes-written, JESS3-designed book re-imagines Steve's relationship with his friend and mentor, Kobun Chino Otogawa, a Japanese Soto Zen Buddhist priest."Imagine that.Voting to hire a chief without meeting him &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"The mystery isn't why Hewlett-Packard is likely to part ways with its chief executive, Léo Apotheker, after just a year in the job. It's why he was hired in the first place.&#10;"The answer, say many involved in the process, lies squarely with the troubled Hewlett-Packard board. "It has got to be the worst board in the history of business," Tom Perkins, a former H.P. director and a Silicon Valley legend, told me.&#10;"Interviews with several current and former directors and people close to them involved in the search that resulted in the hiring of Mr. Apotheker reveal a board that, while composed of many accomplished individuals, as a group was rife with animosities, suspicion, distrust, personal ambitions and jockeying for power that rendered it nearly dysfunctional."&#10;Still, at least they've met Whitman - she's on the board.European Group finds HTML5 security gaps &gt;&gt; Computerworld"The European Union's computer security agency warned that the draft HTML5 standard may neglect important security issues. The European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA) on Aug. 1 released a 61-page document that cited 51 security problems in the draft HTML5 specifications."It's the first time anyone has looked at those specifications from a security point of view," said Giles Hogben, program manager for secure services at ENISA. Some of the security issues can be fixed by tweaking the specifications, while others are risks that browser users should be warned about, Hogben said.(Thanks @rquick for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
It's Friday! Planning any game purchases today? Let us know!
The social graph trumps algorithms, according to Alexa Andrzejewski, founder of social eating app Foodspotting. She was speaking in a panel session on social mobile apps at Facebook's f8 conference."People don't trust algorithms," she said, explaining that when Foodspotting users were asked if they wanted recommendations from the company in the app, they said no – but they were very keen to see what their friends were eating and recommending. "Remember that people don't care about your fancy algorithm. They care about their friends."The panel also featured Zynga's Paul Bettner, Turntable.fm's Billy Chasen and EA/Playfish's Kristian Segerstrale, with social mobile games a key area for discussion."Play and gaming is one of the most important trends in mobile right now," said Bettner. "I think mobile is the modern vehicle for play now. When the iPhone came out, it was a life-altering moment for me… There's never been anything like this before. Everybody is carrying this device around. I could never say my wife was carrying a Game Boy or a PSP around."Segerstrale agreed, claiming that there are "nearly one billion" smartphones in people's hands now, versus a comparatively tiny number four years ago."The really exciting thing is if you think of usage today: 8% of people's time on these devices in applications is spent either social networking or playing games," he said, highlighting the strong potential for social games, which combine the two.Segerstrale, said there are still issues though, particularly the way social games on mobile phones can't be updated as quickly and regularly as on Facebook."It's crippling and inefficent how many hurdles there are to updating a mobile application… whether it's iOS or Android". But he said that technology evolutions like HTML5 may help solve that. "Being able to update it on the fly as opposed to having to update it through a channel to market."Bettner agreed that Zynga has struggled with this too, but also warned of the challenges of reproducing a social game designed to be played on a desktop computer, and making it work well on a smaller-screened mobile phone. Which is why Zynga made a separate CityVille Hometown game for iOS, rather than one that tied into its full CityVille game on Facebook.The panel were also asked about the challenge of discovery on app stores."One of the first things you can do is leverage people's narcissism!" said Andrzejewski. "Get other people to evangelise your app for you by letting them share stuff about themselves." Bettner added that Zynga's most valuable players on mobile are those who came in through personal recommendations: invites from friends.Segerstrale added that app developers still need to have good relationships with app store owners like Apple and Google, but that once they have built an audience for their games, other ways to promote a game become possible: EA's Origin community for example.Bettner talked about "a huge echo effect back to the iPhone audience" when Zynga launched Words With Friends on Android: people playing on iPhones came back to the game because suddenly their Android-owning friends could play.The panel were asked about releasing their apps for different mobile platforms, and all agreed that it's tough to launch a social app simultaneously across iPhone, Android and others, especially for smaller teams."Hopefully HTML5 gets to a point where we can do that," said Turntable.fm's Chasen. "It's what we tried at first, but it was really slow and required you to download some files first to get it running… It's very challenging for small teams, so the best I can do is just roll out different platforms. People will wait for it. We have an Android community and we know they're waiting for it. And it's coming soon."There was also a debate about the best way to make money from mobile apps, from paid downloads to in-app purchases to advertising. "The best monetisation is when you don't even realise that's what it's doing," said Chasen. "It's a part of the user experience."Segerstrale suggested that it's vital for developers to remain focused on engagement – getting people to spend more time using their apps rather than hurtling willy-nilly into different ways to make money from them. "Get them more engaged, and chances are if they do more of that, they'll be willing to part with some money as well".Andrzejewski said that finding a balance between what's good for the business and what's good for users of apps, although the two are often symbiotic. "If it's not good for the user, it's not good for the business or the brand," she said.Segerstrale also criticised the way a lot of social mobile games companies are caught up in the idea of making money from "whales" – a few big-spending players."I actually think that's an unsustainable model. I think it's very important to have a broad base of folks who pay, as opposed to a few who pay a lot of money."Chasen finished off by advising developers to "push the technology to the limits", using the native features of the mobile phone like the camera, the accelerometer, the GPS sensor and others."More important than anything is don't design for today, but design for what you believe the world will look like in 12 to 24 months," said Segerstrale. "Think how the world will be and develop for that, as opposed to developing for what the world is like today."The panel were asked what else they're excited about outside their own companies' areas. Segerstrale said sports and exercise is ripe for social disruption, while Chasen is looking forward to more social layers on top of reading books."What I would really love to see is an app that harnessed social for giving," said Bettner, referring to mobile rather than Facebook's website, where there are a number of charitable apps already. "It's particularly interesting on mobile because payment is so frictionless, it can be one click to donate… I'm not yet seeing an app built around that, and I think it would be extremely compelling."Finally, Andrzejewski talked about the idea of lifestyle changes, for example "making diabetes more social and motivating people through that… helping people achieve their goals and change their lifestyle".
Block 19.47am:Facebook's f8 conference is mainly about its developers, but like Apple's WWDC show, the main keynote speech is aimed at a far wider audience. CEO Mark Zuckerberg will be taking the stage soon to outline new features and services on the social network, with media and entertainment a key focus.Zuckerberg has been open in the past about the company's ambitions to bring similar social disruption to music, TV, film and other media to what it has done for games. Today's announcements will show us how Facebook plans to do that.The music plans have been well leaked, with Spotify and rival services expected to be more tightly integrated into Facebook so people can discover music through a feed of what their friends are listening to. The fact that Facebook's significant news feed redesign was announced earlier this week hints that there may be more big news in the keynote, though. Stand by.Block 2If Mark Zuckerberg walks on to this, you know who to blame...9.49am:While we're waiting for Zuckerberg to take the stage, it's been interesting to see how NFC has a high-profile place at the f8 party. Every attendee has a "Presence Card", which you can tap at different points to take and tag photos of yourself, stroll onto a dancefloor with someone else while your connections are projected on a big screen, or add songs that you've Liked on Facebook to the f8 playlist. I can only apologise for this...Block 39.54am:The fact that music is a big part of the keynote announcements today is already well known, but if you need more proof, serial entrepreneur Sean Parker is hosting "A celebration of music" later today, with "conversations with luminaries in the music industry" including Spotify CEO Daniel Ek.Block 49.57am:Colleague Josh Halliday has the last-minute gossip: "We've heard that five major music services will announce new apps on Facebook in the next hours. Early speculation suggests that these are Spotify, Deezer, Rdio MOG and one other. The other could be Vevo, the music video website which is also thought to be unveiling a new app.We've also heard that changes are in store for Facebook profiles. One of these changes is thought to involved a "timeline", presumably where we can map life's many indiscretions."Block 59.59am:It will be interesting to see what Zuckerberg has to say about this week's redesign of the Facebook news feed, which is currently provoking its fair share of debate on the social network itself, as well as on Twitter.Peoplealwayscomplain about Facebook changes, at least for a couple of days, but this time seems to be causing a bigger rumpus than usual. Two pieces of evidence. One: a crew from ABC were vox-popping the queue to get into f8 this morning asking about the complaints. Two: my mum has well and truly got the hump with it. A scientific focus group of one, obviously.Block 610.06am:We're running a little late to start: lots of people are still gladhanding down the front. A source who just met Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg backstage was impressed by his aura. "Cold hands, though." That's because he's icy calm! Or perhaps he just needs a warmer hoodie.Block 710.12am:So, last-minute predictions from me. Music, obviously. Possibly TV, film and some interesting stuff around newspapers too. Facebook's iPad app will surely be unveiled today. Wild card? While idly browsing the f8 attendees list on Facebook the other day, I spotted a chap called Tom Reyburn, who is apparently a senior partnerships manager at Apple.Now, he may just be the guy who deals with Facebook as an app partner, but what about a late deal to bake Facebook into iOS 5? Just a thought. Meanwhile, the last fortnight has been conspicuous for the lack of rumours about a Facebook Phone. But perhaps we'll see some other mobile announcements.Block 810.14am:If I was Mark Zuckerberg, I'd kick this off by sending Jesse Eisenberg on-stage to pretend to be me. This is probably just one of the many reasons I'm not Mark Zuckerberg. The keynote is about to start though: here we go!Block 910.16am:He has! Respect. Eisenberg is on stage now. "I wanna start with the issue of authentic identity I am Mark Zuckerberg..." (Update: this is a comedian called Andy Samberg, not Jesse Eisenberg).Block 1010.18am:"Our focus has now shifted from user growth to user engagement. And user engadgement is when Charlie Sheen gets married.." B'dum tish.Block 1110.20am:*cough* Apparently this is a comedian called Andy Samberg. My mistake. He's very good though.Block 12Mark Zuckerberg gets spoofed at his own conference10.21am:Now the real Zuck strolls onto the stage, looking slightly awkward, as you would if you were standing in front of this Photoshopped image.Block 1310.24am:Onto the serious stuff. The last five years of social networking have been about "getting everybody signed up and connected with everybody in their lives... most people see social networks are going to be an ubiquitous tool used by billions of people around the world to stay connected every day".Last week saw the first day ever when half a billion people used Facebook in a single day, according to Zuckerberg. "But what's even more exciting... is all the things that are now possible now that all these connections are in place. The next five years, the next era, is going to be defined by the apps and the depth of engagement now that everyone has their connections in place."Block 1410.26am:First up: the profile, which Zuckerberg says has been at the centre of every major change to Facebook in its history. "Our job is to make this product the best way for you to share everything you want, and the best way to express everything that you are."He shows a screenshot of his own profile in 2004, which looks awfully basic compared to what you get today, before flicking to a profile screenshot from 2008, when the news feed was introduced. Which he criticises."We're more than just what we did recently," he says. "Millions and millions of people have spent years curating the stories of their lives, and today, there's just no good way to share it. We think this is a real problem, and we think that we have the solution."Block 1510.29am:Zuckerberg says the profile has been "completely rethought from the ground up", and is now called... Timeline. "Timeline is the story of your life, and it has three pieces," he explains. "All your stories, all your apps, and a new way to express who you are."Facebook's new Timeline profile designThe new profile pops up, and it's a lot more visual, with a tile-based layout for apps, stories, photos and other content. Scroll down, and there's a mixture of photos, maps, music – I got a quick glimpse of album thumbnails from Spotify there as he scrolled – and it works in a similar fashion on mobile.Block 1610.34am:The new Timeline profile will show everything you've done recently, but will cherry-pick "the most important" content from previous months and years. Things that Facebook deems not so important are hidden, but can still be accessed.Here's a full demo, already live on Facebook's site.Block 1710.36am:You can now set specific events for content you've posted on Facebook - "New Pet" for example. At first glance, it's an extra layer of complexity – potentially dangerous, depending on how people take to it (and not just us geeks at f8 or reading liveblogs about f8, but the hundreds of millions of regular people).Block 1810.37am:Up next, how apps fit in to Timeline. "People who use Facebook really love apps," says Zuckerberg, referring back to the boxes you used to be able to add to your profiles for different apps – as many as 100 in ultra-keen cases. "It quickly became unwieldy," says Zuckerberg. "We learned that people really want to use apps to express themselves... we took those lessons and built them in to Timeline."What kinds of content can be put on your Timeline? It can work in the same way as before: he shows an update from the Social Cooking app on his own profile: "Mark Zuckerberg cooked Bison Burgers on Social Cooking" with a photo.But a new thing: reports. He has a report of everything he's cooked and posted through that app in September: "Apps can help you roll up all the activity that you're taking into these reports, and get a summary every month or every year... We think that people are really going to like these."Block 1910.40am:Facebook thinks users will still deliver a lot of apps on their friends' timelines, so there'll be the option to see an update and click to add that app to your own timeline."There's one more big piece," he says. "With Timeline we didn't just want to design a place to put your stories and your apps. We wanted to design a place that feels like your home." Hopefully this doesn't involve letting my toddlers on Facebook to make an almighty mess...Block 2010.42am:Every profile has a "Cover" – a big photo at the top of the profile, which can be chosen, cropped and swapped in and out as often as you like."You have complete control over everything on your timeline," he says. "You can control what's there, and who sees everything." Which is where the recent changes to Facebook's groups feature come in.Zuckerberg also says that everyone's timeline will look different, depending on their interests. And "all this stuff works beautifully and is fully immersive on mobile devices", showing a quick scroll through a mobile profile again.Block 2110.46am:Zuckerberg cues up a video showing off timeline – if you're watching the livestream, it's on now. While that happens, here's a personal view: the new timeline looks really good, but I wonder if it will need a little time to make the most of it."We think it's an important next step to help you tell the story of your life," says Zuckerberg, who goes on to say that there is a "completely new class of apps" to work with this timeline.Block 2210.48am:Zuckerberg talks about Facebook's evolution from the social graph – introduced in 2008 – to the open graph that was launched last year to expand Facebook onto other sites and apps. And now?"You don't have to 'Like' a book, you can just read a book... You don't have to 'Like' a movie, you can just watch a movie... You can just eat a meal, you can hike a trail, listen to a song. You can connect to anything in any way that you want."The key thing? "We're adding verbs." So rather than just Liking something, you'll now listen, read, watch and so on – something that has been widely leaked in recent days. And Zuckerberg stresses that activity will go into Facebook's new ticker rather than the news feed, to ensure people don't annoy their friends with incessant updates. Lost cow, anyone?Block 2310.52am:He talks up the "completely new class of social apps" that will be tapping in to this. "With this update to Open Graph, we're going to expand the set of industries and products that are becoming social to a couple more," he says. "First, all media: music, movies, TV, news and books... And the next is what we call lifestyle apps."Exercise, food, fashion and travel are the four types of lifestyle app shown on the screen as Zuckerberg talks.Block 2410.55am:Zuckerberg also talks about the idea of "seamless sharing": new Open Graph apps will be able to add activity to your timeline without prompting you to do it: automatic posts. "You're connecting the app and your timeline together, adding all of the activity and history in the app to your timeline, and keeping them in sync going forward."The demo for this involves logging in to Spotify – the streaming music service is getting a lot of on-stage love already today. And he talks about the idea of "listening can spread really quickly throughout the graph": you see a friend listening to a song in your ticker and click to listen too, which in turn will appear in the ticker of your other friends, and so on.Some activities will surface in the news feed though: when people create Spotify playlists including artists that you like, for example, or when multiple friends are listening to the same song.Block 2511.01am:Kenny G is on the screen! As somebody's Top Album. That's surely a sackable offence.Block 2611.02am:Zuckerberg is showing his own ticker now, and it includes people listening to songs on Spotify, Rdio and Songza – the latter is a bit of a curveball.But here's the interesting thing: Zuckerberg starts listening to a song that a friend is listening to: it starts playing there and then, and pops up a chat window, and it all happens within Facebook itself: he's NOT popped out to Spotify's application, as had been rumoured this week."Being able to click on someone's music and play it is a great experience, but knowing that you helped a friend discover something new, and that you have the same taste in music, is awesome," he says.Block 2711.04am:"I'm really excited about what this next wave of music companies is doing with Open Graph," he says, suggesting that the future for the music industry is "not trying to block you from listening to songs that you haven't bought". And he invites Spotify CEO Daniel Ek on-stage to talk about what that company is doing."It's a big day for Facebook, it's a big day for Spotify, and it's a big day for everybody who loves music," says Ek, who says that while people discover music through their friends in the real world, it hasn't really translated well online.Ek describes Spotify as a service that "fairly compensates artists" – get commenting indie musicians and heavy metal labels – but goes on to say that Facebook users are more engaged on Spotify, and "twice as likely to pay for music": in other words, people who have connected Facebook to Spotify are twice as likely to subscribe to the music service.Block 2811.08am:It's not just Spotify: TuneIn Radio, iHeartRadio, Audiovroom, earbits, Deezer, Rdio, SoundCloud, Rhapsody, Vevo, Mog, Jelli and others all flash up on-screen as music partners for Facebook's new Open Graph.But Zuckerberg quickly moves on to TV, with apps from Hulu and Netflix. You can see that friends are watching Glee on Hulu or Pirates Of The Caribbean on Netflix, and click to in both cases pop up a window and watch within Facebook."This next wave of companies understands that if you can help people discover an order of magnitude more content than they could before, that enables all kinds of new models to work, whether ad-supported or subscription... These companies are not just rethinking the experience of watching content with your friends. They're rethinking these entire industries."Block 2911.12am:Spotify has justpublished a blog postabout today's announcement. Meanwhile, Netflix's CEO Reed Hastings takes the stage.He says that a year ago, Facebook approached Netflix about a tighter integration, and admits to having had some reservations about the partnership: "What, you want all the viewing activity, you're going to have all this information about Netflix members? Doesn't that make us competitively vulnerable?"However, Netflix and Facebook integration isn't available in the US due to privacy legislation, which Hastings says is up for revision today in a new bill.Block 3011.15am:More TV and film partners include Miso, IMDB, TF1, DirecTV... but no UK broadcasters judging from the slide that Zuckerberg shows.Block 3111.16am:Onto news. The Facebook news feed will now pull up patterns of articles that friends are reading across the web on various sites that have partnered with Facebook to use its new Open Graph. The pattern is "x friends read articles about y", with sources shown so far including Yahoo News, The Daily and the Washington Post.News Corporation is releasing the web app of this [The Daily] only inside Facebook," says Zuckerberg. Partners include The Guardian (who?), the Daily Mirror, The Telegraph and The Independent in the UK, as well as The Economist, Flipboard, The Huffington Post and other services around the world.Block 3211.19am:We're on to social games now, with more detailed status updates explaining exactly what people have been doing in Facebook games: "Mike Vernal played TEXT in Words With Friends" is the example update with a picture of the exact word he played in the Scrabble-like title from Zynga.Block 3311.21am:Update from my mother. "Get the mic to ask about the latest changes, i am not getting all of my friends postings now!" I sense she will have more to say once she reads this liveblog...Block 3411.22am:We're on to lifestyle apps, with partners including Nike, Eventbrite, Ticketmaster, Color, Metacafe, Ticketfly, Appsfire, Airbnb and others. A few ticketing sites in there, which does back up the speculation before f8 that Facebook's changes to the Open Graph are a subtler, (hopefully) less privacy-invading version of its infamous Beacon feature.It will be interesting to see the details though: do I still get to control which of my Ticketmaster purchases show up in my friends' tickers, for example?Block 3511.25am:Chief technology officer Bret Taylor tags in to the stage to show how this new Open Graph will work, and with some crucial information about when these changes will take effect. "We're going to be rolling out timelines over the next couple of months progressively," he says.Block 3611.26am:A quick aside: the New York Times appears to have abig pieceon how much-maligned startup Color is rethinking itself as a Facebook photos app.Meanwhile, Taylor says that "social applications have all been about sharing, but Open Graph apps are about so much more than that: they're about self-expression and serendipity... I don't want to spam my friends every time I pick up a spatchelor, but it would be great if my friends can see what I've been cooking when they're on my timeline."Block 3711.29am:Commenter csprr has just made me embarrass myself by laughing out loud while Taylor speaks, with some views on the new Timeline. "yo dawg, i herd u like facebook so we put a facebook in the upper right of ur facebook, so u can facebook while u facebook."Block 3811.30am:More seriously, Taylor is explaining how people will control what gets shown on their timeline, using iHeartRadio's iPhone app as an example. The key is that people are asked once when they first use the app whether they want to share their listening on their timeline, and from then on it just happens, with no need for Share buttons or pop-up prompts."The app is able to set the expectation that everything is social up front. That's the app that's going to win, because that's the app that I'm going to see my friends using," says Taylor. I'm guessing there may be criticism from some quarters if this seems like pressure for people to share everything, rather than pick and choose.Block 3911.33am:Taylor also talks about the importance of "patterns and aggregation", identifying when a number of friends are listening to a particular song or artist, and surfacing that in the Facebook news feed.Developers of apps have a fair amount of control over how this aggregation will work when shown in people's timelines on Facebook. There will be six different layout styles and a "pretty flexible query engine" for developers to use.Here'sVevo's blog poston its partnership with Facebook, by the way.Block 4011.36am:A new stat: 350 million people use Facebook on their mobile phones every month, according to Taylor. And he suggests that the most popular Open Graph apps will be those that are also available on phones, rather than web-only.Block 4111.38am:There's a new technology for developers: Graph Rank. It's the system that figures out what activity is most interesting to Facebook users: what they'll see in their news feed when they log in, versus everything that's available when they browse a friend's timeline."It's a personalised view of you and your friend's interests. The higher your app's graph rank is for me, the more likely I'll see your app on Facebook," he says. Developers will be able to log in and see analytics on what people are finding interesting about their apps, and what they find annoying, so they can iterate accordingly."The apps that people enjoy using the most will automatically get discovered by more people on Facebook," he says. That sound you can hear is a few thousand "SEO Gurus" ordering business cards to say they're also Graph Rank Ninjas...Block 4211.41am:We're taking a deep dive into how Facebook will be mining its user data to do all this. But just before we do: here areClear ChannelandYahootrumpeting their new Open Graph stuff.Judging by the slides shown by Zuckerberg, there will be about 87 more press releases and corporate blog posts hitting my inbox in the next 10 minutes.Block 4311.45am:We're being told about an information architect who created an Annual Report for his life in 2005: where he went, what he listened to, what he ate and so on. Designers loved it, apparently. "It dealt with the problem of the information age: what are we going to do with this data?" He carried on doing the reports –see them here– and then got hired by Facebook to work with the social network on the technology being revealed today.Block 4411.50am:Actually, though, this is interesting: it does look like Facebook has put a lot of work into crunching your data to make sure your timeline is populated with stuff that is genuinely meaningful to you, rather than making you do all the work.Which, yes, may be seen by the more techy element of Facebook's user base as insufferable nanny-ism (although that's where the controls to change what's in your timeline presumably come in).But this is making me think even more strongly that whether this redesign is a success or not is not about whether geeks (I include myself in that) complain, but in how the site's mainstream users respond. In other words, if they think their timeline accurately reflects what's important to them.And, of course, how long it takes them to feel comfortable with the new design and controls.Block 4511.53am:Zuckerberg is back on stage. Will there be a "One More Thing" moment though?First: when will this launch? "For timeline, we have a beta period and it starts now. As soon as we're done. If you're a developer you'll be able to start using it today, and everyone else will be able to sign up, and we'll roll it out over the next few weeks."The new apps will also launch over the coming weeks, but the media apps will go live today: music, movies, TV and news. Because they work fairly well with the current Facebook design and its new ticker.Block 4611.56am:"We exist at the intersection between technology and social issues, and we spend a lot of time thinking about both," says Zuckerberg. A clear reference and contrast to Apple's "intersection of technology and the liberal arts", there."Looking back seven years, who'd have thought that we'd be here today?" he asks. "It's really a dream..."And that's a wrap. No iPad app or Facebook Phone, but plenty to chew on. Let us know your reactions in the comments, and we'll have more for you on the Facebook / Guardian integration tonight too.Block 4712.57pm:Facebook has provided a full list of its European partners for the new Open Graph:Spotify: As you listen to music on Spotify, your Timeline will populate with your listens, as well as your top albums, playlists and artists.The Guardian: Once you add The Guardian app to your Timeline and turn sharing on, you can broadcast the articles you read to your Timeline. If you decide you do not want to share an article, you can "X" it out from The Guardian app, or remove it from your Timeline through your Activity Log.Deezer: By integrating with Facebook Platform, Deezer has built a social music experience that makes it easy for people to share their taste in music with friends.Myvideo and Dailymotion: Discover new videos based on what your friends are watching so it's easier to discover great virals and share them with friends.Cinemur: Discover new movies based on what your friends are watching. Friends who connect Cinemur to their Timeline will showcase movies as they watch them, so it's easier to discover new comedies, documentaries, foreign films and obscure indie films through your friends, and watch them yourself.The Independent: Recently Read allows people on Facebook and on the Independent site to discover the articles their friends are reading,  By opting into the Recently Read Facebook application on any article on The Independent site, articles that people have read will be posted to Facebook for their friends to discover and interact with in real time. People can control what articles become part of their profile directly from the application, and also on Facebook.Mixcloud and Soundcloud: Through Facebook Platform, people can discover new music with their friends, making their online music experience more personal and relevant.Artfinder: People can add their favourite artworks from Artfinder to their Facebook profiles and connect with their friends around art online. People have controls over what and how they Artfinder with their friends – they can turn this functionality off at any time in multiple places on Facebook and on Artfinder.Block 48The digital music panel at f81.09pm:I'm sitting in a panel session on digital music, with Spotify, Clear Channel and Lady Gaga's manager Troy Carter on stage. Carter has been saying interesting things about how the announcements at f8 fit into a wider trend, where it's more important to get people listening to an artist's music than necessarily buying it."What we're looking to do is not just about selling the CD or the digital file. It's how many people can we get the music to. How many people can experience it?" he said, before later returning to the theme."If it was up to me, I'd give away the next album and put it on every handset that I can put it on, to get that scale. You can't be scared to fail. Sometimes we're going to get big results, and sometimes you learn a lesson, make an adjustment and move on."We'll have a full report on the panel in due course.Block 491.28pm:The next panel session is on mobile and social, with Playfish, Turntable.fm, Foodspotting and Zynga all represented. The room is notably busier for it than the previous digital music panel, too. Although that may be because there are a lot more social games developers at f8 than music industry people.Block 501.49pm:A lot of developers still have their iOS blinkers on when it comes to releasing apps, but Zynga's Paul Bettner has made an interesting point in the Mobile + Social session: when its Words With Friends game was ported from iOS to Android, there was "a huge echo effect" back to the iPhone version. People started playing more because suddenly, all their Android-owning friends could play too.Block 511.58pm:Foodspotting's Alexa Andrzejewski has just said something really interesting, which plays into the wider debate about Facebook versus Google going forward. The app gets people to post reviews of their meals out, and connect with friends."People don't trust algorithms," she said. Apparently Foodspotting's research among its users found they weren't really interested in recommendations from Foodspotting itself, but they were very keen to see what their friends were eating and recommending."Remember that people don't care about your fancy algorithm. They care about their friends," she said. Words that weren't directly addressed to Google, but...Block 522.50pm:Back to that Sean Parker-hosted music party tonight. Billboard isreportingthat besides an industry panel discussion, there will also be performances from The Killers, Snoop Dogg, Jane's Addiction and Kaskade. The event is running at the same time as Facebook's own f8 after-party...
Besides Mark Zuckerberg'skeynote at the f8 conferenceon Thursday, there were a number of panel sessions taking place, kicking off with a session on digital music. Moderated by Facebook's Justin Osofsky, it featured music manager Troy Carter (Lady Gaga), Spotify's Daniel Ek and Clear Channel's Bob Pittman.Carter was the most voluble on the panel, saying that the changes announced today by Facebook play into a wider trend of artists making their music widely available to listen to, rather than putting all the effort into making people buy it."What we're looking to do is not just about selling the CD or the digital file. It's how many people can we get the music to. How many people can experience it?" he said."If it was up to me, I'd give away the next album and put it on every handset that I can put it on, to get that scale," he said. "You can't be scared to fail. Sometimes we're going to get big results, and sometimes you learn a lesson, make an adjustment and move on."Pittman focused on the age-old social properties of radio – including dedications – "How do we let people communicate as a group… in real-time?" he said. "We've chosen the platform of Facebook to enable this behaviour that people want to do."Meanwhile, Ek said that Spotify believes that there has been a transition from "the MP3 to the URL" – something he's said regularly – with the URL being "inherently social" because people can ping links to one another.Spotify's Ek, who revealed earlier this week that his service has 2 million paying subscribers worldwide, was asked about how business models will evolve in music. "We're trying to create a better experience, and we believe the better experience is what will fight piracy. You can't fight piracy with legislation alone… We're trying to focus on a product that gets people to engage more around music, and when that happens, people will buy music again. They will go to shows, and so on."Pittman said that personalisation is increasingly important for music apps and services, with Clear Channel's iHeartRadio having just relaunched with the ability for people to create their own themed radio stations based on artists and songs – much like Pandora."We're letting them share, letting them create a dialogue, fostering the tribe and the discussion," he said.Meanwhile, Ek stressed the importance of playlists to Spotify – "it's how people express themselves through music" he said, reminding the audience that there are now more than 400 million Spotify playlists.Carter was asked about how someone like Lady Gaga might make use of some of the new data-crunching features on Facebook. "For us it's how do we laser-focus on that, how do we make it less passive, how do we focus on the super-fan as opposed to somebody who just liked one single?" he said."The more layers on top of the community, the more sticky it is. For us it's not about Lady Gaga talking to the community, but it's about the community sharing with each other."Ek added that Spotify will be monitoring where people are sharing thoughts and content around music on Facebook's new timelines, and using that as a factor in deciding where to launch next in the world.Pittman also made an intriguing hint that Clear Channel is looking to put more features in its iHeartRadio app that it sees other services offering, citing Turntable.fm – which gets people to listen live together in avatar-based chat-rooms – as one example.Carter was also asked about how he sees mobile extending the experience of going to see an artist in concert."People watch concerts like this now," he said, holding up an imaginary mobile phone. "For us, it's how do we extend that experience? Right now it's very simple: people are tweeting from the concert, they're uploading their YouTube video... how do we layer into that experience? In the next year or so, something we're working on internally is going to make it a much more interactive experience... not just how you share the experience on the outside of the concerts, when you go home, but how you share it on the inside of the concerts too."Meanwhile, Carter also said that the new breed of social music apps will create opportunities beyond the traditional label structure in the music industry."It's going to be about partnerships between my company and Daniel's company, or Bob and Clear Channel and those guys," he said: Carter runs management firm Atom Factory. "Creating this healthy dialogue that creates financial models around it where everybody can win."
